Risk management and corporate governance Risk management Our comprehensive risk management Overview of Risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, disclosure objectives are to: managing and mitigating the risks requirements associated with each of our businesses.
Ensure adherence to our risk Risk disclosures provided in line with the management culture Risk awareness, control and compliance requirements of International Financial are embedded in all our day-to-day Ensure the business operates within Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: activities.
As fundamental to our values, the board-approved risk appetite Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on we have a strong and embedded risk and Support the long-term sustainability capital required by International Accounting capital management culture.
ofthe group by providing an Standard 1 Presentation of Financial established, independent framework Statements IAS 1 are included within this Risk management monitors, manages and for identifying, evaluating, monitoring section of the annual report on pages 48 reports on our risks to ensure that they are and mitigating risk to 106 with further disclosures provided in within the stated risk appetite mandated by the annual financial statements section on Set, approve and monitor the board of directors through the board pages 165 to 255. adherence to risk parameters and risk and capital committee.
limits across the group and ensure All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs We monitor and control risk exposure they are implemented and adhered on which an audit opinion is expressed are through independent credit, market, to consistently marked as audited.
liquidity, operational, legal risk, internal audit Aggregate and monitor our and compliance teams.
This approach Information provided in this section of the exposure across risk classes is core to assuming a tolerable risk and annual report is prepared on an Investec plc Coordinate risk management consolidated basis unless otherwise stated.
reward profile, helping us to pursue activities across the organisation, controlled growth across our business.
The Investec plc group also publishes covering all legal entities and a separate Pillar III disclosure report jurisdictions Risk management operates within an as required under Part 8 of the Capital integrated geographical and divisional Give the boards reasonable Requirements Regulation pertaining to structure, in line with our management assurance that the risks we are banks in the UK.
This can be found on the approach, ensuring that the appropriate exposed to are identified and Investec groups website.
appropriately managed and processes are used to address all risks controlled across the group.
There are specialist Statement from the divisions in the UK and smaller risk divisions Run appropriate risk committees, in other regions tasked with promoting asmandated by the board.
chairman of the Investec sound risk management practices.
DLC group risk and Risk management units are locally capital committee responsive yet globally aware.
This helps Philosophy and approach to to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our defined risk parameters risk management and objectives, continually seeking new The board risk and capital committee ways to enhance techniques.
comprising both executive and nonWe believe that the risk management executive directors meets six times systems and processes we have in place per annum and approves the overall are adequate to support the groups risk appetite for the Investec group.
strategy and allow the group to operate The group risk and capital committee, within its risk appetite tolerance as set out comprising of executive directors and on page 49. executive management is chaired by the CEO.
All members and chairman of this This section of our annual report explains committee are appointed by the board risk in detail our approach to managing our and capital committee.
The groups risk business within our risk appetite tolerance, appetite statement sets broad parameters across all principal aspects of risk.
relating to the boards expectations around performance, business stability and risk management.
The board ensures that there are appropriate resources to manage the risk arising from running our businesses.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 45 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Legacy exposures have reduced by 34.3% Our core loan book growth over the year A summary of the year in was 12.4%.
Growth in our book has been to 313 million net of impairments at review from a risk perspective 31March 2018.
Non-performing exposures well diversified across our residential ownerOur executive management are integrally occupied mortgage portfolio, private client are well covered by impairments and total involved in ensuring stringent management net defaults in the legacy book amounted and corporate client lending portfolio as well of risk, liquidity, capital and conduct.
The as selective lending collateralised by property, to 90 million.
primary aim is to achieve a suitable balance with loan to values at conservative levels.
Our client-driven private equity portfolio between risk and reward in our business, Our credit exposures are to a select target delivered a sound performance.
Overall, we particularly in the context of prevailing market, comprising high-income and remain comfortable with the performance market conditions and group strategy.
high net worth individuals, established of our investment and equity risk exposures Succession of the Investec groups corporates, and medium-sized enterprises.
which comprise 2.97% of total assets.
executive management team has been Our risk appetite continues to favour lower Market risk within our trading portfolio an ongoing focus area for the board with risk, income-based lending, with exposures remains modest with value at risk and the groups initial announcement in this well collateralised and credit risk taken over stress testing scenarios remaining at regard made in November 2015.
Since a short to medium term.
that date, the board has implemented Our focus over the past few years to Potential losses that could arise in our a number of processes to ensure an realign and rebalance our portfolios in trading book portfolio when stress orderly management succession process.
line with our risk appetite framework is tested under extreme market conditions Leadership and talent development remain reflected in the relative changes in asset i. e. per extreme value theory amount high priority areas for the board and classes on our balance sheet: showing an to approximately 0.1% of total operating management of Investec.
increase in private client and corporate and income.
As part of the Investec groups orderly other lending, and a reduction in lending We continue to spend much time and succession plan to move from founding collateralised by property as a proportion of effort focusing on conduct, reputational, members to the next generation of our book.
Our core loan book remains well operational, recovery and resolution risks.
leadership, a number of board and diversified with commercial rent producing Financial and cyber crime remain high management changes have been property loans comprising approximately priorities, and Investec continually aims to announced.
These are disclosed in detail 10% of the book, other lending strengthen its systems and controls in order on pages 115 to 117.
The process has collateralised by property 10%, high net to manage cyber risk as well as meet its been well managed and there has been no worth and private client lending 20% and regulatory obligations to combat money negative impact on the groups operations.
corporate lending 60% with most industry laundering, bribery and corruption.
Although the macro-environment Investec has continued to maintain a sound continuesto present challenges, the Overall net defaults of the group are balance sheet with a low gearing ratio of group was able to maintain sound asset at a manageable level, amounting to 8.8 times and a core loans to equity ratio performance and risk metrics throughout 11.6% of our tier 1 equity, with total of 4.1 times.
Our current leverage ratio theyear in review.
Our risk appetite impairments amounting to 34.7% of the for Investec plc is at 8.2%, ahead of the framework as set out on page 49 continues groups pre-provision operating profit.
to be assessed in light of prevailing market The percentage of defaultloans net of conditions and group strategy.
impairments but before taking collateral We have always held capital well in excess into account to coreloans and advances of regulatory requirements and we intend In the year under review, the UK continued amounted to 2.16% 2017: 1.55%.
Investec to negotiate the terms under which it Theratio of collateralto default loans plcs common equity tier 1 ratio is at 10.6% would leave the European Union.
The UK netof impairments remainssatisfactory at at 31 March 2018 ahead of our group economy continues to be resilient, reflected 1.40times 2017:1.44 times.
CET1 target of greater than 10% and in in the levels of client activity we continue excess of regulatory minimums.
Certain areas of the UK economy Ongoing asset quality continues to comfortable that credit growth is in line with are beginning to signal signs of pressure.
reflect the solid performance of the our risk appetite framework and supported We are able to adjust our risk appetite book.
The credit loss ratio on an ongoing by sound risk metrics.
We believe that a and closely monitor any new lending in basis amounted to 0.24% 2017: common equity tier 1 ratio in excess of 10% areas that may come under pressure in the 0.27%.
Thelegacy portfolio makes is appropriate for our businesses, given medium term.
We are closely monitoring up 3.2% of net core loan exposures our sound leverage ratios and significant political developments with respect to at 31March 2018 31March 2017: capital light revenues, and we will continue Brexit and have continued to evaluate any 5.5%.
Gross defaults on the overall to buildour business in a manner that changes we may need to make to adapt book including legacy and ongoing achieves this target.
tothe new legal and regulatory landscape totalled 360.6million at 31March2018 that emerges.
 largely due In December 2017, the Bank of England to legacy loans.
Defaulted exposures are BoE re-confirmed the preferred resolution In September 2017, Investec Bank plcs well covered by impairments.
The credit strategy for Investec Bank plc as the long-term deposit rating was upgraded by loss ratio on the overall book amounted bank insolvency special administration Fitch to BBB stable outlook and Moodys to 1.14% 2017: 0.90%, 2016: 1.13% in procedure under the Investment Bank changed both the outlook on IBP to positive anticipation of accelerated exits on certain Special Administration Regulations 2011 A2, positive outlook and also the outlook assets in the legacy portfolio.
otherwise known as modified insolvency.
on Investec plcs ratings to positive Baa1, positive outlook.
46 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued As the resolution strategy is modified scenarios are developed and assessed.
comfortable that we have robust risk insolvency, the BoE has therefore set These Investec specific stress scenarios management processes and systems in Investec Bank plcs minimum requirement form an integral part of our capital planning place.
Whilst the complexities of Brexit for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL process.
The stress testing process also continue to cause uncertainty in the UK requirement as equal to its regulatory informs the risk appetite review process and economy, the underlying book continues capital requirements.
the management of risk appetite limits and to perform well and in line with our risk is a key risk management tool of the group.
Holding a high level of readily available, high This process allows the group to proactively quality liquid assets remains paramount Signed on behalf of the board identify underlying risks and manage them in the management of our balance sheet.
We continue to maintain a low reliance During the year, a number of stress on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth.
Cash and near scenarios were considered and Stephen Koseff incorporated into our processes.
These cash balances amounted to 5.8 billion at Chairman of the DLC group risk and year end, representing 50% of customer included, for example, the impact of a capitalcommittee deposits.
corporate stress and protracted weak growth: and a potential domestic political 15 June 2018 A strong liquidity position has continued and household shock.
to be maintained throughout the year with The board, through its various risk and liabilities growing to support strong asset growth.
Funding rates have continued to capital committees, continued to assess the impact of its principal risks and the reduce as we benefited from additional cost-effective term funding including abovementioned stress scenarios on its business.
The board has concluded that the drawings on the BoEs Term Funding Scheme.
For Investec plc and Investec group has robust systems and processes in place to manage these risks and that, Bank plc solo basis, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR is calculated while under a severe stress scenario business activity would be very subdued, using our own interpretations of the EU Delegated Act.
The LCR reported to the the group would continue to maintain adequate liquidity and capital balances PRA at 31 March 2018 was 306% for Investec plc and 301% for Investec Bank to support the continued operation of the plc solo basis which is well ahead of the group.
Ourviability statement is provided on regulatory minimum of 100%.
Ahead of pages152 to 153. the implementation of the final Net Stable IFRS 9 is effective from 1April2018.
Funding Ratio NSFR rules, the group has IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and sets out the applied its own interpretations of regulatory new requirements for the recognition and guidance and definitions from the Basel measurement of financial instruments.
Committee of Banking Supervision BCBS These requirements focus primarily on final guidelines, to calculate the NSFR the classification and measurement of which was 142% for Investec plc and 133% for Investec Bank plc solo basis, financial instruments and measurement of well ahead of the future regulatory minimum impairment losses based on an expected of 100%.
The reported LCR and NSFR credit loss ECL model.
Investec plc may change over time with regulatory confirmed to the PRA that it will use the developments and guidance.
transitional arrangements to absorb the full impact permissible of IFRS 9 in regulatory Investecs stress testing framework is capital calculations.
Further information well embedded in its operations and is on the impact of IFRS 9 is provided in the designed to identify and regularly test the accounting policies section on page 187. groups key vulnerabilities under stress.
In addition, the group has published its A fundamental part of the stress testing detailed transitional disclosures on 29 June process is a full and comprehensive analysis of all the groups material business 2018 separately from its annual report and activities, incorporating views from risk, the these can be found on the Investec groups business and the executive a process website.
Resulting from the bottom-up analysis, the InvestecConclusion specific stress scenarios are designed to specifically test the unique attributes of the The group has achieved a satisfactory groups portfolio.
The key is to understand operating performance, supported the potential threats to our sustainability by solid levels of client activity and a and profitability and thus a number of risk robust recurring income base.
We are Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 47 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Year to 31 March 2018 2017 Net core loans and advances million 9 687 8 621 Total assets million 20 612 18 789 Total risk-weighted assets million 14 411 13 312 Total equity million 2 341 2 032 Cash and near cash million 5 813 5 026 Customer accounts deposits million 11 637 11 022 Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances 3.67% 2.98% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances 2.16% 1.55% Net defaults after collateral and impairments as a % of net core loans and advances Credit loss ratio 1.14% 0.90% Credit loss ratio ongoing book 0.24% 0.27% Banking book investment and equity risk exposures as a % of total assets 2.97% 3.31% Level 3 fair value assets as a % of total assets 3.64% 3.65% Traded market risk: one day value at risk million 0.5 0.5 Core loans to equity ratio 4.1x 4.2x Total gearing ratio 8.8x 9.2x Loans and advances to customers to customer deposits 83.2% 78.2% Capital adequacy ratio 15.0% 14.6% Tier 1 ratio 12.5% 11.1% Common equity tier 1 ratio 10.6% 10.9% Leverage ratio 8.2% 7.5% # Return on average assets 0.71% 0.92% # Return on average risk-weighted assets 1.00% 1.36% Income statement impairment charge on core loans as a percentage of average advances.
Total assets to total equity.
Takes into account the deduction of foreseeable dividends as discussed on page 103.
# Where return represents operating profit after taxation and non-controlling interests and after deducting preference dividends, but before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items.
Average balances are calculated on a straight-line average.
48 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Overall group risk appetite The group has a number of board-approved risk appetite statements and policy documents covering our risk tolerance and approach to our principal aspects of risk.
In addition, a number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at a group level.
The group risk appetite statement and framework sets out the boards mandated risk appetite.
The group risk appetite framework acts as a guide to determine the acceptable risk profile of the Investec group by the owners of the groups capital.
The group risk appetite statement ensures that limits targets are applied and monitored across all key operating jurisdictions and legal entities.
The group risk appetite statement is a high-level, strategic framework that supplements and does not replace the detailed risk policy documents at each entity and geographic level.
The group risk appetite framework is a function of business strategy, budget and capital processes, our stress testing reviews and the regulatory and economic environment in which the group is operating.
The group risk appetite framework is reviewed in light of the above aspects and approved at least annually or as business needs dictate.
A documented process exists where our risk profile is measured against our risk appetite and this positioning is presented to the group risk and capital committee, board risk and capital committee and the board.
The table below provides a high-level summary of the groups overall risk tolerance framework.
Investec plc positioning Risk appetite and tolerance metrics at 31March 2018 We seek to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned from Capital light activities contributed 62% to total capital light and capital intensive activities.
Ideally capital light revenue should operating income and capital intensive activities exceed 50% of total operating income, dependent on prevailing market contributed 38% conditions We have a solid annuity income base supported by diversified revenue Annuity income amounted to 72.5% of total operating streams, and target an annuity income ratio in excess of 65% income.
We seek to maintain strict control over fixed costs and target a group cost to The cost to income ratio amounted to 78.0%.
Refer to income ratio of below 70% page 31 for further information We are a lowly leveraged firm and target a leverage ratio in all our banking We achieved this internal target: refer to page 104 for subsidiaries in excess of 6% further information We intend to maintain a sufficient level of capital to satisfy regulatory We meet these targets: our total capital adequacy ratio requirements and our internal target ratios.
We target a capital adequacy amounted to 15.0% and our common equity tier1 ratio ratio range of between 14% and 17% on a consolidated basis for Investec amounted to 10.6%.
Refer to pages 100 and 106 for plc and we target a minimum tier 1 ratio of 11% and a common equity tier 1 further information ratio above 10% We target a diversified loan portfolio, lending to clients we know and We maintained this risk tolerance level in place understand.
We limit our exposure to a single connected individual or throughout the year company to 7.5% of common equity tier 1 capital up to 10% if approved by the relevant board committee.
We also have a number of risk tolerance limits and targets for specific asset classes There is a preference for primary exposure in Investec plcs main operating Refer to page 52 for further information geography i. e. the UK.
The group will accept exposures where we have a branch or local banking subsidiary and tolerate exposures to other countries where we have developed a local understanding and capability or we are facilitating a transaction for a client who requires facilities in a foreign geography We target a credit loss ratio on core loans of less than 0.5% of average core The credit loss ratio on core loans amounted to 1.14% advances and we target defaults net of impairments less than 2% of total 0.24% excluding the legacy portfolio and defaults net net core loans of impairments amounted to 2.16% of total core loans 1.27% excluding the legacy portfolio.
Refer to page 67 for further information We carry a high level of liquidity in all our banking subsidiaries in order to Total cash and near cash balances amounted to be able to cope with shocks to the system, targeting a minimum cash to 5.8billion at year end representing 50% of customer customer deposit ratio of 25% deposits.
Refer to page 88 for further information We have modest market risk as our trading activities primarily focus on We meet these internal limits: one-day 95% VaR was supporting client activity and our appetite for proprietary trading is limited.
0.5 million at 31 March 2018: refer to page 83 for Weset an overall tolerance level of a one-day 95% VaR of less than 5 million further information We have moderate appetite for investment risk, and set a risk tolerance Our unlisted investment portfolio amounted to of less than 30% of common equity tier 1 capital for our unlisted principal 417million representing 27.4% of common equity investmentportfolio tier1.
Refer to page 79 for further information Our operational risk management team focuses on improving business Refer to pages 94 to 97 for further information performance and compliance with regulatory requirements through review, challenge and escalation.
We have heightened focus on financial andcyber crime We have a number of policies and practices in place to mitigate reputational, Refer to pages 97 and 98 for further information legal and conduct risks Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 49 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The sections that follow provide information An overview of our Risk management on a number of these risk areas and how principal risks framework, committees the group manages these risks.
and forums In our daily business activities, the group Additional risks and uncertainties that are enters into a number of risks that could A number of committees and forums currently considered immaterial and not have the potential to affect our business identify and manage risk at group included in this report may in the future operations or financial performance and level, as shown in the diagram below.
impact our business operations and prospects.
Thesecommittees and forums operate financial performance.
together with risk management and are These principal risks have been mandated by the board.
Investec plc and Investec Limited INL board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration DLC audit DLC board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs committee committees capital committee ethics committee committee committee Policy Review Group Group risk Audit DLC capital executive executive legal risk and capital sub-committees committees risk review risk review forums committee forum forum Global Deal forum forums new product committees forum Audit and compliance implementation forums Global credit committee Internal Global market risk forum audit Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees IT strategy committee Compliance Global compliance forum Global customer and conduct committee Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities In the sections that follow, the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: ALCO Asset and liability committee FCA Financial Conduct Authority BCBS Basel Committee of Banking Supervision FSB Financial Services Board BIS Bank for International Settlements GRCC Group risk and capital committee BoE Bank of England PCCC Prudential conduct and controls committee BRCC Board risk and capital committee Policy ERRF Policy executive risk review forum EBA European Banking Authority PRA Prudential Regulation Authority ECB European Central Bank Review ERRF Review executive risk review forum ERC Executive risk committee 50 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued that is adversely correlated with the credit Credit and counterparty risk Credit and counterparty quality of that counterparty.
It arises when appetite risk management default risk and credit exposure increase The board has set a group risk appetite limit together.
Credit and counterparty framework which regulates the maximum risk description Credit and counterparty risk may also arise exposures we would be comfortable to in other ways and it is the role of the global tolerate in order to diversify and mitigate Credit and counterparty risk is defined as risk management functions and the various risk.
This limit framework is monitored on an the risk arising from an obligors typically independent credit committees to identify ongoing basis and reported to the GRCC, a client or counterparty failure to meet risks falling outside these definitions.
BRCC and the board on a regular basis.
the terms of any agreement.
Credit and Should there be any breaches to limits, or counterparty risk arises when funds Credit and counterparty where exposures are nearing limits, these are extended, committed, invested, or risk governance structure exceptions are specifically highlighted for otherwise exposed through contractual attention, and any remedial actions agreed.
To manage, measure, monitor and agreements, whether reflected onor offbalance sheet.
mitigatecredit and counterparty risk, There is a preference for primary exposure independent credit committees exist in in the groups main operating geography Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily each geography where we assume credit i. e. the UK.
The group will accept from three types of transactions: risk.
These committees operate under exposures where we have a branch or board-approved delegated limits, policies Lending transactions through local banking subsidiary as explained on and procedures.
There is a high level of loans andadvances to clients and following page and tolerate exposures to executive involvement and non-executive counterparties creates the risk that other countries where we have developed review and oversight in the credit decisionan obligor will be unable or unwilling alocal understanding and capability or we making forums depending on the size to repay capital and or interest on are facilitating a transactionfor a client who and complexity of the deal.
It is our policy loans and advances granted to requires facilitiesin a foreign geography.
that all centralised credit committees are them.
Thiscategory includes bank Our assessment of our clients and comprised of voting members who are placements, where we have placed counterparties includes consideration independent of the originating business funds with other financial institutions of their character, integrity, core unit.
All decisions to enter into a transaction Issuer risk on financial instruments competencies, track record and financial are based on unanimous consent.
where payments due from the strength.
Astrong emphasis is placed on issuerofa financial instrument may In addition to the credit committees, the the historic and ongoing stability of income notbe received following processes assist in managing, and cash flow streams generated by the measuring and monitoring credit and clients.
Ourprimary assessment method Trading transactions, giving rise to is therefore the ability of the client to meet settlement and replacement risk counterparty risk: their paymentobligations.
collectively counterparty risk : Day-to-day arrears management and Settlement risk is the risk that We have little appetite for regular arrears reporting ensure that the settlement of a transaction unsecured debt and require good individual positions and any potential does nottake place as expected, quality collateral in support of trends are dealt with in a timely manner with oneparty effecting required obligations refer to page 76 for Watchlist committees, which review settlements as they fall due but not further information.
the management of distressed loans, receiving the performance to which potential problem loans and exposures Target clients include high net worth and they are entitled in arrears that require additional or high-income individuals, established Replacement risk is the risk following attention and supervision corporates, small and medium enterprises, defaults by the original counterparty Credit watchlist forum, which reviews financial institutions and sovereigns.
resulting in the contract holder and manages exposures that may Corporates must have scale and having to enter into a replacement potentially become distressed as a result relevance in their market, an experienced contract with a second counterparty of changes in the economic environment management team, able board members, in order to fulfil the transaction.
or adverse share price movements, or strong earnings and cash flow.
The relevant credit committees will also that are vulnerable to volatile exchange We are client-centric in our approach and consider wrong-way risk at the time of rate or interest ratemovements or originate loans with the intent of holding granting credit limits to each counterparty.
idiosyncratic financialdistress these assets to maturity, therebydeveloping In the banking book environment, wrongArrears, default and recoveries forum a hands-on and longstanding relationship.
way risk occurs where the value of collateral which specifically reviews and manages to secure a transaction, or guarantor, is distressed loans and potentially positively correlated with the probability distressed loans for private clients.
of default of the borrower or counterparty.
This forum also reviews and monitors Forcounterparty credit risk resulting counterparties who have been granted fromtransactions in traded products forbearance measures.
suchas OTC derivatives, wrong-way risk is defined as exposure to a counterparty Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 51 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Interbank lending is largely reserved for Preference is to have exposure only Our assessment those banks and institutions in the groups to politically stable jurisdictions that of our clients includes core geographies of activity, which are we understand and have preferably systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures operated in before consideration of their to cyclical industries and start-up ventures There is no specific appetite for character and integrity, are generally avoided.
exposures outside of the groups core competencies, pre-existing core geographies or Concentration risk targetmarkets track record and Concentration risk is when large exposures The legal environment should be tested, exist to a single client or counterparty, financial strength have legal precedent in line with OECD group of connected counterparties, or standards and have good corporate to a particular geography, asset class governance orindustry.
An example of this would In certain cases, country risk can be be where a number of counterparties mitigated by taking out political risk are affected by similar economic, legal, insurance with suitable counterparties, regulatory or other factors that could mean where deemed necessary and where their ability to meet contractual obligations considered economic.
While we do not have a separate Concentration risk can also exist where country risk committee, the relevant portfolio loan maturities are clustered to credit committees as well as investment single periods in time.
Loanmaturities committees and Policy ERRF will consider, aremonitored on a portfolio and a analyse and assess the appropriate limits transaction level by risk management, to be recorded when required, to assume Group Lending Operations as well as the exposure to foreign jurisdictions.
Corporate Credit and counterparty risk is always responsibility assessed with reference to the aggregate exposure to a single counterparty or group of considerations related parties to manage concentration risk.
Investec has a holistic approach to corporate responsibility, which runs Country risk beyond recognising our own footprint on Country risk refers to the risk of the environment and includes our many lending to a counterparty operating in corporate social investment activities a particular country or the risk inherent and our funding and investing activities.
in sovereign exposure i. e. the risk of Thisis not merely for business reasons, exposure to loss caused by events in but based on a broader responsibility to other countries.
Country risk covers all our environment and society.
Accordingly, forms of lending or investment activity corporate responsibility risk considerations whether to with individuals, corporates, are considered by the credit committee banks or governments.
This can include and investment committee when making geopolitical risks, transfer and convertibility lending or investment decisions.
There risks, and the impact on the borrowers is also oversight by the social and ethics credit profile due to local economic and committee board committee on social politicalconditions.
In particular the following factors are taken into To mitigate country risk, there is a account when assessing a transaction preference for primary exposure in the based on the outcome of the corporate groups main operating geographies.
: Thegroup will accept exposures where we have a branch or local banking subsidiary, Environmental considerations and tolerate exposures to other countries including animal welfare and climate where we are facilitating a transaction for related impacts a client who requires facilities in a foreign Social considerations including geography and where we have developed a humanrights local understanding and capability.
Investecs credit risk appetite with regard Refer to our corporate to country risk is characterised by the responsibility report on our following principles: website.
52 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Internal credit rating models have been Management and Credit and counterparty risk developed to cover all material asset measurement of credit nature of activities classes.
and counterparty risk Credit and counterparty risk is assumed Stress testing and portfolio through a range of client-driven lending Fundamental principles employed in the activities to private and corporate management of credit and counterparty management clientsand other counterparties, such risk are: Investec has embedded its stress testing as financial institutions and sovereigns.
A clear definition of our target market framework which is a repeatable stress Theseactivities are diversified across a testing process, designed to identify and A quantitative and qualitative number of businessactivities.
regularly test the banks key vulnerabilities assessment of the creditworthiness of Lending collateralised by property under stress.
our counterparties Client quality and expertise are at the core Analysis of risks, including A fundamental part of the stress testing of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to concentrationrisk concentration process is a full and comprehensive the property market is well diversified with risk considerations include asset analysis of all the groups material strong bias towards prime locations for class, industry, counterparty and business activities, incorporating views residential exposure and focus on tenant  from risk, thebusiness and the executive quality for commercial assets.
Debt service Decisions are made with reference to aprocess called the bottom-up cover ratios are a key consideration in the risk appetite limits analysis.
Out of the bottom-up analysis lending process supported by reasonable Prudential limits the Investec-specific stress scenarios are loan to security value ratios.
designed to specifically test the unique Regular monitoring and review of We provide senior debt and other funding attributes of the banks portfolio.
existing and potential exposures, once for property transactions, with a strong facilities have been approved These Investec-specific stress scenarios preference for income producing assets A high level of executive involvement form an integral part of our capital planning supported by an experienced sponsor in decision-making with non-executive process.
The stress testing process also providing a material level of cash equity review and oversight.
informs the risk appetite review process, investment into the asset.
and the management of risk appetite Regular reporting of credit and counterparty An analysis of the lending limits and is a key risk management tool risk exposures within our operating units collateralised by property of the bank.
This process allows the bank is made to management, the executives portfolio and asset quality to identify underlying risks and manage and the board at the GRCC and BRCC.
information is provided on themaccordingly.
The board regularly reviews and approves pages73 to 74. the appetite for credit and counterparty Notwithstanding the form of the stress risk, which is documented in risk appetite testing process, the framework should not Private client activities statements and policy documents.
This is impede the group from being able to be implemented and reviewed by Credit.
Our private banking activities target high flexible and perform ad hoc stress tests, networth individuals, active wealthy Despite strict adherence to the above which by their nature need to be completed entrepreneurs, high-income professionals, principles, increased default risk may arise on request and in response to emerging , owner from unforeseen circumstances, particularly risk issues.
managers in small to mid-cap corporates in times of extreme market volatility and and sophisticated investors.
Reviews are also undertaken on all weak economic conditions.
material businesses, where the portfolios Lending products are tailored to meet The group applies the standardised are analysed to assess any migration in the requirements of our clients.
Central approach for calculating capital portfolio quality, highlight any vulnerabilities, to our credit philosophy is ensuring the requirements in the assessment of its credit identify portfolio concentrations and make sustainability of cash flow and income and counterparty exposures.
appropriate recommendations, such throughout the cycle.
As such, the client as a reduction in risk appetite limits or base has been defined to include high net A large proportion of the groups specificexposures.
worth clients who, through diversification portfolios are not rated by external of income streams, will reduce income rating agencies.
We place reliance upon Credit and counterparty risk may also arise volatility and individuals with a profession internal consideration of counterparties in other ways and it is the role of the global which has historically supported a high and and borrowers, and use ratings prepared risk management function and the various sustainable income stream, irrespective of externally, where available as support in our independent credit committees to identify the stage in the economic cycle.
Within the credit risks falling outside these definitions.
approval process, internal and external ratings are included in the assessment of the client quality.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 53 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Credit risk arises from the following A summary of the nature of the lending fund management cash flows, the activities: and or credit risk assumed within some of managers investment stake in their own the key areas within our corporate lending funds and when required managers Personal banking delivers products business is provided below: personalguarantees to enable target clients to create and Small ticket asset finance: provides Corporate loans: provides senior manage their wealth.
This includes funding to small and medium-sized private client mortgages, transactional secured loans to mid-to-large cap corporates to support asset purchases companies.
Credit risk is assessed banking, high net worth lending, offshore and other business requirements.
banking and foreign exchange against debt serviceability based Theportfolio is highly diversified by upon robust cash generation of the Residential mortgages provides industry and number of clients and business based on both historical and mortgage loan facilities for highis secured against the asset being forecast information.
We typically act as income professionals and high net financed and is a direct obligation of transaction lead or arranger, and have worth individuals tailored to their thecompany a close relationship with management individualneeds andsponsors Large ticket asset finance: provides Specialised lending provides the finance and structuring expertise Corporate debt securities: tailoredcredit facilities to high for aircraft and larger lease assets, the these are tradable corporate debt net worthindividuals and their majority of which are senior secured instruments, based on acceptable controlledentities loans with a combination of corporate, credit fundamentals typically with Portfolio lending provides loans to cash flow and asset-backed collateral amedium-term hold strategy where the high net worth clients against their against the exposure underlying risk is to UK and European investment portfolio, typically managed corporates.
This is a highly diversified, Power and infrastructure finance: by Investec Wealth & Investment.
arranges and provides typically granular portfolio that is robust, and spread across a variety of geographies long-term financing for infrastructure An analysis of the private client assets, in particular renewable and andindustries loan portfolio and asset quality traditional power projects as well information is provided on Acquisition finance: provides debt as transportation assets, against pages73 to 74. funding to proven management teams contracted future cash flows of the and sponsors, running small to mid-cap project s from well-established and sized companies.
Credit risk is assessed Corporate client activities financially sound off-take counterparties.
against debt serviceability based upon There is a requirement for a strong We focus on traditional client-driven robust cash generation of the business upfront equitycontribution from an corporate lending activities, in addition to based on both historical and forecast experiencedsponsor customer flow related treasury and trading information.
Wetypically lend on a execution services.
bilateral basis and benefit from a close Resource finance: debt arranging and relationship with management and underwriting together with structured Within the corporate lending businesses, sponsors hedging solutions mainly within credit risk can arise from corporate the mining sectors.
The underlying Asset based lending: provides working loans, acquisition finance, asset finance, commodities are mainly precious and capital and secured corporate loans to power and infrastructure finance, assetbase metals and coal.
These loans are secured by based lending, fund finance and resource this sector are established mining the assets of the business, for example, finance.
We also undertake debt origination companies which are typically domiciled the accounts receivable, inventory and activities for corporate clients.
and publicly listed in one of the following plant and machinery.
Incommon with The credit risk management functions geographies the UK, North America our corporate lending activities, strong approve specific credit and counterparty and Australia as well as other countries emphasis is placed on supporting limits that govern the maximum credit where we are facilitating a transaction companies with scale and relevance in exposure to each individual counterparty.
for a client who requires facilities in their industry, stability of cash flow, and In addition, further risk management a foreign geography.
All facilities are experienced management limitsexist through industry and country secured by the borrowers assets and Fund finance: provides debt facilities limits to manage concentration risk.
repaid from mining cash flows to asset managers and fund vehicles, Thecredit appetite for each counterparty Structured credit: these are bonds principally in private equity.
The is based on the financial strength of the secured against a pool of assets, geographical focus is the UK, Western principal borrower, its business model and mainlyUK residential mortgages or Europe, North America and Australia market positioning, the underlying cash European orUS corporate leverage where Investec can support experienced flowto the transaction, the substance loans.
Thebonds are typically asset managers and their funds which and track record of management, and the investment grade rated, which benefit show strong, long-term value creation security package.
Political risk insurance, from a high-level of credit subordination and good custodianship of investors and other insurance is taken where they are and can withstand a significant level of money.
Debt facilities to fund vehicles deemed appropriate.
portfolio defaults are secured against undrawn limited Investec has limited appetite for unsecured partner commitments and or the funds Treasury placements: the treasury credit risk and facilities are typically secured function, as part of the daily underlying assets.
Fund manager on the assets of the underlying borrower as loans are structured against committed management of the banks liquidity, well as shares in the borrower.
54 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued places funds with central banks and Wealth & Investment Credit and other commercial banks and financial Investec Wealth & Investment provides institutions.
These transactions are counterparty risk is investment management services to private typically short-term less than one clients, charities, intermediaries, pension assumed through a month money market placements schemes and trusts.
Wealth & Investment is or secured repurchase agreements.
primarily an agency business with a limited range of client-driven amount of principal risk.
Its core business These market counterparties are lending activities to is discretionary and non-discretionary mainly investment grade rated investment management services.
entities that occupy dominant and private and corporate systemic positions in their domestic Settlement risk can arise due to clients and other banking markets and internationally.
undertaking transactions in an agency Thesecounterparties are located in the capacity on behalf of clients.
However, counterparties, such as UK, Western Europe, North America therisk is not considered to be material financial institutions andAustralia asmost transactions are undertaken with large institutional clients, monitored daily, and sovereigns.
Corporate advisory and investment and trades are usually settled within two banking activities: counterparty risk in These activities are tothreedays.
The business also trades approved shares on an approved diversified across a Asset Management basis and makes markets in shares Through the course of its normal business, number of business where we are appointed corporate Investec Asset Management is constantly broker under pre-agreed market risk activities transacting with market counterparties.
Settlement trades are largely on a Alist of approved counterparties is delivery versus payment basis, through maintained and procedures are in place major stock exchanges.
Credit risk only to ensure appointed counterparties meet occurs in the event of counterparty certain standards in order to safeguard failure and would be linked to any fair client assets being transacted with or undertaken with approved counterparties value losses on the underlying security and this is enforced through system Customer trading activities to controls where possible.
In addition facilitate client lending and hedging: to due diligence, other forms of risk our customer trading portfolio consists management are employed to reduce the of derivative contracts in interest rates, impact of a counterparty failure.
These foreign exchange, commodities, credit measures include market conventions derivatives and equities that are entered such as Delivery versus Payment DVP, into, to facilitate a clients hedging and whereappropriate: use of collateral requirements.
The counterparties or contractual protection e. g. under to such transactions are typically ISDA.
Net exposure to counterparties is monitored by Investec Asset Managements corporates, in particular where they Investment Risk committee, and day-to-day have an exposure to foreign exchange monitoring is undertaken by a dedicated due to operating in sectors that include and independent Investment Risk Team.
imports and exports of goods and services.
These positions are marked to market, typically with daily margin calls to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
An analysis of the corporate client loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided onpages73 to 74.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 55 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Asset quality analysis credit risk classification and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement overseen by credit risk management that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established Investec group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee process.
In the annual financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Regulatory Arrears, default and economic and recoveries capital classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Performing For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past due assets homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio when it is greater than zero and less than or impairment is required which equal to 60 days past due the contractual recognises asset impairments that credit agreed payment date.
Management have not been individually identified.
however is not concerned and there is confidence in thecounterpartys ability to The portfolio impairment takes into repay the past dueobligations.
account past events and does not cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed in special arising out of uncertain future mention when that counterparty is events.
considered to be experiencing difficulties that may threaten the counterpartys ability By definition, this impairment is to fulfil its credit obligation to the group i. e. only calculated for credit exposures watchlist committee is concerned for the which are managed on a portfolio following reasons: basis and only for assets where a Covenant breaches loss trigger event has occurred.
There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity An adverse trend in operations that signals apotential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty Restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decidesotherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur ifadverse conditions persist.
Reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
56 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Asset quality analysis credit risk classification and provisioning policy continued Regulatory Arrears, default and economic and recoveries capital classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in sub-standard non-performing on a case-by-case basis where when the credit exposure reflects an assets objective evidence of impairment underlying, well defined weakness that may has arisen.
In determining specific lead to probable loss if not corrected: impairments, the following factors The risk that such credit exposure may are considered: become an impaired asset is probable, Capability of the client to The bank is relying, to a large extent, on generate sufficient cash flow to available collateral, or service debt obligations and the The primary sources of repayment are ongoing viabilityof the clients insufficient to service the remaining business contractual principal and interest Likely dividend or amount amounts, and the bank has to rely on recoverable on liquidation or secondary sources for repayment.
bankruptcy or business rescue These secondary sources may include Nature and extent of claims by collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, other creditors refinancing and further capital.
Amount and timing of expected Credit exposures overdue for more than cash flows 90days will at a minimum be included in Realisable value of security held sub-standard or a lower quality category.
or other credit mitigants Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful Ability of the client to make when the credit exposure is considered to payments in the foreign be impaired, but not yet considered a final currency, for foreign currency loss due to some pending factors such as denominatedaccounts.
a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss categorywhen: The credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted, or Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short-term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets are remote.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 57 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued facility before advancing funds.
Residential Credit risk mitigation Investec has limited properties are valued by desktop valuation Credit risk mitigation techniques can be appetite for unsecured and or approved valuers, whereappropriate.
defined as all methods by which Investec debt, preferring to In addition, the relevant credit committee seeks to decrease the credit risk associated normally requires a suretyship or guarantee with an exposure.
Investec considers mitigate risk through in support of a transaction in our private credit risk mitigation techniques as part client business.
Other common forms good quality tangible of the credit assessment of a potential of collateral in the retail asset class are client or business proposal and not as a collateral motor vehicles, cash and share portfolios.
separate consideration of mitigation of Primary collateral in private client lending risk.
Credit risk mitigants can include any transactions can also include a high collateral item over which the bank has a net worth individuals share investment charge over assets, netting and margining portfolio.
This is typically in the form of a agreements, covenants, or terms and diversified pool of equity, fixed income, conditions imposed on a borrower with managed funds and cash.
Often these theaim of reducing the credit risk inherent portfolios are managed by Investec Wealth to thattransaction.
Lending against investment As Investec has a limited appetite for portfolios is typically geared at conservative unsecured debt, the credit risk mitigation loan-to-value ratios, after considering technique most commonly used is the quality, diversification, risk profile and the taking of collateral, with a strong liquidity of theportfolio.
Collateral is Our corporate, government and institutional assessed with reference to the sustainability clients provide a range of collateral of value and the likelihood of realisation.
including cash, corporate assets, debtors Acceptable collateral generally exhibits accounts receivable, trading stock, debt characteristics that allow for it to be easily securities bonds, listed and unlisted identified and appropriately valued and sharesand guarantees.
ultimately allowing Investec to recover any outstanding exposures.
The majority of credit mitigation techniques linked to trading activity is in the form of An analysis of collateral is netting agreements and daily margining.
The primary market standard legal documents that govern this include the Where a transaction is supported by a International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreements ISDA, mortgage or charge over property, the primary credit risk is still taken on the Global Master Securities Lending Agreement GMSLA and Global Master borrower.
For property backed lending Repurchase Agreement GMRA.
In addition such as residential mortgages, the to having ISDA documentation in place following characteristics of the property with market and trading counterparties in are considered: the type of property: over-the-counter OTC derivatives, a Credit itslocation: and the ease with which the Support Annex CSA ensures that markproperty could be re-let and or resold.
to-market credit exposure is mitigated daily Where the property is secured by lease through the calculation and placement agreements, the credit committee prefers receiving of cash collateral.
Where netting not to lend for a term beyond the maximum agreements have been signed, the term of the lease.
Commercial real estate enforceability is supported by external generally takes the form of good quality legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of property often underpinned by strong theagreement.
Commercial property development is undertaken on a selective Set-off has been applied between assets, basis with strong principals and established subject to credit risk and related liabilities in contractors in desirable locations.
the annual financial statements, where: Residential property is also generally of A legally enforceable right to set-off a high quality and based in desirable exists locations.
Residential and commercial property valuations will continue to form There is the intention to settle the part of our ongoing focus on collateral asset and liability on a net basis, or to assessment.
It is our policy to obtain realise the asset and settle the liability a formal valuation of every commercial simultaneously.
property offered as collateral for a lending 58 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued In addition to the above accounting set-off Gross defaults, predominantly Forbearance comprised of legacy exposures, totalled criteria, banking regulators impose the Forbearance measures refer to concessions 360.6million at 31 March 2018 following additional criteria: such as modification of the terms and 260.3million at 31 March 2017.
Debit and credit balances relate to the conditions or refinancing that has been Default loans net of impairments have same obligor counterparty granted to a debtor in financial difficulties.
increased to 208.8million or 2.16% as a These modifications are on terms that Debit and credit balances are percentage of core loans and advances, would be more advantageous compared up from 1.55% at 31March2017.
The denominated in the same currency and with what other debtors with a similar credit loss ratio amounted to 1.14% have identical maturities risk profile could have obtained from the 2017:0.90%, 2016: 1.13% in anticipation Exposures subject to set-off are of accelerated exits on certain assets in bank.
The credit committee will assess risk-managed on a net basis the legacy portfolio.
each application to determine whether Market practice considerations.
the proposed modifications will be Ongoing asset quality continues to reflect For this reason there will be instances considered as forbearance.
Forbearance the quality of the underlying book.
The where credit and counterparty exposures is distinguished from commercial credit loss ratio on an ongoing basis are displayed on a net basis in these annual renegotiations which take place as part amounted to 0.24% included in the financial statements but reported on a of normal business activity and standard 1.14% above 2017: 0.27%.
Defaulted gross basis to regulators.
The amount of exposures exposures are considered well covered by forborne represents 1.8% of the total gross impairments.
Investec places minimal reliance on credit credit and counterparty exposures derivatives in its credit risk mitigation We have actively taken advantage of March 2017: 1.9%.
Periodically the bank will opportunities to further reduce the enterinto Credit Default Swaps CDS in legacy portfolio.
Legacy exposures have Credit and counterparty risk order to hedge a specific asset held or to reduced by 34.3% to 313 million net of year in review create a more general or macro hedge impairments or 3.2% of total core loan against a group of exposures in one Underlying core assets continue to exposures 31 March 2017: 5.5%.
In these instances, perform well.
Net core loans and advances performing exposures are significantly the bank is deemed to be buying increased by 12.4% to 9.7billion at impaired and total net defaults in the legacy book amount to 90 million.
Depending 31March 2018 from 8.6 billion at on the perceived risk, or spread, of the 31March 2017, driven by our strategy to underlying exposure, the CDS will fluctuate support corporate and private client lending in value: increasing in value when the asset activities.
has become more risky and decreasing Corporate client and other lending when risk has reduced.
Occasionally, the increased by 14.0% from 5.2 billion bank will enter into trading investment CDS at 31March2017 to 5.9 billion at positions where we buy protection or sell 31March2018.
Growth has been well protection without owning the underlying diversified across all asset classes.
The total amount of net credit Wecontinue to remain client-focused derivatives outstanding at 31March2018 in our approach, with good quality amounts to 2.7 million, of which all is corporates exhibiting strong cash flows and used for credit mitigation purposes.
protection bought amounts to 1.9million and total protection sold amounts to High net worth and other private client lending increased by 20.1% year on year, 0.8million relating to credit derivatives driven by growth in the existing high net used in creditmitigation.
worth mortgage book as well as portfolio Further information on credit lending as the bank continues to focus on derivatives is provided on its holistic private client offering.
Lending collateralised by property has continued to reduce as a proportion of Investec endeavours to implement robust our net core loan exposures and totals processes to minimise the possibility 1.9 billion or 20.0% at 31 March 2018 of legal and or operational risk through decrease from 22.0% at 31 March 2017. good quality tangible collateral.
The legal The bulk of property collateralised assets risk function in Investec ensures the are located in the UK.
Underwriting enforceability of credit risk mitigants within criteria remains conservative and we are the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in committed to following a client-centric which Investec operates.
When assessing approach to lending, only supporting the potential concentration risk in its credit counterparties with strong balance sheets portfolio, consideration is given to the types and requisite expertise.
of collateral and credit protection that form part of the portfolio.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 59 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 51 to 59 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of the credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures Gross credit and counterparty exposures increased by 9.1% to 19.2 billion since 31 March 2017 largely due to growth in loans and advances to customers as well as cash and near cash.
Cash and near cash balances amount to 5.8billion and are largely reflected in the following line items in the table below: cash and balances at central banks, loans and advances to banks and sovereign debt securities.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
60 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2018 Cash and balances at central banks 3 479 639 8 130 3 487 769 Loans and advances to banks 1 003 796 1 003 796 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 750 428 750 428 Sovereign debt securities 1 155 472 1 155 472 Bank debt securities 107 938 107 938 Other debt securities 278 474 278 474 Derivative financial instruments 513 836 83 428 597 264 Securities arising from trading activities 496 498 205 230 701 728 Investment portfolio 477 919 1 477 919 Loans and advances to customers 9 839 064 151 840 2 9 687 224 Other loans and advances 332 672 28 259 3 360 931 Other securitised assets 8 668 123 504 4 132 172 Interest in associated undertakings 77 059 77 059 Deferred taxation assets 98 156 98 156 Other assets 44 707 1 124 872 5 1 169 579 Property and equipment 54 493 54 493 Investment properties 14 500 14 500 Goodwill 356 265 356 265 Intangible assets 100 585 100 585 Total on-balance sheet exposures 18 011 192 2 600 560 20 611 752 1.
Relates to exposures that are classified as investment risk in the banking book.
Largely intergroup lending which is deemed to have no credit exposure.
While the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, certain assets are within special purpose vehicles that ring-fence the assets to specific credit providers and limit security to the assets in the vehicle.
The table above reflects the net credit exposure in the vehicles that the group has reflected in the 'total credit and counterparty exposure' with the maximum credit exposure referenced to credit providers external to the group in the column headed 'assets that we deem to have no legal credit exposure'.
Other assets include settlement debtors less than 2 days which we deem to have no credit risk exposure as they are settled on a delivery against paymentbasis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 61 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures continued Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2017 Cash and balances at central banks 2 850 664 2 907 2 853 571 Loans and advances to banks 1 130 998 1 130 998 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 536 173 536 173 Sovereign debt securities 952 902 952 902 Bank debt securities 184 626 184 626 Other debt securities 398 278 398 278 Derivative financial instruments 554 710 49 465 604 175 Securities arising from trading activities 331 705 191 055 522 760 Investment portfolio 459 745 1 459 745 Loans and advances to customers 8 747 618 126 876 2 8 620 742 Other loans and advances 343 090 70 340 3 413 430 Other securitised assets 12 851 125 777 4 138 628 Interest in associated undertakings 63 390 63 390 Deferred taxation assets 89 941 89 941 Other assets 49 894 1 226 238 5 1 276 132 Property and equipment 60 528 60 528 Investment properties 14 500 14 500 Goodwill 355 155 355 155 Intangible assets 112 943 112 943 Total on-balance sheet exposures 16 093 509 2 695 108 18 788 617 1.
62 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Gross credit and counterparty exposures by residual contractual maturity at 31 March 2018 Six Up Three months One to three to six to one to five Five to 10 000 months months year years 10 years years Total Cash and balances at central banks 3 479 639 3 479 639 Loans and advances to banks 998 650 15 5 131 1 003 796 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 643 565 6 797 100 066 750 428 Sovereign debt securities 416 461 438 315 70 426 15 506 22 204 192 560 1 155 472 Bank debt securities 41 8 500 132 99 265 107 938 Other debt securities 5 955 496 204 104 230 19 180 148 409 278 474 Derivative financial instruments 96 024 33 458 87 485 192 577 33 165 71 127 513 836 Securities arising from trading activities 454 256 5 277 66 967 91 558 331 986 496 498 Loans and advances to customers gross 1 495 540 632 016 1 292 448 4 796 708 1 189 958 432 394 9 839 064 Other loans and advances gross 3 531 598 138 12 611 86 292 229 502 332 672 Other securitised assets gross 8 668 8 668 Other assets 44 707 44 707 Total on-balance sheet exposures 7 184 567 1 120 451 1 556 176 5 292 995 1 442 357 1 414 646 18 011 192 Guarantees 7 269 4 548 9 892 21 709 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 165 937 53 224 118 438 776 987 58 845 39 929 1 213 360 Total off-balance sheet exposures 173 206 53 224 122 986 786 879 58 845 39 929 1 235 069 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre-collateral or other credit enhancements 7 357 773 1 173 675 1 679 162 6 079 874 1 501 202 1 454 575 19 246 261 Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 65 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Other credit and counterparty exposures Summary analysis of gross credit Corporate client loans are largely reflective of cash and near cash and counterparty exposures by account for 60.3% of balances held with institutions and central industry banks, thus the large balance reflected total gross core loans A description of the type of in the public and non-business services corporate client lending we andfinance and insurance sectors.
and advances, and undertake, is provided on pages Theseexposures also include off-balance are well diversified 54 and 55, and a more detailed sheet items such as guarantees, committed analysis of the corporate client facilities and contingent liabilities, diversified across various loan portfolio is provided on across several industries.
A description of the type of private client lending and lending The remainder of core loans and advances collateralised by property we largely relate to private client lending, as undertake is provided on page represented by the industry classification 53 and 54 and a more detailed high net worth and professional analysis of the private client loan individuals, as well as lending collateralised portfolio is provided on pages by property.
An analysis of the ongoing business core loans and advances to customers and asset quality is provided on page 39.
000 At 31 March 2018 2017 Gross core loans and advances to customers 9 839 064 8 747 618 Total impairments 151 840 126 876 Specific impairments 89 863 83 488 Portfolio impairments 61 977 43 388 Net core loans and advances to customers 9 687 224 8 620 742 Average gross core loans and advances to customers 9 293 341 8 347 205 Current loans and advances to customers 9 401 028 8 416 683 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 40 315 48 003 Special mention loans and advances to customers 1 90 days 37 085 22 585 Default loans and advances to customers 360 636 260 347 Gross core loans and advances to customers 9 839 064 8 747 618 Current loans and advances to customers 9 401 028 8 416 683 Default loans that are current and not impaired 50 224 6 993 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 135 830 105 645 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 251 982 218 297 Gross core loans and advances to customers 9 839 064 8 747 618 Total income statement charge for impairments on core loans and advances 105 864 74 995 Gross default loans and advances to customers 360 636 260 347 Specific impairments 89 863 83 488 Portfolio impairments 61 977 43 388 Defaults net of impairments 208 796 133 471 Aggregate collateral and other credit enhancements on defaults 291 834 192 760 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero Ratios Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 1.54% 1.45% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 42.10% 48.73% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 3.67% 2.98% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 2.16% 1.55% Net defaults as a % of net core loans and advances to customers Annualised credit loss ratio i. e. income statement impairment charge on core loans as a % of average grosscore loans and advances 1.14% 0.90% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 67 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers 000 At 31 March 2018 2017 Default loans that are current 138 404 68 069 1 60 days 87 513 106 174 61 90 days 27 950 4 174 91 180 days 40 040 63 707 181 365 days 47 176 16 205 365 days 96 953 72 606 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 438 036 330 935 1 60 days 2 274 1 863 61 90 days 3 576 173 91 180 days 5 687 3 341 181 365 days 13 449 7 517 365 days 32 817 57 851 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 57 803 70 745 A further age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total At 31 March 2018 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 50 224 50 224 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 77 241 16 883 4 259 20 645 16 802 135 830 Amount in arrears 2 248 289 463 526 9 388 12 914 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 88 180 10 272 11 067 35 781 26 531 80 151 251 982 Amount in arrears 26 3 287 5 224 12 923 23 429 44 889 At 31 March 2017 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 6 993 6 993 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 89 947 4 171 1 270 1 331 8 926 105 645 Amount in arrears 1 819 170 385 344 8 403 11 121 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 61 076 16 227 3 62 437 14 874 63 680 218 297 Amount in arrears 44 3 2 956 7 173 49 448 59 624 68 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2018 based on total capital exposure Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 40 315 40 315 Special mention 20 202 16 883 37 085 Special mention 1 90 days 20 202 6 184 26 386 Special mention 61 90 days 10 699 10 699 and item well secured Default 138 404 26 996 11 067 40 040 47 176 96 953 360 636 Sub-standard 128 906 20 286 11 067 25 981 36 563 70 432 293 235 Doubtful 9 498 6 701 12 044 8 827 21 196 58 266 Loss 9 2 015 1 786 5 325 9 135 Total 138 404 87 513 27 950 40 040 47 176 96 953 438 036 An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2018 based on actual amount in arrears Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 1 869 1 869 Special mention 70 289 359 Special mention 1 90 days 70 41 111 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 248 248 Default 335 3 287 5 687 13 449 32 817 55 575 Sub-standard 313 3 287 1 902 8 154 15 068 28 724 Doubtful 13 1 772 3 514 12 425 17 724 Loss 9 2 013 1 781 5 324 9 127 Total 2 274 3 576 5 687 13 449 32 817 57 803 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 69 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2017 based on total capital exposure Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 48 003 48 003 Special mention 20 028 2 557 22 585 Special mention 1 90 days 20 028 20 028 Special mention 61 90 days 2 557 2 557 and item well secured Default 68 069 38 143 1 617 63 707 16 205 72 606 260 347 Sub-standard 39 561 27 622 1 614 48 839 11 849 51 120 180 605 Doubtful 27 970 10 508 13 324 3 458 13 644 68 904 Loss 538 13 3 1 544 898 7 842 10 838 Total 68 069 106 174 4 174 63 707 16 205 72 606 330 935 An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2017 based on actual amount in arrears Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 1 094 1 094 Special mention 63 127 190 Special mention 1 90 days 63 63 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 127 127 Default 706 46 3 341 7 517 57 851 69 461 Sub-standard 670 43 1 018 3 884 45 313 50 928 Doubtful 25 789 2 735 4 708 8 257 Loss 11 3 1 534 898 7 830 10 276 Total 1 863 173 3 341 7 517 57 851 70 745 70 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers Gross core loans and Gross core Total gross Total net advances loans and core loans core loans that are advances Gross core and and neither that are loans and advances advances past past due advances actual Specific Portfolio actual Actual due nor but not that are capital impairimpaircapital amount in 000 impaired impaired impaired exposure ments ments exposure arrears At 31 March 2018 Current core loans and advances 9 401 028 9 401 028 61 900 9 339 128 Past due 1 60 days 40 315 40 315 40 315 1 869 Special mention 37 085 37 085 37 085 359 Special mention 1 90 days 26 386 26 386 26 386 111 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 10 699 10 699 10 699 248 Default 50 224 58 430 251 982 360 636 89 863 77 270 696 55 575 Sub-standard 50 224 58 325 184 686 293 235 51 739 77 241 419 28 724 Doubtful 105 58 161 58 266 31 221 27 045 17 724 Loss 9 135 9 135 6 903 2 232 9 127 Total 9 451 252 135 830 251 982 9 839 064 89 863 61 977 9 687 224 57 803 At 31 March 2017 Current core loans and advances 8 416 683 8 416 683 43 388 8 373 295 Past due 1 60 days 48 003 48 003 48 003 1 094 Special mention 22 585 22 585 22 585 190 Special mention 1 90 days 20 028 20 028 20 028 63 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 2 557 2 557 2 557 127 Default 6 993 35 057 218 297 260 347 83 488 176 859 69 461 Sub-standard 6 993 35 057 138 555 180 605 38 237 142 368 50 928 Doubtful 68 904 68 904 37 430 31 474 8 257 Loss 10 838 10 838 7 821 3 017 10 276 Total 8 423 676 105 645 218 297 8 747 618 83 488 43 388 8 620 742 70 745 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 71 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and impairments by counterparty type Private Public client, Insurance, and Total professional financial government core loans and high services sector Trade and net worth Corporate excluding including finance advances to 000 individuals sector sovereign central banks and other customers At 31 March 2018 Current core loans and advances 3 583 562 4 009 301 1 632 968 151 145 24 052 9 401 028 Past due 1 60 days 28 339 8 846 2 086 1 044 40 315 Special mention 35 458 972 586 69 37 085 Special mention 1 90 days 26 386 26 386 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 9 072 972 586 69 10 699 Default 259 194 100 310 305 827 360 636 Sub-standard 205 076 87 846 133 180 293 235 Doubtful 50 036 7 722 119 389 58 266 Loss 4 082 4 742 53 258 9 135 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 3 906 553 4 119 429 1 635 945 153 085 24 052 9 839 064 Total impairments 120 725 30 927 119 69 151 840 Specific impairments 58 825 30 850 119 69 89 863 Portfolio impairments 61 900 77 61 977 Net core loans and advances to customers 3 785 828 4 088 502 1 635 826 153 016 24 052 9 687 224 At 31 March 2017 Current core loans and advances 3 252 498 3 673 173 1 321 251 147 658 22 103 8 416 683 Past due 1 60 days 41 973 5 183 211 636 48 003 Special mention 22 111 402 3 69 22 585 Special mention 1 90 days 20 028 20 028 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 2 083 402 3 69 2 557 Default 245 973 13 352 165 857 260 347 Sub-standard 176 021 4 384 8 192 180 605 Doubtful 62 844 5 704 119 237 68 904 Loss 7 108 3 264 38 428 10 838 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 3 562 555 3 692 110 1 321 630 149 220 22 103 8 747 618 Total impairments 108 189 18 036 101 550 126 876 Specific impairments 76 763 6 074 101 550 83 488 Portfolio impairments 31 426 11 962 43 388 Net core loans and advances to customers 3 454 366 3 674 074 1 321 529 148 670 22 103 8 620 742 72 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2018 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 1 988 385 248 008 207 059 54 089 56 048 Commercial real estate 1 149 140 74 714 43 681 31 060 29 235 Commercial real estate investment 953 388 48 495 35 199 13 296 22 442 Commercial real estate development 140 222 Commercial vacant land and planning 55 530 26 219 8 482 17 764 6 793 Residential real estate 839 245 173 294 163 378 23 029 26 813 Residential real estate investment 243 675 46 937 42 205 5 880 15 918 Residential real estate development 524 893 97 475 90 151 10 813 5 865 Residential vacant land and planning 70 677 28 882 31 022 6 336 5 030 High net worth and other private client lending 1 918 168 11 186 13 277 4 736 3 185 Mortgages 1 481 355 6 601 10 069 1 856 130 High net worth and specialised lending 436 813 4 585 3 208 2 880 3 055 Corporate and other lending 5 932 511 101 442 71 498 31 038 26 498 Corporate and acquisition finance 1 534 815 18 102 14 202 4 000 3 983 Asset-based lending 354 872 Fund finance 1 030 450 Other corporate and financial institutions and governments 650 312 61 Asset finance 1 872 821 79 272 53 589 26 677 25 436 Small ticket asset finance 1 386 610 15 177 6 320 8 857 7 616 Large ticket asset finance 486 211 64 095 47 269 17 820 17 820 Project finance 483 788 4 068 3 707 361 2 982 Resource finance 5 453 Portfolio impairments 61 977 20 133 Total 9 839 064 360 636 291 834 151 840 105 864 Where a positive number represents a recovery.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 73 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2017 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 1 963 754 227 515 167 972 70 633 45 114 Commercial real estate 1 190 836 80 987 48 998 31 989 21 748 Commercial real estate investment 934 117 40 120 30 773 9 347 12 373 Commercial real estate development 149 188 4 768 1 680 3 088 Commercial vacant land and planning 107 531 36 099 16 545 19 554 9 375 Residential real estate 772 918 146 528 118 974 38 644 23 366 Residential real estate investment 262 844 46 841 43 018 9 222 11 126 Residential real estate development 458 441 77 250 61 727 19 754 10 615 Residential vacant land and planning 51 633 22 437 14 229 9 668 1 625 High net worth and other private client lending 1 598 801 18 458 17 139 6 130 1 928 Mortgages 1 228 877 4 906 6 957 1 237 637 High net worth and specialised lending 369 924 13 552 10 182 4 893 1 291 Corporate and other lending 5 185 063 14 374 7 649 6 725 5 965 Corporate and acquisition finance 1 309 335 1 951 Asset-based lending 333 731 Fund finance 861 140 Other corporate and financial institutions and governments 718 760 Asset finance 1 488 142 10 483 3 942 6 541 5 630 Small ticket asset finance 1 062 069 10 483 3 942 6 541 5 630 Large ticket asset finance 426 073 Project finance 464 142 3 891 3 707 184 176 Resource finance 9 813 1 792 Portfolio impairments 43 388 21 988 Total 8 747 618 260 347 192 760 126 876 74 995 Where a positive number represents a recovery.
74 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Asset quality trends Percentage billion 6 10 5 8 4 6 3 4 2 2 Net core loans RHS 1 Defaults net of impairments as a % of core advances LHS 0 0 Credit loss ratio LHS 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Additional information An analysis of gross core loans and advances to customers by country of exposure 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 9 839 million 8 748 million United Kingdom 68.8% United Kingdom 68.2% Europe excluding UK 14.5% Europe excluding UK 14.6% North America 6.7% North America 6.9% Asia 3.6% Asia 4.3% Australia 3.4% Australia 3.3% Other 3.0% Other 2.7% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 75 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Collateral A summary of total collateral is provided in the table below.
Collateral held against Other Core credit and loans and counterparty 000 advances exposures Total At 31 March 2018 Eligible financial collateral 1 160 139 605 699 1 765 838 Listed shares 984 535 61 640 1 046 175 Cash 175 604 120 499 296 103 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 423 560 423 560 Property charge 5 737 052 218 260 5 955 312 Residential property 3 275 906 218 260 3 494 166 Residential development 877 827 877 827 Commercial property developments 238 766 238 766 Commercial property investments 1 344 553 1 344 553 Other collateral 5 368 214 297 549 5 665 763 Unlisted shares 760 458 760 458 Charges other than property 24 004 297 549 321 553 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 3 552 746 3 552 746 Guarantees 834 603 834 603 Other 196 403 196 403 Total collateral 12 265 405 1 121 508 13 386 913 At 31 March 2017 Eligible financial collateral 911 474 664 898 1 576 372 Listed shares 692 067 84 723 776 790 Cash 219 407 194 463 413 870 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 385 712 385 712 Property charge 5 121 750 202 096 5 323 846 Residential property 2 551 729 202 096 2 753 825 Residential development 961 844 961 844 Commercial property developments 367 925 367 925 Commercial property investments 1 240 252 1 240 252 Other collateral 4 909 925 199 809 5 109 734 Unlisted shares 670 406 670 406 Charges other than property 19 145 199 809 218 954 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 3 177 267 3 177 267 Guarantees 823 122 823 122 Other 219 985 219 985 Total collateral 10 943 149 1 066 803 12 009 952 A large percentage of these exposures e. g. bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
Unlisted shares taken as collateral can include shares in companies in which the group also has an equity investment.
Refer to pages 77 to 79 for additional information on the unlisted equity investments held at fair value.
76 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued value for the existing business by Investment risk in the Investment risk in the implementing an agreed strategy.
banking book banking book represents Investments in listed shares may arise on the IPO, or sale of one of Investment risk description a moderate percentage our investments.
Additionally, listed Investment risk in the banking book arises investments may beconsidered where of our total assets and primarily from the following activities we believe that the market is mispricing is managed within conducted within the group: the value of the underlying security appropriate risk limits Lending transactions: The manner in Principal investments: Principal which we structure certain transactions investments are normally undertaken in results in equity, warrant and profit support of a client requiring equity to shares being held, predominantly grow and develop an existing business, within unlisted companies or the acquisition of a business from third parties.
Investments are Property activities: We source selected based on the track record development, investment and trading of management, the attractiveness opportunities to create value and trade of the industry and the ability to build for profit within agreed risk parameters.
Management of investment risk As investment risk arises from a variety of activities conducted by the group, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Independent credit and investment committees exist in each geography where we assume investment risk.
Nature of investment risk Management of risk Principal investments Investment committee, BRCC and GRCC Listed equities Investment committee, market risk management, BRCC and GRCC Embedded derivatives, profit shares Credit risk management committees, and investments arising from lending BRCC and GRCC transactions Investment and trading properties Investment committee, BRCC and GRCC Risk appetite limits and targets are set to manage our exposure to equity and investment risk.
An assessment of exposures against limits and targets as well as stress testing scenario analysis are performed and reported to GRCC and BRCC.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies and industries.
Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to pages 181 to 186 and pages 207 to 214 for factors taken into consideration in determining fair value.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 3.64% of total assets.
Refer to page 207 for further information.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 77 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Income loss pre-funding costs Fair value 000 through Category Unrealised Realised Dividends Total equity For the year to 31 March 2018 Unlisted investments 17 471 32 982 10 169 60 622 786 Listed equities 9 716 1 667 2 11 381 2 214 Investment and trading properties 10 977 1 650 9 327 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 5 664 7 202 12 866 Total 2 442 40 167 10 171 52 780 1 428 For the year to 31 March 2017 Unlisted investments 24 391 38 512 11 066 73 969 624 Listed equities 20 442 21 1 273 19 148 2 831 Investment and trading properties 14 892 17 504 2 612 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 7 035 7 035 Total 17 978 56 037 12 339 50 398 2 207 In a year of realisation, any prior period mark-to-market gains losses recognised are reversed in the unrealised line item.
78 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
On-balance On-balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation value of change value of change investments stress test investments stress test 000 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Category 2018 2018 2017 2017 Unlisted investments 416 835 62 525 383 267 57 490 Listed equities 61 084 15 271 76 478 19 120 Total investment portfolio 477 919 77 796 459 745 76 610 Investment and trading properties 113 461 21 242 143 648 27 280 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 21 611 7 564 18 194 6 368 Total 612 991 106 602 621 587 110 258 In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters areapplied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information at 31 March 2018, as reflected above, we could have a 107 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a severe stress scenario simultaneously across all asset classes.
This would not necessarily cause the group to report a loss, but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of CRD IV capital requirements for Investec plc, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book, investment properties, profit shares and embedded derivatives are all considered in the calculation of capital required for credit risk.
Refer to page 104 for further detail.
An analysis of the investment portfolio, warrants, pro t shares and other embedded derivatives 31 March 2018 500 million Real estate 31.8% Manufacturing and commerce 24.9% Finance and insurance 15.4% Retailer and wholesalers 7.9% Communication 6.5% Mining and resources 5.7% Transport 5.6% Business services 1.1% Other 1.1% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 79 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued During the year we did not undertake any to the groups overall risk appetite.
We can Securitisation structured new securitisation transactions.
use explicit credit risk mitigation techniques credit activities exposures where required, however, the group prefers We hold rated structured credit to address and manage these risks by only Overview instruments.
These exposures are largely in approving exposures to which the group the UK and US and amount to 266million The groups definition of securitisation has explicit appetite through the constant at 31March2018 31 March 2017: structured credit activities as explained and consistent application of the risk 339million.
below is wider than the definition as appetite policy.
applied for regulatory capital purposes, Accounting policies Credit analysis which largely focuses on those securitisations in which the group Refer to page 183.
In terms of our analysis of our credit and has achieved significant risk transfer.
counterparty risk, exposures arising from We, however, believe that the information securitisation structured credit activities Risk management provided below is meaningful inthat it reflect only those exposures to which we groups all these related activities in order All existing or proposed exposures to consider ourselves to be at risk.
for a reviewer to obtain a fuller pictureof a securitisation or a resecuritisation are the activities that we have conducted in this analysed on a case-by-case basis, with space.
Some of the information provided final approval typically required from the below overlaps with the groups credit and relevant credit committee.
The analysis counterparty exposure information.
looks through to the historical and expected future performance of the underlying assets, Refer to page 61 for the the position of the relevant tranche in the balance sheet and credit risk capital structure as well as analysis of the classification.
cash flow waterfall under a variety of stress scenarios.
External ratings are presented, The group applies the standardised but only for information purposes since the approach in the assessment of regulatory bank principally relies on its own internal capital for securitisation.
Overarching these transaction level principles is the boardThe primary focus for new securitisation approved risk appetite policy, which details transactions remains to provide a cost the groups appetite for such exposures, effective, alternative source of financing to and each exposure is considered relative the bank.
80 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Exposure Exposure At 31 March 2018 2017 Balance sheet and Nature of exposure activity million million credit risk classification Structured credit gross exposure 276 349 Other debt securities and other loans and advances Rated 266 339 Unrated 10 10 Loans and advances to customers and third party intermediary 130 141 Other loans and advances originating platforms mortgage loans net exposure Analysis of rated and unrated structured credit 2018 2017 million At 31 March Rated Unrated Total Rated Unrated Total US corporate loans 135 135 136 136 UK and European RMBS 121 10 131 163 10 173 UK and European ABS 4 4 UK and European corporate loans 10 10 36 36 Total 266 10 276 339 10 349 A further analysis of rated structured credit at 31 March 2018 CCC and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US corporate loans 54 65 16 135 UK and European RMBS 17 55 47 2 121 UK and European corporate loans 1 5 4 10 Total at 31 March 2018 72 125 67 2 266 Total at 31 March 2017 102 153 77 5 2 339 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 81 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued by the BRCC, manages market risk in considered and are reviewed regularly Market risk in the accordance with approved principles, for relevance in ever-changing market tradingbook policies and risk appetite.
Stress scenarios are run daily all trading desks are reviewed by the global with analysis presented weekly to Review Traded market risk market risk forum and recommended for ERRF or more often depending on market description approval at ERC in accordance with the risk conditions.
Traded market risk is the risk of potential appetite defined by the board.
Limit reviews Traded market risk changes in the value of the trading book as approved at ERC are noted at Policy ERRF management, monitoring and a result of changes in market risk factors with significant changes to limits presented such as interest rates, equity prices, to Policy ERRF for review and approval.
control exchange rates, commodity prices, credit The appropriateness of limits is continually Market risk limits are set according to spreads and their underlying volatilities re-assessed, with limits reviewed at least guidelines set out in our risk appetite where derivatives are traded.
The trading annually, in the event of a significant policy.
Limits are set at trading desk level book is defined as positions in financial market event or at the discretion of senior with aggregate risk across all desks also instruments and commodities, including management.
monitored against overall market risk derivative products and other off-balanceappetite limits.
Current market conditions Measurement of traded sheet instruments that are held within the as well as stressed market conditions marketrisk trading businesses.
are taken into account when setting and A number of quantitative measures are reviewing these limits.
Traded market risk profile used to monitor and limit exposure to Market risk teams review the market risks in The focus of our trading activities is traded market risk.
These measures the trading book with detailed risk reports primarily on supporting client activity.
Our include: produced daily for each trading desk and strategic intent is that proprietary trading Value at Risk VaR and Expected for the aggregate risk of the trading book.
should be limited and that trading should Shortfall ES as portfolio measures of The material risks identified are summarised be conducted largely to facilitate client market risk exposure in daily reports that are distributed to, flow.
Within our trading activities, we act as and discussed with senior management.
principal with clients or the market.
Market scenario analysis, stress tests and tools The production of risk reports allows risk exists where we have taken on principal based on extreme value theory EVT for the monitoring of all positions in the positions resulting from market making, that measure the potential impact on trading book against prescribed limits.
underwriting and facilitation of client portfolio values of extreme moves in Documented policies and procedures are business in the foreign exchange, interest markets in place to ensure there is a formal process rate, equity, credit and commodity markets.
sensitivity analysis that measures the for recognition and authorisation for risk impact of individual market risk factor Traded market risk excesses incurred.
movements on specific instruments governance structure or portfolios, including interest rates, The risk management software is fully foreign exchange rates, equity prices, Traded market risk is governed by policies integrated with source trading systems, credit spreads and commodity prices, that cover the management, identification, allowing valuation in risk and trading such as the effect of a one basis measurement and monitoring of market systems to be fully aligned.
All valuation point change in interest rates.
We have independent market risk models are subject to independent sensitivity measures to monitor and limit teams in each jurisdiction where we validation by market risk ensuring models exposure across portfolios, products assume market risk to identify, measure, used for valuation and risk are validated and risk types.
monitor and manage market risk.
These independently of the front office.
teams report into local risk management Stress and scenario analyses are used and risk management in the UK.
All limits to add insight into the possible outcomes are approved, managed and monitored under severe market disruptions.
The centrally by risk management.
stress-testing methodology assumes that all market factors move adversely at the same The market risk teams have reporting lines time and that no actions are taken during that are separate from the trading function, the stress events to mitigate risk.
Stress thereby ensuring independent oversight.
scenarios based on historical experience Aglobal market risk forum, mandated as well as hypothetical scenarios are 82 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Value at Risk VaR is a technique that estimates the potential losses as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon at a given level of confidence.
The VaR model derives future scenarios from past time series of market rates and prices, taking into account inter-relationships between the different markets such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The VaR model used is based on full revaluation historical simulation and incorporates the following features: Two year historical period based on an unweighted time series Daily movements in each risk factor e. g. foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and associated volatilities are simulated with reference to historical market rates and prices, with proxies only used when no or limited historical market data is available, and the resultant one-day VaR is scaled up using the square root of time for regulatory purposes Risk factor movements are based on both absolute and relative returns as appropriate for the different types of risk factors.
VaR numbers using a one-day holding period are monitored daily at the 95% and 99% confidence intervals, with limits set at the 95% confidence interval.
Expected shortfalls are also monitored daily at the 95% and 99% levels as is the worst case loss in the VaR distribution.
The table below contains the 95% one-day VaR figures for the trading businesses.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes diversification.
Expected shortfall The ES measure overcomes some of VaRs shortcomings.
ES seeks to quantify losses encountered in the tail beyond the VaR level.
The 95% one-day ES is the average loss given that the 95% one-day VaR level has been exceeded.
The table below contains the 95% one-day ES figures.
95% one-day 31 March 31 March 000 2018 2017 Equities 655 731 Foreign exchange 26 24 Interest rates 113 118 Credit 35 396 Consolidated 611 764 The consolidated ES is lower than the sum of the individual ESs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes diversification.
Stressed VaR Stressed VaR sVaR is calculated using the VaR model but based on a one year period through which the relevant market factors experienced stress.
The information in the table below contains the 99% one-day sVaR as at 31 March 2018.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 000 Year end Year end 99% one-day sVaR 1 541 1 322 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 83 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Backtesting The performance of the VaR model is regularly monitored through backtesting.
This is done by comparing daily hypothetical profit and loss against one-day VaR based on a 99% confidence level.
Hypothetical profit and loss excludes items such as fees, commissions, valuation adjustments and intra-day transactions.
If a loss exceeds the one-day VaR, a backtesting exception is considered to have occurred.
Over time we expect the average rate of observed backtesting exceptions to be consistent with the percentile of the VaR statistic being tested.
This is conducted at an aggregate and desk level on a daily basis.
The graph that follows shows the result of backtesting the total daily 99% one-day VaR against the hypothetical profit and loss figures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
Based on this graph, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities are not expected to lose more than the 99% one-dayVaR.
The average VaR for the year ended March 2018 was lower than the previous year, largely as a result of a reduction in risk in interest rates and credit.
Using hypothetical profit and loss data for backtesting resulted in one exception over the year at the 99% confidence level, i. e. where the loss was greater than the 99% one-day VaR.
This is less than expected at the 99% level and is due to modest volatility levels experienced in 2017.
99% one-day VaR backtesting 2 500 000 2 000 000 1 500 000 1 000 000 500 000 0 -500 000 -1 000 000 -1 500 000 -2 000 000 Hypothetical P L -2 500 000 99% one-day VaR Stress testing The table below indicates the potential losses that could arise if the portfolio is stress tested under extreme market conditions.
The method used is known as extreme value theory EVT, the reported stress scenario below calculates the 99% EVT which is a 1-in-8 year possible loss event.
These numbers do not assume normality but rather rely on fitting a distribution to the tails of the VaR distribution.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 000 Year end Year end Using 99% EVT Equities 1 475 1 638 Foreign exchange 66 114 Interest rates 226 264 Credit 83 1 223 Consolidated 1 441 1 949 The consolidated stress test number is lower than the sum of the individual stress test numbers.
84 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 1 April 2017 30 April 2017 31 May 2017 30 June 2017 31 July 2017 31 August 2017 30 September 2017 31 October 2017 30 November 2017 31 December 2017 31 January 2018 28 February 2018 31 March 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital The market risk capital requirement is calculated using the standardised approach.
For certain options, the group has obtained an article 329 permission from the PRA to use an internal model to calculate the delta for these positions.
In addition the group was granted an article 331 permission in January 2018 which allows sensitivity models to be used when calculating the market risk position for certain instruments.
Profit and loss histogram The histogram below illustrates the distribution of hypothetical profit and loss during the financial year for our trading businesses.
Thedistribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 135 days out of a total of 251days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year to31March2018 was 61 232 2017: 88299.
Pro t and loss Frequency: Days in a year 80 70 63 60 55 50 44 40 30 30 20 19 20 11 10 5 3 1 0 -1.8 -1.6 -1.4 -1.2 -1.0 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 Pro t loss earned per day million Traded market risk year inreview Trading revenues were impacted by lower volatility in equity markets through 2017, however there was continued growth in client activity particularly within the financial products business.
Market risk exposures across all trading desks remained low throughout the year.
Market risk derivatives Investec enters into various derivatives contracts, largely on the back of customer flow for hedging foreign exchange, interest rates, commodity, equity and credit exposures to a small extent as principal for trading purposes.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on page 221.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge thesepositions.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 85 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The Treasury function directs pricing for Liquidity risk is further broken down into: Balance sheet risk all deposit products, establishes and Funding liquidity: this relates to the management maintains access to stable wholesale risk that the bank will be unable to funds with the appropriate tenor and Balance sheet risk description meet current and or future cash flows pricing characteristics, and manages liquid or collateral requirements in the normal Balance sheet risk encompasses the securities and collateral, thus providing course of business, without adversely financial risks relating to our asset and liability prudential management and a flexible affecting its financial position or its portfolios, comprising liquidity, funding, response to volatile market conditions.
The reputation concentration, encumbrance and nonTreasury function is the sole interface to the Market liquidity: this relates to the risk trading interest rate risk.
wholesale money market for both cash and that the bank may be unable to trade in derivative transactions.
Balance sheet risk governance specific markets or that it may only be We maintain an internal funds transfer structure and risk mitigation able to do so with difficulty due to market pricing system based on prevailing market disruptions or a lack of market liquidity.
Investec plc and its subsidiaries are rates.
Our funds transfer pricing system ring-fenced from Investec Limited and Management and measurement of charges the businesses the price of its subsidiaries, and vice versa.
Both liquidity risk short-term and long-term liquidity taking legal entities are therefore required to be into account the behavioural duration of Cohesive liquidity management is vital self-funded, and manage their funding and the asset.
The costs and risks of liquidity for protecting our depositors, preserving liquidity as separate entities.
are clearly and transparently attributed to market confidence, safeguarding our Risk appetite limits are set at board level business lines thereby ensuring that price reputation and ensuring sustainable and reviewed at least on an annual basis.
of liquidity is integrated into business level growth with established funding sources.
The size, materiality, complexity, maturity decision-making and drives the appropriate Through active liquidity management, and depth of the market as well as access mix of sources and uses of funds.
we seek to preserve stable, reliable and to stable funds are all inputs considered cost-effective sources of funding.
As such, Balance sheet risk management teams when establishing the liquidity and nonthe group considers ongoing access to are based within risk management in trading interest rate risk appetite for each appropriate liquidity for all its operations their respective geographies, and are geographic region.
Specific regulatory to be of paramount importance, and our responsible for independently identifying, requirements may further dictate additional core liquidity philosophy is reflected in quantifying and monitoring risks: providing restrictions to be adopted in a region.
day-to-day practices which encompass the daily independent governance and following robust and comprehensive set Under delegated authority of the board, oversight of the treasury activities and the of policies and procedures for assessing, the group has established Asset and execution of the banks policies.
measuring and controlling the liquidity risk: Liability Committees ALCOs within each There is a regular audit of the balance sheet core geography in which it operates, using Our liquidity management processes risk management function, the frequency regional expertise and local market access encompass requirements set out of which is determined by the independent as appropriate.
The ALCOs are mandated within Basel Committee on Banking audit committees.
to ensure independent supervision of Supervision BCBS guidelines and liquidity risk and non-trading interest rate Daily, weekly and monthly reports are by the regulatory authorities in each risk within the risk appetite.
independently produced highlighting bank jurisdiction, namely the PRA, EBA, activity, exposures and key measures GFSC and FINMA ALCOs meet on at least a monthly basis against thresholds and limits and are The risk appetite is clearly defined by to review the exposures that lie within distributed to management, ALCO, the board and each geographic entity the balance sheet together with market Treasury, Review ERRF, GRCC and BRCC must have its own board-approved conditions, and decide on strategies to as well as summarised reports for board policies with respect to liquidity risk mitigate any undesirable liquidity and meetings.
The Treasury function within each region is mandated to Liquidity risk We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form holistically manage the liquidity mismatch of unencumbered cash, government Liquidity risk description and non-trading interest rate risk arising or rated securities typically eligible for Liquidity risk refers to the possibility from our asset and liability portfolios on a repurchase with the central bank, and day-to-day basis.
that, despite being solvent, we have near cash well in excess of the regulatory insufficient capacity to fund increases in requirements as protection against The Treasury function within each assets, or are unable to meet our payment unexpected disruptions in cash flows jurisdiction is required to exercise tight obligations as they fall due in normal and Funding is diversified with respect to control of liquidity, funding, concentration, stressed conditions.
This includes repaying currency, term, product, client type and encumbrance and non-trading interest depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This counterparty to ensure a varied overall rate risk within the board-approved risk risk arises from mismatches in the timing funding mix appetite limits.
Non-trading interest rate of cash-flows, and is inherent in all banking risk and asset funding requirements are We monitor and evaluate each banking operations and can be impacted by a transferred from the originating business to entitys maturity ladder and funding range of institution-specific and marketthe Treasury function.
gap cash flow maturity mismatch on wideevents.
a liquidation, going concern and stressbasis 86 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The asset and liability team and to continue to operate for a minimum environment, business model, strategy, independently monitors key daily funding period as detailed in the board-approved capital adequacy levels, quality of earnings, metrics and liquidity ratios to assess risk appetite.
risk appetite and exposure, and control potential risks to the liquidity position, framework.
We further carry out reverse stress tests to which further act as early warning identify business model vulnerabilities which We remain confident in our ability to raise indicators of potential market disruptions tests tail risks that can be missed in normal funding appropriate to our needs.
The maintenance of sustainable prudent stress tests.
The group has calculated Liquidity buffer liquidity resources takes precedence the severity of stress required to breach over profitability To protect against potential shocks, we the liquidity requirements.
This scenario is hold a liquidity buffer in the form of cash, The group maintains adequate considered highly unlikely given the groups unencumbered high quality liquid assets strong liquidity position, as it requires an contingency funding plans designed typically in the form of government or to protect depositors, creditors and extreme withdrawal of deposits combined rated securities eligible for repurchase with the inability to take any management shareholders and maintain market with the central bank, and near cash, well confidence during adverse liquidity actions to breach liquidity minima that in excess of the regulatory requirements threatens Investecs liquidity position.
as protection against disruptions in cash We measure liquidity risk by quantifying The group operates an industry-recognised flows.
These portfolios are managed within and calculating various liquidity risk metrics third party risk modelling system in addition board-approved targets, and as well as to custom-built management information and ratios to assess potential risks to the providing a buffer under going concern liquidity position.
These include: systems designed to measure and monitor conditions, also form an integral part of liquidity risk on both a current and forwardInternal survival horizon metric which the broader liquidity generation strategy.
The system is audited by models how many days it takes before Investec remains a net liquidity provider to Internal Audit thereby ensuring integrity of the banks cash position turns negative the interbank market, placing significantly the process.
under an internally defined worst-case more funds with other banks than our liquidity stress: short-term interbank borrowings.
We do not Funding strategy rely on overnight interbank deposits to fund Regulatory metrics for liquidity We maintain a funding structure of stable term lending.
measurement: customer deposits and long-term wholesale Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR funding well in excess of illiquid assets.
From 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 We target a diversified funding base, average cash and near cash balances over Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR avoiding undue concentrations by investor the period amounted to 5.1 billion.
Modelling a business as usual type, maturity, market source, instrument environment where we apply rollover and currency.
As a result, we are able to and reinvestment assumptions under generate funding from a broad range of benign market conditions: sources in each geographic location, which An array of further liquidity stress tests, ensures a varied overall funding mix to based on a range of scenarios and support loan growth.
using historical analysis, documented We acknowledge the importance of our experience and prudent judgement to retail deposit client base as the principal model the impact on the banks balance source of stable and well diversified sheet: funding.
We continue to develop products Contractual run-off based actual cash to attract and service the investment needs flows with no modelling adjustments: of our client base.
Additional internally defined funding and Entities within the group actively participate balance sheet ratios: and in global financial markets and our Any other local regulatory requirements.
relationship is continuously enhanced through regular investor presentations This suite of metrics ensures the smooth internationally.
Entities are only allowed management of the day-to-day liquidity to have funding exposure to wholesale position within conservative parameters markets where they can demonstrate that and further validates that we are able to the market is sufficiently deep and liquid, generate sufficient liquidity to withstand and then only relative to the size and a range of liquidity stresses or market complexity of their business.
The groups ability to access funding The parameters used in stress scenarios are reviewed at least annually, taking at cost-effective levels is influenced by maintaining or improving the entitys credit into account changes in the business environments and input from business rating.
A reduction in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the groups units.
The objective is to analyse the possible impact of an economic event on funding costs, and access to wholesale term funding.
Credit ratings are dependent cash flow, liquidity, profitability and solvency position, so as to maintain sufficient liquidity on multiple factors, including operating Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 87 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Cash and near cash trend million 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 Near cash other 2 000 monetisable assets Central Bank cash 1 000 placements and guaranteed liquidity 0 Cash Apr 17 May 17 Jun 17 Jul 17 Aug 17 Sep 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 An analysis of cash and Bank and non-bank depositor near cash at 31 March 2018 concentration by type at 31 March 2018 5 813 million 12 945 million Central Bank cash placements and 79.8% Individuals 50.1% guaranteed liquidity Nonfinancial corporates 34.7% Cash 16.1% Banks 10.1% Near cash other monetisable assets 4.1% Small business 5.1% 88 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Encumbered assets are identified in Contingency planning The liquidity Investec plc in accordance with the The group maintains contingency funding reporting requirements under European position of the group plans which detail the course of actions Capital Requirements Regulation CRR, that can be taken in the event of a liquidity remained sound with and regular reporting is provided to the stress.
The plans help to ensure that cash EBA and PRA.
Further disclosures on total cash and near cash flow estimates and commitments can encumbered and unencumbered assets be met in the event of general market balances amounting to can be found within the Investec plc Pillar 3 disruption or adverse bank-specific events, document.
5.8 billion at year end while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
The plans On page 219 we disclose further include: details of assets that have been received as collateral under Details on the required daily monitoring reverse repurchase agreements of the liquidity position: and securities borrowing Description of the early warning transactions where the assets are indicators to be monitored, and process allowed to be resold or pledged.
of escalation if required: Liquidity stress scenarios to be modelled Liquidity mismatch for Contingency Funding Plan CFP purposes over and above daily stress The table that follows shows the liquidity testing scenarios : mismatch.
Funding and management actions With respect to the contractual liquidity available for use in a stress situation: table below, we record all assets and Roles and responsibilities: liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash flow Details of specific escalation bodies and profile for each deal.
key contacts: and Internal and external communication With respect to the behavioural liquidity plans.
gap, we adjust the contractual profile of certain assets and liabilities: Asset encumbrance Liquidity buffer: the actual contractual An asset is defined as encumbered if it profile of the assets in the liquidity buffer has been pledged as collateral against an is of little consequence, as practically existing liability and, as a result, is no longer Investec would meet any unexpected available to the group to secure funding, net cash outflows by repoing or satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce selling these highly liquid securities.
Consequently, for the liquidity buffer: Risk management monitors and manages The time horizon to monetise our total balance sheet encumbrance within regulatory liquid assets which are a board-approved risk appetite limit.
guaranteed by the central bank has Asset encumbrance is one of the factors been adjusted to on demand: and considered in the discussion of new The time horizon for the cash and products or new funding structures, and the near cash portfolio of available-forimpact on risk appetite is assessed.
sale discretionary treasury assets The group uses secured transactions to has been set to one month where manage short-term cash and collateral there are deep secondary markets needs, and utilises securitisations in order for this elective asset class.
to raise external term funding as part of its Customer deposits: the contractual diversified liability base.
Securitisation notes repayments of many deposits are on issued are also retained by the group which demand, or at notice, but in reality are available to provide a pool of collateral withdrawals vary significantly from this.
eligible to support central bank liquidity Historical observations of the products facilities, including the Bank of England's are used to model the behavioural lives, Funding for Lending and Term Funding and this analysis has identified significant Schemes.
additional sources of structural liquidity in the form of core deposits that exhibit stable behaviour.
Six Up One Three months One to one to three to six to one to five Five million Demand month months months year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 3 704 641 125 109 269 4 366 14 Cumulative 3 704 4 345 4 220 4 111 4 380 14 90 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued 100%.
Ahead of the implementation of the In September 2017, Investec Bank plcs Regulatory requirements final NSFR rules, the group has applied its long-term deposit rating was upgraded In response to the global financial crisis, own interpretations of regulatory guidance by Fitch to BBB stable outlook and the BCBS introduced a series of reforms and definitions from the BCBS final the outlook was changed to positive by designed to both strengthen and harmonise guidelines, to calculate the NSFR which Moodys A2, positive outlook.
The outlook global liquidity standards to ensure strong was 142% for Investec plc and 133% for was also changed to positive on Investec financial risk management and a safer Investec Bank plc solo basis well ahead plcs long-term issuer rating Baa1, positive global economy.
of the future regulatory minimum of 100%.
The reported LCR and NSFR may change Two minimum standards for funding liquidity Cash and near cash balances at 31 March over time with regulatory developments were introduced: 2018 amounted to 5.8 billion 2017: 5.0 andguidance.
Investec plc customer deposits The liquidity coverage ratio LCR is Investec plc undertakes an annual Individual totalled 11.6 billion at 31 March 2018 designed to ensure that banks have Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process 2017: 11.0 billion.
sufficient high quality liquid assets to ILAAP which documents the approach meet their liquidity needs throughout a Non-trading interest rate risk to liquidity management across the firm.
30-calendar day severe stress This document is reviewed and approved Non-trading interest rate risk The net stable funding ratio NSFR is by the board before being provided to designed to capture structural issues description the PRA for use, alongside the Liquidity over a longer time horizon by requiring Non-trading interest rate risk, otherwise Supervisory Review and Evaluation banks to have a sustainable maturity known as interest rate risk in the banking Process, to determine the banks Individual structure of assets and liabilities.
book, arises from the impact of adverse Liquidity Guidance, also known as a Pillar 2 movements in interest rates on both net Since 1 January 2018, banks within the EU requirement.
interest earnings and economic value of have been required to maintain a minimum Balance sheet risk year in equity.
For both Investec plc review and Investec Bank plc solo basis, the Sources of interest rate risk include: LCR is calculated following the European Investec maintained its strong liquidity Repricing risk: arises from the timing Commission Delegated Regulation 2015 61 position and continued to hold high differences in the fixed rate maturity and and our own interpretations where the levels of surplus liquid assets.
floating rate repricing of bank assets, regulation calls for it.
The reported LCR Our liquidity risk management process liabilities and off-balance sheet derivative may change over time with updates to our remains robust and comprehensive.
This affects the interest rate methodologies and interpretations.
margin realised between lending income A strong liquidity position has continued The BCBS published their final paper on and borrowing costs when applied to to be maintained throughout the year with NSFR in October 2014.
In November our rate sensitive portfolios liabilities growing to support strong asset 2016, the European Commission released growth.
Funding and liquidity continued to Yield curve risk: repricing mismatches a number of proposals amending the also expose the bank to changes in the be raised through a diverse mix of customer CRR referred to as the CRR2 CRDV liabilities by customer type, currency, slope and shape of the yield curve package.
This includes a number of EU channel and tenor, avoiding reliance on any Basis risk: arises from imperfect specificities with respect to the NSFR.
particular channel and ensuring continued correlation in the adjustments of the Theimplementation date of the ratio will access to a wide range of deposits.
rates earned and paid on different be two years after the date entry into instruments with otherwise similar force of the proposed regulation, at which Additional cost-effective term funding has repricing characteristics point banks will be required to maintain been raised during the year whilst limiting a minimum NSFR of 100%.
The NSFR Embedded option risk: arises from refinancing risks.
In 2017 18, these have therefore remains subject to an observation optional elements embedded in items included drawings on the Bank of England period in advance of such implementation where the bank or its customers can Term Funding Scheme, refinancing and and we will continue to monitor these rules upsizing of syndicated term loans and the alter the level and timing of their cash until final implementation.
The internally flows issuance of new Investec plc senior and calculated NSFR for Investec plc and Additional Tier 1 notes in the debt capital Endowment risk: refers to the Investec Bank plc solo basis is based markets.
interest rate risk exposure arising from upon the BCBS paper and our own internal the net differential between interest Funding costs have continued to fall, interpretations, as such, it is subject to rate insensitive assets, interest rate despite overall growth in liabilities, through change in response to regulatory updates insensitive liabilities and capital.
ongoing active management of the liability and our methodologies.
channels and the deployment of a diverse The above sources of interest rate risk For Investec plc and Investec Bank plc solo range of funding channels.
affect the interest rate margin realised basis, the LCR is calculated using our own between lending income and borrowing The overall liquidity position at year-end interpretations of the EU Delegated Act.
costs, when applied to our rate sensitive remains strong across a range of metrics in TheLCR reported to the PRA at 31 March asset and liability portfolios, which has a line with our overall conservative approach 2018 was 306% for Investec plc and 301% direct effect on future net interest earnings to balance sheet risk management and is for Investec Bank plc solo basis which is and the economic value of equity.
well positioned to support asset growth in well ahead of the regulatory minimum of the new financial year.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 91 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The repricing gap provides a simple response to market volatility which may Measurement and management of representation of the balance sheet, with arise during changing interest rate cycles, non-trading interest rate risk the sensitivity of fair values and earnings in order to hedge residual exposures.
Any Non-trading interest rate risk is an inherent to changes to interest rates calculated off resultant interest rate position is managed consequence of conducting banking the repricing gap.
This also allows for the under the market risk limits.
Balance activities, and arises from the provision of detection of interest rate risk concentration sheet risk management independently retail and wholesale non-trading banking in specific repricing buckets.
Net interest monitors a broad range of interest rate products and services.
The group considers income sensitivity measures the change risk metrics to changes in interest rate the management of banking margin of vital in accruals expected over the specified risk factors, detailing the sources of importance, and our non-trading interest horizon in response to a shift in the yield interest rate exposure.
rate risk philosophy is reflected in our daycurve, while economic value sensitivity to-day practices.
We are exposed to automatic optionality and stress testing to macro-economic risk for those lending products where the The aim of non-trading interest rate risk movement or changes to the yield curve bank applies a minimum lending rate.
measures the interest risk implicit change in management is to protect and enhance This is an income protection mechanism net interest income and economic value net worth as a result of a change in interest allowing for upward potential and no rates on the current values of financial of equity in accordance with the boarddownside risk.
We are not materially approved risk appetite, and to ensure a assets and liabilities.
Economic value exposed to behavioural embedded option measures have the advantage that all future high degree of stability of the net interest risk, as contract breakage penalties on margin over an interest rate cycle.
Noncash flows are considered and therefore fixed-rate items specifically cover this risk, can highlight risk beyond the earnings trading interest rate risk is measured and while early termination of variable rate analysed by utilising standard tools of horizon.
contracts has negligible impact on interest traditional interest rate repricing mismatch Each geographic entity has its own boardrate risk.
and NPV sensitivity to changes in interest approved non-trading interest rate risk rate risk factors: Investec has a relatively small endowment policy and risk appetite, which is clearly risk due to paying market rates on defined in relation to both income risk and Income metrics capture the change all deposits, compared to banks with in accruals expected over a specified economic value risk.
The policy dictates significant low or non-interest-bearing that long-term 1 year non-trading interest time horizon in response to a change in current and cheque accounts.
Endowment interest rates rate risk is materially eliminated.
Where risk due to free funding, comprising mainly natural hedges between banking book Economic value metrics capture all ordinary share capital and reserves, is items do not suffice to reduce the exposure future cash flows in order to calculate managed passively, with the focus on within defined limits, interest rate swaps the banks net worth and therefore can measuring and monitoring.
The endowment are used to transform fixed rate assets and highlight risks beyond the short-term risk is included within our non-trading liabilities into variable rate items.
Operationally, daily management of These metrics are used to assess and to The group complies with the BCBS108 interest rate risk is centralised within the communicate to senior management the framework which is currently in force for Treasury of each geographic entity and financial impact of possible future interest assessing banking book non-trading is subject to local independent risk and rate scenarios, covering i interest rate interest rate risk, and is in the process of ALCO review.
Treasury mitigates any expectations and perceived risks to the enhancing its existing framework to adhere residual undesirable risk where possible, central view ii standard shocks to levels to the new BCBS368 principles which by changing the duration of the banking and shapes of interest rates and yield come into effect in 2020. groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio, curves iii historically-based yield curve or through derivative transactions.
Treasury mandate allows for a tactical 92 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Interest rate sensitivity gap The table below shows our non-trading interest rate mismatch at 31 March 2018.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
Three Six Not months months One year Total three but six but but Five nonmillion months months one year five years years Non-rate trading Cash and short-term funds banks 4 482 7 4 489 Investment trading assets 1 371 193 77 224 66 471 2 402 Securitised assets 132 132 Advances 7 435 573 284 1 368 388 10 048 Other assets 1 743 1 743 Assets 13 420 773 361 1 592 454 2 214 18 814 Deposits banks 1 299 6 1 1 306 Deposits non-banks 9 289 345 1 205 796 2 11 637 Negotiable paper 1 908 13 420 2 341 Securitised liabilities 128 128 Investment trading liabilities 29 11 6 46 Subordinated liabilities 575 5 580 Other liabilities 435 435 Liabilities 12 653 375 1 211 1 792 2 440 16 473 Total equity 2 341 2 341 Balance sheet 767 398 850 200 452 567 Off-balance sheet 63 378 315 Repricing gap 704 398 850 178 137 567 Cumulative repricing gap 704 1 102 252 430 567 Economic value sensitivity at 31 March 2018 As outlined above, non-trading interest rate risk is measured and monitored using an economic value sensitivity approach.
The table below reflects our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
Thenumbers represent the change to the value of the interest rate sensitive portfolios should such a hypothetical scenarioarise.
This sensitivity effect does not have a significant direct impact on our equity.
Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million GBP USD EUR AUD ZAR Other GBP All GBP 200bps down 8.0 3.2 3.5 0.3 0.1 5.0 200bps up 7.3 2.9 3.2 0.3 0.1 4.5 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 93 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Level 2 Independent operational risk As part of the 2017 Basel III Reforms, The Operational risk function: responsible for challenging the Basel Committee has announced revisions Operational risk description to the calculations of capital requirements business lines inputs to, and outputs for operational risk.
A single standardised from, the groups risk management, risk Operational risk is defined as the potential approach will replace all existing approaches measurement and reporting activities or actual impact to the group as a result for the calculation of regulatory capital from Level 3 Independent review and of failures relating to internal processes, January 2022. people, systems, or from external events.
challenge: responsible for reviewing and The group will continue to work closely The impacts can be financial as well as testing the application and effectiveness with regulators and industry bodies on the non-financial such as customer detriment, of operational risk management implementation of the revisions.
Operational risk is an inherent risk in the Operational risk management Risk appetite ordinary course of business activity.
The framework and governance group aims to appropriately identify and Operational risk appetite is defined as the The operational risk management manage operational risk within acceptable level of risk exposure that is acceptable to framework is embedded at all levels of levels by adopting sound operational risk the board in order to achieve its business the group, supported by the risk culture management practices which are fit for and strategic objectives.
The board is and enhanced on a continual basis in line purpose.
responsible for setting and regularly with regulatory developments.
Included in reviewing risk appetite.
The Operational The groups approach to manage the framework are policies, practices and Risk Tolerance policy defines the amount operational risk operates in terms of a processes which facilitate the identification, of operational risk exposure, or potential levels of defence model which reinforces assessment, mitigation, monitoring and adverse impact of a risk event, that the accountability by setting roles and reporting of operational risk.
group is willing to accept.
responsibilities for managing operational The groups operational risk profile is risk.
Operational risks are managed in reported on a regular basis to various accordance with the level of risk appetite.
The levels of defence model is applied as operational risk forums and governance Any breaches of limits are escalated to the follows: committees responsible for oversight.
GRCC and the BRCC on a regular basis.
Level 1 Business line management: Risk reports are used for ongoing Management and measurement responsible for identifying and managing monitoring of the operational risk of operational risk profile which contributes to sound risk risks inherent in the products, activities, management and decision-making by the processes and systems for which it is Regulatory capital board and management.
accountable The group applies the standardised Operational risk practices consist of the approach TSA for the assessment of following: regulatory capital.
Scenarios Risk and analysis control Internal risk External Key risk and capital assessments events risk events indicators calculation Forward-looking Internal risk events An external data Metrics are used Extreme, but qualitative are analysed to service is used to to monitor risk plausible scenarios assessments enable business to provide operational exposures against are assessed performed on identify and monitor risk events from identified thresholds.
to identify and key business trends in addition to other organisations.
The output provides manage significant processes.
These addressing control These events predictive capability operational risk assessments allow weaknesses are analysed to in assessing the exposures.
The business units to enhance our control risk profile of the output of this identify, manage environment.
business evaluation provides and monitor The external risk input to determine operational risks events also informs internal operational and controls operational risk risk capital scenarios requirements 94 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Description Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Operational risk year in review The group continued to enhance its operational risk framework in line with regulatory developments and sound practices.
Regular interaction with regulators promotes an understanding of regulatory expectations and informs the approach to regulatory developments and requirements.
The awareness of sound practice is achieved through interaction with industry counterparts at formal industry forums.
Operational risk events Overall risk events and losses are managed within appetite.
The majority of operational risk events occurred in the process failure risk event category.
The value of these losses is driven by a small number of isolated events.
Mitigation required to minimise the occurrence of these events remains an area of focus.
Looking forward Key operational risk considerations for the year ahead Definition of risk Management, mitigation approach and priorities for 2018 2019 Business continuity Risk associated with Maintain continuity through appropriate resilience strategies that cater for all disruptions, irrespective disruptive incidents of the cause.
The strategies include, but are not limited to relocating impacted business to alternate which can impact processing sites, the application of high availability technology solutions and ensuring physical solutions premises, staff, for critical infrastructure components equipment, systems, Enhance the groups global resilience capability through a team of dedicated resources and robust and key business governance processes processes Incorporate resilience into business operations to lessen the impact of disruptions Conduct ongoing validation of recovery strategies to ensure they remain effective and appropriate Participate in regulatory and financial industry resilience activities to collaboratively minimise national systemic continuity risks Cyber security Risk associated with Maintain a risk-based cyber security strategy to ensure the group is adequately protected against cyber attacks which can advanced and targeted cyber attacks interrupt client services Manage an adaptive cyber security architecture, supported by relevant policies and ongoing staff or business processes, awareness or result in financial Continue to expand visibility, coverage, and proactive reporting of cyber controls to ensure they are losses effective and consistent Improve and mature evolving cyber security prediction, prevention, detection and response capabilities Establish secure IT system development and testing practices to ensure they are secure both by design and in operation Enhance cyber resilience through effective, co-ordinated security incident response, aligned to disaster recovery and business continuity processes Financial crime Risk associated Anti-Money Laundering AML, Terrorist Financing and Sanctions with fraud, bribery, Enhancement of AML and Sanctions control systems across the group corruption, theft, money Policies, procedures and minimum standards are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain relevant, laundering, terrorist robust and current to prevent and detect AML-related activities financing, tax evasion, Continuous monitoring of adherence to AML policies and legislative requirements forgery and integrity AML awareness remains a key component of the control environment.
The awareness is supported by misconduct by staff, mandatory training for all staff and specialist training for AML roles clients, suppliers and other stakeholders Participate at industry bodies to manage legislative requirements through engagements with regulators Fraud Enhance the groups global approach to fraud management through a holistic framework and consistent policies, standards and methodologies Maintain the Integrity Line to ensure staff is able to report regulatory breaches, allegations of bribery, fraud and corruption, and non-compliance with policies Proactive monitoring of adherence to fraud prevention policies and embedding of practices which comply with regulations, industry guidance and best practice Continue to focus on training staff and clients on fraud prevention and detection Participate in industry working groups to gain an understanding of current trends in order to enhance the control environment Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 95 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Definition of risk Management, mitigation approach and priorities for 2018 2019 Information security Risk associated with Identify high-value information assets based on confidentiality and business criticality the compromise of Implement strong security controls to protect information against unauthorised access or disclosure from both information assets internal and external threats which can impact their Manage role-based access to systems and data in support of least-privilege and segregation of duty principles confidentiality, integrity, Develop mechanisms to monitor for, identify, and guard against data loss or availability Establish effective security monitoring to proactively identify and swiftly respond to suspicious activity Align practices and controls to ensure compliance with the rapidly changing legal and regulatory privacy requirements Safeguard and monitor information flows to enhance visibility and to ensure that data remains accurate, relevant, and protected Outsourcing and third party Governance structures are in place to approve outsource and third party arrangements Risk associated with the reliance on, and use Policies and practices include adequate guidance over the assessment, selection, suitability and oversight of the of a service provider to outsource and third party providers provide services to the Continue to strengthen governance processes and relevant policies relating to how we identify, assess, mitigate and group manage risks across the range of outsource and third party providers Process failure Risk associated with Proactive assessment relating to new products and projects to implement adequate and effective controls inadequate internal including the management of change processes, including Address human errors through training and continuous automation of processes human errors and Segregation of incompatible duties and appropriate authorisation controls control failures within Causal analysis is used to identify weaknesses in controls following the occurrence of risk events the business.
This Risk and performance indicators are used to monitor the effectiveness of controls across business units includes process origination, execution Thematic reviews across business units to ensure consistent and efficient application of controls and operations Regulatory compliance Risk associated Group Compliance and Group Legal assist in the management of regulatory and compliance risk which with identification, includes the identification and adherence to legal and regulatory requirements implementation Align regulatory and compliance approach to reflect new regulatory landscapes particularly the change of and monitoring of regulatory structures compliance with Manage business impact and implementation challenges as a result of significant volumes of statutory regulations and regulatory changes and developments Refer to the Compliance section on page 109 Monitoring remains focused appropriately as areas of conduct and regulatory risk develop Ensure that the business is appropriately positioned to cope with the regulatory changes resulting from Brexit Technology Risk associated with Align architecture across the group to reduce technical complexity and leverage common functions and the disruptions to the IT processes systems which underpin Enhance operational processes to better control IT changes in order to minimise business impact and recurrence our critical business Drive automation and proactive monitoring of the technology environment to reduce human error whilst processes and client enhancing efficiency services Implement strategic infrastructure and application roadmaps to improve technology capacity, scalability and resilience Maintain and test IT recovery capabilities to withstand system failures and safeguard against service disruptions Establish effective technology and operational monitoring for oversight of the adequacy and effectiveness of IT systems and processes 96 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Requirement for own funds and Eligible Insurance We have various Liabilities MREL on financial institutions The group maintains adequate insurance to facilitate the effective exercise of the policies and to cover key insurable risks.
process and requirements are managed by practices to mitigate the group insurance risk manager.
Regular For more detail on MREL, please reputational risk, interaction between group operational refer to page 100. risk management and group insurance including strong values risk management ensures that there is The BRRD also requires the development that are regularly and an exchange of information in order to of recovery and resolution plans at group enhance the mitigation of operational risk.
proactively reinforced and firm level.
The BRRD sets out a harmonised set of resolution tools across Recovery and resolution the European Union, including the power to impose a temporary stay on the rights of planning creditors to terminate, accelerate or close The purpose of the recovery plan is to out contracts.
document how the board and management The PRA has made rules that require will recover from extreme financial stress to avoid liquidity and capital difficulties.
The authorised firms to draw up recovery plan is reviewed and approved by the board plans and resolution packs.
Recovery plans are designed to outline credible on an annual basis.
recovery actions that authorised firms could The recovery plan for the Investec plc group: implement in the event of severe stress in order to restore their business to a stable Integrates with existing contingency and sustainable condition.
The resolution planning pack contains detailed information on Analyses the potential for severe stress the authorised firm in question which will in the group be used to develop resolution strategies Identifies roles and responsibilities for that firm, assess its current level of Identifies early warning indicators and resolvability against the strategy, and to inform work on identifying barriers trigger levels to theimplementation of operational Analyses how the group could resolutionplans.
be affected by the stresses under variousscenarios In line with PRA and EU requirements, Investec plc maintains a resolution pack Includes potential recovery actions and a recovery plan.
available to the board and management to respond to the situation, including immediate, intermediate and Reputational and strategicactions strategicrisk Assesses how the group might recoveras a result of these actions to Reputational risk is damage to our avoid resolution.
Reputational risk is often associated with strategic A significant addition to the EU legislative decisions made and also arises as a result framework for financial institutions has of other risks manifesting and not being been the Bank Recovery and Resolution appropriately mitigated.
Directive BRRD which establishes a framework for the recovery and resolution The group aspires to maintain an excellent of EU credit institutions and investment reputation for entrepreneurship, strong risk firms.
As implemented, the BRRD gives management discipline, a client-centric resolution authorities powers to intervene approach and an ability to be flexible and in and resolve a financial institution that innovative.
The group recognises the is no longer viable, including through serious consequences of any adverse the transfers of business and, when publicity or damage to reputation, whatever implemented in relevant member states, the underlying cause.
creditor financed recapitalisation bail-in We have various policies and practices to within resolution that allocates losses to mitigate reputational risk, including strong shareholders and unsecured and uninsured values that are regularly and proactively creditors in their order of seniority, at a reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound regulator determined point of non-viability corporate governance practices, which that may precede insolvency.
The concept require that activities, processes and of bail-in will affect the rights of unsecured decisions are based on carefully considered creditors subject to any bail-in in the event principles.
We are aware of the impact of of a resolution of a failing bank.
practices that may result in a breakdown The BRRD also requires competent of trust and confidence in the organisation.
authorities to impose a Minimum The groups policies and practices are Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 97 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued regularly reinforced through transparent Establishing legal risk forums bringing Legal risk management together the various legal risk communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from managers to ensure we keep abreast assessment, internal audit and regulatory any of our rights not being fully enforceable of developments and changes in the or from our obligations not being properly compliance review, and risk management nature and extent of our activities, and practices.
Strategic and reputational risk performed.
This includes our rights and to benchmark our processes against is mitigated as much as possible through obligations under contracts entered into best practice.
Such risk is especially these detailed processes and governance Overall responsibility for this policy rests with escalation procedures from business applicable where the counterparty defaults the board.
The board delegates responsibility units to the board, and from regular, and the relevant documentation may for implementation of the policy to the global not give rise to the rights and remedies clear communication with shareholders, head of legal risk.
The global head assigns anticipated when the transaction was customers and all stakeholders.
In addition, responsibility for controlling these risks to the Investecs policy is to avoid any transaction, entered into.
managers of appropriate departments and service or association which may bring focused units throughout the group.
Our objective is to identify, manage, with it the risk of potential damage to monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout our reputation.
We seek to actively mitigate Conduct risk governance structures such as credit, these risks by identifying them, setting engagement and new product committees minimum standards for their management The FCA in the UK has outlined its have therefore been tasked with this and allocating clear responsibility for such approach to managing firms conduct.
responsibility in relation to all new business management to legal risk managers, as well undertaken.
A disclosure and public By conduct risk we mean the risk that as ensuring compliance through proactive communications policy has also been detriment is caused to the bank, its monitoring.
customers, its counterparties or the market, The scope of our activities is continuously as a result of inappropriate execution of reviewed and includes, among other things, business activities.
Pension risk the following areas: The focus on conduct risk is intended Pension risk arises from obligations arising Relationship contracts to gobeyond the current compliance from defined benefit pension schemes, monitoringframeworks in order to move Legislation governance where Investec plc is required to fund any awayfrom the culture of tick box deficit in the schemes.
As a result, firms are expected Corporate events to look across their business models and There is one remaining defined strategies and assess how to balance the benefit scheme within Investec plc at Incident or crisis management pursuit of profits with good outcomes for 31 March 2018, which is closed to new Ongoing quality control.
clients and proper standards of market business.
The legal risk policy is implemented conduct.
All firms will be expected to take During the year the second defined benefit through: a holistic approach to assessing their key scheme entered into a buy-out with the conduct risks and to ensure that these are Identification and ongoing review of areas assets and liabilities of the scheme being being managed in accordance with FCAs where legal risk is found to be present transferred to a third party insurer.
Members strategic objectives of protecting clients, now receive their pension from the third Allocation of responsibility for the ensuring markets function effectively and party insurer and Investec has no remaining development of procedures for promoting competition.
liability relating to this scheme.
management and mitigation of these risks The groups work on conduct risk, includes Installation of appropriate segregation Pension risk arises if the net present value assessing key risks across the business, of duties, so that legal documentation of future cash outflows is greater than the identifying key controls and ensuring that is reviewed and executed with the current value of the asset pool set aside to the board is receiving the right information appropriate level of independence from cover those payments.
to enable it to challenge effectively the the persons involved in proposing or management of such risks by the business.
Primary sources of risk include: promoting the transaction A mismatch in the duration of the assets Ongoing examination of the interrelative to the liabilities relationship between legal risk and other Market-driven asset price volatility areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the Increased life expectancy of individuals risk management process leading to increased liabilities.
Establishing minimum standards for Investec plc monitors the position of the mitigating and controlling each risk.
funds closely and regularly assesses Thisis the nature and extent of work potential adverse movements in the to be undertaken by our internal and schemes in close conjunction with external external legal resources independent advisers.
Establishing procedures to monitor Further information is provided on compliance, taking into account the pages 230 to 233. required minimum standards 98 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued of 0.02%% of RWAs.
The institution standards and other proposals being Capital management and specific CCyB requirement is calculated published or adopted, notably by the PRA, allocation based onthe relevant exposures held the BCBS and the European Banking in jurisdictions in which a buffer rate has Authority EBA.
In the UK, the Financial Policy International Committee FPC confirmed in June 2017 Current regulatory framework the UK rate would increase from 0% to In December 2017 the Basel Committees Investec plc is authorised by the PRA and 0.5% effective from June 2018.
Then in oversight body, the Group of Central Bank is regulated by the FCA and the PRA on a November 2017 the FPC confirmed that Governors and Heads of Supervision consolidated basis.
Investec plc calculates the rate would rise a further 0.5% to 1.0% endorsed the outstanding Basel III postcapital resources and requirements using effective November 2018.
As at 31 March crisis regulatory reforms.
The package the Basel III framework, as implemented 2018, six jurisdictions have implemented of reforms endorsed now completes the in the European Union EU through the countercyclical buffer rates: Norway 2.0%, global reform of the regulatory framework Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV.
Sweden 2.0%, Hong Kong 1.875%, which began following the onset of the CzechRepublic 0.5%, Iceland 1.25% and In the UK banks are required to meet financial crisis.
The aim of these reforms is Slovakia 0.5%.
The Czech Republic rate is minimum capital requirements as to reduce excess variability in RWAs and expected to rise to 1.0% from 1 July 2018 prescribed by CRD IV for Pillar I, namely improve comparability and transparency and the Slovakia rate will rise to 1.25%, a CET1 capital requirement of 4.5% of banks capital ratios.
The endorsed effective 1 August 2018. of risk-weighted assets RWAs, a tier package include the following elements: 1 capital requirement of 6% of RWAs The Investec plc group continues to hold A revised standardised approach for and a total capital requirement of 8% of capital in excess of all the capital and buffer credit risk: RWAs.
In addition banks are required to requirements.
Revisions to the internal ratings-based meet their individual capital guidance, approach for credit risk and limiting the as determined by the internal capital Investec plc applies the standardised use of advanced internally modelled adequacy assessment process ICAAP approach to calculate credit and approaches for low-default portfolios: counterparty credit risk, securitisation and supervisory review and evaluation and operational risk capital requirements.
process SREP, with at least 56% met Revisions to the credit valuation Themark-to-market method is used to with CET1 capital.
The PRA buffer adjustment CVA framework, calculate the counterparty credit risk which is also determined as part of the including the introduction of a revised exposure amount.
The market risk capital ICAAPassessment must be supported standardised approach: requirement is calculated using the withCET1 capital and will be transitioned A revised standardised approach for standardised approach.
For certain options, inat 25% per annum, until fully phased in operational risk, which replaced the the group has obtained an article 329 by January 2019. existing standardised approach and the permission from the PRA to use an internal advanced measurement approaches: In August 2017, the PRA issued Investec model to calculate the delta for these plc with a revised Pillar IIA requirement of The measurement of the leverage ratio positions.
In addition the group was granted 1.51 % of RWAs, of which 0.84 % has and leverage ratio buffer for G-SIBs, an article 331 permission in January 2018 to be met with CET1 capital.
Inaddition which will take the form of a Tier 1 which allows sensitivity models to be used Investec plc continues to meet its PRA capital buffer set at 50% of a G-SIBs when calculating the market risk position for buffer, of which 75% is currently met with risk-weighted capital buffer: and certain instruments.
An aggregate output floor of 72.5% Subsidiaries of Investec plc may be subject ofRWAs as calculated using the In line with CRD IV, UK firms are required to additional regulations as implemented BaselIIIstandardised approaches to meet a combined buffer requirement, by local regulators in other relevant for banks applying internal models.
which is in addition to the Pillar I and Pillar jurisdictions.
Where capital is a relevant These banks will also be required to IIA capital requirements.
The combined consideration, management within each disclose their RWAs based on these buffer includes the capital conservation regulated entity pays close attention standardised approaches.
buffer CCB and the countercyclical to prevailing local regulatory rules as capital buffer CCyB and must be met The revised standards will take effect from determined by their respective regulators.
The buffer for global 1 January 2022, with some standards For capital management purposes, it is the systemically  G-SIIs subject to five year phase in arrangement.
prevailing rules applied to the consolidated and the systemic risk buffer do not apply to In addition, at the same meeting, it was Investec plc group that are monitored Investecplc and will not be included in the agreed that the implementation date for closely.
With the support of the groups combined buffer requirement.
the revised minimum capital requirements prudential advisory and reporting team, for market risk should be extended from local management of each regulated entity From 1 January 2016 Investec plc began 2019 to 1 January 2022.
Deferring the ensures that capital remains prudently phasing in the CCB at 0.625% of RWAs.
implementation date for the revised market above minimum regulatory requirements at An additional 0.625% of RWAs is phasedrisk framework will align its start date with all times.
in each year until fully implemented on the revised reforms set out above.
As at Regulatory considerations and domestic implementation date for 31 March 2018 Investec plc holds a CCB, these reforms are yet to be confirmed.
which is met with CET1 capital, of 1.875% The regulatory environment has continued of RWAs.
to evolve during 2018, with a vast number In addition, during the year, the BCBS of new consultations, regulatory technical issued a number of other revisions or At the 31 March 2018 Investec plc is standards, implementing technical proposals, the following of which are holding an institution specific CCyB relevant to Investec plc: Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 99 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Final guidelines on the identification Changes to the market risk framework closely monitor regulatory developments and management of step-in risk, to be under the Fundamental Review of the and regularly present to the committee on implemented in member jurisdictions Trading Book: and the latest developments and proposals.
by 2020: As part of any assessment, the committee The introduction of a 3% binding is provided with analysis setting out The final phase two Pillar III standards leverage ratio for all banks.
the groups capitaladequacy position, and the proposed phase three revisions The CRRII CRDV package is expected to taking into account the most up-to-date and or new disclosure requirements be agreed during 2018 and will apply two interpretation of the rule changes.
In driven by the finalisation of the Basel III years after the date of its entry into the addition, regular sessions with the board post-crisis regulatory reforms: and official journal.
are held to ensure that members are kept A discussion paper on the regulatory up to date with the most salient changes In December 2017 the EU issued the final treatment of sovereign exposures.
to ensure the impact on the group and its regulation setting out the IFRS 9 transitional subsidiaries is monitored and understood.
arrangements firms may apply to minimise UK the impact of the IFRS9 ECL accounting Investec Bank plcs resolution strategy, Leverage on regulatory capital.
The arrangements setby the Bank of England BoE, remains will be phased in over five years and take As with the governance of capital set as modified insolvency with the management, the DLC capital committee effect from 1 April 2018.
In January 2018, minimum requirement for own funds and is responsible for ensuring that the the EBA issued final guidelines specifying eligible liabilities MREL requirement equal impact of any regulatory changes on the the uniform template firms should use to to the Pillar I Pillar IIA regulatory capital leverage ratio is calculated, analysed and disclose the effect of the IFRS 9 transitional requirement.
As noted in the statement understood at all reporting levels.
arrangements on own funds, RWAs and of policy on the BoE approach to setting capital and leverageratios.
The leverage exposure measure is MREL, the actual approach taken to calculated on a monthly and quarterly resolve an institution will depend on the On the 12 December 2017 the EU formally basis and is presented to the DLC capital circumstances at the time of its failure.
adopted the new securitisation rules.
The DLC The preferred resolution strategy may Theserules are expected to apply from capital committee is responsible for not necessarily be followed if a different 1January 2019. monitoring the risk of excessive leverage.
approach would better meet the resolution Capital and leverage ratio objective at the time.
Capital management targets In addition, during the year, the BoE and the Philosophy and approach PRA issued a number of other revisions to Capital the regulatory framework.
In particular: Investec plc groups operate an approach Over recent years, capital adequacy to capital management that utilises both standards for banks have been raised as The PRA policy on refining the PillarIIA regulatory capital as appropriate to that part of attempts to increase the stability capital framework, in particular the jurisdiction and internal capital, which is an and resilience of the global banking sector.
PRAs approach for firms using the internal risk-based assessment of capital Investec plc has always held capital in standardised approach for credit risk: requirements.
Capital management primarily excess of regulatory requirements and relates to management of the interaction Changes to the group policy and double continues to remain well capitalised.
of both, with the emphasis on regulatory leverage framework: and Accordingly, we are targeting a minimum capital for managing portfolio level capital The Dear CEO letter setting out CET1 capital ratio of above 10%, a tier1 sufficiency and on internal capital for the PRAs views on the transitional capital ratio of above 11% and a total ensuring that returns are appropriate arrangements to be applied to the capital adequacy ratio target in the range given the level of risk taken at an individual impact of the IFRS 9 ECL accounting on of 14% to 17%.
These targets are set on transaction or business unit level.
regulatory capital and the requirement to a DLC basis and exclude the deduction The determination of target capital is notify the PRA of the firms decision to of foreseeable charges and dividends as driven by our risk profile, strategy and risk apply the transitional arrangements.
required under the CRR and EBA technical appetite, taking into account the regulatory standards.
These targets are continuously Investec plc will be applying the IFRS 9 and market factors applicable to the group.
transitional arrangements applicable to At the most fundamental level, we seek to ECL accounting on regulatory capital.
The balance our capital consumption between Leverage transitional arrangements are effective from prudent capitalisation in the context of Investec plc is currently targeting a leverage the groups risk profile and optimisation of 1 April 2018. ratio above 6%.
Our internal capital Europe framework is designed to manage and Management of capital and achieve this balance.
Changes to the BCBS framework are being leverage implemented in Europe through changes The internal capital framework is based to the Capital Requirements Directive and on the groups risk identification, review Capital Regulation.
Together, these changes are and assessment processes and is used to The DLC capital committee is responsible known as the CRRII CRDV package.
provide a risk-based approach to capital for ensuring that the impact of any Thekey CRRII CRDV changes applicable to allocation, performance and structuring of regulatory change is analysed, understood Investec plc include: our balance sheet.
The objectives of the and planned for.
To allow the committee internal capital framework are to quantify A new standardised approach for to carry out this function, the groups the minimum capital required to: calculating counterparty credit risk: prudential advisory and reporting team 100 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the The basis for discretionary variable Three month capital plans are prepared remuneration: and boards risk appetite across all risks monthly, with regulatory capital being the faced by the group: key driver of decision-making.
Comparing risk-based performance across business areas.
Provide protection to depositors The goal of capital planning is to provide againstlosses arising from risks inherent insight into potential sources of vulnerability The framework has been approved by in the business: the board and is managed by the DLC of capital adequacy by way of market, Provide sufficient capital surplus to capital committee, which is responsible economic or internal events.
As such, the ensure that the group is able to retain foroversight of the management of capital three year capital plans are stressed based its going concern basis under relatively on a regulatory and an internal capital basis.
on conditions most likely to cause duress.
severe operating conditions: and In order to achieve these objectives, the The conditions themselves are agreed Inform the setting of minimum regulatory internal capital framework describes the by the DLC capital committee after the capital through the SREP.
following approach to the integration of risk key vulnerabilities have been determined and capital management.
The DLC capital committee seeks to through the stress testing workshops.
optimise the balance sheet such that capital Capital planning and stress Such plans are used by management held is in excess of internal capital.
Internal to formulate balance sheet strategy and scenario testing capital performs a critical role in: agree management actions, trigger points A capital plan is prepared for Investec plc Investment decision-making and and influence the determination of our risk and is maintained to facilitate discussion of pricingthat is commensurate with the appetite.
the impact of business strategy and market risk being taken: The output of capital planning allows senior conditions on capital adequacy.
This plan is Allocating capital according to the management to make decisions to ensure designed to assess capital adequacy under greatest expected marginal risk-based that the group continues to hold sufficient a range of economic and internal conditions return, and tracking performance on capital to meet regulatory and internal over the medium term three years, with thisbasis: capital targets.
On certain occasions, the impact on earnings, asset growth, risk Determining transactional risk-based especially under stressed scenarios, appetite and liquidity considered.
The plan returns on capital: management may plan to undertake a provides the board via the BRCC with an number of actions.
Assessment of the Rewarding performance, taking into input into strategy and the setting of risk relative merits of undertaking various account the relative levels of risk appetite by considering business risks and actions is then considered using an internal adopted by forming a basis for the potential vulnerabilities, capital usage and view of relative returns across portfolios determination of economic value added funding requirements given constraints which are themselves based on internal at a transactional level, and hence where these exist.
assessments of risk and capital.
The simplified integration of risk and capital management Risk modelling Pricing and Risk Risk Internal and performance identification assessment capital quantification measurement Managed by each Managed by business unit Risk reporting Prudential Advisory and Group Risk Capital and business as and Reporting departments management Strategy usual risk with oversight by and planning with oversight by management DLC capital Policy and Review committee BRCC ERRF BRCC GRCC Scenario Stress testing testing Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 101 Ongoing risk management Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Our capital plans are designed to allow senior management and the board to review: Changes to capital demand caused by implementation of agreed strategic objectives, including the creation or acquisition of new businesses, or as a result of the manifestation of one or more of the risks to which we are potentially susceptible: The impact on profitability of current and future strategies: Required changes to the capital structure: The impact of implementing a proposed dividend strategy: The impact of future regulation change: and The impact of alternate market or operating conditions on any of the above.
At a minimum level, each capital plan assesses the impact on our capital adequacy over expected case and downturn scenarios.
On the basis of the results of this analysis, the DLC capital committee and the BRCC are presented with the potential variability in capital adequacy and are responsible, in consultation with the board, for considering the appropriate response.
102 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital structure and capital adequacy 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Investec Investec million plc IBP plc IBP Tier 1 capital Shareholders equity 1 977 1 989 1 921 1938 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 2 075 2 012 2 017 1 982 Foreseeable charges and dividends 65 18 60 35 Perpetual preference share capital and share premium 25 25 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities 8 5 11 9 Non-controlling interests 12 3 11 2 Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 1 16 3 15 2 Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in common equity tier 1 4 4 Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis 7 4 6 4 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 3 2 Additional value adjustments 4 4 4 4 Deductions 460 361 478 380 Goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred taxation 447 348 464 366 Deferred taxation assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 9 9 10 10 Securitisation positions 3 3 3 3 Debit valuation adjustment 1 1 1 1 Common equity tier 1 capital 1 522 1 621 1 448 1552 Additional tier 1 instruments 274 200 24 Tier 1 capital 1 796 1 821 1472 1 552 Tier 2 capital 359 445 475 560 Tier 2 instruments 446 445 560 560 Non-qualifying surplus capital attributable to non-controlling interests 87 85 Total regulatory capital 2 155 2 266 1947 2112 Risk-weighted assets 14 411 13 744 13 312 12 716 Capital ratios Common equity tier 1 ratio 10.6% 11.8% 10.9% 12.2% Tier 1 ratio 12.5% 13.2% 11.1% 12.2% Total capital ratio 15.0% 16.5% 14.6% 16.6% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable charges and dividends when calculating CET1 capital as required under the CRR and EBA technical standards.
These disclosures are different to the capital adequacy disclosures included in Investecs 2018 and 2017 integrated annual report, which follow our normal basis of presentation and do not include this deduction when calculating CET1 capital.
Investec plc and IBPs CET1 ratios would be 45bps 31 March 2017: 45bps and 13bps 31March2017: 28bps higher, respectively, on this basis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 103 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital requirements 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Capital requirements 1 153 1 099 1064 1017 Credit risk 842 822 790 776 Equity risk 6 6 6 6 Counterparty credit risk 51 52 39 39 Credit valuation adjustment risk 10 10 6 6 Market risk 77 77 71 68 Operational risk 167 132 152 122 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 14 411 13 744 13312 12716 Credit risk 10 521 10 271 9873 9687 Equity risk 78 79 80 80 Counterparty credit risk 639 652 494 494 Credit valuation adjustment risk 121 121 78 78 Market risk 965 965 882 856 Operational risk 2 087 1 656 1905 1521 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Movement in RWAs RWAs have increased by 8.3% over the period, predominantly within credit risk RWAs.
Credit risk RWAs We have adopted the standardised approach for calculating credit risk RWAs.
Credit risk RWAs, which include equity risk, increased by 646 million.
The increase is primarily attributable to a growth in secured corporate lending.
Counterparty credit risk RWAs and CVA risk Counterparty credit risk and CVA RWAs increased by 188 million mainly due to increased facilitation of client activity within the Financial Products business.
Market risk RWAs We apply the standardised approach for calculating market risk RWAs.
Market risk RWAs increased by 83 million primarily driven by increased facilitation of client activity within the Financial Products business.
Operational risk RWAs RWAs are calculated using the standardised approach increased by 182 million.
The increase is due to a higher three year average operating income.
Leverage 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Exposure measure 21 772 21 335 19 689 19 417 Tier 1 capital 1 796 1 821 1 472 1 552 Leverage ratio current 8.2% 8.5% 7.5% 8.0% Tier 1 capital fully loaded 1 772 1 821 1 448 1 552 Leverage ratio fully loaded 8.1% 8.5% 7.4% 8.0% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The leverage ratio is calculated on a end-quarter basis.
The key difference between the reported basis at 31 March 2018 and the fully loaded basis is primarily relating to capital instruments that previously qualified as regulatory capital, but do not fully qualify under the CRDIV rules.
These instruments continue to be recognised on a reducing basis in the reported figures until 2022.
For IBP there is no difference between the reported basis and the fully loaded basis.
104 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Movement in total regulatory capital The table below analyses the movement in common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital during the year.
Total regulatory capital flow statement 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Opening common equity tier 1 capital 1 448 1 552 1141 1400 New capital issues 71 174 Gain on Preference share redemption 41 Dividends 113 57 108 35 Profit after taxation 135 98 160 118 Treasury shares 64 50 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 7 Non-controlling interest relating to partial disposal of subsidiaries 9 Share-based payment adjustments 31 1 26 Movement in other comprehensive income 9 10 19 53 Goodwill and intangible assets deduction net of related taxation liability 17 16 2 9 Deferred taxation that relies on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 1 1 1 1 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities 2 3 11 9 Foreseeable charges and dividends 5 17 14 1 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 1 40 Closing common equity tier 1 capital 1 522 1 621 1448 1552 Opening additional tier 1 capital 24 130 New additional tier 1 capital issues 250 200 106 Closing additional tier 1 capital 274 200 24 Closing tier 1 capital 1 796 1 821 1 472 1 552 Opening tier 2 capital 475 560 535 590 Redeemed capital 37 18 Amortisation 115 115 12 12 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 1 11 Closing tier 2 capital 359 445 475 560 Closing total regulatory capital 2 155 2 266 1 947 2112 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 105 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A summary of capital adequacy and leverage ratios 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Investec Investec plc IBP plc IBP Common equity tier 1 as reported 10.6% 11.8% 10.9% 12.2% Common equity tier 1 fully loaded 10.6% 11.8% 10.9% 12.2% Tier 1 as reported 12.5% 13.2% 11.1% 12.2% Total capital adequacy ratio as reported 15.0% 16.5% 14.6% 16.6% Leverage ratio current 8.2% 8.5% 7.5% 8.0% Leverage ratio fully loaded 8.1% 8.5% 7.4% 8.0% Leverage ratio current UK Leverage ratio framework 9.8% 10.2% 8.7% 9.3% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable charges and dividends when calculating CET1 capital as required under CRR and EBA technical standards.
Investec plc and IBPs CET1 ratios would be 45bps 31 March 2017: 45bps and 13bps 31 March 2017: 28bps higher, respectively on this basis.
The leverage ratios are calculated on an end-quarter basis.
Investec plc is not subject to the UK leverage ratio framework, however, due to recent changes to the UK leverage ratio framework to exclude from the calculation of the total exposure measure those assets constituting claims on central banks where they are matched by deposits accepted by the firm that are denominated in the same currency and of identical or longer maturity, this has been included for comparative purposes.
106 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018
