IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL REVIEW The composition of, and movements in, the Groups portfolio All-share acquisition of Touchstone is described in the Portfolio review on pages 27 to 31.
Innovations plc On 17 October 2017 the Group acquired control of 100% The majority of non-current assets relate to holdings in LP of the ordinary shares in Touchstone Innovations plc.
The and LLP funds: these include our co-investment fund IP Group has recognised the assets and liabilities acquired in Venture Fund, as well as investments in Apollo Therapeutics accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Certain LLP, UCL Technology Fund LP and Technikos LLP.
These assets, primarily holdings in unlisted portfolio companies funds give us both economic interest and direct investment that have been accounted for using valuation techniques, opportunities in a portfolio of early-stage companies, as well were provisionally determined and for a 12-month period as relationships with high-quality institutional co-investors.
post-acquisition, adjustments are made to these assets to The largest items within other non-current liabilities are loans the extent that new information is obtained about facts from LPs of consolidated funds.
The Group consolidates and circumstances that were in existence at the acquisition the assets of two managed funds in which it has both a date.
Post finalisation of the acquisition accounting, the prior significant economic interest, specifically co-investment fund year Touchstone net assets acquired have been restated IP Venture Fund II LP and IPG Cayman LP, which was created by 30.4m which comprises a 30.8m portfolio valuation during the year to facilitate third-party investment into the decrease, a 0.4m decrease in fixed assets and a 0.8m Groups US portfolio.
Loans from third parties of consolidated decrease in non-current liabilities with a corresponding funds represent third-party loans into these partnerships.
These loans are repayable only upon IPVF II generating sufficient returns to repay the Limited Partners.
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term At 31 December 2018, the Group held gross cash and deposits Cash deposits of 219.0m 2017: 326.3m.
It remains the Groups The principal constituents of the movement in Cash during policy to place cash that is surplus to near-term working the year are summarised as follows: capital requirements on short-term and overnight deposits 2018 2017 with financial institutions that meet the Groups treasury m m policy criteria or in low-risk treasury funds rated A or above.
Net Cash generated used by The Groups treasury policy is described in detail in note 2 to 24.9 22.4 operating activities the Group financial statements alongside details of the credit Net Cash generated used in ratings of the Groups cash and deposit counterparties.
investing activities excluding cash flows from deposits 76.0 67.6 At 31 December 2018, the Group had a total of 40.2m 2017: Cash acquired on acquisition 1.2m held in US Dollars and 0.1m 2017: 0.1m held in AUS of subsidiary undertakings Dollars.
107.8 net of cash acquired 181.0 Both IP Group and Touchstone Innovation plc arranged debt Issue of share capital facilities with the European Investment Bank the EIB, total Repayment drawdown of 6.3 15.0 debt facility borrowings under which totalled 97.8m at the period end Effect of foreign exchange 2017: 104m.
Of these facilities, 15.4m is due to be repaid rate changes 0.1 0.2 within 12 months of the period end 2017: 6.3m.
The facility Movement during period 107.3 214.0 provides IP Group with an additional source of long-term capital to support the development of the portfolio.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups Cash totalled 219.0m, a decrease of 107.3m from a total of 326.3m at 31 December 2017 due to net cash used by operating activities of 24.9m, net cash used in investing activities of 76.0m and debt repayments of 6.3m.
indd 42 12 04 2019 17:09:44 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT The majority of investments acquired via the combination Taxation with Touchstone Innovations plc were previously held via The Groups business model seeks to deliver long-term Imperial Innovation Srl, which exempted dividends and gains value to its stakeholders through the commercialisation of from tax under Luxembourg law provided the conditions for fundamental research carried out at its partner universities.
the relevant participation exemption were met.
During the To date, this has been largely achieved through the formation year, the Group unwound this structure and as a result the of, and provision of services and development capital to, assets of Touchstone Innovations are now subject to the UK spin-out companies formed around the output of such tax regime described above.
The Group primarily seeks to generate capital gains from its holdings in spin-out companies over the longer term The Group complies with relevant global initiatives including but has historically made annual net operating losses from its the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA and operations from a UK tax perspective.
Capital gains achieved the OECD Common Reporting Standard.
by the Group would ordinarily be taxed upon realisation of Alternative Performance Measures such holdings: however since the Group typically holds in excess of 10% in its portfolio companies and those companies APMs are themselves trading, the directors continue to believe that The Group discloses alternative performance measures, such the majority of its holdings will qualify for the Substantial as Hard NAV and Return on Hard NAV, in this Annual Report.
This exemption provides The directors believe that these APMs assist in providing that gains arising on the disposal of qualifying holdings are additional useful information on the underlying trends, not chargeable to UK corporation tax and, as such, the Group performance and position of the Group.
Further information has continued not to recognise a provision for deferred on APMs utilised in the Group is set out in note 27. taxation in respect of uplifts in value on those equity holdings that meet the qualifying criteria.
Gains arising on sales of non-qualifying holdings would ordinarily give rise to taxable profits for the Group, to the extent that these exceed the Groups operating losses from time to time.
indd 43 12 04 2019 17:09:45 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward A robust and effective risk management framework is essential for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to ensure that the directors are able to manage the business in a sustainable manner, which protects its employees, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of, and regular updates to, the policies intended to mitigate risk enable the effective balancing of risk and reward.
During 2018 we have continued to build on our existing risk Governance management framework, enhancing risk management and Overall responsibility for the risk framework and definition internal control processes and established an outsourced of risk appetite rests with the Board, who, through regular internal audit function with PwC.
This activity included the review of risks ensure, that risk exposure is matched with development of operational risk registers for new front line an ability to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The operations and a refresh of existing front line and operational IP Group Risk Council operates to establish, recommend risk registers, an assessment of the strategic risks and and maintain a fit-for-purpose risk management framework the appropriateness of our principal risks, testing of key appropriate for the Group and oversees the effective controls over our principal risks, a review of protectionist application of the framework across the business.
Risk policies across the globe that may impact our investments identification is carried out through a bottom-up process via internationally including proposed CFIUS laws in the US and operational risk registers maintained by individual teams, with an updated Brexit risk review led by the Groups Risk Council.
additional top-down input from the management team with We have continued to support the Board in exercising their non-executive review being carried out by the Audit and Risk responsibility surrounding risk management through the Committee, see page 116 for details.
Risk Council who meet on a regular basis.
Priorities for 2019 include embedding the risk management culture further Risk management process across the business, integrating internal audit in the business Ranking of the Groups risks is carried out by combining and empowering control owners to identify and react to risks the financial, strategic, operational, reputational, regulatory as they happen through regular risk reporting.
and employee impact of risks and the likelihood that they may occur.
Operational risks are collated into strategic risks which identifies key themes and emerging risks and ultimately informs our principal risks which are detailed in the Principal Risk and Uncertainty section of this report.
The operations of the Group, and the implementation of its objectives and strategy, are subject to a number of principal risks and uncertainties.
Were more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
The design and ongoing effectiveness of the key controls over the Groups principal risks are documented using a risk and control matrix, which includes an assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of the controls in question.
The key controls over the Groups identified principal risks are reviewed by management, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board at least twice a year.
However, the Groups risk management programme can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that principal risks are managed to an acceptable level.
indd 44 12 04 2019 17:09:46 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT IP Group risk management framework KEY Direct Reporting Review and Challenge FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE Oversight and challenge by the Independent assurance Risk Council, Central Functions New Business and Management & Partnerships Board Australia Executive Audit & Risk Parkwalk Management Committee Hong Kong Risk Council IP Group Inc. Collated risk registers IP Capital IP Assist Central Functions IP Group Inc. HR Finance Front Line Operations Internal & external audit IT Life Sciences Legal & Cosec Technology Communications & Investor Relations 45 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 45 12 04 2019 17:09:46 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six CONSOLIDATION, ANALYSIS, REPORTING, OVERSIGHT CHALLENGE, FEEDBACK, LEARNING IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Brexit The Group continues to closely monitor political developments as the UK prepares to leave the EU in 2019.
Management updated its assessment of the impacts of Brexit on the Group in response to the likelihood of a no deal scenario increasing in 2018.
PwCs specialist trade team facilitated a Brexit workshop with key people within IP Group across capital markets, finance, compliance, operations, legal, talent management and human resources to i identify the key risks of the likely impacts of Brexit and ii discuss actions the Group could take to mitigate the risks identified.
As a result of this work, management determined that Brexit did not constitute a principal risk for the Group: however, management produced guidance for portfolio company boards and the Groups representatives to assist with their preparations.
The key risks impacting our strategic aims identified via the above-mentioned process are detailed further below: Key risks Actions taken Macroeconomic environment could cause a short-term Reassurance provided to key stakeholders and investors UK recession which would reduce investor confidence and that tangible and measurable preparations are being impact access to capital for both IP Group and its portfolio considered and made in order to mitigate any risks that companies.
Brexit poses as much as possible for IP Group.
Diversification of co-investors and funding has been Access to capital: undertaken over recent years to mitigate the reliance on A no deal Brexit would create uncertainty in the short UK co-funders of the Group and its portfolio companies.
term, likely translating to more restrictive financing Material contracts that the Group considered most likely conditions.
Any reduction in UK credit worthiness due to impacted by the Brexit process were reviewed.
It was a Brexit-induced increase in the current account deficit concluded that there were no clauses contained within and higher exposure outside the EU could increase the these contracts and no indications from the third parties cost of lending and decrease the availability of capital.
received that would indicate contracts such as EIB Significant parts of the Brexit outcome and political loan facilities or fund management contracts would be declarations are still vague, continuing to exacerbate the terminated.
Subdued investor confidence across the investment sector is highly likely regardless of a deal no deal scenario.
This could impact access to capital for both IP Group and its portfolio companies.
In both a no deal and a deal scenario the UK will leave the EIB which results in loss of access to funding.
While the Group has assumed no further funding, changes to repayment obligations of existing funding could be initiated.
indd 46 12 04 2019 17:09:46 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Key risks Actions taken The performance and management of portfolio companies A portfolio company risk exposure and consultation is crucial to the success of the Group and, as a result, the plan was developed.
The Group surveyed the portfolio preparation that portfolio company management teams companies representatives of a sample of the most have undertaken to address key Brexit risks will be central mature companies to determine the common Brexitto the successful navigation of operational and other issues related risks which had been discussed at their board that may impact their performance.
This analysis determined that the key risks across this subsection of the portfolio fell into the Performance and management of following five categories: portfolio companies: i.
Hiring and retaining talent The macroeconomic impact of a no deal Brexit would ii.
Supply chain difficulties, including tariffs, delays and lead to a significant GDP fall and the risk of a short-term additional cost for storing extra stock recession is high.
IP Groups portfolio companies have significant exposure to the UK economy.
Macroeconomy and currency risk impacting profit The regulated nature of a number of the Groups iv.
Access to funding from investors and EU grants portfolio companies across both sectors could mean v. Regulatory changes that marketing pharmaceuticals and selling medical devices into the EU is no longer possible in the current The Group used this information to prepare an advice way in the event of a no deal Brexit.
note for all portfolio company representatives at IP Group to enable those individuals to raise relevant issues at portfolio company board levels.
Additional advice was obtained from advisers regarding clinical trials sponsored in the UK, companies distributing medicine into the EU and selling medical devices into the EU.
The macroeconomic environment has an impact on A employee engagement strategy was developed long-term recruitment and planning for companies.
and communicated to relevant employees at IP Group Additional visa restrictions will also impact academics and containing the latest advice from Government and student movement to the UK, thus affecting the pool for confirming the Groups support of those affected.
potential portfolio companies and the quality of university The Governments White Paper on immigration was partnerships.
reviewed and concluded that, while no short-term impacts are envisaged for current employees, over the People: medium term the Group will need to closely monitor IP Group and its portfolio companies have current the proposed new immigration rules, including salary employees who do not hold a UK passport and are thresholds for skilled migrants.
The proposals are allowed to work in the UK based on their European subject to change and the Group will continue to citizenship.
These employees are experiencing monitor the impact of the final changes.
high levels of uncertainty and could be considering alternative options for working in the UK.
As a result of the Brexit vote and ongoing political, economic and academic uncertainty, the UK is considered a less attractive job market on a global scale.
This will impact on the Group and its portfolio companies who depend on highly skilled and specialised employees who are difficult to attract and retain.
Significant impact on long-term recruitment is likely to be impacted.
Individuals within the field of academia and students from overseas may face uncertainty.
indd 47 12 04 2019 17:09:46 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Summary of principal risks and mitigants A summary of the principal risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out below.
Further discussion of the Groups approach to principal risks and uncertainties are given on page 87 of the Corporate Governance Report and pages 116 to 120 of the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, while further disclosure of the Groups financial risks is set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 146 to 148.
It may be difficult for the Group and its early-stage companies to attract capital 1 The Groups operations are reliant on capital markets, particularly those in the UK.
As the Groups operations, and the operations of the majority of its portfolio companies, are based in the UK, the financial and operational performance of the Group and particularly the ability of its portfolio companies to attract development capital is influenced by the general economic climate and trading conditions in the UK.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management Access to sufficient levels of capital allows the Group to The Group has significant internal capital and managed invest in its investment assets, develop early-stage investment funds capital to deploy in portfolio opportunities opportunities and invest in its most exciting companies to The Group operates a corporate finance function which ensure future financial returns.
carries out fundraising mandates for portfolio companies The Group maintains close relationships with a wide variety of co-investors that focus on companies at differing stages of development The Group regularly forecasts cash requirements of the portfolio and ensures all capital allocations are compliant with budgetary limits, treasury policy guidelines and transaction authorisation controls While Parkwalk Advisors operates independently they have been and continue to be an important co-investor of the Group, supporting shared portfolio companies KPI Developments during the year Change in fair value of equity and debt investments Incorporated a subsidiary in Hong Kong to act as a fundraising hub to introduce local investors in the China region Total equity Net Assets to IP Group plc and portfolio companies Profit loss attributable to equity holders Commenced management of an AUS$100m trust for an Australian Super Fund which has a mandate to co-invest with IP Group plc portfolio companies Examples of risks Change from 2017 The success of those portfolio companies which require significant funding in the future may be influenced by the markets appetite for investment in early stage companies, which may not be sufficient Failure of companies within the Groups portfolio may make it more difficult for the Group or its spin-out companies to raise additional capital The Group may not be able to provide the necessary capital to key strategic assets which may affect the portfolio companies performance or dilute future returns of the Group 48 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 48 12 04 2019 17:09:46 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Read about our Strategy on page 18 Read about our KPIs on page 22 KEY N Increase Decrease No change New Create Develop Deliver The returns and cash proceeds from the Groups early-stage companies can be very uncertain 2 Early-stage companies typically face a number or risks, including not being able to secure later rounds of funding at crucial development inflection points and not being able to source or retain appropriately skilled staff.
Other risks arise where competing technologies enter the market, technology can be materially unproven and may ultimately fail, IP may be infringed, copied or stolen, may be more susceptible to cybercrime and other administrative taxation or compliance issues which may lead to company failure.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management Uncertain cash returns could impact the Groups ability to deliver The Groups employees have significant experience in attractive returns to shareholders when our ability to react to sourcing, developing and growing early-stage technology portfolio company funding requirements is negatively impacted companies to significant value, including use of the Groups or where budgeted cash proceeds are delayed.. systematic opportunity evaluation and business building methodologies within delegated board authorities Members of the Groups senior leadership team often serve as non-executive directors or advisers to portfolio companies to help identify and remedy critical issues promptly Support on operational, legal and company secretarial matters is offered to minimise failures due to common administrative factors The Group has spin-out company holdings across different sectors managed by experienced sector-specialist teams to reduce the impact of a single company failure or sector demise The Group maintains significant cash balances and seeks to employ a capital efficient process deploying low levels of initial capital to enable identification and mitigation of potential failures at the earliest possible stage KPI Developments during the year Change in fair value of equity and debt investments The Groups combination with Touchstone Innovations plc in 2017 has resulted in increased diversification of the Purchase of equity and debt investments Groups portfolio Proceeds from the sale of equity investments The Groups portfolio companies raised approximately 695m of capital in 2018 The Group maintained board representation on more than 90% of its focus companies by number Examples of risks Change from 2017 Portfolio company failure directly impacts the Groups value and profitability At any time, a large proportion of the Groups portfolio may be accounted for by very few companies which could exacerbate the impact of any impairment or failure of one or more of these companies The value of the Groups drug discovery and development portfolio companies may be significantly impacted by a negative clinical trial result Cash realisations from the Groups portfolio through trade sales and IPOs could vary significantly from year to year 49 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 49 12 04 2019 17:09:47 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Universities or other research-intensive institutions may terminate their partnerships or other collaborative 3 relationships with the Group The Groups business, results of operations and prospects are at least partially dependent on competitive advantage gained from access to leading scientific research through partnerships and other collaborative arrangements with research-intensive institutions and commercial partners such as Oxford Sciences Innovation plc, Cambridge Innovation Capital and UCL Technology Fund.
University partners may terminate their partnerships or may move to non-exclusive sourcing models.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management The Groups strategic objective of building and maintaining a Dedicated New Business & Partnerships team services pipeline of compelling intellectual property-based opportunities, existing partnerships and sources new opportunities for the in part depends on the quality of the commercialisation investment partnerships partnerships the Group holds.
The Group continues to consider and, where appropriate, enter into new and innovative partnerships and collaborations with research institutions The Group has been able to source opportunities through non-exclusive relationships and other sources Members of the Groups senior team work closely with partner institutions to ensure that each commercial relationship is mutually beneficial and productive The Groups track record in IP commercialisation may make the Group a partner of choice for other institutions, acting as a barrier to entry for competitors KPI Developments during the year Number of new portfolio companies Completed investments with two new university partnerships in Australasia Examples of risks Change from 2017 Termination or non-renewal of arrangements through failure to perform obligations may result in the loss of exclusive rights The loss of exclusive rights may limit the Groups ability to secure attractive IP opportunities to commercialise This could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Groups long-term business, results of operations, performance and prospects Competition in the market may reduce the opportunities available to us to create new spin-out companies 50 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 50 12 04 2019 17:09:47 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Read about our Strategy on page 18 Read about our KPIs on page 22 KEY N Increase Decrease No change New Create Develop Deliver The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and integrate new personnel 4 The industry in which the Group operates is a specialised area and the Group requires highly qualified and experienced employees.
There is a risk that the Groups employees could be approached and solicited by competitors or other technology-based companies and organisations, or could otherwise choose to leave the Group.
Scaling the team, particularly in foreign jurisdictions such as Australasia and Hong Kong, presents an additional potential risk.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management The Groups strategic objectives of developing and supporting Senior team succession plans have been developed and are a portfolio of compelling intellectual property-based updated regularly opportunities into robust businesses capable of delivering The Groups corporate culture and values are well-articulated attractive financial returns on our assets is dependent on the and consistently promoted Groups employees who work with the portfolio companies The Group carries out regular market comparisons for staff and those who support them.
and executive remuneration and seeks to offer a balanced incentive package comprising a mix of salary, benefits, performance-based long-term incentives and benefits such as flexible working and salary sacrifice arrangements The Group encourages employee development and inclusion through coaching and mentoring and carries out annual objective setting and appraisals The Group promotes an open culture of communication and provides an inspiring and challenging workplace where people are given autonomy to do their jobs.
We are fully supportive of flexible working and have enabled employees with technology to work flexibly.
KPI Developments during the year Total equity The Group completed its first staff engagement survey and is reviewing actions to improve the employee experience Net Assets while working for the Group Number of new portfolio companies The Group increased the level of benefits across a range of measures in 2018, including contributory pension and enhanced maternity benefit terms as part of a best of both integration post combination with Touchstone in early 2018 The Group also continues to dedicate resources to remuneration and incentivisation.
Staff attrition increased during the year to 12.9% due to integration-related leavers and temporary contractors who left during the year.
Approximately 37.7% of employees have been with the Company for at least five years.
Examples of risks Change from 2017 Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or an inability to attract, retain and integrate appropriately skilled and experienced employees could have an adverse effect of the Groups competitive advantage, business, financial condition, operational results and future prospects 51 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 51 12 04 2019 17:09:47 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Macroeconomic conditions may negatively impact the Groups ability to achieve its strategic objectives 5 Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the opportunity to deploy capital into opportunities or may limit the ability of such portfolio companies to receive third party funding, develop profitable businesses or achieve increases in value or exits.
Political uncertainty, including impacts from Brexit or similar scenarios, could have a number of potential impacts, including changes to the labour market available to the Group for recruitment or regulatory environment in which the Group and its portfolio companies operate.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management The Groups strategic objectives of developing a portfolio of Senior management receive regular capital market and commercially successful portfolio companies and delivering economic updates from the Groups capital markets team attractive financial returns on our assets and third-party funds and its brokers can be materially impacted by the current macroeconomic Six-monthly budget and capital allocation process and environment monitoring against agreed budget Regular oversight of upcoming capital requirements of portfolio from both the Group and third parties The Groups Risk Council conducts horizon scanning for upcoming events which may impact the Group such as a hard Brexit KPI Developments during the year Change in fair value of equity and debt investments Macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions remain uncertain in the UK, at the time of writing there was Total equity no agreement between the UK and the EU for the UKs Net Assets withdrawal from the EU.
Profit or loss attributable to equity holders Brexit process remains a source of uncertainty in the year.
The Group undertook a refresh of the Brexit risks facing the Group via a workshop facilitated by PwCs Brexit specialist trade team and included key people in our business representing finance, legal, capital markets, people, recruitment and investment teams.
The impact on our people and the economic effects of a hard Brexit were noted as the areas where the Group would be affected the most.
Examples of risks Change from 2017 The UKs vote to leave the EU has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on trading conditions and availability of capital in the UK, particularly for small businesses given the uncertainty which remains ahead of the UK leaving the EU in March 2019 The success of those portfolio companies which require significant external funding may be influenced by the markets appetite for investment in early stage companies, which may not be sufficient A significant proportion of the Groups portfolio value is held in companies quoted on the AIM market and decreases in values to this market could result in a material fair value impact to the portfolio as a whole 52 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 52 12 04 2019 17:09:48 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Read about our Strategy on page 18 Read about our KPIs on page 22 KEY N Increase Decrease No change New Create Develop Deliver There may be changes to, impacts from, or failure to comply with, legislation, government policy and 6 regulation There may be unforeseen changes in, or impacts from, government policy, regulation or legislation including taxation legislation.
This could include changes to funding levels or to the terms upon which public monies are made available to universities and research institutions and the ownership of any resulting intellectual property.
Link to Strategy Actions taken by management The Groups strategic objectives of creating and maintaining University partners are incentivised to protect their IP for a portfolio of compelling opportunities to deliver attractive exploitation as the partnership agreements share returns returns for shareholders could be materially impacted by failure between universities, academic founders and the Group to comply with or adequately plan for a change in legislation, The Group utilises professional advisers as appropriate to government policy or regulation.
support its monitoring of, and response to changes in, tax, insurance or other legislation The Group has internal policies and procedures to ensure its compliance with applicable FCA regulations and these are subject to annual review The Group maintains D&O, professional indemnity and clinical trial insurance policies The Group reviews its data and cyber-security processes with its external outsourced IT provider and applies the UK Governments ten steps framework KPI Developments during the year Total equity Ongoing focus on regulatory compliance, including third party reviews and utilisation of specialist advisers Net Assets UK Government has committed to university funding and has emphasised the importance of science and innovation Specialist therapeutics advisory panel continually consulted GDPR came into effect in 2018 Examples of risks Change from 2017 Changes could result in universities and researchers no longer being able to own, exploit or protect intellectual property on attractive terms.
Changes to tax legislation or the nature of the Groups activities, in particular in relation to the Substantial Shareholder Exemption, may adversely affect the Groups tax position and accordingly its value and operations.
Regulatory changes or breaches could ultimately lead to withdrawal of regulatory permissions for the Groups FCAauthorised subsidiaries, resulting in loss of fund management contracts, reputational damage or fines A data security or cyber breach could occur or the Group could otherwise fail to adhere to data protection regulations The UKs decision to leave the EU could have an adverse impact on the level of research funding made available to UK universities from which the Group an element of its investment portfolio 53 2018-IP Group-AR.
