Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties As an integrated producer broadcaster ITVs business carries a number of risks which we manage through our risk management framework.
Our continuing success is dependent on how well we understand and manage our risks.
Risk management framework Risk Risk assessment identication Effectiveness Risk appetite review tolerance Monitoring and review of the framework Risk management framework Sources of Embedding risk assurance management Monitoring Culture and and reporting behaviours We continue to focus on embedding the Group operational risks that have an impact The central risk team provides a simple risk ownership of risks within relevant across the business are owned and considered management process aligned to business divisions and teams whilst ensuring that at a strategic level by the Management Board, activities and supporting the development the appropriate oversight and escalation with tactical operational responsibility for of a positive risk management culture.
Our process is in place, delivered through managing and monitoring the risks with approach to risk management is a cultural, a three lines of defence model.
people driven process that encourages and focuses on prevention rather than reaction to failure.
54 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Risks and Uncertainties Risk management framework Board Sets our strategy on risk and establishes Continually monitors the risk management Sets strategic objectives.
tolerance levels and risk appetite.
Identies and evaluates principal Ensures a robust and appropriate risk risks and uncertainties.
management framework is in place.
Management Board Audit and Risk Committee Has responsibility for: Has responsibility for: The development and operation of the risk management framework and the operation Overseeing and advising the Board on risk of our systems of internal control, including: exposures andfuture mitigation strategy.
Risk identication and assessment and establishing controls and procedures to monitor Reviewing internal controls and their effectiveness.
Reviewing the effectiveness of Assessment and review of financial controls, policies and procedures to ensure risks are the risk management framework.
identied and the processes and procedures are in accordance with and aligned to the strategy.
Conducting in-depth reviews of Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and putting in place remedial high-risk business areasorprocesses.
plans where controls are weak or there are opportunities for improvement.
Serious control Setting the internal audit plan to ensure weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and action taken as appropriate.
key risks arecovered in respect of Routinely reviewing and challenging risks and mitigations, including relevant reports or other providing assurance.
Reviewing internal audit actions Reviewing policies and processes to ensure they remain t for purpose.
and management responsiveness Identifying and reporting emerging risks.
Details of risk reviews undertaken during the year are set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 80.
Divisional Boards Have responsibility for ensuring appropriate risk management within their business area including: Routinely reviewing and challenging risks and mitigations, including relevant reports or other performance indicators.
Reviewing policies and processes to ensure they remain t for purpose.
Monitoring the local implementation of key group policies and procedures.
Identifying and reporting emerging risks through the risk management framework.
Three lines of defence 1 Business divisions 2 Group functions 3 Internal audit The business divisions own the Support the business divisions Internal Audit provides objective assurance management of their risks inmanagingrisks.
as to the effectiveness of the Groups andareresponsible for: Including Group Finance, Legal, systems of internal control and risk Identifying and reporting local risks.
HumanResources, Group Secretariat, management, reporting to the Management Maintaining risk registers andbusiness Technology, Procurement, Health and Board, Divisional Boards andthe Audit and continuity plans whereappropriate.
Safety, Tax, Treasury and Insurance.
The internal audit plan is driven from ITVs Reviewing and implementing risk management framework.
Internal Audit mitigating actions and controls.
reviews the auditable elements of the principal and operational risks and this review informs the areas and topics that Internal Audit focuses on.
55 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks Brexit the Board continues to keep the potential Through our risk management framework the Divisional implications of Brexit for ITV under review.
Workstreams and Management Boards have reviewed our principal risks are in place across the business to identify, manage and which have also been reviewed and approved by the Board.
mitigate risks across a range of the potential outcomes.
In presenting these risks below we have provided context Particular focus has been given to a no deal scenario as of the risk, its link to our strategy along with detail on how we this could have an immediate impact across multiple currently manage the risk and any further plans that we have.
business areas and on credit availability.
Many of the risks A number of the risks have been redened since 2017 although pose operational challenges which could cumulatively the substance has not changed.
One risk has been removed have an impact on our business.
The most significant relating to a potential financial crisis in removing this, risk associated with a no deal is the likely impact on the consideration has been given to the state of the financial wider advertising market.
markets along with our current business position.
This will be kept under review given the potential impact of Brexit on credit availability and therefore our credit status.
Risk heat map Low Likelihood High 3 1 4 12 9 11 6 2 8 7 5 10 1 4 7 10 Risks are evaluated taking into A significant or unexpected Advertisers could be impacted A failure to continue to evolve A major failure in complex account management activity change in legislation or by general or sector economic our organisational structure broadcast system chains could that is currently in place but regulation could lead to uncertainty and or voluntary and culture could prevent us result in us being unable to not planned activity.
Many reduced income or advertiser category attracting or retaining key continue broadcasting for of our principal risks have operational impact.
restrictions that could lead creative, commercial and a sustained period of time.
Our to a significant reduced management talent to strategy reflects the changing demand for advertising.
nature of our risk landscape 2 11 and planned activity to deliver A financial crisis or A sustained cyber incident the strategy will provide macroeconomic change 5 8 could result in system denial significant mitigation against could impact the value of A rapidly changing A major health and safety or loss of data.
pension scheme investments marketplace for content incident on an ITV production and increase the deficit.
rights could result in us failing could result in a loss of human 12 to identify or obtain optimal life or major injury.
Legacy technology systems 3 rights packages.
could restrict our ability to A faster than expected shift 9 respond to business changes towards non-linear viewing 6 A failure to meet legal and maintain system security.
could lead to a sustained A failure to create, own or publicly expected loss of viewing and or and protect the rights to standards could result a significant reduced demand a sufficient number of hit in severe reputational for television advertising.
programmes formats and brand impact.
across our portfolio of content companies.
56 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Low Impact High Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Risks and Uncertainties More than TV Risk direction after current mitigations Strengthen Increased risk 1 Integrated producer broadcaster Grow Risk stayed the same 2 UK and global production Create Reduced risk 3 Direct to Consumer Regulation and legislation 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 1.
A significant or unexpected We could be affected if there is a change We regularly communicate with appropriate change in legislation in UK media regulation or legislation: for groups, our legal panel and Ofcom to monitor or regulation could lead example, if there is a change in advertising potential policy, legal and regulatory to reduced income or restrictions in key categories.
We could be affected if there is a significant We put forward alternative actions to regulation change in regulation or legislation in any of where such regulation may have adverse impact our key territories that impacts the way in on ITV.
which we are able to operate.
We have regular dialogue with government The outcome of Brexit could lead to changes ministers in relevant departments.
in regulation or legislation which would We are monitoring closely the Brexit process and impact how we interact with our businesses have plans in place to mitigate the risks in the based in other EU countries.
Economic 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 2.
A financial crisis or Macroeconomic changes could result We have regular communication with the macroeconomic change in material movements in the Groups pension trustees.
could impact the value dened benefit pension scheme.
The pension schemes assets are invested of pension scheme A major change in investment values in a diversied portfolio, with a significant investments and increase or in the discount rate affecting the amount of the fund held in bonds.
value of liabilities could have a material We have worked with the pension trustees impact on the net pension liability.
to limit the potential deficit by a series of ITV may need to cover an increase in asset-backed arrangements.
This includes the deficit in such an event and update removing some mortality risk from the scheme the schedule of contributions.
with a longevity swap and hedging a portion of inflation and interest rate variability.
We have reduced some of our exposure through the Buy In of two sections of the scheme.
57 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties continued Advertising market 1 Risk ownership: Integrated Broadcast Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 3.
A faster than expected Content is now available across many Our strategy focuses on ITV being the preshift towards non-linear different devices and platforms which eminent integrated producer broadcaster viewing could lead to is impacting consumer habits with viewers for viewers and brands in the UK.
a sustained loss of shifting from linear television and watching We continue to develop both VOD and SVOD viewing and or significant more content online.
propositions as a key part of our strategy.
reduced demand for By developing and managing the rights to television advertising.
content we will be able to maximise the value of our programme brands across a range of revenue streams.
We continue to invest 1 billion annually in our programming budget to attract viewers, continuing to deliver share of viewing that attracts advertisers.
Owning and producing content enables us to deliver unique advertising propositions and create innovative solutions.
1 Risk ownership: Integrated Broadcast Board Link to strategy 4.
Advertisers could be The current overall economic environment Our strategy focuses on creating value for impacted by general or is uncertain which may impact demand advertisers through delivering unique scale sector economic uncertainty for advertising.
and breadth of demographics as well as more and or voluntary advertiser targeted opportunities and new innovative The current position with Brexit is uncertain category restrictions ways of engaging with consumers around and could have an impact on the overall that could lead to quality brands.
economic environment and impact demand a significant reduced for advertising.
We are developing our data strategy to support demand for advertising.
There is significant economic uncertainty within some of our key advertiser sectors We work closely with advertisers to articulate which could have a disproportionate effect the benets of advertising on our media.
We regularly communicate with appropriate Key sectors have opted to voluntarily groups, our legal panel and Ofcom to monitor restrict advertising.
and influence potential policy, legal and regulatory developments.
Content rights 1 2 Risk ownership: Integrated Broadcast Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 5.
A rapidly changing The landscape for rights is increasingly We are developing the rights packages and marketplace for content complex due to the multiple ways in which content management processes to meet rights could result in us content is broadcast.
failing to identify or obtain Our own rights requirements are By investing in creating and owning quality optimal rights packages.
diversifying and changing to support content we can ensure we have optimal rights the delivery of the strategy.
packages and efficiently manage exploitation.
The increasing risk of global piracy of content Our rights packages and content management could lead us to lose programme rights.
processes are focused on both protecting and exploiting existing rights and ensuring that future rights generated accrue to us.
58 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Risks and Uncertainties Generating hit programmes and formats 2 Risk ownership: Studios Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 6.
A failure to create, own ITV Studios has 50 labels producing over We maximise opportunities for ITV Studios and protect the rights to 8,900 hours of original content.
to create successful shows by investing in a sufficient number of hit the creative pipeline and focusing on The competition for creative talent is programmes formats programmes and genres that can return increasing due to the demand for content across our portfolio of and travel internationally.
Our management approach is creatively led ITV Studios creates for over 200 channels or and commercially driven to promote an platforms globally that have varying rights For management of rights environment where creative ideas can ownership requirements.
see risk 5. be nurtured and developed.
We are focused on hiring and retaining key creative talent.
We manage a proportion of the associated financial risk for high-end drama through deficit nancing.
ITV Studios has built significant scale in key creative markets around the world creating and producing programmes and formats that return and travel.
People and culture 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 7.
A failure to continue to Employing and retaining the best creative, We are strengthening specic teams to deliver evolve our organisational commercial and management talent is key our strategy through key talent, building structure and culture could to our success.
prevent us attracting or The market for talent is competitive We foster both a commercial and retaining key creative, especially for those with experience entrepreneurial culture that is creatively commercial and management in key strategic areas.
led and commercially driven to attract talent to deliver our strategy.
and retain key creative talent.
We need to ensure engagement across the business with our More than TV strategy.
We have a developed network of employee Ambassadors to ensure communication We need to ensure a culture of creative across the business.
We have succession plans in place which include nominated deputies.
Employee engagement is critical and we will undertake a survey in 2019.
1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy 8.
A major health and safety As ITV Studios expands there is an increase We have a central health and safety risk incident on an ITV or ITV in the number of production hours and management team to support the business, Studios production could increased potential to produce certain developing and implementing our health result in a loss of human life types of programming that have higher and safety management system.
The central health and safety risk management ITV is closely associated with all content team work with ITV Broadcast to ensure there is For more information on we broadcast including that produced by a process for vetting content suppliers to ensure health and safety independent production companies.
they have appropriate health and safety managements see page 115. management in place.
59 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties continued Brand 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 9.
A failure to meet legal We operate in a public environment and are Our in house programme compliance or publicly expected exposed to a high degree of media interest.
department advises all producers and standards could result reviews all pre-recorded editorial content in severe reputational before broadcast.
We proactively manage our broadcast chain partners and suppliers to minimise the risk of incidents and regulatory breaches.
Our risk management framework supports a culture of encouraging everyone to raise concerns.
We have a crisis management policy and process in place and are continuing to increase the emphasis on its development and application.
Broadcast infrastructure 1 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 10.
A major failure in Our broadcast technology chain is complex We continually review and monitor the complex broadcast system because it operates in multiple regions and broadcast operations risks through our chains could result in us links to many platforms.
being unable to continue As we broadcast content across an increasing We have detailed business continuity and broadcasting for a sustained number of platforms the infrastructure to recovery plans in place to deliver a rapid period of time.
deliver and broadcast this content becomes and flexible response to an incident.
We conduct major incident scenario testing at least annually and ahead of major live events.
We proactively manage our broadcast chain partners and suppliers to ensure the risk of incidents is minimised.
60 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Risks and Uncertainties Cyber security and data protection 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 11.
A sustained cyber incident We consider cyber security an increasing risk We work with specialist security organisations could result in system denial as our business develops new revenue to implement 24 7 monitoring of our or loss of data.
streams and direct to consumer propositions.
With increasingly sophisticated technology We conduct regular cyber simulation exercises and proliferation of cyber hacking tools, including with the Management Board and along with increased amounts of company phishing exercises.
Key learnings are reflected data, the risk of a cyber attack has increased in our response plans.
We have enhanced our risk assessment process We are a higher risk organisation as a result for third party security as our cyber risk extends of being a media company and operating in to our supply chain.
We have disaster recovery and incident There is a growing volume of software and management plans in place for high risk hardware vulnerabilities being identied by areas of the business.
technology providers in their own products.
Technology resilience 1 2 3 Risk ownership: Management Board Link to strategy Description Context How we currently and further plan to manage the risk Direction 12.
Legacy technology Our system requirements change as Our system requirements are kept under review systems could restrict we continue to rebalance the business, with business growth and system modernisation our ability to respond to grow new revenue streams and become projects implemented as appropriate.
business changes and increasingly international.
We have a modernisation plan in place for legacy maintain system security.
The pace of technological change outstrips systems, which remains under constant review our capacity to respond and migrate off and development to ensure technology systems legacy systems.
meet the needs of the business.
Maintaining the security and performance of legacy systems requires ongoing resources and investment.
61 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties continued What is the process ITV follows?
Viability Statement At the annual strategy meeting the Board assesses ITVs prospects and risks.
Amongst other topics, the Board reviews the five year financial plan, which is based on our strategic priorities.
In 2018, we undertook a strategy refresh to highlight the opportunities for ITV and also the challenges we need to address.
Pages 24 to 27 of the Annual Report provide detail of ITVs prospects in the Strategy and Business Model sections.
What is the assessment period for viability?
In its assessment of viability, the Board reviewed the planning horizon and is of the view that a three year period to 31 December 2021 continues to be most appropriate.
The factors the Board considered in adopting this timeframe were as follows: Visibility over ITVs broadcast advertising business is relatively short term, as advertising remains cyclical and closely linked to the UK economic growth impacted by Brexit and the uncertain UK macroeconomic climate The commissioning process and life cycle of programming gives the Studios division more medium term outlook.
However, while non-returning brands are replaced with new commissions, over time there is less visibility as programmes can experience changes in viewer demand or come to a natural expiration Technology in the media industry continues to change the demand for content and also how it is consumed Pension funding, which is one of ITVs key funding obligations, is also agreed triennially with the Trustees of the pension scheme ITVs business model does not necessitate investment in large capital projects that would require a longer-term horizon assessment or returns Assessment of viability When considering the longer term viability of ITV, the Board robustly reviewed each of ITVs Principal risks and, taking into account current operational and financial performance, has in particular analysed the impact of following hypothetical scenarios: Scenario modelled Link to Principal risks pages 57 to 61 Scenario 1: Advertising Market: 4 Advertisers could The Broadcast division experiencing a significant be impacted by general or sector economic downturn, based on the 2008 09 financial crisis, uncertainty and or voluntary advertiser with advertising revenues declining sharply for category restrictions that could lead to two years followed by a year of flat revenue.
a significant reduced demand for advertising.
Regulation & Legislation: 1 A significant or unexpected change in legislation or regulation could lead to reduced income or operational impact.
Scenario 2: Generating hit programmes and formats: A number of key programme brands within the 6 A failure to create, own and protect the rights Studios division are not recommissioned.
The to a sufficient number of hit programmes formats scheduling decisions of commissioners are made across our portfolio of content companies.
in advance, so we have clear sight on 2019, however key shows could come to an end at the same time in 2020 impacting a quarter of the divisions profits.
Scenario 3: Economic: 2 A financial crisis or macroeconomic A significant change in ITVs pension funding change could impact the value of pension obligations, following the triennial valuation in scheme investments and increase the deficit.
2020 resulting in doubling of the current deficit Regulation & Legislation: 1 A significant funding payments.
or unexpected change in legislation or regulation could lead to reduced income or operational impact.
62 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Risks and Uncertainties The sale of the London Television Centre has been included in the models.
It is expected that a sale takes place in 2019 and the Board will continue to monitor the impact of the project as it progresses.
The viability review involved flexing the underlying strategic forecast for the above impacts, both individually and concurrently, and no specic mitigations were assumed.
The underlying strategic forecast assumed: business as usual capital spending: the ongoing availability of the nancing facilities as ITV remains within the covenants and there are no major bond repayments due in this period : and the Group maintains the stated dividend policy.
The current bank facilities are secured until June 2021 and December 2023.
Our model assumed both facilities will be available for the full period under review.
The scenarios used are hypothetical and severe but plausible and are considered appropriate to model risks that could impact the viability of the Group.
In addition, there are options at the disposal of the Board to maintain liquidity and continue operations in the event of any of the scenarios arising, such as reducing M&A activity and non-essential capital expenditure as well as reviewing the Groups dividend policy.
Viability statement Based on the results of this review, the Board has a reasonable expectation that ITV will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 31 December 2021.
The assessment has been made with reference to ITVs strategy and the current position and prospects.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Carolyn McCall Chief Executive 27 February 2019 63
