RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS STRONG FOCUS ON RISK MANAGEMENT Identification, mitigation and management of risks are central to These activities include: our strategy and our enterprise-wide risk management process Monthly business reviews for all countries and allows us to understand the nature, scope and potential impact Group functions: of our key business and strategic risks, so we are able to Individual reviews of every new location investment and manage these effectively.
all acquisitions: IWGs business could be affected by various risks, leading to Annual budgeting and planning process for all markets failure to achieve strategic targets for growth or loss of financial and Group functions: standing, cash flow, earnings, return on investment and reputation.
Not all these risks are wholly within the Groups Review of the status of our principal risks at each control and it may be affected by risks which are not yet Audit Committee meeting: and manifested or reasonably foreseeable.
Annual review of all risks in our risk register.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our personnel, assets and our reputation.
IWG therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk management, as set out in more detail in the Corporate BOARD Governance Report on pages 52 to 56.
Defines IWGs risk appetite and tolerance Monitors risk identification and A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the assessment processes impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate Assesses overall effectiveness mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
of risk management For all known risks facing the business, IWG attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, IWG may elect to take or tolerate risk, AUDIT COMMITTEE treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to Reviews effectiveness of internal controls third parties, or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or Monitors progress against internal and operations.
IWG has zero tolerance of financial and ethics external audit recommendations non-compliance and ensures that Health, Safety, Environmental & Security risks are managed to levels that are as low as Approves the annual internal reasonably practicable.
and external audit plans Whilst overall responsibility for the risk management process rests with the Board, it has delegated responsibility for SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM assurance to the Audit Committee.
Executive management is Accountable for the design and responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining the implementation of risk management necessary systems of internal control.
processes and controls A list of key risks is prepared and the Board collectively Accountable for the regular review assesses the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring and appraisal of key risks and the strength of the controls in place.
This approach allows Contributes to the identification the effect of any mitigating procedures to be reflected in the and assessment of key risks final assessment.
It also recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated at an acceptable cost and that there are some risks which, with its experience and after due consideration, the GENERAL MANAGEMENT Board will choose to accept.
Responsible for compliance and ensuring Effective risk management requires awareness and engagement that staff are adequately trained at all levels of our organisation.
It is for this reason that risk management is incorporated into the day-to-day management of our business, as well as being reflected in the Groups core BUSINESS ASSURANCE FUNCTION processes and controls.
The Board oversees the risk Assists management and the management strategy and the effectiveness of the Groups Board in conducting risk studies internal control framework.
Risk management is at the heart of Advises and guides on policies everything we do, particularly as we look to grow across and internal controls framework multiple markets around the world.
For this reason, we conduct risk assessments throughout the year as part of our business Drives implementation of review process and all investment decisions.
recommendations in the business Tests compliance with internal controls 34 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 STRATEGIC Lease obligations 1 2 4 The single greatest financial risk This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: During 2018, the number of flexible to IWG is represented by the leases as a percentage of the total 1 97% of our leases are flexible, meaning that financial commitments deriving increased to 97% from 96% on an they are either terminable at our option within from the portfolio of leases enlarged estate.
six months and or located in or assignable to a held across the Group.
standalone legal entity, which is not fully Approximately 33% of the leases we Whilst IWG has demonstrated cross-guaranteed.
In this way, individual centres entered into during 2018 were variable consistently that it has a are sustained by their own profitability and in nature.
At the end of 2018, we were operating business model which works 2 Approximately one quarter of all our leases are 3,306 locations in 1,109 towns and cities in all geographies, the variable in nature, which means that payments across over 110 countries.
profitability of centres is to landlords vary with the performance of the affected by movements in relevant centre.
In this way the risk to market rents, which, in turn, profitability and cash flow of that centre from impact the price at which IWG fluctuations in market rates is softened by the can sell to its customers.
consequent adjustment to rental costs.
The fact that the outstanding 3 The sheer number of leases and geographic lease terms with our landlords diversity of our business reduce the overall risk are, on average, significantly to our business as the phasing of the business longer than the outstanding cycle and the performance of the commercial terms on our contracts with our property market often vary from country to customers creates a potential country and region to region.
mismatch if rentals fall 4 Each year a significant number of leases in our significantly, which can impact portfolio reach a natural break point.
Economic downturn 1 4 An economic downturn could The Group has taken a number of actions to During 2018 the number of flexible adversely affect the Groups mitigate this risk: leases as a percentage of the total operating revenue, thereby increased to 97%.
1 Approximately one quarter of all our leases are reducing operating profit variable in nature and our rental payments, if We also increased the scale of our performance or, in an extreme any, vary with the performance of the centre.
network by 6% and added 53 new towns scenario, resulting in operating and cities and two countries.
2 Lease contracts include break clauses when losses.
leases can be terminated at our behest.
The Our monthly business performance Group also looks to stagger leases in locations reviews provide early warning of any where we have multiple centres so that we can impact on our business performance and manage our overall inventory in those locations.
allow management to react with speed.
More generally, investment in our 3 We review our customer base to assess management team has also led to exposure to a particular customer or improved, more responsive decisionindustry group.
making at a country and area level.
4 The increasing geographic spread of the Groups network increases the depth and breadth of our business and provides better protection from an economic downturn in a single market or region.
Link to strategy Status Likelihood Impact Increased High High Cost leadership Delivering attractive, sustainable returns 4 1 Same Medium Medium Developing global & national Developing profitable growth 2 5 Decreased Low Low multi-brand networks Cash generation 3 35 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 STRATEGIC Emerging trends and disruptive technology 1 New formats and technological IWG continually invests in innovation to develop In 2018 IWG continued to invest in developments are driving new products and services to increase its research and development both to demand for flexible working.
competitive advantage, protect current revenue and unlock efficiencies and improve the Failure to recognise these could unlock potential new sources of revenue.
mean IWGs product offering is In 2018, we launched customer apps for sub-optimal.
our HQ, BizDojo and No18 brands in addition to Regus, Spaces and Basepoint.
We have added many usability and self-service features including community and enhanced payment features.
The user base has grown by 77% and we now service more than 700,000 on the platform.
We continue to adopt a Digital Business Centre Strategy across all stakeholders and are leveraging Internet of Things IoT technologies to provide our customers with more convenience, comfort and personalisation in addition to creating better visibility and control of our utilisation of inventory in operations.
Increased competition 1 5 Increased competition in the While physical barriers to entry into the flexible We increased the scale of our network by serviced office industry and an workspace market at a local level are low, the 6% and added 53 new towns and cities inability to maintain sustainable barriers to establishing a national or international and two countries.
competitive advantage may network are much higher, making it difficult for any We accelerated the roll-out of our Spaces result in loss of market share.
competitor to challenge our market position and co-working format with the opening of commercial success.
103 new locations and the development IWG also offers a diverse product range under its of a strong pipeline for 2019. different brands to cater to multiple customer We continued to expand our multi-brand segments which allows us to capture and maintain offering during 2018 to cater to different market share across the flexible workspace market.
customer segments with varied needs We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that and price points.
our product and services are aligned to customer We increased our investment in expectations and requirements and there are refurbishing existing network locations currently active investment programmes being during 2018. implemented across our estate.
Exposure to UK political developments 1 2 5 Exposure to UK political The Group is continually monitoring political Dependency on the UK market has been developments including Brexit.
developments in the UK to identify and assess the reduced by growth being focused outside medium to long-term implications of Brexit and the the UK.
Only 9% of the new locations impact that it may have on our business.
added during 2018 were in the UK.
Uncertainty over the UKs eventual relationship During 2018 the opportunity was taken with the EU creates a more uncertain outlook for to consolidate some locations in the UK.
Accordingly, the Group has had a In addition, several locations were prudent approach to growing its presence in the UK refurbished, and 27 new locations added, market.
more than half in our Spaces format.
Overall our network in the UK increased from 313 to 326 locations.
Based on the current position over 34% of our leases with landlords in the UK are variable in nature.
36 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 STRATEGIC Business planning and forecasting 1 2 3 4 Business plans, forecasts and IWG maintains a three-year business plan which is The forecasting process has been review processes should updated and reviewed on an annual basis.
We also reviewed and tracking performance provide timely and reliable use a 12-month rolling forecast which is reviewed against specific budgets and targets in information for short, mid and every month based on actual performance.
long-term opportunities and any risks to performance so that these can be addressed on a proactive basis.
FINANCIAL Funding 1 3 The Group relies on external The Group constantly monitors its cash flow and We increased our committed Revolving funding to support a net debt financial headroom development and maintains a Credit Facility in January 2019 from position of 460.8m at the end 12-month rolling forecast and a three-year strategic 750m to 950m and improved the debt of 2018.
The loss of these outlook.
The Group also monitors the relevant maturity profile by extending it to 2024 facilities would cause a liquidity financial ratios against the covenants in its facilities previously 2023.
There is an option to issue for the Group.
to ensure the risk of breach is being managed.
The extend by a further two years.
measurement of these covenant ratios is unaffected IWG had a net debt : EBITDA ratio at by the forthcoming implementation of IFRS 16.
There The Group also stress tests these forecasts with is significant headroom on the downside scenario planning to assess risk and covenant ratios.
The Board intends to maintain a prudent approach to the Groups capital structure.
Part of the annual planning process is a debt strategy and action plan to ensure that the Group will have sufficient funding in place to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Group also constantly reviews and manages the maturity profile of its external funding.
Exchange rates 1 4 The principal exposures of the Given that transactions generally take place in the Overall in 2018 the movement in Group are to the US dollar and functional currency of Group companies, the exchange rates reduced reported the euro, with approximately Groups exposure to transactional foreign exchange revenue and gross profit by 45.9m and 36% of the Groups revenue risk is limited.
Operating profit being attributable to the US increased by 2.6m.
Where possible, the Group attempts to create dollar and 16% to the euro.
natural hedges against currency exposures through Any depreciation or matching income and expenses, and assets and appreciation of sterling would liabilities, in the same currency.
have an adverse or beneficial The Group, where deemed appropriate, uses impact on the Groups reported currency swaps to maintain the currency profile financial performance and of its external debt.
The Group does not generally hedge the translation exchange risk of its business results.
Rather, it assumes that shareholders will take whatever steps they deem necessary based on their varied appetites for exchange risk and differing base currency investment positions.
37 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 FINANCIAL Interest rates 4 Operating in a net debt The Group constantly monitors its interest rate At the end of 2018 the level of interest position, an increase in exposure as part of its monthly treasury review.
rate protection was 25% of the Groups interest rates would net debt being fixed for periods up As part of the Groups balance sheet management it increase finance costs.
to 2021. utilises interest rate swaps.
IFRS 16 1 Impact on internal financial We will continue to provide IAS 17 current The Group plans to supplement the performance review vs IFRS 16 reporting as well as IFRS 16 reported numbers.
A requirement to report externally under external compliance reporting.
process has been established to allow for current IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 with internal reporting to continue unaffected by IFRS pre-IFRS 16 compliant numbers to Impact of IFRS 16 external 16 external reporting requirements.
Reconciliation provide a consistency of reporting for compliance reporting on between IFRS 16 reported numbers and internal stakeholders.
The Group intends to perception of IWGs financial reporting will be undertaken on a quarterly basis.
engage with stakeholders to explain the performance.
We will prepare quarterly reconciliation between IFRS 16 reported numbers and pre-IFRS 16 compliant reported numbers, reflecting no impact on cash flows.
OPERATIONAL Cyber security 1 4 The trend towards an integrated This risk is mitigated as follows: The Group has implemented a number of digital economy and use of steps such as Multi Factor Authentication 1 The Group maintains an active information external cloud services and security awareness campaigns to security programme under the direction of the combined with the rise in ensure that the business is risk aware and Group CIO with oversight by the Information malicious attacks and increasing our systems are adequately protected Security Committee and the Board.
consequential costs warrants against any external attacks.
2 We continually monitor our security using particular attention to cyber An ongoing penetration testing internal resources and external specialists to security risks.
programme is in place performed identify any vulnerabilities.
This 3 The Group ensures compliance with all major allows us to identify and fix any legislation and directives.
vulnerabilities to emerging cyber threats 4 The Group maintains a mandatory training on a proactive basis.
programme to promote staff awareness of IWG has cyber insurance policies in place information security and compliance with best which provide immediate response practice.
services in the event of a breach.
5 Data, systems and access permissions are strictly Information security gap assessment segregated to reduce exposure to risk.
against ISO 27000 was conducted by an 6 The Corporate Communications team is external party and a risk-based roadmap constantly engaged to provide support for any was created.
internal and customer facing incidents.
38 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 OPERATIONAL Business continuity 1 2 4 The Groups systems and IWG manages this risk through: We undertake regular testing of business applications are housed in data continuity procedures to ensure that they 1 Business continuity plans for our key systems centres.
Should the data centres are adequate and appropriate.
or other key locations such as We have introduced redundant 2 A detailed service agreement with our external our sales call centres be connectivity of independently routed data centre provider which incorporates impacted as a result of circuits for our three main sales appropriate back-up procedures and controls.
circumstances outside the call centres.
Groups control there could be 3 Ensuring appropriate business interruption Currently implementing a cloud-based an adverse impact on the insurance is in place.
BCP solution for our key systems and Groups operations and 4 Transitioning core infrastructure to cloud-based applications.
Ethics and compliance 4 Ethical misconduct by our IWG manages this risk through: A robust supplier selection and employees or non-compliance evaluation process has been 1 Visible ethical leadership.
with regulation either implemented with a view to enhance 2 A robust governance framework including a inadvertently, knowingly or controls to address the risk of fraud.
detailed code of conduct plus policies on gifts negligently could lead to Weve also established a dedicated cost and hospitality and bribery and corruption that financial loss penalties, function to review spend across all are in place and rolled out to all employees as reputational damage, loss of categories and detect any anomalies mandatory training.
business and impact on staff or exceptions.
3 Centralised procurement contracts with suppliers for key services and products.
4 Standardised processes to manage and monitor spend including controls over supplier onboarding and payments approval.
5 Regular reviews to monitor effectiveness of controls.
6 Independent and confidential ethics hotline available to employees, contractors and third parties.
7 Independent investigation of fraud incidents and allegations of misconduct with Board-level oversight.
Data protection and privacy 1 IWG is required to comply with IWG operates a detailed privacy policy that covers A detailed GDPR review has been legislation in the jurisdictions in all aspects of data privacy including and not limited performed to assess areas for which it operates including the to personal data, demographic information, improvement and any resultant actions new General Data Protection financial data, cookies and other digital markers, have been implemented to ensure full Regulation GDPR that came marketing communication etc.
compliance with the requirements of into force in May 2018 and is GDPR and e-Privacy regulations.
aimed at harmonising existing Mandatory data protection training EU privacy laws.
Non-compliance rolled out to all employees to raise and breaches could result in awareness.
All suppliers that are in significant financial penalties receipt of any data from IWG are and reputational damage.
asked to confirm compliance with data protection legislation.
39 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 GROWTH Ensuring demand is there to support our growth 1 2 IWG has undertaken significant IWG mitigates this risk as follows: On aggregate, our new centres continue growth to develop local and to perform in line with management 1 Each investment or acquisition proposal is national networks.
Adding expectations and are delivering reviewed and approved by the Investment capacity carries the risk of attractive returns.
Failure to 2 A robust business planning and forecasting fill new centres would create a process is in place to provide timely and reliable negative impact on the Groups information to address short and mid-term profitability and cash generation.
opportunities and risks to performance.
3 A quarterly review process is in place to monitor new centre performance against the investment case to ensure that the anticipated returns are being generated.
4 As part of the annual planning process, a growth plan is agreed for each country which clearly sets out the annual growth objectives.
HUMAN RESOURCES Ability to recruit at the right level 1 5 Our ability to increase our Mitigating actions include: Our capability to hire the best talent management capacity and continued to increase in 2018.
A full 1 Succession planning discussions are an integral capabilities through the hiring talent plan is in place with key hires part of our business planning and review of experienced professionals planned to provide complete succession process.
not only supports our ability to planning and top talent bandwidth.
2 Part of the annual planning process is the execute our growth strategy, We recruit our team with diverse Human Resources Plan, and performance against but also enables us to improve backgrounds in mind, and the IWG this Plan is reviewed through the year.
succession planning throughout employee base is over 65% female.
Our 3 Our global performance management system the Group.
top leadership team is split 36% female that allows us to keep close to our employees and 64% male, placing us at number 66 and maintain a two-way dialogue throughout the in relation to diversity in Hampton year using a monthly feedback process.
Alexanders annual review of the UK FTSE 4 Regular external and internal evaluation of the 250s best companies to work for.
In performance of the Board.
addition, 28% of our main Board is female, which is above target for UK listed companies.
40 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Mitigation Changes since 2017 HUMAN RESOURCES Training and employee engagement 1 5 As a service-based business the One of the key items in the Human Resources Plan Our investment in our new Learning strength and capabilities of our is the Global Induction & Training Plan, which sets platform has allowed our employees to increasingly geographically out the key objectives for the forthcoming year.
learn through e-learning, videos, case diverse team are critical to Performance against these objectives is reviewed studies and coaching on the ground achieving our strategic through the year.
rather than by using prescriptive and objectives.
All new employees are surveyed in the first three months to ensure they have been trained and are Since January 2018, over 6,000 videos, receiving effective support.
articles, best practice Q&A, white papers and e-learning interactions have been completed, with an average of 968 team members using the learning platform every day.
Our top 320 executives attended our global leadership conference in January 2019 where we launched our new Leadership Development Programme.
We have partnered with a global leadership specialist to develop our existing talent and leaders of the future.
We also launched our Sales & Customer Service Training Academy in September 2018.
This suite of training is pivotal to ensuring that our team remains focused on our existing and new customers alike.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and considering the Groups current position and prospects as outlined in the Strategic Report and its principal risks for a period longer than 12 months as required by the going concern statement, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due, for the next three years.
The Boards consideration of the long-term viability of the Group is an extension of our business planning process which includes financial forecasting, a robust enterprise-wide risk management programme, regular business performance reviews and scenario planning.
For the purposes of assessing the Groups viability, the Board identified that, of the principal risks detailed on pages 34 to 41, the following are the most important to the assessment of the viability of the Group: Impact of an economic downturn or geo-political events in our major markets A significant business event leading to serious reputational and brand damage Growing competition Access to funding arrangements The potential impact of each scenario was modelled on the Groups EBITDA, profit after tax, net debt and debt covenants over the three-year forecast period.
The Board subsequently considered the viability of the Group both in the context of the individual risks listed above and a combination of two or more risks.
The stress testing showed that the Group would be able to withstand any of the severe but plausible scenarios by taking management action in the normal course of business.
