e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b 30 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Our principal risks and uncertainties Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
The management of risk is The appetite for each key risk is also discussed and assessed with a based on the balance between risk and reward, determined through target risk position agreed to reflect the level of risk that the business careful assessment of both the potential outcomes and impact as is willing to accept.
Risk dashboards are reviewed during the year, well as risk appetite.
Consideration is given to both reputational as which comprised of key risk indicators, to ensure any potential risk well as financial impact, recognising the significant commercial value movement towards or away from their risk appetite is identified.
The risk management process is aligned This enables the Board to agree and monitor appropriate actions as to our strategy and each principal risk and uncertainty is considered required.
Please see the risk framework on page 63 for further detail.
in the context of how it relates to the achievement of the Groups The gross risk movement from prior year for each principal risk and strategic objectives.
As outlined in Our business strategy on page 7, uncertainty has been assessed and is presented as follows: the current business strategy and objectives are categorised into the following areas see diagram below.
No Increased gross Reduced gross New NEW change risk exposure risk exposure risk Our corporate risk map captures the principal risks to achieving Sainsburys business objectives and this is formally reviewed by Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net the Sainsburys Operating Board twice a year.
risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
Where principal risks have been included in the risk modelling undertaken as part of the preparation of the viability statement see page 35, this has been indicated with the following symbol: Great Colleagues products making the and services difference at fair prices Our values make us different There for our customers s r e m o t s u c r u o w o n k e W Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 31 Key risk movements Business continuity and major incidents response The principal and emerging risks are discussed and monitored throughout the year to identify changes to the risk landscape.
Risk Risks are reviewed in line with the Companys strategic objectives.
A new principal risk was disclosed in 2017 18 regarding brand A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the perception, including the need to protect it.
Sainsburys exposure to business continuity and major incident risks may be greater following All principal risks reflect the risk across the Sainsburys Group, the acquisition of Argos and Nectar, given the increased size including the acquired Nectar business.
It is considered that and complexity of the business.
all of the risks are incorporated within the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed below.
Mitigation The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and The Group has detailed plans in place, supported by senior the corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no representatives who have the experience and the authority levels order of priority.
to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
The business continuity strategy, including incident management, NEW Brand perception resilience exercises and testing, has been aligned across the Group.
The Business Continuity Steering Group, which includes Risk representatives from the Bank, Argos and Habitat, meets regularly Our brand must continue to evolve to meet customer to ensure that the business continuity BC policy and strategy needs and maintain customer loyalty.
In addition, they oversee the mitigation of all behaviours and expectations are changing and we need risks associated with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event to continue to differentiate our offer to retain and attract of any unplanned or unforeseen events, the Business Continuity customers.
We also need to protect our brand so that Management Team is convened at short notice to manage the customers, suppliers and stakeholders continue to trust us.
response and any associated risk to the business.
Mitigation Group-wide resilience exercises are undertaken to imitate real life business continuity scenarios and test the Groups ability We have a broad, differentiated product offer, which gives our to respond effectively.
customers more reasons to shop with us.
We will change and evolve to meet the needs of our customers, so that we are there for them Key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which whenever and wherever they want us, with great products and would be made available within pre-defined timescales and services at fair prices.
To deliver this, we need to continue to listen are regularly tested.
to and understand our customers.
To achieve this, in June 2017 we asked over 8,000 people, who are representative of the UK population, together with 1,500 of our colleagues to complete our survey which was designed to find out how they behave, feel and live every day.
This resulted in the Sainsburys Living Well Index launched in September, which helps us to understand what living well means to people across the UK.
The Index helps us to understand and engage with the issues that concern our colleagues and customers most in their everyday lives.
Our acquisition of Nectar will also play a key part in this strategy.
Making Nectar part of the Sainsburys Group allows us to continue to get to know our customers even better so we can reward and recognise them with offers and deals they love, making sure they keep coming back to shop with us again and again.
In terms of brand protection, many of the mitigation activities set out against the risks below also help prevent or reduce the risk of losing the trust and loyalty of customers, suppliers and broader stakeholders.
32 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Business strategy and change Colleague engagement, retention and capability Risk Risk If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not The Group employs over 185,000 colleagues who are critical communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the to the success of our business.
Attracting talented colleagues, business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the investing in training and development, maintaining good strategy, change initiatives forming part of the strategy and relations and rewarding colleagues fairly are essential to other significant supporting change such as the integration the efficiency and sustainability of the Groups operations.
with Argos need to be properly understood and managed to Delivery of the strategic objectives, including integration deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders with Argos, increases the impact of an inability to attract, alongside management of business as usual.
motivate and retain talent, specific skill sets and capability.
In addition, the challenging trading environment requires Mitigation a focus on efficient operations which may include change initiatives impacting colleagues, therefore presenting a risk The business strategy is focused on the following: of loss of colleague trust or engagement.
We know our customers better than anyone else Mitigation We will be there wherever and whenever they need us We will offer great products and services at fair prices The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits Our colleagues make the difference packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive, fair and consistent, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling Our values make us different career opportunities.
In addition to strong leadership and nurturing of talent by line managers, processes are also in place to identify The progress against strategic programmes and any risks to talent and actively manage succession planning throughout the delivery, such as the ability to implement and deliver change business.
Reviews are performed to help develop the skills colleagues and new business initiatives, are regularly reviewed by the Board need to deliver objectives and this is supported by embracing new and the overall strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Strategy ways of attracting talent.
Our corporate value Great Place to Work Conference.
The Operating Board also holds regular sessions to reinforces our commitment to giving people the opportunity to be discuss strategy, and is supported by a dedicated strategy team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including Colleague surveys, performance reviews, listening groups, shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual communications with trade unions, regular communication basis.
In addition, management performs ongoing monitoring of of business activities and colleague networking forums such as business as usual performance to determine indicators of potential Yammer, the updated colleague portal Our Sainsburys and the negative performance as a result of change initiatives.
colleague learning portal are some of the methods the Group uses to understand and respond to colleagues needs.
As change initiatives are implemented, the methods described above will continue to be employed to understand and maintain colleague trust and engagement.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 33 Data security Environment and sustainability Risk Risk It is essential that the security of customer, colleague Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
and company confidential data is maintained.
A major The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing breach of information security could have a major negative the environmental impact of the business which could result financial and reputational impact on the business.
The risk in a financial and or reputational risk.
landscape is increasingly challenging with deliberate acts Mitigation of cybercrime on the rise, targeting all markets and heightening the risk exposure.
A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the Mitigation Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet A Group Data Governance Committee is established and is our customers expectations in this area.
The main focus is on supported by focused working groups looking at the management reducing packaging and identifying new ways of reducing waste of colleague data, customer data, information security, commercial and energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
data and awareness and training.
Senior appointments have been Further details are included in the Our values make us different made into roles specifically focused on data governance and section on pages 18 to 27. information security.
The Chief Information Security Officer continues to develop information security strategies and to build the necessary capability to deliver against those strategies.
The Head of Data Financial and treasury risk Governance focuses on improving how we handle data across the organisation.
Various information security policies and standards Risk are in place which focus on encryption, network security, access The main financial risks are the availability of short and controls, system security, data protection and information handling.
long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations A review of key third parties who hold sensitive customer or colleague in interest, commodity and foreign currency rates.
In addition, data continues to take place, and progress is monitored by the Data there remains a risk around pensions as the Group now Governance Committee.
A risk based security testing approach operates one defined benefit pension arrangement that is across Group IT infrastructure and applications is in place to identify subject to risks in relation to liabilities as a result of changes ongoing vulnerabilities.
in interest rates, life expectancy and inflation and their Reflecting the importance of data security, the Chief Information alignment to the value of investments and the returns Security Officer and the Head of Data Governance provide regular derived from such investments.
updates to the Audit Committee on mitigating controls and activities Mitigation to manage this risk.
These discussions are conveyed to the Board as part of our normal governance processes.
The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency exposures.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Sainsburys Bank operates an enterprise wide risk management framework.
The principal financial risks relating to the Bank and associated mitigations are set out in note 27 to the financial statements on page 148.
With regard to pensions, investment strategies are in place which have been developed by the pension trustees, in consultation with the Company, to manage the volatility risk of liabilities, to diversify investment risk and to manage cash.
Both Group defined benefit schemes are closed to future accrual.
On 20 March, following the end of the financial year, the two pension schemes have merged.
34 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Health and safety people and product Political and regulatory environment Risk Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues There remain heightened levels of political and regulatory and customers is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is uncertainty in the UK following the referendum vote to leave paramount to maintaining the confidence our customers the EU in June 2016, the triggering of Article 50 in March 2017 have in our business.
and the general election in June 2017.
This uncertainty is expected to continue for the foreseeable future until EU exit Mitigation negotiations have been completed and alternative trade deals have been put in place.
This situation may adversely impact Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls trading performance across the sector.
An increasing focus required to manage health and safety and product safety risks on localism to drive and deliver policy and current legislative across the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
requirements including Business Rates, Workplace Pensions, These cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting the National Living Wage and Apprenticeship Levy places a of construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in cumulative burden on Sainsburys.
place in our depots, stores and offices to the controls in place to ensure people and product safety and integrity.
Mitigation In addition, established product testing programmes are also in We continue to engage actively with governments, administrations place to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and and regulatory bodies.
We publicly communicate matters where provide assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms we believe industry change is required with a view to enabling fair and conditions and product specifications set clear standards competition that is beneficial to our customers.
We communicate for product raw material safety and quality which suppliers are our views, and those of our customers and colleagues, regarding expected to comply with.
geopolitical issues with the aims of informing the debate and ensuring our opinions are represented in the policy and decision Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and making processes.
internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Trading environment and competitive landscape Safety Committee and specialist safety teams.
Risk Effective management of the trading account is key to the achievement of performance targets.
The sector outlook has been and is set to remain competitive.
The trading environment, driven by ongoing competitive retail pricing combined with growing inflationary cost pressures, may adversely impact performance.
There is also an ongoing risk of supplier failure, with possible operational or financial consequences for the Group.
Mitigation We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on delivering quality products and services with universal appeal, at fair prices, helping our customers live well for less.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our product quality, key customer metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across competitors, active management of price positions, development of sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
We continue with our commitment to provide customers even better value with lower regular prices.
In delivering our strategic plan, including our price investment, we will maintain the strength of our balance sheet and have therefore identified a series of measures to conserve cash in the business.
Through these measures we will deliver sustainable operating cost savings.
With regards to supplier continuity, Sainsburys maintains regular, open dialogue with key suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 35 2 The assessment period Statement of viability The Directors have determined that the three years to March 2021 1 How Sainsburys assesses its prospects is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
The Groups business activities and strategy are central to assessing This period is consistent with that used for the Groups corporate its future prospects.
These, together with factors likely to affect its planning process as detailed above, and reflects the Directors best future development, performance and position, are set out in the estimate of the future prospects of the business.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review 3 Assessment of viability on pages 36 to 41.
The Group manages its financing by diversifying To make the assessment of viability, additional scenarios have funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term been tested over and above those in the corporate plan, based maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of standby liquidity.
upon a number of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as documented on pages 30 to 34.
The scenarios were overlaid The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its corporate into the corporate plan to quantify the potential impact of one planning process.
This includes an annual review which considers or more of these crystallising over the assessment period.
profitability, the Groups cash flows, committed funding and liquidity positions and forecast future funding requirements over three years, Whilst each of the risks on pages 30 to 34 has a potential impact with a further two years of indicative movements.
The most recent and has been considered as part of the assessment, only those was signed off in November 2017, and refreshed in March 2018 as part that represent severe but plausible scenarios were selected for of the normal budgeting process.
This is reviewed by the Operating modelling through the corporate plan.
These were: Board and ultimately by the PLC Board with involvement throughout from both the CFO and CEO.
Part of the Boards role is to consider the appropriateness of any key assumptions, taking into account the external environment and business strategy.
Link to Principal Risks and Scenario modelled Uncertainties Scenario 1 Forecast savings targets are not achieved The Group corporate plan currently assumes 160 million of synergies as a result of the HRG acquisition in the third full-year post acquisition, Business strategy and change along with 500 million of cost savings to offset inflationary pressures by the end of 2020 21.
A scenario has therefore been modelled in which all planned savings synergies are not fully realised, and reduced by one half.
Scenario 2 Competitive price cutting price matching Given the challenging trading environment, driven by ongoing competitive retail pricing combined with growing inflationary cost pressures, Trading environment and competitive additional price investment of 150 million per year has been modelled in each of the three assessment years.
landscape Scenario 3 Data breaches The impact of any regulatory fines has been considered.
The biggest of these is the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR fine for data Data security breaches, which was enacted in May 2018.
Fines were considered both in isolation and in conjunction with a fall in sales volumes as a result of any reputational brand damage in each of the assessment years.
Scenario 4 Legal breaches Similar to the above, we considered the reputational impact of any legal or health and safety incidents, modelling a two per cent fall in budgeted Health and safety, people and product sales volumes in each year of the assessment period.
Falls in sales volumes were modelled in each year in isolation, as well as a sustained Political and regulatory environment year-on-year two per cent reduction.
We also considered regulatory fines such as those levied by the Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP.
Scenario 5 It was considered what level of sustained loss would be required in Sainsburys Bank before its capital ratios were breached, leading to Financial and treasury risk additional material funding requirements from the Group.
In performing the above analysis, the Directors have made certain and mitigate any such occurrences from taking place.
In the case assumptions around the availability of future funding options, of these scenarios arising, various options are available to the including the ability to raise future finance.
Group in order to maintain liquidity so as to continue in operation.
These include reducing any non-essential capital expenditure and In assessing viability, consideration has been given to the proposed operating expenditure on projects, as well as not paying dividends.
combination with Asda, as detailed on pages 10 to 11.
Whilst completion of the combination is expected in the second half of The results of the above stress testing showed that the Group would calendar year 2019 and therefore within the assessment period, the be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring over combination is conditional upon, amongst other things, Sainsburys the assessment period.
shareholder approval, Competition and Markets Authority approval, 4 Viability statement approvals in connection with the Asda defined benefit pension Taking into account the Groups current position and principal risks scheme and other regulatory approvals.
As part of the Sainsburys and uncertainties, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable shareholder approval process, the Directors will perform an expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and assessment of the working capital of the combined Group.
As a result meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to March 2021. the Directors concluded that for the current year-end, the proposed combination did not require separate modelling for viability purposes.
5 Going concern The scenarios above are hypothetical and severe for the purpose of The Directors also considered it appropriate to adopt the going creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of concern basis in preparing the financial statements which are the Group: however, multiple control measures are in place to prevent shown on pages 87 to 176.
