J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties all Audit Committee meetings and twice annually presents a The Groups risk management framework summary of the Internal Audit findings, recommendations, and The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of risk in implementation progress.
Internal Audit also implements the the Group.
Our internal control and risk management framework annual risk evaluation process and the internal control and risk is regularly monitored and reviewed by the Board and the Audit management review questionnaire process with the individual Committee, and comprises a series of policies, processes, businesses, before their presentation to the Board.
procedures and organisational structures which are designed The Board also operates a Group Risk Committee GRC, which to ensure that the level of risk to which the Group is exposed is meets quarterly and is attended by the Executive Directors and consistent with the Boards risk appetite and the Groups strategic the heads of the functional teams.
The minutes of the GRC are objectives.
reported to the Board, and any key issues raised are discussed at The Board determines the Groups policies on risk, appetite for the Board.
The main responsibilities of the GRC are to identify and risk and levels of risk tolerance, and speci cally approves: risk monitor operational risks and ensure that those risks are being management policies and plans: signi cant insurance claims, actively managed throughout the Group: to support the Groups legal claims or settlements: acquisitions, disposals and capital Internal Control and Risk Management strategy and policy: and expenditures: and the Group budget, forecast and three-year to review reports on key risks and risk maps prepared by trading plan.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational companies in order to monitor and report on the types of risk structure with strictly fide ned limits of authority.
These have within the Group and report on how effectively risk management been communicated throughout the businesses and are well is performed monitored within each business unit trading understood by the Executive Directors, and by functional and company.
Each of the functional teams provides a report at each business leaders who have delegated authority and speci c GRC meeting which identi es any matters in their functional area responsibility for ensuring compliance with and implementing which relates to the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, or policies at corporate, divisional and business unit level.
Group to the individual businesses own risk registers.
During the year, functions and operating units are each required to operate within the GRC has undertaken speci c reviews of the Groups approach this control environment and in accordance with the established in the following principal risk areas: development of project policies and procedures.
This includes ethics, anti-bribery and management best practice and training, on-going development of corruption, con icts, treasury, employment, slavery and human Group-wide process and training for contract risk management, traf cking, whistleblowing, data protection, health and safety and and a review of the Groups cyber security risks to the Groups environment.
own systems and the Groups key IT suppliers.
The Groups trading companies are supported by Group functions.
Each functional head reports to a nominated Executive Director.
Risk management systems The Board retains an oversight role, receives regular reports on The key features of the Groups risk management systems used to key issues and has a schedule of matters speci cally reserved identify and monitor material risks are as follows: to it for decision, designed to ensure that it maintains full and A risk evaluation process commences in the operating effective control over appropriate strategic, investment, financial, companies with an annual exercise to identify the signi cant organisational and compliance issues.
This schedule is subject to operational and financial risks facing the business.
Each review by the Board on an annual basis.
trading business is required to maintain an up-to-date risk The Groups Internal Audit function is supported by a co-sourcing register, which identi es key risks, assigns each a risk score arrangement with a major international rm, and undertakes based on the likelihood of the identi ed risk arising and the regular reviews of the individual businesses operations and potential impact on the business of an adverse outcome, both their systems of internal controls.
It makes recommendations before and after mitigation measures are taken.
The risks and to improve controls and follows up to ensure that management their respective risk scores before and after mitigation are implements the recommendations made.
The annual Internal reviewed at business level.
Audit plan is determined on a risk assessment basis and is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audits findings are reported to the individual management team, the Executive management team, and the chairman of the Audit Committee.
The head of Internal Audit attends 22 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 To support this process, each trading company managing The Board has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of modern director completes an internal control and risk management slavery and is committed to acting in an ethical manner and with review questionnaire on an annual basis, which is a robust integrity and transparency in our Groups business dealings.
The self-assessment of operational controls and compliance Group has a formal slavery and human traf cking statement and with Group policies, applicable laws and regulations relating policy which outlines the steps taken by the Group to ensure that to their business.
This ensures that managing directors slavery and human traf cking is not taking place within any part identify risks and relevant mitigating strategies, and have in of the Groups business or within the Groups supply chains.
Both place adequate control systems to identify and report any the statement and the policy are available on the Groups website.
weaknesses that require management attention.
Viability statement The risk registers and annual reviews which are presented to the GRC and Board are used by the Board in helping to The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three-year period ending 31 December 2021, which is a longer determine the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, as well as the areas of Internal Audit focus for the forthcoming period.
period than the 12 month outlook required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting.
The Directors have determined Business reporting and performance reviews that this is the most relevant time period because it is consistent with the Groups planning process whereby the Board reviews The Group operates an annual budgeting process and produces the Groups strategy and its detailed three-year plan.
This is quarterly forecasts which are reviewed and approved by the reviewed and considered in light of the Groups current position Board.
Monthly results are compared with budget and prior year, and prospects together with factors that might affect the threeand individual business reviews are conducted quarterly, which year plan.
The Board carefully assesses the performance and include a review of financial results.
The businesses also compile prospects of each business regarding entering new markets and a three-year strategic plan.
geographies, current and expected growth rates, prospective new The Executive Directors hold quarterly board meetings with each projects and the timing of such projects and the robustness of business unit to discuss strategy, financial results and forecasts, individual business performance.
business needs and the management of risks facing the business.
The Groups three-year plan overlays a number of assumptions and sensitivities which are reviewed by the Board: this includes Regulatory compliance policies a review of whether additional bank facilities will be required As part of its internal control procedures, the Group maintains a and available in the plan period, as well as a robust assessment whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report in of the likely downside sensitivities aligned to the principal good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice risks facing the Group as set out on pages 24 and 25, and the in order to identify any problems within the Group at an early potential impact of those sensitivities on its business model, stage.
The policy is designed to ensure that any employee who future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period, raises a genuine concern is protected.
Any concerns can be raised and taking into account the potential mitigating actions, and in the first instance with the Group Finance Director or the Group the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and control General Counsel and Company Secretary in con dence.
The Audit systems, as well as current risk appetite.
Sensitivities considered Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring resulting included the potential consequence of global economic investigations and approving outcomes.
uncertainty and adverse foreign exchange movements, on-going The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all bolt-on acquisitions, as well as the diverse nature of the markets of the Groups business dealings and condemns corruption in all and geographies in which the Groups businesses operate, and its forms.
The Group has a formal anti-bribery and corruption their ability to react quickly tochange.
statement and policy and does not tolerate or condone corruption Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and viability, or bribery in any of the Groups business dealings.
This policy the Directors con rm they have a reasonable expectation that has been implemented throughout the Group and is supported the Group will be able to continue to operate and to meet its by a Group-wide training and awareness programme and regular liabilities, as they fall due, for the period to 31 December 2021. compliance reviews through internal audit.
This policy is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on the Groups website.
23 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The most signi cant risks which the Board considers may affect our business based on the risk evaluation process described on pages 22 to 23 are listed below.
The Board considers the Group's principal risks have not materially changed since last year.
Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT MITIGATION CHANGE IN RISK PROJECT DELIVERY Group businesses may Signi cant adverse Projects and contracts are subject to on-going review at fail to meet customer financial and reputational levels and frequencies appropriate to performance and expectations on project consequences.
The volume of contracts continues delivery.
Increased claims and Our businesses employ industry experts to help ensure to increase with the growth of litigation.
effective project delivery and performance.
the Group, but the risk remains similar, and Group-wide project Established processes and procedures, reporting management training has increased systems, management oversight, customer engagement in 2018. and staff training and development.
CONTRACTUAL RISK The Group may be Financial impact caused The Group utilises internal and external professional exposed to increased by late payment, or cost expertise to minimise risk in contract negotiation with contractual risks as overruns.
The risk remains unchanged and it continues to grow, Increased claims and All material tenders, contracts and joint ventures are mitigating activities have been wins larger contracts litigation.
referred to their trading company board.
taking effect, including refreshing and operates in more business limits of authority, issuance Exposure to non-UK legal All contracts are subject to appropriate limits of authority geographies.
of new tender guidance, and project jurisdictional uncertainty.
and fide ned approval processes to ensure that contracts management training including postare reviewed and approved at appropriate levels prior to signature contract management.
The most material contracts are escalated to the Board for approval.
The project delivery and performance function referred to above provides assurance on delivery.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF KEY STAFF The Group may fail The Group may not be able Maintenance and development of formal programmes to attract, retain and to maintain its existing for graduate recruitment, identifying and developing develop personnel of the strong and experienced talent and future leaders, management development, The risk here has increased.
Staff requisite calibre and to management teams in its appraisals, formal and informal training plans.
turnover is marginally higher plan for succession in key operational businesses.
Appropriate remuneration incentives, including the and, as a proportion of our senior leadership positions.
The Groups delivery of its extension of share schemes to key individuals.
management approach retirement strategic objectives depends Succession and talent development is regularly age, so succession planning on recruiting and retaining discussed at Board and trading company level.
There are becomes more critical.
the right people in all areas of several management development programmes in place our business.
for individuals who have been identi ed as potential senior managers.
These programmes are fide ned to help develop and grow the capabilities and behaviours required of senior managers so that we have potential successors for key business roles.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Group trading companies The health and safety of The Group places a particular emphasis on operational may experience an our workforce and others excellence including the health, safety and security of its adverse operational could be impacted by our operations and the quality of services provided.
There have been no incident or failure to operations.
These key areas are continually monitored and reported major incidents through 2018. maintain appropriate An incident may impact on to the Board.
Health and safety and environment are the levels of service delivery.
business and reputation of first item s discussed at each trading company board the Group and the affected meeting and each meeting of the Board.
business es which rely The Group maintains policies and processes to manage on ensuring that a good safely and compliantly our operations, to protect our reputation is maintained in workforce, to react appropriately to operational incidents the market and with their and to deal quickly and effectively with any safety or customers.
Claims and regulatory action may be taken against the Company or the affected business.
24 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT MITIGATION CHANGE IN RISK FINANCIAL RISK The Group is exposed An increase in interest rates The Group maintains relationships with a small group of to interest rate, foreign or change in exchange rates banks and enters into bilateral revolving credit facilities exchange and credit risk.
or credit restriction would which spread its maturity pro le and provide exible Uncertainty surrounding the UKs have a financial impact on the funding.
negotiations over its exit from the EU Group.
The Board discusses macro-economic issues and their have increased the risk in this area, potential impact on each of these risks.
but the Groups pro le and mitigation The Groups centralised finance function oversees all activities remain effective.
A more key strategic finance matters includ ing day-to-day detailed review of the Boards view of management of the Groups liquidity, interest rate and the risks in relation to Brexit are set foreign exchange rate risks.
Forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are entered into to mitigate the risks of adverse currency or interest rate movements.
ENERGY MARKETS The Group is exposed Demand for the Groups The Group has a breadth of exposure across the energy to potentially material products and services may be sector and to a broad range of end markets and differing changes in circumstances adversely affected.
The Group maintains close relationships The strategic risks are reducing in affecting individual market with key customers and suppliers.
proportion to the wider diversity of sectors, energy prices or Speci cally with regard to the oil and gas sector, the businesses within the Group.
changes in government Group has limited exposure to the exploration phase and regulation or policy, due to seeks longer-term contracts for inspection, repair and its signi cant operations maintenance work.
across the energy sector and its broad range of oil and gas, nuclear and renewables customers.
OPERATING IN EMERGING MARKETS The Groups increasing Any signi cant failure Risk and internal control of overseas joint ventures is a activities in overseas to comply with laws or key area of managements focus.
emerging markets and regulations could lead As businesses develop we monitor and review the There has been some increase key growth economies to penalties and other structure of, and reporting lines for, our overseas in the risk in this area during the with uctuating legislative financial liabilities, as well as operations and the relations with third parties to year, as the Groups organic growth restrictions, embargoes, reputational issues.
ensure an appropriate form of command and control continued in emerging markets, sanctions and exchange Where there is a jurisdictional is maintained, dependent on the particular operating including in South America, the controls, often undertaken requirement for local environment and the nature and size of the business.
Middle East, Asia and Africa.
in association with investment, the Groups The Group allocates additional resource to areas of local joint venture ability to continue business higher risk and has enhanced its internal audit reviews partners, may expose in that jurisdiction could be for overseas businesses which are supported by external the Group to increased adversely impacted.
risk of governance and Processes are in place that are designed to ensure that compliance issues.
all businesses operate in accordance with legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls and the Groups policies and applicable laws.
CYBER SECURITY Third parties could cause Cyber-attacks could result The Groups IT systems are defended through the use of harm to the Group and in financial and reputational software protection and processes which are regularly its trading businesses via damage by way of signi cant reviewed and tested.
These defences include gateways, There have been no material security digital channels.
interruption to business rewalls and threat detectors.
breaches or fraud in 2018, although systems.
IT security information and updates are reviewed on a the risk has marginally increased Phishing could result in regular basis.
as potential cyber-attacks become financial and reputational Accounting and banking controls are regularly appraised more frequent and sophisticated.
damage by way of theft or to ensure they are appropriate, up-to-date and comply In 2018 Group IT systems were fraud.
subjected to penetration tests and vulnerability scans, the results of which were satisfactory.
We also undertook a cyber risk assessment of the Groups systems, and of the systems of the Groups key IP partner.
The risk assessment was based on GCHQ National Cyber Security Centres 10 steps to cyber security framework.
This resulted in some additional protections being implemented.
