Strategic Report Principal Risks Assessment of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risk areas remain the same as reported last year and are described below along with explanations of how they are managed mitigated: Supply Chain Risks As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the Groups core retail business is highly seasonal and the most important trading period in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow in its Sports Fashion fascias has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
The Group seeks to manage this risk by monitoring the stock levels and managing the peaks in demand constantly with regular sales re-forecasting.
As the Group continues to grow and expand, the risk to store replenishment and multichannel fulfilment from both equipment and system failure, together with the inherent risk of having all the stock in one location increases.
The supply chain risks and uncertainties that are specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate are as follows: Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities Key Suppliers and Brands The retail fascias offer a proposition that contains a mixture of The Group seeks to ensure it is not too reliant on a small number third party and own brand product.
The Group maintains and is of athletic brands by constantly adding new brands to its offer dependent on long term supplier relationships whose loss could and by offering a stable of evolving own brands.
Where possible, the Groups retail fascias also work in partnership The retail fascias are heavily dependent on the products and the with the third party brands in their business on the design of brands themselves being desirable to the customer if the revenue bespoke product which is then exclusive to the Groups fascias.
Therefore, the Group needs all of its third party and own brands, including brands licensed exclusively to Furthermore, the Group continues to actively seek additional it, to maintain their design and marketing prominence to sustain brands which it can either own or license exclusively.
The Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by some third party brands both in terms of the fascias which can sell the ranges and, more specifically, the individual towns or retail centres.
Reliance on Non-UK Manufacturers The majority of both third party branded product and the The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products Groups own branded product is sourced outside of the UK.
being sourced satisfy increasingly stringent laws and regulations The Group is therefore exposed to the risks associated with governing issues of health and safety, packaging and labelling and international trade and transport as well as different legal other social and environmental factors.
Furthermore, adequate systems and operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage levels of stock are maintained to cover short periods of the risk in the supply chain on its own and licensed products, supply delay.
it has little control over the supply chain within the third party brands.
As such, the Group is exposed to events which may not Compliance is monitored by the Groups Head of Quality and be under its control.
Ethics who has extensive experience in this area.
The Group has established a cross functional approach to compliance ensuring that the sourcing and design teams work collaboratively to ensure compliance is built into the design process.
Intellectual Property The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights The Group works with third party organisations to ensure that the are critical in maintaining the value of the Groups own brands.
Groups intellectual property is registered in all relevant territories.
Ensuring that the Groups businesses can use these brands The Group also has a well-established Profit Protection team exclusively is critical in providing a point of differentiation to our which actively works to prevent counterfeit product being passed customers and without this exclusivity we believe that footfall off as legitimate.
into the stores, visits to our websites and ultimately conversion of these visits into revenues would all be reduced.
Warehouse Operations The Group has worked with its insurers on a conceptual Business Stock is held in the Groups warehouse in Rochdale.
Having the Continuity Plan which came into effect when the warehouse stock in one location with increased automation in the picking became operational.
process has brought significant benefits in terms of capacity, product availability, quicker deliveries to our European stores In addition, there is a full support contract with our automation and reduced transport costs.
However, there is an increased risk equipment providers which includes a 24 7 presence from a to store replenishment and multichannel fulfilment from both qualified engineer thereby enabling immediate attention to any equipment and system failure, together with the inherent risk of equipment issues.
having all the stock in one location.
The construction of an extension to the facility at Kingsway is ongoing.
Whilst it is an extension rather than a separate building, there will be a two hour fire resistance wall between the two operations.
The Groups insurers have also been involved at every stage of the project.
46 Strategic Report Principal Risks Property Risks Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities Retail Property Factors The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years Wherever possible, the Group will seek a number of protections with a number of new developments opened and a high volume when agreeing to new property leases: of retail units becoming vacant.
New leases taken out for a maximum period of 10 years.
The Group can be exposed where it has committed itself to Break option part way through the lease.
a long lease in a location which, as a result of a more recent Capped rent reviews.
retail development, is no longer as attractive to the customer Rents which flex with turnover in the store.
leading to reduced footfall and potentially lower sales volumes.
Additionally there could be a further shift of sales from bricks When the Group determines that the current store performance and mortar stores to ecommerce.
is unsatisfactory then an assessment is made on whether the Group wants to continue trading in that location.
If it does then the landlord is approached to see whether we can reach an agreement on a reduction in the rent or a change to a turnover based rent.
If it is considered that the best solution is to exit the store completely then the landlord is approached with a view to a complete surrender of the lease.
If this is not possible then the Group would alternatively seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
The Group is mindful of general economic factors and the already wide availability of retail units consequent to the bankruptcy of other retail businesses.
Assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not without risk because if the incoming retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk looks probable.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract and, other than as disclosed in note 21, they are not aware of any other stores where there is a possible risk of these stores returning.
Technological Risks The Group continues to enhance its multichannel proposition and the threat of cyber crime is constantly evolving resulting in an increased risk exposure before mitigating activities.
Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities IT Systems The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of The IT team continues to be strengthened.
Further, a bespoke the banks and the credit card companies to service its retail training scheme is in place to train already highly skilled IT customers all year round.
operatives in the operating system behind the core ERP system.
The principal enterprise system continues to be ideally suited to Any long term interruption in the availability of the core enterprise the operations of the business but it has historically been reliant system would have a significant impact on the retail businesses.
on a limited number of key development staff.
The Group manages this risk by housing the principal IT servers in a third party location which has a mirror back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
Cyber Security Cyber crime is becoming more sophisticated and is a risk in The Group continues to invest in protecting our sites and customer all of our markets.
A cyber attack or a breach of information data from exposure to cyber attacks.
There have also been security may result in the short term loss of revenue and diverted improvements made in how we handle data across the group with resources and there is the risk of a longer term negative impact focus on training and awareness for staff and improved policies, on customer confidence and the Groups reputation.
procedures and strategies in place to monitor our systems.
There has been focus on encryption, network security, access controls, perimeter defence, data protection and a review of information handling by all parties.
49 Strategic Report Principal Risks Personnel Risks Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities Personnel The success of the Group is dependent upon the continued To help achieve this continued service, the Group has service of its key management personnel and upon its ability competitive reward packages for all staff.
to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
The Board regularly considers the actions required to ensure there is succession planning for all key roles.
Economic & Financial Risks As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the demand for the Groups products is influenced by a number of economic factors, notably interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, employment levels and ultimately, disposable incomes.
The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced product range, which is highly differentiated from that of the Groups competitors.
As the Group continues to expand in Europe and further afield into newer territories, the risk of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates increases.
The economic and financial risks and uncertainties that are specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate are as follows: Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities Brexit The UK is due to leave the EU in March 2019.
It is expected There are options to mitigate Brexit risks but they could that there will be a subsequent transitional period until come at a price with additional significant fixed costs, 31 December 2020. a potential requirement for suppliers to take action and likely operational inefficiencies.
The majority of the Groups retail stores across Europe are supplied with stock by the Groups principal warehouse at Having reviewed the options at a high level, the Board considers Kingsway, Rochdale.
Consequently, the current business model that the Groups best long term solution to mitigate these risks requires access to these European markets and various free trade is through a European Hub.
This will be investigated in the year agreements to be maintained at no worse than current levels.
to January 2019 with urgency as we will be ordering goods for retailing in 2021 through most of 2020.
Further, Brexit has had a negative impact on the rate at which the Group can source goods which are priced or sourced in US As per page 59, the Group aims to protect the anticipated US Dollars and Euros.
Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate through appropriate foreign exchange instruments.
Consequently, Brexit and its associated risks will remain high on the Boards agenda as the changes currently being negotiated become clearer.
Treasury and Financial The Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group encourages its own brand suppliers to quote in Euros where possible thus creating a natural hedge against the Euros Branded product for the JD fascia throughout Europe is remitted from the international businesses.
The surplus Euros purchased by JD Sports Fashion Plc which is the main UK trading are also used to fund the international store developments thus business.
This business then sells to the international businesses alleviating the need for local third party financing.
Any surplus in their local currencies.
Given the current geographical location Euros are converted back to sterling with hedging now put in of the Groups stores this results in an increasingly significant place for approximately 83% of the anticipated surplus for the year Sterling Euro exposure in the UK trading business for the Euros to 2 February 2019.
This leaves some Euros available should the which are remitted back for stock purchases.
Group need to move quickly to take advantage of an acquisition or other investment opportunity.
Discussions continue with senior There is also exposure in relation to Sterling US Dollar management at the major international brands on how the risk on consequent to the sourcing of own brand merchandise, where Sterling Euro volatility from the centralisation of product buying suppliers are located principally in the Far East or Indian Subcan be shared fairly between the parties.
Strengthening of the US Dollar relative to Sterling makes product sourced in this currency more expensive thus The Group sets a buying rate for the purchase of own brand goods reducing profitability.
in US dollars at the start of the buying season typically six to nine months before the product actually starts to appear in the stores and then enters into a number of local currency US dollar contracts, using a variety of instruments, whereby the minimum exchange rate on the purchase of dollars is guaranteed.
Hedging has now been put in place for approximately 96% of the anticipated requirement for the year to 2 February 2019.
50 Strategic Report Principal Risks Regulatory Risks Change in Risk Exposure 2017 2018 before Mitigating Risk and Impact Activities Mitigating Activities Health and Safety The health and safety of our customers and employees is of the There is a comprehensive induction and training programme utmost importance.
Policies are implemented in conjunction with for all staff covering Health and Safety issues.
training programmes to protect our employees and customers.
Personal injuries, distress and fatalities could result from a failure The Group Health and Safety Committee meets on a quarterly to establish and maintain safe environments.
basis, is chaired by the Group Health and Safety Manager and includes as its attendees the Group Company Secretary and Group Property Director.
The Group Health and Safety Manager appraises the Board of material issues and incidents on a periodic basis.
Targets are set by the Board to enable measurement of performance.
Performance against targets, incidents, and legal claims that arise are reported to the Board.
The Group also works closely with its principal insurers who undertake regular risk reviews both in the store portfolio and in the main central warehouse.
The Kingsway distribution centre underwent an annual independent Health & Safety audit with the British Safety Council and in 2017 achieved five star status.
Regulatory and Compliance The Group operates in an environment regulated by legislation, The Group actively monitors adherence to its existing regulatory codes and standards including, but not limited to, listing rules, requirements and has a number of internal policies and standards trading standards, advertising, product quality, carbon emission to ensure compliance where appropriate.
reporting, bribery, corruption and data protection rules.
The Group provides training where required and operates a The introduction of regulations such as the General Data confidential whistleblowing hotline for colleagues to raise Protection Regulation GDPR, The Modern Slavery Act and concerns in confidence.
Supplier Payment Reporting has increased the risk exposure of non-compliance.
The Group recognises that failure to comply The Group expects all suppliers to comply with its Conditions of with these may result in financial or reputational damage to Supply which clearly sets out its expectations of its suppliers and the business.
includes a Code of Conduct which all suppliers must adhere to.
51 Strategic Report Principal Risks Assessment of the Groups Prospects Viability Statement The Board regularly reviews the current financial position Based on the results of the analysis, the Board has a and performance and assesses the future prospects of reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to the Group.
As part of this assessment the Board reviews continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall the Groups income and expenditure projections, cash due over the three year period of the assessment.
flows and other key financial ratios along with the potential impact of, and challenges presented by, the principal risks outlined on page 46 to 51.
Going Concern The Groups strategy along with the factors likely to After making enquiries and completing the assessment affect the development, performance and position of the outlined in the Viability Reporting including the proposed businesses are detailed throughout the Strategic Report acquisition of The Finish Line, the Directors have a on pages 43 to 76. reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Viability Reporting For this reason, the financial statements have been prepared In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate on a going concern basis.
Governance Code, the Board has assessed the viability of the Group for a period of three years to 30 January 2021.
A period of three years has been selected as the Board considered this to be an appropriate period to assess performance and the potential impact of key risks in a fast paced retail environment.
The three year period also Brian Small strikes a balance between the time horizons across the Chief Financial Officer different aspects of the Group, such as short term detailed 16 April 2018 financial budgets and forecasts, medium term financing considerations and retail space planning.
For the purposes of Viability Reporting, the Board has focused on the operational risks included in the supply chain section of the principal risks outlined on page 46 to 51.
The Board has evaluated the impact of these risks actually occurring based on severe but plausible scenarios.
The evaluation included performing sensitivity analysis by flexing the main assumptions in the scenarios.
As Brexit remains high on the agenda, the Board has also considered the potential impact of the incremental fixed costs as a result of applying the mitigating solutions to the risks as outlined in the Principal Risks section on page 50.
Furthermore, with reference to the proposed acquisition of The Finish Line, the Board has reviewed the working capital requirements of the enlarged group.
Sensitivity analysis has been prepared on a reasonable worst case scenario basis, applying sensitivities to sales, margin and the costs required to support and grow the enlarged group.
