John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The effective management of risks within the Group is essential to the successful delivery of the Groups objectives.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that risks are identified A Management Risk Committee, comprising senior members and appropriately managed across the Group and has delegated of management and chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, assists to the Audit & Risk Committee responsibility for reviewing the the Board, Audit & Risk Committee and Executive Committee in effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including the formulating and enforcing the Groups risk management policy.
systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor The Head of Internal Audit attends each meeting of the risks.
The Groups risk appetite when making decisions on Management Risk Committee, which reports formally to the investment commitments or potential realisations is assessed Audit & Risk Committee.
by reference to the expected impact on NAV.
The Directors confirm that they have monitored throughout The principal internal controls that operated throughout 2018 the year and carried out i a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and and up to the date of this Annual Report include: ii a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, an organisational structure which provides adequate including those that would threaten its business model, future segregation of responsibilities, clearly defined lines of performance, solvency and liquidity.
No material weaknesses accountability, delegated authority to trained and were identified from the review of the Groups risk management experienced staff and extensive reporting: and internal control systems.
clear business objectives aligned with the Groups risk appetite: The Group risk register is reviewed at every meeting of the Audit & Risk Committee and Management Risk Committee and every risk reporting, including identification of risks through six months by the Board.
Group-wide risk registers, that is embedded in the regular management reporting of business units and is The above controls and procedures are underpinned by a culture communicated to the Board: and of openness of communication between operational and executive management.
All investment decisions are scrutinised an independent Internal Audit function, which reports to the in detail by the Investment Committee and, if outside the Audit & Risk Committee.
The External Auditor also reports Investment Committees terms of reference, also by the Board.
to the Audit & Risk Committee on the effectiveness of All divestment decisions are scrutinised by the Divestment financial controls relevant to the audit.
Committee and approved by the Board.
The Groups Internal Audit functions objectives are, inter alia, The Directors assessment of the principal risks applying to the to provide: Group is set out below, including the way in which risks are independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit & linked to the strategic objectives set out in the Chief Executive Risk Committee, that internal control processes, including Officers Review.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently those related to risk management, are relevant, fit for known to the Directors, or which they currently consider not to purpose, effective and operating throughout the business: be material, may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
a deterrent to fraud: The Groups two strategic objectives are: another layer of assurance that the Group is meeting its Growth in primary investment volumes new investment FCA regulatory requirements: and capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects over the medium term.
advice on efficiency improvements to internal control processes.
Management and enhancement of the Groups investment portfolio, with a clear focus on active Internal Audit is independent of the business and reports management during construction, accompanied by functionally to the Group Finance Director and directly to the realisations of investments which, combined with the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Head of Internal Groups corporate banking facilities and operational cash Audit meets regularly with senior management and the Audit flows, enable it to finance new investment commitments.
& Risk Committee to discuss key findings and management actions undertaken.
The Head of Internal Audit can call a meeting with the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee at any time and meets privately with the Audit & Risk Committee, without senior management present, as and when required, but at least annually.
41 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2017 1.
Governmental policy Changes to legislation or public policy in the jurisdictions Thorough due diligence is carried out in order to assess a in which the Group operates or may wish to operate specific countrys risk for example economic and political No change could negatively impact the volume of potential stability, tax policy, legal framework and local practices opportunities available to the Group and the returns before any investment is made.
The Group seeks to limit its from existing investments.
exposure to any single governmental or public sector body.
The use of PPP programmes by governmental entities Where possible the Group seeks specific contractual protection may be delayed or may decrease thereby limiting from changes in governmental policy and law for the projects it opportunities for private sector infrastructure investors invests in.
General change of law is considered to be a normal in the future, or be structured such that returns to private business risk.
During the bidding process for investment in a sector infrastructure investors are reduced.
project, the Group takes a view on an appropriate level of return to cover the risk of non-discriminatory changes in law.
Governmental entities may in the future seek to terminate or renegotiate existing projects by introducing new policies PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide or legislation that result in higher tax obligations on significant contractual protection for equity investors existing PPP or renewable energy projects or otherwise see also Counterparty risk.
affect existing or future PPP or renewable energy projects.
During the bidding process for investment in a project, the Changes to legislation or public policy relating to Group assesses the sensitivity of the projects forecast returns renewable energy could negatively impact the economic to changes in factors such as tax rates and or, for renewable returns on the Groups existing or future potential energy projects, governmental support mechanisms.
The investments in renewable energy projects, which would Group targets jurisdictions which have a track record of adversely affect the demand for and attractiveness of support for renewable energy investments and which continue such projects.
Compliance with the public tender regulations which apply Through its track record of more than 140 investment to PPP projects is complex and the outcomes may be commitments, the Group has developed significant expertise subject to third party challenge and reversed.
in compliance with public tender regulations.
The UKs withdrawal from the European Union may take The Group believes its business model is robust and able to place in a manner which affects: i the valuation of the weather potential short-term disruption as a result of the Groups investments ii its ability to make future UKs withdrawal from the European Union from, for example, investments and or divestments.
i changes in the value of Sterling, ii changes in financial markets and or other macroeconomic factors see also Counterparty risk and Personnel sections.
Macroeconomic factors To the extent such factors are not hedged, changes Factors which have the potential to adversely impact the in inflation and interest rates and foreign exchange underlying cash flows of an investment, and hence its No change all potentially impact the return generated from an valuation, may be hedged at a project level.
In addition, investment and its valuation.
unhedged exposures and associated sensitivities are considered during the investment appraisal process.
Changes in factors which affect energy prices, such In particular, prior to investment, renewable energy projects as the future energy demand supply balance and the are assessed for their sensitivity to a number of variables, oil price, could negatively impact the economic returns including future power prices.
on the Groups investments in renewable energy and, as a result, the valuation of such investments.
Systemic risks, such as potential deflation, or appreciation depreciation of Sterling versus the currency in which an Weakness in the political and economic climate in investment is made, are assessed in the context of the a particular jurisdiction could impact the value of, portfolio as a whole.
or the return generated from, any or all of the Groups investments located in that jurisdiction.
The Group seeks to reduce the extent to which its renewable energy investments are exposed to energy prices through governmental support mechanisms and or offtake arrangements.
The Group monitors closely the level of its investments in foreign currencies, including regularly testing the sensitivity of the financial covenants in its corporate banking facilities to a significant change in the value of individual currencies.
Liquidity in the secondary market Weakness in the secondary markets for investments in Projects are appraised on a number of bases, including PPP or renewable energy projects, for example as the being held to maturity.
Projects are also carefully structured No change result of a lack of economic growth in relevant markets, so that they are capable of being divested, if appropriate, actual or potential governmental policy, regulatory changes before maturity.
in the banking sector, liquidity in financial markets, Over recent years, the secondary markets for both PPP and changes in interest and exchange rates and project finance renewable energy investments have grown substantially as market conditions may affect the Groups ability to realise operational infrastructure has matured as an asset class.
full value from its divestments.
The Group has developed strong relationships with many The secondary market for investments in renewable energy secondary investors in each of its markets.
The Group has projects may be affected by, inter alia, changes in energy recently agreed its first disposals of renewable energy investments in the US.
prices, in governmental policy, in the value of governmental support mechanisms and in project finance market conditions.
42 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2017 4.
Financial resources Any shortfall in the financial resources that are available The Group has corporate banking facilities totalling to the Group to satisfy its financial obligations may make 500 million which mature in July 2023 as well as additional it necessary for the Group to constrain its business facilities 150 million committed until January 2021.
Decreased development, refinance its outstanding obligations, forego Available headroom is carefully monitored and compliance investment opportunities and or sell existing investments.
with the financial covenants and other terms of these facilities is closely observed.
The Group also monitors Inability to secure project finance could hinder the ability its working capital, cash collateral and letter of credit of the Group to make a bid for an investment opportunity requirements and maintains an active dialogue with its or where the Group has a preferred bidder position, could banks.
It operates a policy of ensuring that sufficient negatively impact whether an underlying project reaches financial resources are maintained to satisfy committed financial close.
and likely future investment requirements.
A Divestment Committee was set up in 2017 to provide oversight and The inability of a project company to satisfactorily recommendations on all potential divestments.
refinance existing maturing medium-term project finance facilities periodically during the life of a project could In March 2018, the Group undertook the Rights Issue, affect the Groups projected future returns from raising 210.5 million net of costs.
investments in such projects and hence their valuation in the Groups Balance Sheet.
The Group believes that there is currently sufficient depth and breadth in project finance markets to meet the Adverse financial performance by a project company which financing needs of the projects it invests in.
The Group affects the financial covenants in its project finance debt works closely with a wide range of project finance providers, documents may result in the project company being including banks and other financial institutions.
In markets unable to make distributions to the Group and other such as Australia and New Zealand, where the tenor of investors, which would impact the valuation of the Groups project finance facilities at financial close tends to be investment in such project company, and may ultimately medium term, certain projects in which the Group has enable public-sector counterparties through cross default invested are due for refinancing in due course.
Auckland links to other project agreements and or project finance South Corrections Facility was successfully refinanced in debt providers to declare default and, in the latter case, to late 2017 and another project, Optus Stadium, was exercise their security.
Prior to financial close, all proposed investments are scrutinised by the Investment Committee.
This scrutiny includes a review of sensitivities of investment returns and financial ratios to adverse performance as well as an assessment of a projects ability to be refinanced if the tenor of its project finance debt is less than the term of the concession or the projects useful life.
The Group maintains an active dialogue with the banks and other financial institutions which provide project finance to the projects in which it invests.
Monitoring of compliance with financial covenant ratios and other terms of loan documents continues throughout the term of the project finance loan.
Pensions The amount of the surplus deficit on the Groups main The Groups two defined benefit pension schemes are defined benefit pension scheme JLPF can vary overseen by corporate trustees, the directors of which No change significantly due to gains or losses on scheme include independent and professionally qualified individuals.
investments and movements in the assumptions used to The Group works closely with the trustees on the appropriate value scheme liabilities in particular life expectancy, funding strategy for the schemes and takes independent discount rate and inflation rate.
Consequently the Group actuarial advice as appropriate.
Both schemes are closed to is exposed to the risk of increases in cash contributions future accrual and accordingly have no active members, only payable, volatility in the surplus deficit reported in the deferred members and pensioners.
A significant proportion Group Balance Sheet, and gains losses recorded in the of the liabilities of JLPF is matched by a bulk annuity buy-in Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
As at 31 December 2018, hedging in place amounted to 95% of JLPFs assets in respect of both interest rates and inflation.
The next actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2019.
Future investment activity The Group operates in competitive markets and may not The Group believes that its experience and expertise as an be able to compete effectively or profitably.
active investor and asset manager accumulated over more No change than 20 years, together with its flexibility and ability to The Groups investment pipeline is not a guarantee of respond to market conditions will continue to enable it to actual bidding activity or future investments.
compete effectively and secure attractive investments.
The Groups historical win rate for PPP projects may Both the PPP and the renewable energy pipelines are decline and is an uncertain indicator of new investments diversified by geography and number of and type of project.
43 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2017 7.
Valuation The valuation of an investment in a project may not The discount rates used to value investments are derived reflect its ultimate realisable value, for instance because from publicly available market data and other market No change of changes in operational benchmark discount rates.
evidence and are updated regularly.
In circumstances where the revenue derived from a project The Group has a good track record of realising investments is related to volume i. e. customer usage or wind energy at prices consistent with the fair values at which they are held.
yield, actual revenues may vary materially from A substantial portion of the Groups investments are in assumptions made at the time the investment commitment projects which are availability-based where the revenue is made.
In addition, to the extent that a project companys does not generally depend on the level of use of the project actual costs incurred differ from forecast costs, for example, asset.
Where patronage or volume risk is taken, the because of late construction, and cannot be passed on to Directors review revenue assumptions and sensitivities sub-contractors or other third parties, investment returns thereto in detail prior to any investment commitment.
and valuations may be adversely affected.
Where the revenue from investments is related to patronage Revenues from renewable energy projects may be affected or volume e. g. with regard to investments in renewable by the volume of power production e. g. from changes in energy projects, risks are mitigated through a combination wind or solar yield, the availability of fuel in the case of of factors, including i the use of independent forecasts of biomass projects, operational issues, price differentials future volumes ii lower gearing versus that of availabilityand other restrictions on the electricity network, the based projects iii stress-testing the robustness of project reliability of electrical connections or other factors such returns against significant falls in forecast volumes.
In as noise and other environmental restrictions, as well addition, where possible, fixed-price offtake arrangements, as by changes in energy prices and to governmental including power purchase agreements, are entered into to support mechanisms.
mitigate the impact of changes in future energy prices.
The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is The Group typically hedges cash flows arising from affected by movements in foreign exchange rates, which investment realisations or significant distributions in are reflected through the Groups financial statements.
In addition, there are foreign exchange risks associated with conversion of foreign currency cash flows relating During the bidding process for investment in a project, the to an investment into and out of Sterling.
Group assesses the sensitivity of the projects forecast returns to changes in tax rates.
The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio could be affected by changes in tax legislation, for instance changes The intention is that projects are structured such that i which limit tax-deductible interest see Taxation section.
day-to-day service provision is sub-contracted to qualified sub-contractors supported by appropriate security packages During the construction phase of an infrastructure project, ii cost and price inflation risk in relation to the provision of there are risks that either the works are not completed services lies with sub-contractors iii performance within the agreed time-frame or that construction costs deductions in relation to project non-availability lie with overrun.
Where such risks are not borne by sub-contractors, sub-contractors iv future major maintenance costs and or sub-contractors fail to meet their contractual obligations, ongoing project company costs are reviewed annually and this can result in delays in the receipt of project income cost mitigation strategies adopted as appropriate.
and or cost overruns, which may adversely affect the valuation of and return on the Groups investments.
If The Group has procedures in place to ensure that project construction or other long stop dates are exceeded, this companies in which it invests appoint competent submay enable public sector counter-parties and or project contractors with relevant experience and financial strength.
finance debt providers to declare a default and, in the case If project construction is delayed, sub-contracting of the latter, to exercise their security.
arrangements contain terms enabling the project company to recover liquidated damages, additional costs and lost revenue, The Group is reliant on the performance of third parties in subject to limits.
In addition, the project company may constructing an asset to an appropriate standard as well terminate its agreement with a sub-contractor if the latter is as subsequently operating it in a manner consistent with in default and seek an alternative sub-contractor.
Consistent under-performance seeks to limit its exposure to any single sub-contractor.
by, or failure of, such third parties may result in the ability of public sector counter parties and or project finance The terms of the sub-contracts into which project debt providers to declare a default resulting in the companies enter provide some protections for investment impairment or loss of the Groups investment.
returns from the poor performance of third parties.
A significant portion of the Groups portfolio valuation is, The ability to replace defaulting third parties is supported by and may in the future be, in a small number of investments, security packages to protect against price movement on and changes to the value of these investments could re-tendering.
materially affect the Groups financial position and results of operations.
If long stop dates are exceeded, the Group has significant experience as an active manager in protecting the value of A project company or a service provider to a project company its investments by working with all parties to a project to may fail to manage contracts efficiently or effectively.
agree revised timetables and or other restructuring arrangements.
The Group monitors the concentration risk within its portfolio.
Since 31 December 2014, the percentage of its portfolio value attributable to UK investments has reduced from 58% to 24% at 31 December 2018.
The performance of project companies and service providers to project companies is regularly monitored by the Asset Management team in each geographical region.
44 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2017 8.
Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk with The Group works with multiple clients, joint venture regards to i governmental entities, sub-contractors, partners, sub-contractors and institutional investors so as No change offtakers, lenders and suppliers at a project level and to reduce the probability of systemic counterparty risk in its ii consortium partners, financial institutions and investment portfolio.
In establishing project contractual suppliers at a Group level.
arrangements prior to making an investment, the credit standing and relevant experience of a sub-contractor are Public sector counter-parties to PPP projects may seek considered.
Post financial close, the financial standing of to renegotiate contract terms and or terminate contracts, key counterparties is monitored to provide an early warning as a result of changes in governmental policy or of possible financial distress.
otherwise, in a way which impacts the valuation of one or more of the Groups investments.
PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide significant contractual protection for equity investors.
Such In overseas jurisdictions, the Groups investments backed protection may include termination for convenience clauses by governmental entities may ultimately be subject to which enable public sector counter-parties to terminate sovereign risk.
projects subject to payment of appropriate compensation, including to equity investors.
Worsening of general economic conditions in any of the markets in which the Group operates could create PPP projects are normally supported by central and or local heightened counterparty risk.
public sector covenants, which significantly reduce the Groups risk.
Risk is further reduced by the increasing geographical spread of the Groups investments.
The performance of service providers to project companies is regularly monitored by the Asset Management team in each geographical region.
Counterparties for cash deposits at a Group level, project debt swaps and deposits within project companies are required to be banks with a suitable credit rating and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Entry into new geographical areas which have a different legal framework and or different financial market characteristics is considered by the Board separately from individual investment decisions.
Major incident A major incident at any of the Groups main locations or At financial close, projects benefit from comprehensive any of the projects invested in by the Group, such as a insurance arrangements, either directly or through No change terrorist attack, war or significant cyber-attack, could contractors insurance policies.
lead to a loss of crucial business data, technology, Business continuity plans at project level are tested at buildings and reputation and harm to the public, all of frequent regular intervals.
Business continuity procedures are which could collectively or individually result in a loss of also regularly updated in order to maintain their relevance.
The Group is committed to ensuring the health, safety and Such an incident affecting any of the projects invested in welfare of all its employees and all other persons who may by the Group could also affect the Groups ability to sell be affected by its direct activities, or those under its control.
its investment in that project.
John Laing believes that proper attention to the health and Failure to maintain secure IT systems and to combat safety of its employees, sub-contractors and the community cyber and other security risks to information and to within which the Group operates is a key element of effective physical sites could adversely affect the Group.
business management and essential to its reputation.
The projects in which the Group invests each have their own health and safety policies and business continuity plans.
The Groups IT requirements are outsourced to a third party.
Following a re-tender process, a new provider was appointed in May 2018.
Within the outsourced arrangements, cyber risk is addressed through i the Groups organisational structure which includes segregation of responsibilities, delegated lines of accountability, delegated authorities and ii specific controls, including controls over payments and access to IT systems.
45 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2017 10.
Investment Advisory Agreement IAA with JLEN and JLIF A loss of JLCMs IAA with JLEN would be detrimental to the N A Through JLCM, and supported by other parts of the Group, Groups Asset Management activities.
the Group focuses on delivering a high quality service to Increased both funds.
In August, the Board of JLIF recommended a cash offer for its entire issued share capital from a consortium We are committed to our IAA with JLEN.
comprising funds managed by Dalmore Capital Limited While it is disappointing to lose the net fee income from and Equitix Investment Management Limited.
The offer the agreement with Jura, it makes a relatively small completed in October 2018 and shortly afterwards the contribution compared to the fair value movement from acquiring consortium gave 12 months notice to terminate investing activities.
the IAA between JLIF since renamed Jura and JLCM.
Future returns from investments The Groups historical returns and cash yields from In bidding for new projects, the Group sets a target IRR taking investments may not be indicative of future returns.
account of historical experience, current market conditions No change and expected returns once the project becomes operational.
The Groups expected hold-to-maturity IRRs from The Group continually looks for value enhancement investments are based on a variety of assumptions opportunities which would improve the target IRR and which may not be correct at the time they are made projected annualised return.
and may not be achieved in the future.
At the appraisal stage, investments in projects are tested for their sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Taxation The Group may be exposed to changes in taxation in the Tax positions taken by the Group are based on industry jurisdictions in which it operates, or it may cease to satisfy the practice and or external tax advice.
No change conditions for relevant reliefs.
Tax authorities may disagree At the appraisal stage, investments in projects are tested with the positions that the Group has taken or intends to take.
for their sensitivity to changes in tax rates.
Project Project companies may be exposed to changes in taxation valuations are regularly updated for changes in tax rates.
in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The impact of changes to UK, France, Netherlands and In 2015, the OECD published its recommendations for tackling US tax rules has been taken into account in the fair value Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS by international at 31 December 2018 of the Groups investments in those companies.
It identified the use of tax deductible interest as jurisdictions.
one of the key areas where there is opportunity for BEPS by The Group monitors closely the way in which other international companies.
It was left up to the governments of governments, including in Australia, are implementing the OECD countries to decide how to implement the OECDs OECD recommendations.
recommendations into their domestic law.
To the extent that one or more of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates changes its rules to limit tax deductible interest, this could significantly impact i the tax payable by subsidiaries of the Group, ii the valuation of existing investments and iii the way in which future project-financed infrastructure investments are structured, in each case in such jurisdictions.
In late 2017, the UK Government enacted legislation, effective from 1 April 2017, which introduced a Fixed Ratio Rule to cap the amount of tax deductible net interest to 30% of a UK companys EBITDA.
In the US, new legislation came into effect on 1 January 2018, including a restriction on interest deductibility for certain US entities paying interest to foreign entities.
The Australian Treasury introduced new legislation in September 2018 which i increased tax on foreign investors in certain structures and ii tightened the Australian thin capitalisation regime.
In France and the Netherlands, new legislation came into effect to implement the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive to restrict tax deductible interest to 30% of a companys EBITDA effective from 1 January 2019.
Personnel The Group may fail to recruit or retain key senior management The Group regularly reviews pay and benefits to ensure they and skilled personnel in, or relocate high-quality personnel remain competitive.
The Groups senior managers participate No change to, the jurisdictions in which it operates or seeks to expand.
The Group plans its human resources needs carefully, including appropriate local Uncertainty arising from the UKs decision to leave the EU recruitment, when it bids for overseas projects.
could impact the Groups ability to recruit and retain EU nationals in the UK.
The Group has offices in Amsterdam and Madrid and could open further offices in other EU jurisdictions if necessary.
