Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties The aggregation of the individual risk The risk management standard is the The principal risks identified registers into a Group risk register formal overarching risk management that face the Group are set was reviewed twice during the year by process within Wood that complements out below.
During the year the Group Risk Committee, which is current policies and processes across the attended by the full ELT, to ensure that Group.
The purpose of the standard is to: the Board has carried out a the material risks for the Group are Ensure there is a formal, structured robust assessment of these appropriately measured and managed.
and consistent risk management principal risks and monitored The focus of the Group Risk Committee process across Wood meetings was on ensuring that all the Groups risk management of the principal risks for Wood were Identify, mitigate, and manage risks and internal control systems.
that occur After the Group Risk Committee Provide visibility over business risks to Risk management review, the summary of principal risks inform leadership is formally reviewed by the Board twice The Board is responsible for: a year.
Emerging risks are identified Robust assessment of principal risks Identifying the nature and extent of throughout the year via the BU and the principal risks faced functional risk processes and escalated The Board has carried out a robust to the ELT as part of their monthly assessment of the principal risks Determining the extent of those risks meetings, discussed during the Group facing the business.
To support this, it is willing to take in achieving its Risk Committee and further escalated the Board and its committees received strategic objectives its risk appetite to the Board as required.
Each of the regular reports from key functions Performing a robust assessment of non-executive directors provides their such as safety, ethics & compliance, those risks perception of emerging risks, and a finance, legal, IT, internal audit and cross-check against the emerging risks Monitoring and reviewing the risk people & organisation P&O, along identified by Woods peer group is also management and internal control with operational reports from the BUs, undertaken, both of which inform the which include key risks, information on systems, and providing oversight of the mid-year Board discussion on risk.
compliance with controls and reports on processes that management follows assurance activities where applicable.
The principal risks considered by the The Board is assisted in this assessment Board in March 2019 are set out on This year, the Board continued to receive by the Audit Committee and the pages 40 and 41. regular updates on the delivery of the Safety, Assurance and Business integration of AFW to ensure visibility Ethics Committee, who are delegated and rigour on the process, risks, and responsibility for various aspects of risk, Risk appetite controls in place.
Two of the noninternal control and assurance.
The Groups risk appetite is defined by executive directors, Jacqui Ferguson six broad risk appetite statements that and Thomas Botts, provided additional For more information on the effectiveness cover the principal risks.
These were governance and challenge to the of internal control systems see page 47 revisited at the August Board meeting integration team throughout the process.
to ensure that the updated list of The monitoring of the PLUS programme Identification of principal risks principal risks were adequately covered continues with reports to every Board by the risk appetite statements.
A bottom up and top down approach meeting on progress and key risks, in to identifying risks operates within the addition to detailed reports on cost The Groups risk appetite is taken into organisation.
synergy delivery provided at each Audit account when setting the nature and Committee meeting.
Risk registers are developed at an extent of the key control mechanisms in place and the level of assurance activity individual contract or project level, Wood has regularly monitored and required for each risk.
escalated to the Business Grouping assessed the legal, financial, commercial level and rolled up into Business Unit and operational effects of Brexit before In addition, the ELT reviewed and BU risk registers, which are reviewed the planned exit on 29 March 2019.
Brexit endorsed a framework around the by the BU Leadership Teams every has not been perceived as a principal application of the Group's risk appetite quarter.
The Chief Executive and the risk area for Wood.
The majority of to contracting models.
This was also Group CFO subsequently review the BU Wood's business is external to the EU.
The framework risk registers as part of the quarterly UK EU cross trade represents less sets out the risk appetite for certain BU Project and Risk Review meetings.
than 1% of Group revenue and the fixed price or lump sum and other high Group level functional risk registers are majority of the Group's revenue is non risk contracts and outlines ten criteria also maintained with the functional Sterling.
A business impact assessment to assess contract opportunities.
The leadership teams reviewing these risk was used to identify localised areas process for ongoing monitoring of registers twice a year.
potentially impacted by Brexit that fixed price and high risk contracts was are being managed throughout the enhanced through quarterly BU Project During 2018, separate integration risk Group.
These include critical spare levels and Risk Review meetings attended by registers covering each of the major being increased on a small number of the Chief Executive and Group CFO.
integration projects were maintained, UK projects and external advice being with key risks aggregated into an overall obtained to assist in supporting the small integration risk register.
Whilst the main Group risk management standard number of employees that are impacted.
changes to integrate the business were During the year, a Group risk The Brexit risk was reviewed again by the completed in October 2018, work on management standard was developed ELT during the January 2019 Group Risk several projects will continue in 2019. detailing the Wood risk management Committee and the Board in March 2019, These form our integration PLUS framework and process, which codifies and this reconfirmed that Brexit is not programme and the same approach to existing practice.
considered to be a principal risk.
risk registers will be continued for the PLUS programme.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Analysis of principal risks Board assessment of change in risk from 2017: Risk has increased since 2017 No change in risk since 2017 Risk has decreased since 2017 Considered as part of viability assessment New Strategic Delivery of integration PLUS programme Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Failure to complete the remaining integration Continued integration steering committee to ensure adequate governance, led by projects that form the PLUS programme the ELT with regular reporting to the Board: established PLUS steering committee accompanying delivering organisational change, to drive next phase integration projects and delivering cost synergy Designated programme management structure, team and schedule targets.
The risk has decreased following the Governance framework and risk registers developed to capture and manage each successful delivery of the main integration key integration project programme and related cost synergies during the Prioritised and incorporated existing change programmes where required into the first full year post-acquisition of AFW.
integration and integration PLUS programmes Robust cost synergy identification, verification, monitoring and tracking process Deleveraging Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance With the acquisition of AFW the Groups leverage Target business cash performance and ongoing monitoring via a Group-wide cash is currently higher than our 0.5-1.5 times net debt: campaign Adjusted EBITDA target.
To reduce this it will be Monthly BU and ELT reviews of debt and cash performance and Board reviews critical to generate cash to repay debt as well as Designated process for governance of capital expenditure on fixed assets and grow profitability.
integration integration PLUS programmes Established processes for monitoring of working capital Target improvement in day sales outstanding Credit policy in place with monthly reporting process Monthly monitoring and reporting of aged debt including any unbilled amounts Identification and sale of non-core assets Market expectations for growth Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Failure to deliver significant growth to meet Deployment of win plan process and training across business development market expectations.
This is a new risk following community to identify and align win themes, differentiators, and Wood value the completion of the AFW acquisition and is proposition to business development opportunities aligned across all of our BUs related to delivery of significant revenue synergies Continual review and trending of opportunity pipeline in consolidated CRM system and organic growth.
Screening process to identify and review business development opportunities to prioritise the opportunities to pursue and to identify revenue synergies prior to receipt of the tender BU Strategy & Development Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs attended by the Chief Executive and Group CFO Health, Safety, Security & Environment HSSE Major incident Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Significant HSSE event leading to a major Care is one of the Wood values underpinned by HSSE and integrity management incident resulting in multiple loss of life, systems which include standards for critical processes significant harm, damage to the environment Safety Shield consolidates Woods HSSE processes and procedures to drive a and damage to our reputation.
simplistic and consistent message to the workforce around HSSE Life Saving Rules and safety essentials, included under the Safety Shield, set a minimum standard for critical work activities and safe behaviour across the Group Group Incident Review Panels for high potential and high severity incidents Group Operations Assurance team focused on Technical, Quality and HSSE areas and assurance against standards Review of safety performance by ELT and the Board Financial Cyber security Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Loss of Wood or client data or disruption to Consolidation of Wood Group and AFW environments through a risk-based IT Wood business operations through unauthorised integration programme access, cyber-attack and or physical or Consolidated IT security policy standards and Acceptable Use policy environmental event.
Utilisation of next generation perimeter security and advance detection capability Improved cyber security incident & event management, including the roll out of a phishing alarm in the Group email system Security Operations Centre enabling 24 7 detect and respond capability Expansion of cyber awareness and education programme ELT monthly reporting and Board review 40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Commercial and Operations Contracting Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Weaknesses in the contract bidding and award Fully integrated contracting policy and associated approvals process process, inappropriate pricing, misalignment of Tender governance process including tender review committee contract terms, or failure to comply with contractual Increased focus on fixed priced contracts, including new contracting policy for conditions could lead to reputational damage, or fixed price and other high risk contracts poor financial performance.
The risk has decreased Board deep dive undertaken on contract management covering the controls above following the implementation of increased Consistent commercial team structure established across Group and all BUs governance over the contracts approvals process reporting to CFO and the roll-out of a revised contracting policy.
Project execution Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Ineffective project start up, new country entry or Start up and execution plans for key projects supported by monitoring and reporting failure to successfully execute projects safely and to Group strategy & development team assist in start-up phase of key projects and expected quality, on time and within budget.
embed learnings from previous projects Tender governance process including tender review committee at Group level Financial Management Framework in place to ensure governance over contract compliance, including variation orders Project governance process and associated project reviews including quarterly BU Project and Risk Review meetings attended by the Chief Executive and CFO Attract, retain and deploy critical staff Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Failure to attract, retain and deploy critical staff Roll out of end-to-end recruitment platform, iCIMS, across Wood to optimise to key projects, which would lead to insufficient internal and external recruitment activities capability and leadership to deliver growth.
This Critical Position Resourcing reviews introduced at BU level to highlight key is a new risk due to the number of sectors and vacancies and establish pipelines for future demand geographies that Wood needs to recruit from due Succession planning exercise carried out across the Group with development plans to the increased scale and diversity of the business.
in place for high performing employees Employee engagement survey completed with follow-up focus groups and action plans developed to address key themes Compliance and Litigation Major regulatory investigation Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Regulatory investigation or proceedings resulting Suite of Wood policies that mandate compliance with applicable laws and policies from non-compliance with applicable legislation, Commercial Intermediaries policy and working group to drive compliance by including ongoing investigations into the historic intermediaries with the policy use of agents and in relation to Unaoil, which could Business management system across functional teams ensuring compliance with lead to consequences including financial exposure, external verification of the management systems penalties and reputational damage.
Assurance framework across technical and non-technical business processes Group Legal and Compliance provides support and guidance to the business Group Litigation report provided to the ELT on a monthly basis and to the Board on a quarterly basis Litigation Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Legal action can result from a major incident, a Controls over major incident, major regulatory investigation, contracting, and major regulatory investigation, contracting issues, project execution risks or project execution.
Failure to manage litigation Policies for management of litigation can lead to increased claims, damages, fines and Group Legal team with experience in litigation supported by external specialist penalties.
lawyers where necessary Group Litigation report provided to the ELT on a monthly basis and to the Board on a quarterly basis Regular review of significant and pending litigation with the Board, Chief Executive, CFO, and BU leadership Data protection and privacy Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Potential breach of data protection laws or Ongoing Data Protection programme delivering improvements to enable the regulations, particularly the EU General Data business to identify, assess and maintain compliance with GDPR and other Protection Regulation GDPR.
The risk has international data privacy regulations decreased with the ongoing delivery of the Group Dedicated Data Privacy team with Group Data Protection Officer DPO in place Data Privacy programme.
supported by Data Privacy network across the Group Data Protection steering committee with representation from key functions Data protection management system designed to deliver compliance with global data privacy laws and regulations John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Having made the appropriate enquiries In order to make this assessment, the Monitoring the risk management including a review of cash flow Board considered the current trading and internal control systems and projections and key sensitivities, the position and reviewed a number of processes directors consider, in accordance with future scenarios which stress-tested The Board received bi-annual updates provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate the viability of the business in severe on the key controls in place in relation Governance Code the Governance but plausible scenarios.
These scenarios to each of the principal risks, the level Code, that the business is a going considered the potential financial and of assurance activity carried out, and concern.
The directors also considered operational impacts of the Groups managements assessment of the it appropriate to prepare the financial principal risks and uncertainties arising adequacy of the assurance provided statements on the going concern basis, and the degree of effectiveness of and the effectiveness of the controls.
as explained in the Basis of Preparation mitigating actions.
As indicated in the As part of this monitoring, the Board paragraph in the Accounting Policies.
table on pages 40-41 these included, could ensure that corrective action was individually and in combination, failure to taken where necessary.
deliver the integration PLUS programme, Viability statement failure to deliver the cost synergy and To ensure that responsibilities for risk In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of deleveraging targets: project execution and assurance were clear within the the Governance Code the directors have and contracting risk: delivery of growth committee structure, each principal risk assessed the Groups viability over a below market expectations: the impact and area of risk is assigned to either the three-year period to 31 December 2021. of a catastrophic safety or cyber security Board or one of the Board committees.
incident: and the damage sustained by The process of establishing the period Overall the control environment was an ethical, regulatory or data breach over which the Groups viability has been considered to be operating effectively.
assessed is subjective and considers Ongoing improvements are planned Based on the modelling performed, a range of factors, all of which are in certain key areas in 2019 including a the Boards assessment was that the indicative of slightly different time frames.
dedicated project to define best practice strength of our balance sheet, the for project controls and a continued In making their assessment the flexibility of our business model and the focus on aligning back office controls directors have considered these factors mitigating actions available meant that as financial shared services are further both individually and in aggregate and in all plausible scenarios considered the rolled out.
Details of the status of have decided that, on balance, three business would continue to be viable for financial and IT internal controls are years was the most appropriate period.
included in the Audit Committee report The Group has in place a package Based on this assessment, the directors on page 58. of multi-currency revolving facilities have a reasonable expectation that incorporating a $1.75bn revolving credit the Group will be able to continue in For more information on the internal facility expiring in May 2022 and a control environment see page 47 operation and meet all its liabilities as $0.9bn term loan expiring in October they fall due up to 31 December 2021.
These are set out in note 16 to Going concern the Group financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together In making their assessment of a threewith the factors likely to affect its future year period the directors have assumed development, performance and position that the $0.9bn term loan, which expires are set out in the Strategic Report on within the 3-year period, is renewed pages 01 to 38.
The financial position or replaced and the other current of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity committed financing which extends to position and borrowing facilities are February 2022 remains available.
The described in the Financial Review on directors believe that it is reasonable pages 20 to 23.
In addition, note 18 to the to assume that the term loan will be Group financial statements includes the renewed or replaced either in full or in Groups objectives, policies and processes part, well in advance of the expiry date.
for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of The committed long term financing its financial instruments and hedging together with factors such as the activities, and its exposures to credit risk Groups asset light and flexible business and liquidity risk.
model, the Groups planning cycle, the period over which the synergies from the The Group has considerable financial AFW acquisition will be delivered and resources together with the cash inflows the visibility of operational backlog led generated from its existing activities the directors to select a period of three as set out in notes 14, 16 and 28 to years to assess the Groups viability.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its principal risks successfully.
42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance Our approach to corporate governance and how we have applied this in 2018 Letter from the Chair of the Board 44 Directors report 46 Board of Directors 48 Corporate governance 50 Safety, Assurance & 54 Business Ethics Committee Nomination Committee 55 Audit Committee 56 Directors Remuneration Report 60 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
