Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Risks and uncertainties A holistic approach to managing risk Our approach to risk management focuses on identifying key risks early and action to reduce the likelihood of these having a detrimental effect on the business.
During the year we: Continued to strengthen our processes, monitoring and reporting capabilities so that risks continue to be appropriately identified and managed.
As with all Johnson Matthey processes, we regularly review our approach to ensure that it continues to meet business needs and supports the effective management of risks while meeting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The effective management of risk enables Johnson Matthey to: Improve our decision making, planning and prioritisation.
Pursue opportunities while keeping risks at an acceptable level in a rapidly changing external environment.
Effectively deal with risks should they materialise.
Consider risk and reward and implement controls in the areas that matter most to us.
All this helps us to deliver our strategic objectives.
Our risk framework We operate a holistic risk management system that is applied throughout the business: Board TOP DOWN 3 Has overall responsibility for the approach to risk management and internal control Oversight 3 Ownership of principal risks and uncertainties Identification 3 Sponsors the framework for enterprise risk management at Johnson Matthey of risk 3 Determines the organisational risk management approach 3 Monitors the nature and extent of exposure for our principal risks Mitigation of risk at group level Audit Committee 3 Oversight of process and review of controls testing Group Management Committee GMC 3 Championship of risk management 3 Carries out top down identification and review 3 Development of company strategy in line with board risk appetite 3 Reporting on principal risks and uncertainties to the board and on process to the Audit Committee Sector level 3 Carrying out top down review activities 3 Responsible for ensuring that sites and functional areas have developed risk registers 3 Review and challenge of risk registers BOTTOM UP 3 Continuous monitoring Identification 3 Reporting to GMC on sector risk and issues of risk Assessment of risk Site Functional areas Programmes Projects 3 Carrying out risk identification, assessment and mitigation Mitigation 3 Reporting top risks to sector and Corporate Assurance and Risk of risk 3 Carrying out regular reviews on effectiveness of existing controls and progress with control implementation Reporting 76 How we manage risk Evolution of our framework We recognise that risk management is an important part of our business and continually seek to improve our processes.
This year we have enhanced our existing processes by continuing to review and refine: Our bottom up risk management process, ensuring that our sectors have an embedded risk management process in their businesses which are consolidated and reviewed by the sector leadership twice a year.
Training and facilitation is provided to support this.
Our top down risk management process, to ensure that any risks not materialising through the bottom up process were captured through looking at the external environment and internal environment with the GMC and board.
Following the revision of our strategy in 2017, we took a fresh look at our risks to confirm that these continued to be aligned to our strategy.
With greater clarity of our strategic priorities, we have tightened our risks so that we can focus on understanding worst case scenarios that could threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our approach has meant that we have effective risk related conversations and that these are embedded within the GMC and board agendas: and not just as specific discussions on risk.
As a result of this activity, our assessment of our risks has changed, narrowing the focus towards the worst case scenario: and deeper more informed conversations that include constructive challenging debates.
We have embedded risk mitigation monitoring in our business management processes.
This therefore means that we are continually monitoring our mitigating activities as part of our normal course of business management and not waiting for a risk management process deep dive to flag progress against plan.
Our new process puts significantly more focus on monitoring the quality of our mitigation plans.
We have embedded continuous monitoring and improvement of the mitigation plans within the business, and ensure there is ongoing challenge to further improve effectiveness of the plans.
Our risk process Our risk process is designed to support everyone, at all levels of the business, in identifying and Identication managing risks.
of risk All risks, whether they are identified at the most senior level or throughout the business, are described, analysed and reported using a standard framework.
The central Corporate Assurance and Risk team acts as an advisory Framework function and provides independent challenge supported by Monitoring and review.
Each of our business functions also Assessment and central Corporate and reporting participates in the process, identifying any evaluation Assurance and risks that may prevent them achieving their Risk Team objectives and describing these in terms of cause and consequence.
These are scored using a variety of impact measures, including financial, operational, reputational and people factors.
Controls for each risk are described and assessed.
Each risk, at every level, has a designated owner who is responsible for ensuring the described Control Determination controls are effective and efficient.
We continually eectiveness of response review the level of risk throughout the business and complete a formal submission every six months for reporting purposes as illustrated in our risk framework opposite.
77 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties Understanding why and how our principal risks change Applications systems and cyber security.
This was added The ongoing review of our principal risks ensures that we reflect to our principal risks during the year.
The external cyber on the challenges facing our business and the changes that we threat is increasing with more sophisticated attacks on a have made to our business in response to those challenges.
The elevation of this risk We continually map our principal risks and uncertainties to ensures that the board has greater visibility of the actions strategic and business plans to ensure that we have appropriate we take to mitigate the risk.
Following the revision of our strategy in 2017, we took a fresh look at our risks to confirm that these continued to be aligned to the strategy.
With greater clarity of our strategic Brexit priorities we have better focused our risks, understanding the worst case scenarios that could threaten our business model, Whilst not a principal risk and uncertainty, Johnson Matthey continues to monitor closely the potential EU exit Brexit risks future performance, solvency or liquidity.
As a result of these exercises, we have concluded that for through our businesses.
Our well established Brexit working group is composed of a number of functional experts who look the most part, the overarching areas of risk remain unchanged.
In all cases we continue to review and refine the documented to mitigate risks for a range of Brexit scenarios with a specific focus on trade, regulation and our people.
Whilst there remains mitigations for each risk.
We have also changed our risk reporting to consider whether a great deal of uncertainty as to what Brexit will mean for the company, the Brexit working group is developing and the risk profile is increasing, decreasing or remaining constant.
We believe that provides our board and shareholders greater implementing plans to ensure Johnson Matthey is able to navigate the best possible outcome for our people, our business transparency in reporting compared to reporting the gross or net risk as high, medium or low.
Changes to our principal risks and uncertainties in 2017 18: The following table sets out the principal risks and Future revenue growth.
Now this is the risk specifically uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating actions for associated with our failure to deliver against the growth each and an update on any change in the profile of each risk opportunities identified in our strategy.
Previously it was during the course of the year.
defined more broadly as the risk associated with revenue Our risks are not listed from greatest risk to lowest risk: growth opportunities, investment decisions, significant we list our strategic risks first, followed by operational risks.
capital investment, mergers and acquisitions and research As explained above, we added applications, systems and and development activities.
It is our newest risk and so it is listed last.
Existing market outlook 1 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 The risk of a change to the Strategic planning process in place to assess and understand annual report outlook for our key markets trends across our sectors and markets with an understanding As we continue to is either unplanned or and assessment of the impact of economic and geopolitical strengthen our strategic unforeseen and as a result uncertainty and legislative changes.
planning process, the we are poorly positioned robustness of our scenario Plans in place to execute mitigation strategies.
Mechanisms to monitor changes and launch mitigation actions However, uncertainty will This risk would include if required.
always be present in the legislative change, for external environment.
example as a result of Brexit This risk is unchanged.
or changes in customer or consumer behaviour impacting our business.
2 Future growth Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 To deliver growth as A clear strategy, which is continuously reviewed in the light annual report communicated in our of new information, and a business review process to track This risk has been refined capital markets day, we execution of that strategy.
to consider our key growth are making significant areas as described in our Appropriate investment in R&D, capital and talent identified investments in key growth capital markets day.
This to support realisation of the strategy.
This risk is therefore not directly Ongoing monitoring and review of new technologies and risk considers the potential comparable with that market competitiveness.
failure to deliver this reported in 2016 17.
Project Management Offices PMOs in place to ensure appropriate growth and create value.
governance in place and plans are delivering to expected timelines.
78 3 Maintaining our competitive advantage Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Failure to maintain our Strong customer relationships, built around technical proposition, annual report competitive advantage reputation in the market and a high level of technical service.
in existing markets and, We will continue to evolve Regular strategy reviews to retest the external environment.
as a result, not meeting our position to maintain Embedding analysis of competitor strategy and benchmarking customers evolving our competitive advantage.
needs as efficiently as Strong balance sheet to support significant ongoing investment our competitors.
Active prioritisation of R&D and capital investment to areas of greatest opportunity.
Environment, health and safety 4 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 In common with other similar Setting the tone from the top with senior managers leading annual report manufacturing companies, by example.
the group operates in a Health and safety Understanding of our business risk profile.
challenging safety continues to be our Systems and processes to facilitate adherence to corporate environment that is subject priority and we take policies, procedures and standards.
to numerous health, safety our responsibility for Ongoing investment in the business to ensure that our and environmental laws, environmental impact equipment is appropriate.
If we fail to operate safely we could injure our people.
We Risk, audit and safety checks.
could breach applicable laws, Safety culture programme and behavioural standards.
regulations and standards Investigations to determine the cause of incidents and accidents which could adversely impact and the development of remediation plans.
our employees, result in lost An independent hotline for employees to report concerns.
production time and could attract negative media and regulator interest.
Sourcing of strategic materials 5 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 As JM has limited suppliers Strengthening supplier relationship management, regular annual report from which to source reviews to discuss supplier capacity constraints.
This risk is inherent in our certain strategic raw Automotive and Health Continuing to build expertise in supply chain, logistics, materials, any significant related businesses, where procurement and trade export controls.
breakdown in the supply validated materials are Supplier quality management processes.
of these materials would utilised in our products.
Safety stocks held in strategic locations.
lead to an inability to Risk landscape unchanged.
manufacture and satisfy Research and development to consider alternative materials.
Business continuity management, identification of critical failure risks and plans in place to manage these.
6 People Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 To execute the JM strategy Assessment of skills and capability requirements.
annual report and deliver growth, we With greater clarity of our JM leadership values and behaviours.
need to ensure that we strategic priorities we have Robust talent management processes.
have the breadth and depth tightened this risk to focus Leadership development programmes.
of leadership and the on the skills and capabilities appropriate capabilities.
we need now and in the Building high quality personal development plans in place for future.
We are investing in all leaders.
our leadership and growing talent through robust succession planning to build our future leaders.
79 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 7 Security of metal and highly regulated substances Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 On any given day, the group Assay and other process controls.
annual report has significant quantities of As reflected at the half Stock takes to check inventories.
high value precious metals or year, we saw this risk Security awareness campaigns and training.
highly regulated substances increase in response to Security management systems and site security systems.
on site and in transit: loss the impact of the metal or theft due to a failure of Audits of site security systems and process controls.
price on our balance sheet.
the security management Use of approved carriers for transit.
systems associated with the Liaison with local law enforcement for high risk sites.
protection of metal or highly Insurance coverage for losses from theft or fraud.
regulated substances may result in performance impact, reduced customer confidence and potential legal action.
8 Intellectual capital management Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Failure to identify and Business intellectual capital management strategy.
annual report protect the groups We are developing market Ensuring we maintain a data security strategy to protect our intellectual capital or failure leading intellectual capital, intellectual capital.
to identify third party through intellectual property, Investment in cyber security see risk 13. intellectual capital rights in the battery materials and Annual research and development and intellectual property reviews.
could lead to a loss in health markets, both of which business advantage, loss are crowded and litigious.
Monitoring of third party intellectual capital.
of freedom to operate Although cyber risk to our Use of intellectual capital lawyers to provide specialist guidance.
and reputational damage business is considered Training and awareness.
separately, it is also recognised as a threat to this risk area.
As such we are investing in our mitigating activity to manage our increased risk profile.
9 Failure of significant sites Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Potential risks include a Assessment of significant sites.
annual report disruptive event such as Risk landscape unchanged.
Business impact analysis for sites covering all activities, fire, flood or earthquake, e. g. supply chain, production, commercial etc.
a major incident at site Building plans that enable a comprehensive response to an event level such as an explosion and annual testing.
or other events such as Insurance of activities.
The consequences associated with this risk include the impact on our ability to manufacture goods and satisfy customer demand.
10 Ethics and compliance Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Failure to comply with ethical Code of ethics and tone from the top set by senior leadership.
annual report and regulatory compliance This risk is reassessed on Use of subject matter experts, internal and external, to identify standards leading to an ongoing basis in the light risks, set standards and provide advice and training.
reputational damage, of the evolving regulatory Suite of legal compliance policies and procedures to mitigate key to civil or criminal legal and business background.
exposure for the company In response, we review our Code of ethics in place supported by online training and formal or for individuals or to risk policies, processes and acknowledgement.
controls and amend these Global network of ethics ambassadors.
Examples of this include Independent confidential speak up hotline for employees, General Data Protection contractors and third parties.
Regulations GDPR Investigation response to all matters overseen by an Ethics Panel.
and the CCO Corporate Criminal Offence.
80 11 Business transition Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 To position the group for Strategic PMO in place to monitor progress and provide assurance annual report future growth and maximise across the workstreams.
available efficiencies, we A number of programmes Programme management in place for key initiatives, with continue to evolve the way are in place to mitigate group owners cascading plans and agreed deliverables with in which we run our business.
This includes standardising Audit of key projects with third party assurance where some activities across the appropriate.
group, directed by strong Communication and employee engagement plans associated functional leaders, in order with key initiatives.
to ensure best practice is used and maintained across the group.
The risk is that we fail to achieve the benefits of these efficiencies, lose our business agility and or fail to maintain a very high level of customer responsiveness.
Product quality 12 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Our products are used in a Regulatory framework for compliance in place.
annual report wide range of applications, The regulatory environment Developing robust new product introduction process and processes and systems.
continues to tighten and our technical change processes.
The safety and quality of customers are experiencing Developing robust manufacturing systems supported by these products is crucial greater scrutiny which has standardised processes.
to ensuring they operate created pressure for our Monitoring and reporting of quality performance, taking as intended.
Should a product fail to Quality management systems in place supported by education perform as expected, we and audit.
could be responsible for consumer harm or exposed Robust contract terms and conditions.
This could lead to loss of future business, reputational damage and loss of licence to operate.
Applications, systems and cyber 13 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2017 Risks that our applications Ensuring we maintain a data security strategy in line with the annual report and systems security is evolving threat.
The external cyber threat inadequate or fails to adapt is increasing with more Investment in information security systems, monitoring and to changing business sophisticated attacks on a assurance in support of our data security strategy.
requirements and or wide range of organisations.
Mapping of all at risk data and understanding of regulatory external threats.
Against this backdrop we requirements.
The impact of these may are investing in our IT Maintenance of a breach reaction plan.
adversely affect our financial infrastructure to support position and could harm a more efficient business our reputation.
and, in doing so, we are increasing the global consistency and connectivity of our applications and infrastructure.
As such, we have decided to elevate the risk of cyber attack from within the risk of failure of a critical site to a principal risk in its own right, to ensure greater board visibility.
81 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
