At 31st December 2018, there were four male Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors and one female Director on the Board.
Please refer to The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or page36 for more information on the workings of the diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
Issues The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no Criminal Corporate Offence employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to The Company has zero tolerance for tax evasion.
Shares in the day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are Company are purchased through intermediaries or brokers and therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The no funds flow directly into the Company.
As the Company has no Board notes JPMAMs policy statements in respect of Social, employees, the Boards focus is to ensure that the risk of the Community, Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined Companys service providers facilitating tax evasion is also low.
The Board also discusses JPMAMs policies in this To this end it seeks assurance from its service providers that area with corporate engagement personnel during the course of effective policies and procedures are in place.
its annual visits to the Managers New York office.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible Principal Risks manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to those that would threaten its business model, future impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
The risks identified and the Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ways in which they are managed or mitigated are summarised ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and below.
report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
With the assistance of JPMF, the Risk Committee has drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of are reviewed and noted by the Board.
These key risks fall broadly Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six into the following categories: principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the strategy, poor asset allocation or the level of gearing, may principles is available on request.
lead to underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and its peer companies, resulting in the Companys The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board mitigates this investments in securities issued by companies that have been risk by insisting on diversification of investments through its identified by an independent third party provider as being involved investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, and reported on regularly by the Managers.
JPMF provides depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel the Directors with timely and accurate management mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by information, including performance data and attribution contacting the Manager.
analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA of the investment process with the investment manager, who The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human attends the majority of Board meetings, and reviews data trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
which details the portfolios risk profile.
The investment As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods manager employs the Companys gearing within a strategic and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA range set by the Board.
requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future JPMorgans statement on the MSA can be found on the following prices of the Companys investments.
This market risk website: https: www.
com corporate Corporatecomprises three elements equity market risk, currency risk Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
pdf S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 2 7 L O N G T E R M V I A B I L I T Y and interest rate risk.
The Board considers the split in the attractiveness of the trust, the Board is committed to portfolio between small and large companies, sector and buy-back shares when they stand at anything more than stock selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and a small discount to enhance the NAV per share for remaining has set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are shareholders.
monitored and reported on by JPMF.
The Board monitors the Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an implementation and results of the investment process with investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 the Manager.
However, the fortunes of the portfolio are of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the significantly determined by market movements in US equities, Companys approval are given on page 25.
Were the Company the rate of exchange between the US dollar and sterling and to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status interest rate changes.
This is a risk that investors take having and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio invested into a single country fund.
would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, the qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMF and Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company custodians or depositarys records could prevent accurate must also comply with the provisions of the Companies reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Stock On 1st July 2014, the Company appointed Bank of New York Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure & Mellon International Limited to act as its depositary, Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies responsible for overseeing the operations of the custodian, Act 2006 could result in the Company and or the Directors JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. and the Companys cash flows.
being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys the Manager and its associates and the key elements shares being suspended from listing, which in turn would designed to provide effective internal control are included in breach Section 1158.
The Directors seek to comply with all the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance relevant regulation and legislation in the UK, Europe and the report on pages 37 and 38.
The threat of cyber attack, in all US and rely on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMF, its guises, is regarded as at least as important as more and its professional advisers to monitor compliance with all traditional physical threats to business continuity and relevant requirements.
The Board has received the cyber security policies Political and Economic: Changes in legislation, including for its key third party service providers and JPMF has assured in the US, UK and the European Union, may adversely effect the Directors that the Company benefits directly or indirectly the Company either directly or because of restrictions or from all elements of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
enforced changes on the operations of the Manager.
JPMF The information technology controls around the physical makes recommendations to the Board on accounting, security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks dividend and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice and security of its trading applications are tested by where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to independent reporting accountants and reported every political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the six months against the AAF Standard.
The Company is therefore at risk Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The from changes to the regulatory, legislative and taxation sudden departure of the investment manager or several framework within which it operates, whether such changes members of the wider investment management team could were designed to affect it or not.
The Board will continue to result in a short term deterioration in investment keep under review the impact of the UKs decision to leave performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the the European Union.
The negotiations between the UK and likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate European Union may introduce further currency volatility to succession planning and the adoption of a team based the Companys affairs.
Long Term Viability Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV The Company was established in 1881 and has now been in per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The Company is an investment trust and Throughout 2018, the Companys shares traded at a discount.
has the objective of achieving long term capital growth investing The Board monitors the Companys premium discount level in US equities.
The Company has been investing over many and, although the rating largely depends upon the relative economic cycles and some difficult market conditions.
2 8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 L O N G T E R M V I A B I L I T Y Although past performance and a long historic track record is no guide to the future, the Directors believe the Company is a good long term investment proposition.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to look too far into the future, so the Directors have adopted a somewhat shorter time horizon to assess the Companys viability, which is five years.
This is regarded by many as the minimum time for investing in equities.
This exceeds the terms of the Companys indebtedness.
The Directors have considered the Companys prospects, principal risks and the outlook for the US economy, its equity market and the market for investment trusts.
They have examined the robustness of these base case estimates using further more cautious scenarios, including in one case repeating some of the returns data for the 19291934 Wall Street Crash.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years until 31st December 2023.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited, Secretary 22nd March 2019 S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 2 9
