Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 33 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Management Engagement Committee immediately forwarded.
As part of this process, any feedback The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by from shareholders is also communicated to the Board.
Sarah Arkle, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be review the performance of the Manager.
published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on General Meeting.
The evaluation includes consideration of the investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, Risk Management and Internal Control noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at term, and the quality of support that the Company receives from least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys JPMF.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms system of risk management and internal control and to report to that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
of all controls, which the Board has identified as including Audit Committee business, financial, operational, compliance and risk The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 35. management.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk Terms of Reference management and internal control which is designed to safeguard The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference ensure that financial information used within the business, or which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be which are available on the Companys website and for inspection designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to on request at the Companys registered office and at the achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide Companys Annual General Meeting.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the its associates, the Companys system of risk management and Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services understanding of the Companys activities and performance and provided by the Manager and its associates, including the reports formally to shareholders twice each year by way of the operating controls established by them, to ensure that they meet annual report and accounts and the half year report.
These are the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing process supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares and the faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 24 and 25.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts and attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the it accords with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance.
The Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In relies on the internal audit department of the Manager.
This addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager who arrangement is kept under review.
The Companys brokers, the The key elements designed to provide effective risk management Investment Manager and the Manager hold regular discussions and internal control are as follows: with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves Financial Reporting available as and when required to address shareholder queries.
Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary investment and financial data, including management whose details are shown on page 81 or via the Companys accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and website.
The Companys annual report and financial statements are Management Agreement published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days Appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to Financial Conduct Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to clearly defined in a written agreement.
submit questions via the Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 81.
A formal process is in place for all letters to the Directors to be D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 3 3 Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 34 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Corporate Governance Management Systems JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our The Managers system of risk management and internal investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering control includes organisational agreements which clearly superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by the highest standards of corporate governance and best business Managers Compliance department which regularly monitors practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the compliance with FCA rules.
companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, Investment Strategy oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
Proxy Voting The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in system of risk management and internal control by a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our Manager and its associates as follows: clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from the Managers Compliance Stewardship Engagement department: JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its reviews reports on the internal controls and the clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the is itself independently reviewed: responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: reviews every six months an independent report on the risk management and internal controls and the publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their operations of the Manager: and stewardship responsibilities to their clients: reviews quarterly reports from the Companys Depositary.
disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board monitor their investee companies: confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: system of risk management and internal control for the year ended 30th June 2018 and to the date of approval of this Annual be willing to act collectively with other investors where Report and Accounts.
appropriate: The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting during the course of its review of the system of risk management record: and and internal control were not significant and did not affect the report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and Corporate Governance and Voting Policy supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM our investment process and we also recognise the importance of through the Manager.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines noted by the Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are available on request from the Company Secretary or can are included in the Strategic Report on page 24. be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
This also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
