qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 24 B U S I N E S S R E V I E W a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is Board Diversity a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint environmental risk in project finance.
Diversity is important in bringing an appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA At 30th June 2018, there were four male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA Issues requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no JPMorgans statement on the MSA can be found on the following employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The day to website: https: www.
com corporate Corporateday activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
pdf no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes the JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM policy Principal Risks statements in respect of Social, Community and Environmental The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust and Human Rights issues, as highlighted in italics: assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future Social, Environmental and Human Rights performance, solvency or liquidity.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
In assessing interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, the risks and how they can be mitigated, the Board has given non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have particular attention to those issues that threaten the viability of the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and categories: governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues Investment Underperformance specific to their industry.
An inappropriate investment strategy, for example poor stock selection, the level of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of could lead to underperformance against the Companys Responsible Investment, which commits participants to benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting manages these risks by diversification of investments and ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the through a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which principles is available on request.
are monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Manager The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict provides the Directors with timely and accurate management investments in securities issued by companies that have been information, including performance data and attribution identified by an independent third party provider as being involved analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel of the investment process with the Investment Manager, who mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by attends all Board meetings, and reviews data which show contacting the Manager.
statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Political and Economic Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sustained underperformance of emerging markets as an The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of asset class as a result of risks such as the imposition of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being restrictions on the free movement of capital, significant carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to changes to the benchmark index and therefore the be made in respect of employees.
The Company has no premises, investment universe.
These risks are discussed by the Board consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does on a regular basis.
not have a measurable carbon footprint.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 25 B U S I N E S S R E V I E W Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager Change of Corporate Control of the Manager The Board holds regular meetings with senior representatives A sudden departure of the investment manager or several of JPMF in order to obtain assurance that the Manager members of the investment management team could result in continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its a short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The investment trusts business through the provision of Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event significant resources.
by ensuring appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special efforts Legal and Regulatory to retain key personnel.
In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must Strategy Business Management comply with Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval An inappropriate corporate initiative, for example a takeover are given under Structure and Objective of the Company on of another company or an issue of new capital: misuse of the page 22.
Should the Company breach Section 1158, it might investment trust structure, for example inappropriate lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains gearing: or if the Companys business strategy is no longer within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital appropriate, may lead to a lack of investor demand.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are Board discusses these risks regularly and takes advice from continually monitored by the Manager and the results the Manager and its professional advisers.
reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, Operational and Cyber Crime since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Loss of key staff by the Manager, such as the Investment UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Manager, could affect the performance of the Company.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, dealing the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject or payments systems or the Depositary or Custodians records of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or may prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended Companys financial position.
Under the terms of its from listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The agreement, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss or Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary and its misappropriation of assets held in custody.
See note 20 c for professional advisers to ensure compliance with the further details on the responsibilities of the Depositary.
Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations JPMF and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective risk management and internal controls are Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate included within the Risk Management and Internal Controls Governance best practice, including information on relations section of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 33 with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance and 34.
The threat of cyber attack, in all its guises, is Statement on pages 31 to 34. regarded as at least as important as more traditional physical Financial threats to business continuity and security.
The Board has The financial risks faced by the Company include market price received the cyber security policies for its key third party risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further details are service providers and JPMF has assured Directors that the disclosed in note 20 on pages 64 to 69.
Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information Long Term Viability technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal of its trading applications are tested by an independent third risks that it faces and their potential impact on its future party and reported every six months against the AAF development and prospects, the Directors have assessed the Standard.
prospects of the Company, to the extent that they are able to do so, over the next five years.
They have made that assessment by Share Price Discount considering those principal risks, the Companys investment A disproportionate widening of the share price discount objective and strategy, the investment capabilities of the Manager relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value and the current outlook for emerging markets economies and for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount equity markets.
policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the Companys broker to follow.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 26 B U S I N E S S R E V I E W In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of maximising total return, shareholders should consider the Company as a long term investment proposition.
This is consistent with advice provided by investment advisers, that investors should consider investing in equities for a minimum of five years.
Thus the Directors consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon to assess the Companys viability.
The Directors confirm that, assuming a successful continuation vote at the 2020 AGM, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited Company Secretary 11th October 2018 2 6 | J P M O R G A N E M E R G I N G M A R K E T S I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
