qxp 12 11 2018 15:21 Page 21 P R I N C I P A L R I S K S Report on pages6to8 and9to 15 respectively, and the The Board manages these risks by diversification of Ten Year Financial Record on page 19. investments and through its investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by the Performance against the Companys peers Manager.
The Manager provides the Directors with timely and Whilst the principal objective is to achieve capital growth accurate management information, including performance relative to the benchmark, the Board also monitors the data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with Performance attribution the Investment Managers, at least one of whom attends all The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess Board meetings, and reviews data which show statistical how the Company achieved its performance relative to its measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Investment benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Managers employ the Companys gearing tactically, within Companys relative performance of the various components a strategic range set by the Board.
The Board holds such as sector allocation, stock selection and gearing.
Details a separate meeting devoted to strategy each year.
of the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th September 2018 are given in the Investment Managers Report on Market and Currency page 15.
Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents the potential loss Share price discount to cum income net asset values the Company might suffer through holding investments in the NAV per share with debt at fair value face of negative market movements.
The Board considers The Board recognises that the possibility of a widening sector allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on discount can be a key disadvantage of investment trusts and a regular basis and has set investment restrictions and can discourage investors.
The Board therefore has a discount guidelines which are monitored and reported on by the management policy that, whilst it does not intervene in the Manager.
The Board monitors the implementation and results market on a regular basis, will see it look to buy back shares if of the investment process with the Manager.
The majority of the discount widens materially relative to its peer group.
In the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated the year to 30th September 2018, the shares traded between in yen rather than in the Companys functional currency of a discount of 4.5% and 12.8% at an average of 9.2%.
sterling in which it reports.
As a result, movements in the Ongoing charges yen:sterling exchange rate may affect the sterling value of The ongoing charges represent the Companys management those items and therefore impact on reported results and or fee and all other operating expenses excluding any finance financial position.
Therefore, there is an inherent risk from costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net these exchange rate movements.
It is the Companys policy assets during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year not to undertake foreign currency hedging.
Further details ended 30th September 2018 were 0.67% 2017: 0.69%.
Each about the foreign currency risk may be found in note 22 on year the Board reviews an analysis which shows a comparison pages 61 and 62. of the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses Political, Economic and Governance against those of its peers.
Administrative risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
These risks are discussed by the Principal Risks Board on a regular basis.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust Loss of Investment Team or Portfolio Manager assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including A sudden departure of a Portfolio Manager or several those that would threaten its business model, future members of the investment management team could result in performance, solvency or liquidity.
The risks identified have a short term deterioration in investment performance.
The changed over the year under review, and the ways in which they Manager takes steps to reduce the risk arising from such an are managed or mitigated are summarised as follows.
event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and the With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk adoption of a team based approach, as well as special efforts matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key to retain key personnel.
The Board engages with the senior risks fall broadly under the following categories: management of the Manager in order to mitigate this risk.
Investment Underperformance and Strategy Discount An inappropriate investment strategy, for example sector A disproportionate widening of the discount relative to the allocation, the level of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, Companys peers could result in loss of value for may lead to underperformance against the Companys shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount policy benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the and has set parameters for the Manager and the Companys Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
