D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Since investment management, custody of assets and all Relations with Shareholders administrative services are provided to the Company by the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Depositary and the Manager and its associates, the Companys Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full system of risk management and internal control mainly comprises understanding of the Companys activities and performance and monitoring the services provided by the Depositary and the reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the annual Manager and its associates, including the operating controls report and financial statements and the half year report.
These are established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 21 and 22.
This process has been in All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval General Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of the of the annual report and financial statements, and it accords with Manager are available to meet shareholders and answer their the Financial Reporting Councils guidance.
In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment does not have an internal audit function of its own, the Board Managers who reviews the Companys performance.
considers that it is sufficient to rely on the internal audit During the year, the Companys brokers, the Investment department of the Manager and regular direct reporting from the Managers and JPMF hold regular discussions with larger Depositary.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The key elements designed to provide effective risk management The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as and and internal control are as follows: when required to support these meetings and to address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the Financial Reporting Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 81.
The Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key Chairman can also be contacted via the Companys website by investment and financial data, including management following the Ask a Question link at www.
co. uk accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and The Companys annual report and financial statements are performance comparisons.
published in time to give shareholders at least twenty working Management days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to Appointment of a manager, depositary and custodian submit questions via the Companys website or write to the regulated by the FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly Company Secretary at the address shown on page 81. defined in a written agreement.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Management Systems published on the Company website shortly after the Annual The Managers system of risk management and internal General Meeting.
control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control Risk Management and Internal Control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by the The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at Managers Compliance department which regularly monitors least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys compliance with FCA rules.
system of risk management and internal control and to report to Investment Strategy shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment business, financial, operational, compliance and risk strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys management and internal control, which is designed to safeguard system of risk management and internal control by the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the ensure that financial information used within the business, or Manager and its associates as follows: published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be reviews the terms of the management agreement and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to receives regular reports from the Managers Compliance achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide department: reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 3 1 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Stewardship Engagement reviews reports on the risk management and internal control and operations of its Depositary, Bank of New JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its York Mellon International Limited, and its Custodian, clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the JPMorgan Chase Bank, which are themselves introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the independently reviewed: and responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: reviews every six months an independent report on the risk management and internal controls and the operations of publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their the Manager.
stewardship responsibilities to their clients: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys monitor their investee companies: system of risk management and internal control for the year ended 30th September 2018 and to the date of approval of this establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: annual report and financial statements.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified appropriate: during the course of its review of the systems of risk management have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting and internal control were not significant and did not impact the record: and Company.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the Manager.
supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that The following is a summary of the policy statements of JPMAM on regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental our investment process and we also recognise the importance of issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Details being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
of social and environmental issues are set out on page 27.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are Corporate Governance available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our http: www.
co. uk governance, investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the and its detailed voting record.
highest standards of corporate governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
