32 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management A ROBUST RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management.
The Board is responsible for the Groups RISK APPETITE 3 OPERATIONAL RISK risk strategy and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as the An important part of the Boards remit The risk of loss caused by weaknesses tolerance levels within which the Group is to determine our risk appetite and the or failures in the Groups systems and must operate.
By defining these, the tolerances within which we must operate.
controls, related to people, systems or Board demonstrates that it is aware of, This is defined as the amount and type processes.
These include risks arising and, where appropriate, has taken steps of risk we are willing to accept in order from failing to properly manage to mitigate the risks that may have a to achieve our strategic and business key outsourced relationships and material impact on the Group.
Regulatory failure to comply with regulatory obligations This takes into account the interests of APPROACH TO RISK and legal risk is included in this definition.
our clients and shareholders, as well as To help the Board discharge its the Groups financial strategy and other 4 CAPITAL ADEQUACY RISK responsibilities, the Group has a regulatory requirements.
The risk that the Group has insufficient comprehensive approach to identifying, capital in relation to its risk profile to monitoring, managing and mitigating risk.
The Board formally considers our comply with regulatory requirements.
risk appetite, taking into account Our Enterprise Risk Management our strategic plans, the business 5 LIQUIDITY RISK framework clearly defines essential environment and the current and likely information about the Groups risks and The risk that the Group does not have future condition of our business and provides a process for escalation through sufficient liquid financial resources to operations.
The Board sets our appetite our governance structure, which enables meet its obligations as they fall due for seven categories of risk.
These are: continuous and robust oversight by the or can only secure such resources at Risk & Finance Committee, Audit & Risk excessive cost.
1 STRATEGIC RISK Committee and the Board.
The risk that the Group is unable to 6 COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK The Group is exposed to various risk types, meet its strategic objectives, as a result The risk of loss caused by the corporate such as investment and operational, in of matters inherent in the nature of failure of one of the trade, prime pursuing its business objectives.
These its business or the markets in which brokerage or treasury counterparties can be driven by internal and external it operates.
to which the Group may be exposed, factors.
Understanding and managing or of a custodial institution or third party 2 INVESTMENT RISK these risks is both a business imperative service provider with which the Group Underperformance of Jupiter funds and a regulatory requirement.
relative to benchmarks, objectives or The type and severity of these risks competition or in other ways failing 7 MARKET RISK can change quickly in a complex and to meet investors objectives.
The risk of loss arising from changes in competitive environment.
The framework is the price of financial assets, interest rates dynamic and forward-looking to ensure it or FX rates.
This includes the risk that considers both current and emerging risks any market risk mitigation techniques which could potentially impact the Group.
used by the Group prove less effective than expected.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS IDENTIFY ALLOCATE DEFINE SET MONITOR ACTION Identify the most Allocate each Define the Set thresholds Monitor the Identify trends significant risks risk to a named potential impact for KRIs and use potential impact and take action we face owner of each risk them to keep the using key risk if it seems likely Board informed indicators KRIs we will exceed on the Groups this appetite position in relation to its risk appetite www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 33 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RISK HEATMAP RISK GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS 2 BOARD 1 3 9 10 4 8 7 5 6 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CRO Low LIKELIHOOD High 1.
Brexit challenge presented by Brexit 3.
A bility to attract and retain 7.
Operational control environment RISK & FINANCE COMMITTEE critical staff 8.
Failure of a critical outsource partner 4.
Regulatory change RISK THEMES IMPACTS RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Where process or controls are seen to be insufficiently robust, line management is As a business, we have a relatively low Our risk management processes enable required to define improvements to the appetite for risk, particularly for those us to identify the most significant risks operating environment to ensure they that could lead to negative conduct or that we face.
The risk assessment process pose a minimal or acceptable level of reputational outcomes.
is the foundation of our risk framework risk to the Group.
and is conducted across the Group by CONDUCT RISK department heads, senior managers, Risk registers and risk assessment The Group defines conduct risks as Executives and the Board.
observations are reviewed by relevant risks which result in customer detriment, senior managers and Executives.
TOP-DOWN RISK ASSESSMENT negative impact to market stability or restrict effective competition.
Conduct All significant risks have a named owner, The Groups risk management assurance risk is not considered to be a separate risk which is either a member of the Executive programme is closely linked with its category.
Risks in the strategic, investment Committee ExCo or, for a small number compliance monitoring programme.
and operational risk categories may result of risks, the ExCo as a whole.
We define Any breaches found by the Compliance in conduct risk impacts.
the potential impact of each key risk and department are recorded in the in-house monitor it using key risk indicators KRIs.
error database and are considered as part REPUTATIONAL RISK We set thresholds for each KRI and use of the risk and control assessment process.
The risk of loss or other adverse impact them to keep the Board informed about arising from the unfavourable perception RISK REPORTING the Groups position in relation to its risk of the Group on the part of clients, appetite.
This enables us to identify trends Identified risks that have a sufficiently counterparties, employees, regulators, and take action if it seems likely we will high likelihood of potential impact on the shareholders, other stakeholders, the exceed this appetite.
Group are reflected in the Enterprise Risk media or the general public.
The Group Management Dashboard, to ensure they BOTTOM-UP RISK ASSESSMENT treats reputational risk as a potential receive an appropriately high level of impact that may arise from operational Each functional business area is senior management and Board attention.
risks and operational risk incidents.
responsible for completing a risk and The Board takes action where these risks control assessment at least annually, are deemed to be outside the Groups EMERGING RISK and more frequently when required.
Emerging risk is defined as a condition, The assessment identifies and rates key situation or trend that could significantly The following section shows our risks and associated key controls by affect the Groups financial strength, assessment of the top 10 risks that we considering the operating environment, competitive position or reputation within face, along with the Boards rating of processes and controls, roles and the next five years.
These are raised by the each risk and how the significance of the responsibilities as well as risk incidents business and challenged by Executive risk risk has changed during the year.
All our that have occurred.
owners to consider estimates of likelihood, top risks fall into the investment, strategic impact, timing and any action required.
These risks are not static, new and emerging risks are considered and assessed by the Board throughout the year for inclusion in this list.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Low IMPACT High 34 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK OWNER RISK RATING POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CONTROLS 2018 IMPACT STRATEGIC RISKS Chief Executive 2018 A failure to achieve one or more strategic The Board sets the strategy and is responsible for ensuring the Group has In 2018 the Board reconfirmed its agreement with the Groups strategy Failure to deliver strategy Officer objectives could result in a reduced pool of the right structure, leadership and culture to execute it.
whilst recognising the short-term challenges of current market conditions.
The risk of failure to achieve our strategic available profit for distribution to shareholders.
objectives, through internal or external The Board and the Executive Committee regularly review the strategic Through the course of the year we actively monitored and took action This would limit growth and potentially factors, which could impair our ability options, opportunities and threats.
Plans, budgets and targets are set to to reduce our operating expenditure in light of the challenging market long-term viability.
to deliver value to our stakeholders.
2017 be aligned with delivery of the strategic goals.
Progress is monitored and environment.
Whilst 2018 was a challenging year for net flows, gross where necessary corrective action is taken.
ExCo 2018 The unplanned departure of a senior fund Our culture is a key differentiator for us, enabling us to attract, motivate We have successfully recruited new lead fund managers in multiple Ability to attract and retain manager or a member of our leadership team and retain talented individuals, which in turn drives outperformance.
strategies including Multi-Asset, and Emerging Market Debt, and have critical staff could lead to significant redemptions from our We give autonomy coupled with personal accountability, and encourage continued to develop and promote a number of Assistant Fund Managers The risk of failure to attract or retain the funds, failure to deliver our strategy or failure independence of thought and challenge.
and Analysts to Fund Manager roles.
people critical to successfully delivering to run our business efficiently, resulting in a investment outperformance to our clients 2017 Our investment function is arranged around 12 strategies, providing a In 2018 we launched a new Learning and Development Curriculum to material impact on corporate performance.
and all other aspects of our strategy.
framework for repeatable performance, but the teams themselves are small develop our employees, part of which included a future leadership and nimble.
This culture and structure gives us clarity of purpose and helps course as part of our succession planning.
us to attract and retain the best active fund managers.
We actively manage succession and transition.
Global Head of 2018 Our ability to generate fund inflows and We continually analyse our markets to ensure we maintain a diverse product In 2018 we continued our strategy of diversification by client, product Ineffective product, client and Distribution prevent outflows may be jeopardised by suite that appeals to existing and potential clients.
We focus on investment and geography with the launch of six new pooled funds, both for the UK geographic diversification fundamental changes in distribution patterns outperformance after fees.
In response to the rising demand and supply and internationally, and the development of a number of new strategic The risk that our product range, distribution or by a sustained market preference for of passive investment products, we focus on the clear differentiation of distribution partnership relationships, especially in Asia.
partnerships, client type or geographic products we do not offer.
This would have our active strategies and routes to markets where active solutions are diversification are ineffective at growing 2017 The overall resulting profitability and capital position supported a a detrimental impact on profitability and in strong demand.
AUM particularly in light of continued change healthy dividend payment.
and disruption in the competitive landscape.
Our well-defined product development process enables us to deliver new products or enhancements, so we can target client groups in a timely and efficient way.
Sustained market decline ExCo 2018 A secular downturn could result in a reduction Our investment philosophy allows our fund managers to pursue their own Our assessment of capital adequacy included regular modelling of in assets under management leading to a investment styles and the flexibility to adjust strategies as far as possible to six stress tests which determined that the Group remained sufficiently The risk of a severe market and economic capitalised under severe but plausible conditions.
decline in revenue and capital levels.
There retain value during unfavourable market conditions.
We have a broad range downturn which affects all fund may be additional outflows as investors switch of investment strategies which enables us to offer products suitable for managers and all asset types across Continued diversification by product, strategy and asset class during to non financial assets.
2017 2018, such as the recently launched Multi-Asset strategy, has reduced We regularly review our discretionary expenditure and cost base to ensure our exposure to market direction.
Our strong capital position and relatively low cost base means Whilst we have experienced weaker markets in 2018, risk of further declines we are well placed to cope with this risk.
is still high and we therefore maintain a risk rating of medium.
INVESTMENT RISK Sustained fund underperformance Chief Investment 2018 Weak financial markets specific to our funds Jupiter maintains a diversified range of flexible investment products, Challenging market conditions coupled with defensive positioning within Officer or poor performance by our fund managers and aims to deliver long-term value to our clients across different market many of Jupiters strategies led to challenging performance during much There is a risk that our clients will not meet may lead to our products being uncompetitive conditions.
Our investment process seeks to meet investment objectives of 2018.
Q4 2018 saw stronger relative performance giving rise to 77% of their investment objectives, due to poor or otherwise unattractive to new or existing within clearly stated risk parameters.
mutual funds being in the top two quartiles over 3 years.
relative performance by one or more of clients.
This could result in clients not receiving our funds over a prolonged period.
2017 Our Investment Risk team works closely with fund managers to challenge their desired investment outcomes, outflows fund risk profiles, assess the risks across the portfolios and to further from Jupiter and the related decline in develop our capabilities.
This challenge process is formally reported to, revenues and a failure to attract new and overseen by, our Risk and Finance Committee, which meets quarterly business and thus not meet our strategic and more frequently when required.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 35 RISK RATING Change from last year Low Increased Medium No change High Reduced RISK OWNER RISK RATING POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CONTROLS 2018 IMPACT STRATEGIC RISKS Chief Executive 2018 A failure to achieve one or more strategic The Board sets the strategy and is responsible for ensuring the Group has In 2018 the Board reconfirmed its agreement with the Groups strategy Failure to deliver strategy Officer objectives could result in a reduced pool of the right structure, leadership and culture to execute it.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks continued OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued RISK OWNER RISK RATING POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CONTROLS 2018 IMPACT OPERATIONAL RISKS ExCo 2018 An unexpected change in regulation for In advance of Brexit, we have established a Management Company As part of JAMIs set-up, we obtained the required regulatory approvals Challenges presented by Brexit example, the loss of delegation rights from our in Luxembourg, Jupiter Asset Management International JAMI, for and set up six new branch entities of JAMI to facilitate the continued Due to the uncertainty regarding the fund management function in London, could our SICAV product range: the effective date of JAMIs appointment as distribution of the SICAV product range in the EU.
We have hired implications of Brexit, the risk that we mean that we are not operationally ready to Management Company is 1 March 2019.
Luxembourg-based conducting officer staff who will enable JAMI to are not ready to comply with post-Brexit comply with post-Brexit requirements which perform its role as Management Company and oversee the provision requirements which could restrict our 2017 Throughout the current period of uncertainty, we have been closely delays our ability to manage, distribute and of services to it the SICAVs by both delegates and service providers.
ability to operate within the EU.
monitoring communications from and developments with respect to the market our funds to investors in EU countries.
UK and EU governments and regulators to ensure we remain aware of ESMA and the UK regulator have come to an agreement to allow This could result in reduced inflows and and responsive to the latest industry guidance with the support of delegation of portfolio management to the UK to continue as it is increased outflows over the period.
now in the event of a hard Brexit.
Based on this, we are on track to be ready for our 1 March 2019 effective date.
Chief Operating 2018 A significant error or breach of a client We have efficient and well-controlled processes and maintain a Our governance, risk and control GRC framework is critical to our Operational control environment Officer agreement may result in additional costs to comprehensive risk management framework which enables the success.
It ensures we protect the interests of our clients, people and We could suffer a material error executing a redress the issue and could lead to outflows.
business to focus its efforts on key activities.
shareholders, and that we meet their expectations of us.
It also ensures key business process, or from our systems or The unavailability of our key systems or that we are proactive in meeting all new regulatory requirements.
We have continuity and business resumption planning in place to support business premises could mean we are unable 2017 our critical activities.
We have implemented remote working, including core We have invested significantly in our GRC environment in recent years, to act on behalf of our clients and or perform system access for all our essential staff if they cannot travel to our offices.
so it remains fit for purpose as the business grows and new regulations other time-critical activities to ensure the If our normal business systems or premises become unavailable, we have are introduced.
We continue to enhance our governance, process and smooth running of our business.
alternative premises including a dedicated office suite equipped with all controls, and to evolve the management information and reporting that of our critical business systems.
Chief Operating 2018 Our relationships with stakeholders may be We subject all third parties who provide us with critical services to a high In 2018, our assessment of suppliers reported one critical supplier that Failure of a critical outsource partner Officer jeopardised if we provide inadequate service, level of ongoing oversight, through our established Supplier Management had an overall risk rating as high.
During the last 18 months we have The failure or non-performance of a third resulting in the loss of clients or regulatory framework, giving us assurance that they meet our required standards.
worked extensively with this supplier to oversee an agreed programme of party provider who we rely on for business or financial censure and negative financial work to deliver the management actions required to address our concerns.
processing may lead to us failing to deliver Jupiter has formal guidelines for managing and overseeing all third party consequences.
the required service to our clients and or 2017 relationships, ensuring they receive a level of scrutiny that reflects their Significant progress was evidenced over this period which has resulted in regulatory non-compliance.
potential risk to our business.
the reclassification of this suppliers overall rating from high to medium.
We continue to work closely with this supplier to complete the remaining work which will reduce the suppliers rating further over time.
Chief Executive 2018 A significant attack could undermine client We commit considerable human and technological resources to preventing To ensure we remain well placed to identify and implement preventative Cyber crime Officer confidence in our ability to safeguard assets, a cyber security incident.
Our server environments are housed in two data measures against current and emerging cyber threats facing the industry, The risk that a successful cyber-attack or which could affect our ability to retain existing centres provided by a specialist third party and offer fully resilient and we joined the Investment Association Cyber Security Committee and also fraud attempt could result in the loss of clients and attract new business.
successfully maintained our Cyber Essentials Plus certification in 2018. clients assets or data or cause significant drive negative financial consequences.
2017 We have established a security awareness programme to extend knowledge We continued to promote cyber training and awareness initiatives across and understanding within the business.
Jupiter applies best practices from the Group to educate the business on potential threats and good practice.
the ISO 27001 controls framework with additional reference to SANS Critical This included workshops held with members of the Executive and focused Security Controls in order to prioritise our technology defences.
We have education sessions made available for all employees supported by produced an extensive Cyber Security Incident Response plan to ensure periodic testing.
departmental heads can adequately respond to the growing threat of Work continued with an ongoing programme of work to review the security cyber crime.
posture of critical and important third party suppliers in conjunction with our Supplier Management Team.
General Counsel 2018 Our ability to do or support our business may We continually monitor regulatory developments to assess potential Substantial time and resource was committed through 2018 implementing Regulatory change be inhibited, which could lead to negative business implications.
We invest in the expertise, systems and process the necessary change programme to ensure that the implications of The risk that changes in regulation restrict or financial consequences.
Potential regulatory change necessary to enable compliance with regulatory requirements by the Brexit referendum vote, particularly the possibility of a hard Brexit impact our ability to do business or that we censure and any related negative publicity the required dates.
We maintain a robust compliance culture and require would not detrimentally impact the Groups operations and our ability to fail to implement changes required to meet could damage our clients confidence in us and all relevant employees to undertake training on regulatory matters.
continue providing investment services to clients and investors in our funds.
2017 affect our ability to generate new business.
Our Compliance department supports the business in implementing Good progress was made in the Groups preparations for the Senior and maintaining appropriate regulatory controls.
Managers and Certification Regime SMCR through a dedicated project team comprising key business stakeholders.
We successfully implemented our MiFID II and GDPR programmes.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 37 RISK RATING Change from last year Low Increased Medium No change High Reduced RISK OWNER RISK RATING POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CONTROLS 2018 IMPACT OPERATIONAL RISKS ExCo 2018 An unexpected change in regulation for In advance of Brexit, we have established a Management Company As part of JAMIs set-up, we obtained the required regulatory approvals Challenges presented by Brexit example, the loss of delegation rights from our in Luxembourg, Jupiter Asset Management International JAMI, for and set up six new branch entities of JAMI to facilitate the continued Due to the uncertainty regarding the fund management function in London, could our SICAV product range: the effective date of JAMIs appointment as distribution of the SICAV product range in the EU.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
