I n t e r n a l d a r u a d o i B t a n d r i s k STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management framework Effective risk The exposure to risk is an inherent part of running abusiness and the Board recognises that rigorous safeguards and a sound risk management process management is are required to mitigate such risks.
Risk is an agenda item at Board meetings and the overall process for identifying and assessing business risks an enabler to and managing their impact on the Group is subject to review by the Board.
The risk management process, illustrated below, exploring market seeks to identify and assess risks through both top-down and bottom-up processes.
opportunity Top-down processes encompass risk identification and assessment of probability and impact across Group, functional and country dimensions.
This process generates risk registers across Just Eat, We believe it is essential to understand and respond to with risks being assigned to owners and mitigating our principal risks while we accelerate our growth agenda.
actions being agreed and tracked.
During 2018, we invested further into our risk management Bottom-up processes encompass the blueprinting capability by onboarding an experienced Director of ofinherent risks across Just Eats process universe.
The director strengthened the This involves line management taking responsibility team, bringing on board two experienced auditors and for understanding their day-to-day risk and control an enterprise risk analyst.
Recruitment will continue environment, and collaborating with the internal into 2019 as we continue to invest in the team.
This will audit and risk team to articulate this understanding enable, amongst other things, the Internal Audit and Risk in formal artefacts.
This manual activity today team to complete a maturity assessment of the internal represents the beginning ofa vision to ingest this control environment, to ensure it remains appropriate data into an automated risk solution in order to given the recent rapid growth of the business.
This deliver powerful risk information and visualisations increase in capability resulted in a refresh of several to aid decision making in the future.
aspects of our risk management approach and a broadening of risk assessment activities across the Group, functional The Executive Team supports the Board in monitoring and country levels.
The outputs allowed the Board to our risk exposure through regular reviews.
The risk carry out a robust assessment ofthe principal risks register and the methodology applied are subject to facing the Company and were a significant constituent review by the Executive Team and are updated to of the Audit Committees agenda.
The Board also noted reflect new and developing risks that might impact greater prominence of formal risk articulation whilst the business.
Where exposure is outside of our risk interacting with the business.
The principal risks appetite, the issue is communicated to the Board overleaf include those that would threaten our business alongside proposed actions to mitigate the risk.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Thecorporate risk register is presented to, and reviewed by, the Board and Audit Committee on During the year, the Board defined our risk appetite and aregular basis.
monitored the management of significant risks to ensure that the nature and extent of those significant risks did Strategic objectives not compromise our overall goals and strategic objectives.
Our risk appetite influences the culture of our business and how we operate, and this is reflected in our risk Risk Monitor appetite management framework as detailed below.
Top down New risks were identified and existing risks assessed Macro view of our ENTERPRISE RISKS over the course of the year as our overall risk profile continued to evolve.
Through our ongoing review of Informs management Focuses strategy and performance in 2018, the Executive Team of hidden priorities in and the Board ensured that risk management was risks and controls gives early investment fullyembedded to balance opportunities with a clear warning understanding of the risks faced and any mitigation High resolution lens on our required to align to our risk appetite.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Bottom up Implement Identify and assessrisks Design mitigations and operational controls 20 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 e e t M t i a m n a m g o e C m t e i d n t u A Strategic report In presenting the principal risks on the following pages, The three-year strategic plan considers the Groups cash flows, Underlying EBITDA, investment in areas the Board has provided details as appropriate around strategic context, mitigation, key risk indicators, such as marketing and technology and key financial ratios over the period.
For the purposes of the viability categorisation and ownership.
Two risks were merged and one risk has been added.
A summary of the changes statement, certain key assumptions of the plan were subjected to sensitivity analysis, both individually and is provided below: in aggregate, to ensure the business is still viable in a Growth, people and culture This risk brings elements stressed environment and to identify if any additional of the Growth and scalability and People and culture financing requirements would be required.
The result is a new risk which speaks to the challenges in balancing our need for greater The sensitised scenarios model the impact of certain of the Groups principal risks materialising.
For example, a structure, process and governance as we grow, with the existing culture and entrepreneurial energy that has fall in orders due to a total outage from an unmitigated technology failure Technology resilience, an unexpected been responsible for our successes.
Furthermore it discusses the cultural and uncertainty risks associated change in legislation Social, regulatory, and legislative, a sudden and sustained inability to process card payments with leadership changes.
Supplier resilience and an adverse outcome from ongoing Supplier resilience This is a new entrant into our taxation audits, as well as downside impacts that may principal risks and recognises our dependence on a result from competition and economic headwinds e. g. variety of suppliers including large cloud providers, Brexit.
Mitigating factors to address these risks, which niche technology services companies, outsourcers, might include a reduction in marketing spend, delaying delivery logistics suppliers and device manufacturers.
or cancelling discretionary activities and a headcount Dependent on supplier, disruptive impacts could be freeze, have not been modelled.
These assumptions experienced across our online platforms, our operational formed the a reasonable worst case scenario.
call centres and our expanding delivery networks.
The three-year strategic plan does not include cash flows Certain business risks we face, such as those disclosed in respect of any future mergers and acquisitions that within Note 20, are generally faced by other comparable might be approved by the Board in the future.
There are also additional risks that activities will be approved by the Board having regard the Group is exposed to that are not considered principal to the Companys financial position and projected cash risks but may have an adverse impact if they occur.
flows at such future time.
Based on the results of this analysis, and assuming that Longer-term prospects any impact of the Groups principal risks does not exceed The sections described Our Business Model and the impacts modelled, the Board has a reasonable Ourmarkets in the Strategic Report describe how the expectation that the Company will be able to continue Board has positioned the Company to take advantage inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due ofthe growing markets in which the business operates overthe three-year period of their assessment to and how the Company is positioned to create value for 31December 2021. shareholders, taking account of the risks described in this section of the Annual Report.
Going concern In adopting a going concern basis for preparing Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Corporate thefinancial statements, the Directors have made appropriate enquiries and have considered the Groups Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 18, in Note 20 to required when preparing financial statements on a Going Concern basis.
This assessment involved a robust the Groups financial statements onpages 124 to 128, and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set review of the principal risks facing the Company and Group, particularly those which could impact solvency, out on pages 20 to 28. performance or the Groups business model.
The Board Based on the Groups forecasts, the Directors are conducted this review for a period of three years, which satisfied that the Company, and the Group as a whole, was selected as this is the period covered by the Groups have adequate resources to continue in operational three-year strategic plan approved by the Board on existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, 6February 2019. thefinancial statements have been prepared on thegoing concern basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties continued EU referendum Brexit update With the scheduled withdrawal of the United Kingdom Employee attrition under Article 50 on 29 March 2019, we have continued Changes to immigration policy or impacts to residency to monitor developments and potential impacts that status could affect our employee attrition rates.
A low Brexitmay have on our performance and results.
Our percentage of UK based employees are EU nationals.
ongoing work with the British Takeaway Campaign, Potential indirect implications which had an active year engaging with MPs and Restaurant Partner contraction responding to government consultations on matters Under a scenario where Brexit has a significant such as immigration and skills shortages, has allowed adverse impact on the UK economy, there is a risk us to keep abreast with those risks and issues that are that lines of credit and borrowing products may be of most concern to the takeaway industry.
The more difficult to access, increasing liquidity and Campaigns efforts have also helped represent the business closure risks.
industry as post-Brexit policy has been developed.
Skills and capacity shortages There remains significant uncertainty as negotiations Restrictive changes to UK migration policy havethe extend into 2019: however, we have concluded that potential to add further burdens to an existing skills Brexit risks fall within our overall Global economic and capacity shortage within the restaurant, and political headwinds principal risk, rather than takeaway and delivery industry.
This could impact being a principal risk in its own right.
We provide a short-term industry performance but perhaps more summary of the potential direct and indirect impacts importantly could impact the longer-term growth of we have considered in arriving at this conclusion: our industry.
Potential direct implications Cost and availability of food Currency risk Recent public debate around the cost and availability A further weakening of sterling would serve to of food and the impact of a no-deal shift to WTO rules increase our reported revenue.
Our growing International in a post-Brexit UK signifies the ongoing uncertainty business now accounts for 51% of total Group revenue.
around the net cost impact of imported food for the However, certain investments and expenditure are industry.
Further concerns regarding EU farming non-sterling, which would have the impact of subsidies and the UK food manufacturing industrys reducing profit.
dependency on migrant workers increases therisk further.
This knock-on impact to our Restaurant Consumer spending Adverse economic conditions arising out of increased Partners may adversely impact our commercial termswith them.
inflation or interest rates could impact consumers.
However, our experience is that the takeaway industry is resilient and that consumers may exchange takeaways as an alternative to more expensive out-of-home dining.
Key to principal risks table on pages 23 to 28 Category We categorise risks to better understand Risk movement Considered on a net basis, recognising thespectrum and scale ofrisks that fall into changes in both gross risk measurement and the offset certaingroupings.
of any advancements or regression in mitigation.
Owner The primary Executive Team member Key risk indicators Metrics and criteria used by accountable for the risk.
management to understand both risk exposure and effectiveness of mitigation.
22 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic Technology Competition Changing service experience Owner:  Owner: Chief Product and Technology Officer Change Link to strategic pillars Change Link to strategic pillars 1 2 3 1 2 3 What is the risk and impact?
What is the risk and impact?
An inability to counter the increased scale, service The Groups pace of technology change fails to meet experience, choice and funding of our competitors over either the evolving expectations of our customers and the short to medium term.
Restaurant Partners, or the velocity of our competitors.
Over the longer term, an ineffectual response to either This could impact our brand, customer and Restaurant the development of new business models by competitors, Partner experience and loyalty and ultimately market the strengthening of existing players or the disintermediation share, revenue and profitability.
What is the strategic context?
This could adversely impact market share, growth, revenue, Allied to our rapid growth, we have inherited multiple margin and overall profitability.
platforms and code designs that can prolong deployment of new features to market.
We continue to focus on What is the strategic context?
moving our markets onto our core strategic platform Countering competition risk is central to our hybrid and introducing modular and flexible designs to strategy of evolving Just Eat towards a global delivery increase agility.
capability to complement our highly successful marketplace business and further open market opportunity.
See Optimising our pace of technology change is an important SkipTheDishes integration and reorganisation on page 26. factor to be an industry leader, to meet the increasing Furthermore, we have placed significant focus on demands of both customers and our Restaurant Partners, growing our partnerships with Branded Restaurant and to be confident that our platforms will bring our Groups, and enhancing service experience through our hybrid service experience to life.
ongoing innovations on our platform.
See Changing How is the risk managed?
Product roadmap We develop our service experience How is the risk managed?
against a clear roadmap of prioritised features Global delivery underway We have brought Australia andimprovements.
and parts of the UK onto our global delivery model and Customer and Partner product development teams We are carefully monitoring performance.
have dedicated teams which innovate and develop new Roll-out plan We have a programme plan for the features for our services.
roll-out of targeted delivery across other territories.
Organisational and operational reviews We undertake Strategic partner growth We have teams and specialists periodic assessments to ensure we align to leading focused on extending our range to include the branded digital development and operational practices.
meals our customers really enjoy.
Service platform consolidation We are undertaking Ongoing business intelligence We closely monitor discrete initiatives to homogenise our core platform territory performance through advanced analytics.
across the markets we operate in.
Key risk indicators Key risk indicators Order volumes growthtrends Customer satisfaction and loyalty levels Net new customers Restaurant satisfaction and loyalty levels Customer satisfaction and loyalty levels Ease of use metrics Restaurant satisfaction and loyalty levels Delivery revenue Driver cost per order Overall order margins Market share Strategic pillars 1 Enhancing our unrivalled marketplace foundation 2 Targeted world-class delivery to complement our marketplace 3 Highly experienced team, supporting extraordinary local customer experts Risk stable Risk increased Risk decreased Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties continued Regulatory Reputational Social, regulatory and Brand legislativechange Owner: Group General Counsel Owner: Chief Executive Officer Change Link to strategic pillars Change Link to strategic pillars 2 3 1 2 What is the risk and impact?
Increased social pressures or changes in laws and An event, or a series of events, inflicts considerable regulations adversely impact the business, or we fail harm to our brand over the short term.
An ineffectual toobtain required regulatory approvals or licences.
brand strategy weakens our brand or its authenticity over the longer term.
Impacts include brand and reputational loss, compromised revenue streams and or increased cost of operations.
A significant decline in brand value would result in the loss Additionally, instances of non-compliance or adverse of new and existing customers and Restaurant Partners, judgements could result in litigation, fines, revocation impacting orders, revenue and overall profitability.
of licences and financial loss.
Our level of investment in marketing indicates the importance Society is placing increased pressures on businesses to of our brand in driving customer and Restaurant Partner take on greater responsibilities.
As a technology takeaway acquisition and loyalty.
It is therefore essential that our platform, several factors relating to workers rights and brand is positively perceived and resonates with the benefits, food, health and the environment represent pleasures associated with our customers and important areas of focus for the public.
In addition, our operations across several markets expose As we continue to grow, we will be engaging with more us to a variety of laws and regulations.
Allergens, food third parties by way of couriers, contractors and logistics safety and payment services regulations are examples and outsource suppliers who may use our branding.
of applicable areas, but more broadly GDPR, customer Their actions and behaviours will reflect on our brand, protection, competition anti-trust, bribery, modern which bears risk.
slavery, money laundering, taxation including EC State How is the risk managed?
Aid investigations, ongoing tax disputes and Digital Brand ownership and strategy Senior accountability, Services Tax and reporting.
strategies and plans exist to enhance and protect How is the risk managed?
Corporate communications A dedicated team Crisis management Management and communication communicate externally and channel feedback plans are established to minimise brand damage following andpublic opinion back into our organisation an adverse event.
Proactive initiatives We live our brand values and we Monitoring and compliance Our in-house legal, finance, are involved in initiatives such as the BTC, Sustainable tax and compliance functions monitor emerging, new Restaurant Association and the Better Fast Food Network.
and evolving risks, while Internal Audit assess Protocols and organisation Skilled teams operate compliance and controls.
within established brand policies and guidelines.
Access to expertise Where required, external Key risk indicators specialists supplement our teams to assess, scope and plan responses to changes in the regulatory landscape.
Customer satisfaction and loyalty levels Restaurant satisfaction and loyalty levels Change projects We establish discrete project teams to address significant legislation changes.
Ongoing market research metrics Key risk indicators Monitoring of emerging topics and government consultations Internal operational compliance reporting Internal audit findings Strategic pillars 1 Enhancing our unrivalled marketplace foundation 2 Targeted world-class delivery to complement our marketplace 3 Highly experienced team, supporting extraordinary local customer experts Risk stable Risk increased Risk decreased 24 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational Cyber security and data protection Owner: Chief Product and Technology Officer Change Link to strategic pillars 1 2 What is the risk and impact?
We sustain a major security breach or lose control of sensitive systems and data.
A major security breach has the potential to cause significant operational disruption, data theft or destruction, malicious damage and or theft of assets.
Further loss of control over data could result in private Enabling secure business agility orcommercially sensitive data being made available Through 2018 we implemented core security controls tounauthorised parties.
delivering visibility and protection across Just Eat.
Following such an incident, it is probable that the A key focus following this has been automation with reputational and operational impacts would weaken security tooling becoming part of the development orders, revenue and underlying profitability and could pipeline and security responses to incidents being lead to regulatory impact.
"This approach delivers on our vision of ""enabling Our customers and Restaurant Partners trust is critical secure business agility."
We enable the business and depends on us providing secure systems.
Our strategy tomove quickly by challenging traditional approaches is therefore to develop a strong cyber security and data to security governance, while maintaining our governance capability that is adaptive to a continuously standards of security and controls around our evolving risk profile.
We also seek to implement pragmatic yet robust security solutions so that security is seen as systems and data.
an enabler and further embeds into Just Eats culture.
We moved security to being a genuine strategic How is the risk managed?
enabler for the business, while achieving and Security team We are growing our security team to maintaining key compliance goals.
support business projects, monitor operations, identify and resolve vulnerabilities and rapidly respond to cyberincidents.
100% Security systems We are building advanced detection and prevention systems to protect our environment and PCI compliance with our requirements across the quickly detect potential issues.
globe while delivering agile security Identity management We continue to integrate and enhance identity management to ensure there is one source of truth across Just Eat.
Data governance We have invested across people, process and technology to govern and protect our data.
Investing in visibility across Key risk indicators allsystems and data and Externally sourced threat intelligence automated tooling to achieve Volumes, trends and root causes of prevented and detected attacks genuinely agilesecurity.
Network and system health and status of criticalupdates Kevin Fielder Unapproved changes reaching production environment Chief Information Security Officer, Just Eat Internal audit findings Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties continued Organisational SkipTheDishes integration andreorganisation Owners:  and  Change Link to strategic pillars 2 What is the risk and impact?
We fail to i integrate and mature SkipTheDishes governance in line with the Group, and or ii reorganise effectively to capitalise on SkipTheDishes global deliveryrole.
Dependent on the risk, impacts could range from data, HungryHouse integration intellectual property or financial losses, service quality impacts, regulatory non-compliance and any associated Migrating customers off an acquired platform requires brand and reputation damage.
To minimise the risks, we rapidly formed an integration team from sales, What is the strategic context?
technology, product, marketing, people, data, Just Eat Canada was operationally merged into operations and legal.
Working tightly together, the SkipTheDishes during 2018 and, using the SkipTheDishes teams approach was agreed and successfully business model, has significantly grown to become the executed in three and a half months, ahead of Groups second largest national market.
Their approach was data-driven and Further, SkipTheDishes is now central to the Groups highly focused, using customer segmentation and delivery and logistics strategy, responsible for building tailored offers to minimise friction.
Our learnings logistics solutions and providing centralised operations from prior integrations in Spain and Italy helped for other Group businesses.
optimise our HungryHouse approach, and it is How is the risk managed?
through tight control of process and risk management Leadership changes We have made significant that the team achieved theirtargets.
changes to the leadership of SkipTheDishes during 2018, bringing in experienced executives to strengthen leadership capability.
#1 Governance changes We moved an experienced JustEat Finance Director to Canada and have built and Our consolidated position in the UK strengthened teams responsible for compliance across legal, finance, security and risk.
We will continue with further changes through 2019.
Organisational changes These are underway to bringclarity to global delivery versus Canadian .
Our commercial risk mindset Transparency We launched the Groups whistleblowing enabled us to deliver a highly policy and anonymous contact process in Canada.
focused, data-driven targeting Key risk indicators Governance-related complaints of HungryHouse customers Whistleblowing cases ahead of schedule.
Projects status for global delivery roll-out Projects risks for global delivery roll-out Andrew Kenny Commercial Director, Just Eat UK Strategic pillars 1 Enhancing our unrivalled marketplace foundation 2 Targeted world-class delivery to complement our marketplace 3 Highly experienced team, supporting extraordinary local customer experts Risk stable Risk increased Risk decreased 26 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Infrastructure Organisational Technology resilience Growth, people and culture Owner: Chief Product and Technology Officer Owners:  and ChiefPeople Officer Change Link to strategic pillars Change Link to strategic pillars 1 2 1 2 3 What is the risk and impact?
Widespread and or prolonged outage of critical platforms We change our scale and organisation without and infrastructure that support our services to customers protecting the positive and powerful aspects of our and Restaurant Partners.
culture today as an agile, entrepreneurial business.
Due to the online nature of our businesses, large-scale In addition, the changes across our senior leadership outages would have an immediate impact on orders and team create uncertainty and or impact on the positive revenue as customers would be unable to transact with aspects of our culture, increasing this risk.
Thereafter, the impact to our brand could deepen if This may in turn impact our ability to attract and retain we were unable to pass collected revenue back to our key talent, affecting our achievement of strategic partners or pay our suppliers.
Offering a reliable service is key to building our customers As we grow in scale and complexity as a listed business, and Restaurant Partners loyalty and trust.
That is why we will continue to introduce structural, leadership, we innovate and operate with a resilient mindset and process and governance improvements that allow us have increased our reliability capability and performance tomanage and control our business effectively.
through 2018, lowering this risk from prior levels.
However, we recognise that the energy and creativity Our technology profile includes large data processing we have comes from our cultural underpinnings as a platforms enabled through cloud infrastructure, which disruptive, entrepreneurial business and this is worth offers the resilience and scalability of highly redundant protecting.
Therefore we seek to strike the right balance architecture, but inherently brings with it cyber, when making leadership changes and adopting corporate networking and computing risks.
best practices to ensure our culture is protected.
Architecture Our platforms are all hosted on Amazon Talent assessment This provides leadership and Web Services on a three site basis to provide multi-site decision making on investing, succession planning resilience and failovers to reduce the risk of major outages andmanagement of our talent pipeline, in line with and to enable rapid restoration of services.
Monitoring Our specialist technology teams provide Change Management Through planning and consistent 24 7 monitoring of our platforms and respond to outages.
two-way communication, we ensure collective Business recovery We have implemented recovery alignment and employees that are engaged with plans to minimise disruptions and facilitate the business change.
Employee voice We listen to our employees, and regularly measure their engagement to ensure we have Key risk indicators a clear employee value proposition that motivates and Systems availability percentage of uptime levels retains our talent.
Backup success metrics Inclusive culture Through our diversity, inclusion and Outage root cause and problem management metrics belonging programme, we are striving to create a culture Results of business recovery exercises of inclusion and openness that drives actionable feedback from our workforce.
Key risk indicators Levels of existing talent Number of critical vacancies Time to hire data Key employee engagement metrics Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Financial Supplier resilience Global economic and politicalheadwinds Owner: ChiefFinancial Officer Owner:  Change Link to strategic pillars Change Link to strategic pillars 1 2 1 2 3 What is the risk and impact?
Any of our key suppliers suffer significant and prolonged Significant economic or political events weaken order loss of their services, disrupting our business operations.
volumes and or growth projections in one or more of our markets or threaten to disrupt our operations.
Dependent on the supplier, disruptive impacts could be experienced across our online platforms, our operational Economic and political factors have the potential to call centres and our expanding delivery networks.
This represent both risks and opportunities.
For example, could impact orders, revenue, customer and Restaurant Brexit may have adverse implications on immigration, Partner experience, and ultimately our brand in the most access to talent and food price inflation, impacting the severe of cases.
The opportunity of customers trade down behaviour increasing online What is the strategic context?
takeaways represents upside during a recession.
We rely on an extensive network of suppliers including, Aparticularly deep and prolonged event has the amongst others: large cloud providers, niche technology potential to change behaviours, which could adversely services companies, outsourcers, delivery logistics suppliers impact revenue and underlying profitability.
A combination of our growth and the maturing of our third party governance and What is the strategic context?
controls has increased visibility and appreciation of The world continues to be volatile on a number of fronts thisrisk to the point of inclusion as a principal risk.
including ongoing Brexit uncertainty, signs of economic slowdown in Europe and China, and conflicts in world Aligned to our focus on building trust and loyalty across trade.
Due to the wide-reaching and systemic nature of our customers and Restaurant Partners, it is important this risk, it is strategically important for us to understand that we understand our supplier base and have the that we have taken all necessary steps within our necessary contingency and mitigation strategies in control to mitigate it.
place to minimise our risks.
This risk has the potential to impact performance in one How is the risk managed?
or more markets, disrupt operations and potentially Technology Single points of disruption risks are threaten the safety of personnel working for us, or on reviewed, prioritised and acted upon by the CIO.
Operations We have globally distributed outsource How is the risk managed?
capabilities divided across tier one suppliers with Impact assessments When events such as the Brexit cross-site failovers and approved local recovery plans.
referendum occur, we conduct analysis to understand Delivery logistics As we execute our global delivery possible impacts and to mobilise action plans as necessary.
strategy, we are building logistics solutions with resiliency Cash investments We restrict investments of liquid requirements and recognise the ability to balance external resources to AAA-rated money market funds and lodge providers with our internal SkipTheDishes service.
Ordering devices As part of our device management Diversification across the globe Our global footprint lifecycle, we evaluate our suppliers and associated risks.
continues to diversify as Canada grows to be our second Key risk indicators largest territory, with the consequent advantage Systems availability percentage of uptime levels ofreducing our reliance on primary markets.
Operational incident reporting Financial planning We conduct rigorous financial planning to manage and monitor cost versus revenue performance.
Logistics incident reporting Key risk indicators Supplier risk evaluations Net new customers Order growth Reorder frequencies Acquisition cost of new customers Strategic pillars Restaurant churn rates 1 Enhancing our unrivalled marketplace foundation 2 Targeted world-class delivery to complement our marketplace 3 Highly experienced team, supporting extraordinary local customer experts Risk stable Risk increased Risk decreased 28 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
