Less than 1 year current 32 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Risk management strong risk culture PURPOSE Through our strong risk culture, We use risk management to make betterinformed business decisions that generate value for shareholders while delivering we are confident of making better appropriate outcomes for our customers and providing confidence to other stakeholders.
decisions to achieve business success Our risk management processes are designed to ensure that our understanding of risk underpins how we run the business.
RISK FRAMEWORK Our risk management framework is continually developed to reflect our risk environment and emerging best practice.
The framework, owned by the Group Board, covers all aspects of risk management, including risk governance, reporting and policies.
Our High Impact a appetite for different types of risk is embedded across the business to create a culture of confident risk taking.
e Medium High Impact c RISK EVALUATION AND REPORTING f We evaluate our risks and decide how best b to manage them within our risk appetite.
Low Impact d Management regularly reviews its risks and produces reports to provide assurance that 13 years material risks in the business are being appropriately mitigated.
The Risk function, led by the Group Chief Risk Officer GCRO, Monitor & Analyse & make challenges the management team on analyse as plans where required needed the effectiveness of its risk evaluation and mitigation.
The GCRO provides the Group Act Monitor & Risk and Compliance Committee with his understand Monitoring Planning independent assessment of the principal risks to the business and emerging risk themes.
Timescale and Management Actions a Risks from our chosen market environment b Risks from ourpricing assumptions c Risks from regulatory changes d Risks from the economic environment e Risks arising from operational processes and IT systems f Risks to the Groups brands and reputation Over 3 years STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next five years.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risksfacing the Group, including thosethat would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency orliquidity, and make this assessment withreference to the risk appetite of the Board and the processes and controls in place to mitigate the principal risks and uncertainties as detailed in the Strategic Report, including the risks from the UKs withdrawal from the European Union.
The Directors have also assessed the impact of complying with the parameters set out in PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages over the next five years, which is included in the Group plan approved by the Board.
The Board has considered the ability of the Group to continue to write the anticipated levels of new business over the next five years, the associated capital requirements and the need to raise additional capital in order to write that level of new business.
As a result, the Group plans to strengthen its capital position during 2019 and beyond in order to support the new business franchise over the next five years.
In assessing Financial risk modelling is used to assess the OWN RISK AND SOLVENCY ASSESSMENT viability the Board has considered the risk that amount of each risk type against our capital The Groups Own Risk and Solvency the Group may not be able to raise new capital.
This modelling is aligned to both Assessment ORSA further embeds our economic capital and regulatory capital comprehensive risk reviews into our On 14 March 2019 the Group announced an metrics.
This modelling allows the Board to Group management structure.
Our underwritten Restricted Tier 1 debt offering of at least 300m and an underwritten non pre-emptive understand both the risks included in the annual ORSA report is a key part of our equity placing of 9.99% of existing share capital.
Solvency Capital Requirement SCR and business cycle and informs strategic those not included in the SCR, such as liquidity decision making.
ORSA updates are In addition, the Board will continue to review and strategic risks, and how they translate prepared each quarter to keep the the need for further capital and its optimal into economic and regulatory capital needs.
Board appraised of the Groups evolving capital mix including consideration of the use By applying stress and scenario testing, we risk profile.
of unutilised Tier 2 capacity and including the refinancing of the existing Partnership gain insights into how risks might impact the Life Assurance Company Limited Tier 2 debt Group in different circumstances.
which has a call option in March 2020.
The Group undertakes stress and scenario testing to consider the Groups capacity torespond to a series of relevant financial, insurance, Embedding governance via three lines of defence or operational shocks or changes to financial regulations should future circumstances or events differ fromcurrent assumptions.
The Business operations Risk & Control review alsoconsiders mitigating actions available The first level of the control to the Group should a severe stress scenario An established risk occur, such as raising further capital, varying the environment is the business and control environment volumes of new business written and a scenario 1st operations which perform where the Group ceases to write new business.
day-to-day risk In particular, if adequate capital is not available LINE management activity to fund continued writing of material levels of new business, the scope of the Groups business would change.
In that case, even if the Group Risk & Control Oversight functions ceases to write new business, the Group would still be viable, although as a Group managing Oversight functions in the Oversight of the risk and its existing book of business in run-off.
Company, such as Risk control environment The Directors note that the Group is subject to Management, Compliance Independent challenge and the Prudential Regulatory Regime for Insurance 2nd and Chief Actuary, support reporting on the risk profile Groups which monitors the Groups compliance the Board in setting risk and conduct of the business with Solvency Capital Requirements.
While the LINE appetite and defining risk Monitoring actions being Directors have no reason to believe that the and compliance policy taken to mitigate risk Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty which increases Independent assurance Risk & Control as longer time frames areconsidered, the Directors consider fiveyears to be an appropriate Internal Audit is the third Provide independent time frameupon which they can report with line of defence, offering areasonable degree of confidence.
A five year challenge and assurance independent challenge to time frame has been selected for this statement, the levels of assurance 3rd although the Group, as with any insurance group, provided by business has policyholder liabilities in excess of five years and therefore performs its modelling and stress LINE operations and oversight and scenario testing on time frames extending functions to the expected settlement of these liabilities, with results reported in the Groups ORSA.
