34 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the year and impact management action outlook The Group operates in a market where changes Our approach to legislative change is Risk A in pensions legislation can have a considerable to participate actively and engage with effect on our strategy and could reduce our policymakers, and this will not change.
Risks from sales and profitability or require us to hold more our chosen capital.
The Group offers a range of retirement options, market allowing it to remain agile in this changing environment The Group has developed propositions to enable environment, and has flexed its offerings in customers to have more flexible retirement response to market dynamics.
Customers need for a secure income in are well placed to adapt to changing customer retirement continues and the Group expects that demand, supported by our brand promise, demand for guaranteed income for life solutions innovation credentials and financial strength.
The most influential factors in the successful 1.
The equity release market continues to grow delivery of the Groups plans are closely due to consumer demand.
The market has been monitored to help inform the business.
The dominated by a limited number of specialist factors include market forecasts and market providers, but new entrants both providers and share, supported by insights into customer and funders have emerged along with new product competitor behaviour.
launches and, despite the market growth, the intensity of competition has increased.
The Work continues to improve the customer appeal equity release asset class provides a good of the Groups equity release products, explore match for the Groups longer duration DB new product variants and meet distributors fide-risking and GIfL liabilities, where suitable digital and service needs.
longer duration corporate or government bonds or other appropriate assets are scarce.
Writing long-term DB fide-risking, GIfL and equity To manage the risk of our longevity B Risk release business requires a range of assumptions assumptions being inaccurate, the Group has to be made based on market data and historical the benefit of extensive underwritten mortality Risks from experience, including customers longevity, data to provide insights and enhanced ourpricing corporate bond yields, interest rates, property understanding of the longevity risks that the assumptions values and expenses.
These assumptions are Group chooses to take.
applied to the calculation of the reserves needed for future liabilities and solvency margins using Longevity and other decrement experience is recognised actuarial approaches.
analysed to identify any outcomes materially Strategic objective different from our assumptions and is used for The Groups assumptions on these risk factors the regular review of the reserving assumptions 1.
5. may differ materially from experience, requiring for all products.
This could affect the level of reserves needed, with an impact on Some longevity risk exposure is shared with profitability and the Groups solvency position.
reinsurance partners, who perform due diligence on the Groups approach to risk selection.
There is a related counterparty risk of a reinsurer not meeting its repayment obligations.
This risk is typically mitigated through the reinsurer depositing the reinsurance premiums back to the Group or into third party trusts and by collateral arrangements.
For equity release, the Group underwrites the properties against which it lends using valuations from expert third parties.
The Groups property risk is controlled by limits to the initial loan-to-property value ratio, supported by product design features, limiting specific property types and exposure to each region.
We also monitor the exposure to adverse house price movements and the accuracy of our indexed valuations.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES RISK OUTLOOK NO CHANGE Stable 1.
Increasing Grow our markets Give customers a make smart FOcus on strong Diversify our business AND broaden our distinctly Just risk choices financial management away from any single distribution reach experience every time business line or market Decreasing Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the year and impact management action outlook The financial services industry continues to see a high We monitor and assess regulatory Risk c level of regulatory activity and intense regulatory developments on an on-going basis.
The regulatory agenda for the coming year We actively seek to participate in all Risks from covers many areas directly relevant to the Group.
regulatory initiatives which may affect regulatory or provide future opportunities for the changes The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA has published Group.
Our aims are to implement supervisory statements that set out its expectations for any required changes effectively, certain aspects of prudential regulation under Solvency and to deliver better outcomes for II.
This includes statements relating to illiquid assets, our customers and competitive matching adjustments and transitional provisions.
Further Strategic objective advantage for the business.
We consultations are being published on these subjects which develop our strategy by giving would, if implemented, impact on the regulatory capital 1.
5. consideration to planned political and position of the Group.
regulatory developments and allow for contingencies should outcomes On 10 December 2018, the PRA published PS31 18, differ from our expectations.
updating SS3 17 in respect of the valuation of no-negative equity guarantees NNEG in equity release mortgages.
A key focus for the Group is addressing Following extensive industry feedback and engagement the implications of PS31 18 while on its consultation, our interpretation of PS31 18 is maintaining the confidence of that the PRA has made a number of key changes to our stakeholders.
The transitional measure on technical strengthening our capital base, for provisions TMTP for pre-2016 business will continue which we announced plans, in order to to be recognised over the remaining transitional period support the new business franchise.
to 31 December 2031, the deferment rate will be 1%, volatility will initially be set at 13% and effective value Any changes to the regulatory test EVT will not be applied to other assets.
These environment as a result of the UKs provisions will apply from 31 December 2019, rather than withdrawal from the EU are being 2018 as originally proposed.
Improving operational resilience of financial services Just has an approved partial internal firms has become a key focus of both the FCA and PRA, model to calculate a Group Solvency with the expectation that firms will review and enhance Capital Requirement, and intends to their operational resilience frameworks covering internal progress an internal model major operations, systems and technology.
change application for Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited to use the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR came Group internal model.
Whilst the principles of GDPR are similar to those of the UK Data Protection Act 1998, Just Group welcomes the PRAs its requirements are more prescriptive and the rights of confirmation that transitional relief will consumers are clearer and easier to enforce.
We have not remain available for pre-2016 business observed any significant changes in consumer behaviours and that the implementation of with regard to exercising their rights under GDPR.
This means The Department for Work and Pensions is seeking views the Board can evaluate the optimal on a new legislative framework for authorising and capital structure to support our new regulating defined benefit superfund consolidation business franchise in a considered vehicles of the type envisaged by the White Paper manner.
Protecting defined benefit pension schemes published in March 2018, which could potentially impact the Groups We note the PRAs intention to consult future Defined Benefit fide-risking business volumes.
further in early 2019 on various matters relating to equity release The regulatory focus on the issue of sustainable finance mortgages, including how the volatility and particularly the risks that climate change could have and deferment rates are reset and on the safety and soundness of firms and stability of the how the EVT applies in stress.
We financial system may accelerate actions of market will continue to seek to influence the participants that then have an impact on the availability PRAs developing views on prudential and attractiveness of certain securities.
regulation and will work constructively with the PRA as part of the process of The ultimate terms of the UKs exit from the EU could those consultations.
have significant consequences for the regulations and legislation that apply to Justs operations.
36 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the year and impact management action outlook The premiums paid by the Groups customers are Economic conditions are actively monitored Risk d invested to enable future benefits to be paid and alternative scenarios modelled to better when expected with a high degree of certainty.
understand the potential impacts of significant Risks from The economic environment and financial market economic changes on the amount of capital the economic conditions have a significant influence on the required to be held to cover our long-term environment value of assets and liabilities and on the income liabilities to customers and the related risks, and the Group receives.
An adverse economic to inform management action plans.
environment could increase the risk of credit It is anticipated that the UKs withdrawal from downgrades and defaults in our corporate bond the EU will have limited direct impact on the Strategic objective portfolio.
Group as it is predominantly UK-based with no services provided into other countries of the 1.
The lack of clarity regarding the UKs future EEA, and its customers and policyholders are arrangements with the EU has introduced predominantly UK-based.
material uncertainty for the UKs macroeconomic outlook in the medium and long term.
The Groups strategy is to buy and hold It is too early to be clear on the long-term high-quality, lower-risk assets in its investment implications of departure from the EU for the UK portfolio to ensure that it has sufficient income economy and indeed the wider economic to meet outgoings as they fall due.
Portfolio impacts on the rest of Europe.
However, the credit risk is managed by specialist fund Group remains exposed to any indirect impact managers executing a diversified investment that the UKs withdrawal has on the UK economy strategy in assets within counterparty limits.
as a whole, including residential house prices the UKs withdrawal from the EU could result in In a low interest rate environment, improved property values stagnating or falling in some, or returns are sought by diversifying the types, all, UK regions.
A disorderly or no-deal Brexit is geographies and industry sectors of investment likely to have the largest impact on the UK assets.
Such diversification creates an exposure economy.
to foreign exchange risk, which is controlled using derivative instruments.
Swaps and In an environment of low interest rates, investors swaptions are used to reduce exposures to may be more willing to accept higher credit and interest rate volatility.
The credit exposure to liquidity risk to improve investment returns.
the counterparties with whom we transact These conditions do make it challenging to these instruments is mitigated by collateral source sufficient assets to offer attractive DB arrangements.
Low credit spreads similarly affect the income that can be made The Groups exposure to inflation risk through available, although margins from our equity the DB fide-risking business is managed with release portfolio help offset this risk.
index-linked bonds and inflation hedges.
Most defined benefit pension schemes link Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that assets member benefits to inflation through indexation.
of a suitable maturity and marketability are held As the Groups DB fide-risking business volumes to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Sufficient liquid grow, its exposure to inflation risk increases.
assets are maintained so the Group can readily access the cash it needs should business cash A fall in residential property values could reduce inflows unexpectedly reduce.
the amounts received from equity release There is little short-term volatility in the Groups redemptions and may also affect the relative cash flows, which can be reliably estimated attractiveness of the equity release product to in terms of timing and amount.
The regulatory capital needed to flow forecasts predict liquidity levels both support the possible shortfall in the redemption short term and long term, and stress tests of equity release mortgages also increases if help us understand any potential periods of property values drop.
The Groups liquidity requirements have future rises in property values could increase been comfortably met over the past year and early mortgage redemptions, leading to an forecasting confirms that this position can be earlier receipt of anticipated cash flows with the expected to continue for investments, business consequential reinvestment risk.
operations and our obligations to customers.
Market risks may affect the liquidity position of the Group by, for example, having to realise assets to meet liabilities during stressed market conditions or to service collateral requirements due to the changes in market value of financial derivatives.
A lack of market liquidity and availability is also a risk to any intention that the Group may have to raise capital.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the year and impact management action outlook The Group relies on its operational processes The Group maintains a suite of risk Risk e and IT systems to conduct its business, management tools to help identify, measure, including the pricing and sale of its products, monitor, manage and report its operational Risks measuring and monitoring its underwriting risks, including those arising from operational arising from liabilities, processing applications and delivering processes and IT systems.
These include a operational customer service and maintaining accurate risk management system, risk and control processes records.
These processes and systems may assessments, risk event and loss reporting and IT not operate as expected, may not fulfil their management, scenario analysis and risk intended purpose or may be damaged or reporting through the ORSA.
systems interrupted by human error, unauthorised access, natural disaster or similarly disruptive The Group maintains plans and controls to events.
Any failure of the Groups IT and minimise the risk of business disruption and communications systems and or third party information security-related events.
Detailed Strategic objective infrastructure on which it relies could lead to incident and crisis management plans also costs and disruptions that could adversely exist to ensure effective responses.
5. affect its business as well as harm its supported by specialist third parties for our reputation.
Large organisations continue to be targets for Our approach to information security is under cyber-crime, particularly those organisations constant review as the cyber-threat landscape that hold customers personal details.
Due diligence is performed on all is no exception and a cyber-attack could affect partners to ensure that they work to the same customer confidence, or lead to financial losses.
high security standards as the Group.
The Group continues to invest in its information security control environment, but we recognise that the speed of change in cyber-threats means that a risk exposure remains.
Our purpose is to help people achieve a better The Group actively seeks to differentiate f Risk later life.
Our Groups brands reflect the way we its business from competitors by investing Risks to intend to conduct our business and treat our in brand-enhancing activities.
Fairness to customer and wider stakeholder groups.
customers and high service standards are the Groups at the heart of the Just brands, and we brands and There is a risk that the Groups brands and encourage our colleagues to take pride in reputation reputation could be damaged if the Group is the quality of service they provide to our perceived to be acting, even unintentionally, customers.
Engaging our colleagues in the below the standards we set for ourselves.
Just brand and its associated values has been, Damage to our brands or reputation may and remains, a critical part of our internal Strategic objective adversely affect our underlying profitability, activity.
The Group maintains a system of through reducing sales volumes, restricting internal control, with associated policies 1.
5. access to distribution channels and attracting and operational procedures, that define the increased regulatory scrutiny.
standards we expect of all colleagues.
Additionally, the Groups brands and reputation could be threatened by external risks such as regulatory intervention or enforcement action, either directly or as a result of contagion from other companies in the sectors in which we operate.
