STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk management Effective risk management The Group has an effective risk management process to mitigate exposure to risk, guide its strategy, improve operations and protect its stakeholders.
The Projects Assurance Committee and Operations Ramp Up Risk management framework Assurance Committee monitor risks relating to the delivery of The objective of the Groups risk management framework is to the Groups major assets: and manage risk appropriately to support the strategic objectives of the Group.
It is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, implement the risk strategy determined by the Board.
The General Directors of each operation and functional leadership The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and teams have overall responsibility for the identification and determines the Groups risk strategy, assesses and approves risk management of risk within their respective areas.
The Executive appetite and monitors risk exposure consistent with strategic Committee, led by the Chief Executive Officer, monitors the risks priorities.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness related to achieving strategic objectives and oversees operating of internal control systems.
The Board is supported by other plans and the implementation of controls.
committees which monitor risks specific to certain areas: The Board has completed a robust assessment of the Groups The Audit Committee oversees the Groups risk principal risks.
The Group Risk function provides guidelines, management framework: infrastructure and best practice to support risk identification, risk assessment and risk monitoring across the Group and helps to The Health, Safety and Environment Committee reviews health, promote an appropriate risk culture.
Management is also supported safety and environmental risk management across the Group: by the Groups Internal Audit function, which reviews the design The Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration and operating effectiveness of controls.
Further details of the structure does not encourage excessive risk taking by Groups approach to internal control are set out in the Governance management: framework report on pages 88 and89.
The Nomination Committee ensures that the composition of the Board and its Committees is appropriate to oversee risk management: Risk management framework Risk identification Risk register Action Monitoring and assessment and risk map plan and control Modification www.
com 65 Risk management continued Risk governance structure Board of Directors Health, Safety Operations Ramp and Audit Remuneration Nomination Up Assurance Environment Committee Committee Committee Committee Projects Assurance Committee Committee Chief Executive and Executive Committee Assurance Internal Audit department Assesses assurance processes and advises management Speak-Up helpline Group, Divisions and Operations Confidential external whistleblowing facility for employees and other stakeholders Internal policies, procedures and training Instruction and support for employees to ensure that best practices are followed Identification of principal risks The Board has completed a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks.
The Groups Risk function is responsible for the Group risk map through which principal risks are identified and assessed.
Risks from across the Groups individual risk registers are aggregated, evaluated and prioritised according to the potential severity and likelihood of occurrence.
The Board and Audit Committee review the Groups principal risks including updates on developments, their outlook and mitigating actions and controls.
A description of our principal risks, including impact and mitigating actions, can be found on pages 69 to 73.
66 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk governance Operations STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Board has a reasonable expectation that there would not be an Board has assessed the Groups prospects and longer-term viability unforeseen event, outside of the Groups control, during the and has selected a period of three years, to 31 December 2021, for viability assessment period which would significantly restrict this assessment.
This period is considered appropriate as: production or export of material from the Groups operations for a sustained period.
Such events could include a natural phenomenon, The Groups results are heavily dependent on the commodity a significant political or legislative change or regulatory challenge or price for copper which can fluctuate significantly and can be significant civil disorder.
impacted by global macroeconomic developments.
Copper prices are therefore difficult to forecast for an extended period: Process to assess the Groups prospects Exchange rates and inflation rates in Kazakhstan, important The Board has performed its viability assessment based on the drivers of the Groups operating costs, are difficult to forecast Groups Treasury forecast, which it reviews regularly.
The forecast beyond three years: is prepared with input from the annual budgeting process, individual project plans and life of mine LOM plans, which reflect the The Groups existing debt facilities are amortising during the expected production profile and cost of operations over their viability period, with scheduled repayments of $1.5 billion: and economic lives.
The Group is currently assessing the capital development, partnering and financing options for the construction of The Board has considered the key assumptions made in the viability Baimskaya, the outcome of which will significantly impact the statement and is satisfied that they are appropriate.
These include Groups capital expenditure and financing.
assumptions based on externally sourced views on commodity pricing, exchange rate and inflation and interest rates, as well as an This viability statement should be read in conjunction with the going internal assessment of future production levels and project concern disclosure as set out on page 126. commissioning dates.
Commodity price assumptions have been set Assessment of prospects with reference to market consensus estimates.
In assessing the Groups prospects, the Board has considered the To reflect the principal risks which could have a material impact on current position of the Group including: gross liquid funds of the Groups viability over the three-year period, the base case $1,467 million at 31 December 2018, the cost competitiveness of model has been subjected to stress testing and sensitivity analysis.
itsoperations, the performance to date of Bozshakol and Aktogay, This considered severe scenarios, but not those the Board future capital requirements including the Aktogay expansion, the considered to be implausible, and included: acquisition and feasibility study of the Baimskaya project.
The future development of the Baimskaya project is conditional upon the A sustained low commodity price environment below market raising of separate new financing facilities.
consensus throughout the viability period: A sustained low commodity price environment with lower than The Groups operations are located in the CIS and its sales are expected production from the Bozshakol and Aktogay made to customers outside of the UK and EU, therefore Brexit is operations, including a delay to the expected commissioning of not expected to have a material impact on the Groups viability.
the Aktogay expansion: and The Board has considered all the principal risks set out on pages 69 A sustained low commodity price environment and lower than to 73 but has focused on those principal risks which alone or in expected production combined with an increase in Group conjunction could have a material impact on production, operating costs due to adverse exchange rates and higher profitability, cash flows and liquidity over the assessment period: cost inflation.
Commodity prices: the Groups financial outlook is sensitive to In addition, reverse stress testing was performed, in particular in commodity prices.
A sustained low commodity price environment respect of the sensitivity of the forecasts to downward movements below market consensus would negatively impact the Groups in the copper price.
This indicated that no reasonably possible profitability and cash flow.
negative movement in the copper price would lead to nonCommissioning and new projects and business interruption: the compliance with financial covenants.
Groups operations and growth projects may fail to ramp up or The Board has considered the Groups current existing debt maintain operating parameters as planned.
facilities, which are fully drawn, the significant level of debt Foreign exchange and inflation risk: a significant appreciation of amortisation during the viability period of $1.5 billion, and the likely the KZT $ exchange rate from its current level or increased changes to debt and financing facilities required to deliver the inflation in Kazakhstan could have a material impact on Groups strategy, in particular the Aktogay expansion and study of operatingcosts.
A new Aktogay financing facility, in the region of $600 million, is expected to be completed in the first half of 2019 Liquidity risk: for borrowing facilities to remain committed, the and has been included in the Boards assessment of various Group is required to comply with various obligations, including scenarios below.
A faster than expected increase in US interest rates would impact the Groups financial outlook.
The Group will also need to enter into new financing arrangements to develop the Baimskaya copper project, as planned.
com 67 Viability statement continued Confirmation of longer-term viability In the base case, including the expected new Aktogay facility, theBoard considers there to be adequate liquidity over the viabilityperiod.
In the base case, excluding the expected new Aktogay facility, the Board would have the option to defer planned capital expenditure, including the Aktogay expansion, to ensure the Group has adequate liquidity throughout the viability period.
However, in a sustained downside scenario of lower than expected commodity prices with lower production: or sustained lower commodity prices, lower production and higher operating costs, assuming the new Aktogay facility is obtained the Group would need to take mitigating actions to ensure adequate liquidity throughout the viability period.
The Board is confident this could be achieved from an amendment to existing finance facilities, or from new sources of finance.
This is supported by the significant reduction in gross debt levels over the viability period: the quality of the Groups large scale, low cost and long life assets: and that any estimated shortfall is considered manageable in the context of the Groups forecast level of earnings and gearing.
For example, the Groups $600 million PXF facility, which would be fully amortised by the end of the viability period, would be expected to be refinanced.
The combination of a sustained downside scenario and the Group being unable to obtain any new financing throughout the viability period is not considered a reasonably possible scenario.
Therefore, following an assessment of the principal risks, the Board believes there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and will continue to meet its liabilities as they fall due throughout the period to 31 December 2021.
68 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks Managing our risks The Groups principal risks are set out below, along with mitigating actions.
There may be other risks, unknown or currently considered immaterial, which might become material.
The risks set out below are not in order of likelihood of occurrence or materiality and should be viewed, as with any forward-looking statements in this document, with regard to the cautionary statement.
Sustainability risks Health and safety Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining is a hazardous industry.
Health and safety The Groups goal is for zero fatalities and to seek to 1 Deliver major growth projects incidents could result in harm to people, as well as minimise health and safety incidents.
Policies and Optimise existing assets production disruption, financial loss and procedures are designed to identify and monitor 2 reputational damage.
risks and provide a clear framework for conducting Be a socially responsible operator 4 business.
This is supported by regular training and The Group is entering a period of more intense awareness campaigns for employees and Risk change construction activity, increasing potential health and contractors.
Additional measures are being taken safetyexposures.
The Group has seen a long-term to mitigate identified health and safety risks reduction in fatalities but the goal of associated with major construction works such zero fatalities has not been achieved.
asat Aktogay and Artemyevsky, in particular the No change.
supervision of activities performed by on site contractors.
The HSE Committee reviews and monitors associated risks across the Group.
Further details of the HSE function are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
Community and labour relations Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group operates in areas where it is a major The Group engages with community Deliver major growth projects 1 employer, where employees are represented by representatives, unions and employees and aims to Optimise existing assets labour unions and where it may provide support address concerns raised by different stakeholders.
This may impose Through responsible behaviour, acting transparently, 4 Be a socially responsible operator restrictions on the Groups flexibility in taking promoting dialogue and complying with certain operating decisions.
Failure to identify and commitments the Group minimises potentially Risk change manage the concerns and expectations of local negative impacts.
Bozshakol and Aktogay are in No change.
communities and the labour force could affect the remote locations where the community relations Groups reputation and social licence to operate, risk is reduced.
As part of the due diligence process and could result in production disruptions and for the Baimskaya acquisition the Group met with increases in operating costs.
Wage negotiations community representatives in the Chukotka region could be impacted by higher commodity prices, to understand local issues and commence a dialogue.
higher domestic inflation or the continued Further details of the Groups social programme weakness of the tenge.
are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
Employees Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group is dependent on its ability to attract The Group actively monitors the labour market 1 Deliver major growth projects and retain highly skilled personnel.
Failure to do so to remain competitive in the hiring of staff and Optimise existing assets could have a negative impact on operations or the provides remuneration structures and development 2 successful implementation of growth projects and opportunities to attract and retain key employees.
Be a socially responsible operator 4 result in higher operating costs to recruit required Key positions are identified at all locations, and staff.
The remote location of some operations training and succession plans developed.
Risk change increases this challenge.
Aleadership development programme is in place to No change.
provide a talent pipeline of national workers for key positions and aid retention.
The Group is investing in training resources to support the workforce requirement for the Aktogay expansion.
International workers with appropriate expertise assist during the initial phase of operations.
com 69 Principal risks continued Sustainability risks continued Environmental Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining operations involve the use of toxic Policies and procedures are in place to set out Deliver major growth projects 1 substances and require the storage of large required operating standards and to monitor 2 Optimise existing assets volumes of waste materials in tailings dams, which environmental impacts.
The Group liaises with could result in spillages, loss of life and significant relevant governmental bodies on environmental Be a socially responsible operator 4 environmental damage.
The Group is subject to matters, including legislation changes.
Risk change environmental laws and regulations which are Further details are set out in the Corporate continually developing, including those to tackle responsibility report.
Failure to comply with applicable laws could lead to the suspension of operating licences, the imposition of financial penalties or costly compliance costs and reputational damage.
Operational risks Business interruption Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Operations are subject to a number of risks not In-house and third-party specialists are utilised to Deliver major growth projects 1 wholly within the Groups control, including: identify and manage operational risks and to Optimise existing assets geological and technological challenges: weather recommend improvements.
Equipment and 2 and other natural phenomena: damage to or facilities are maintained appropriately and regularly Risk change failure of equipment and infrastructure: inspected.
Property damage and business information technology and cyber risks: loss or interruption insurance programmes provide some No change.
interruption to key inputs such as electricity and protection from majorincidents.
water: and the availability of key supplies and Should an outage occur at the Balkhash smelter services, including the Balkhash smelter.
the Group believes it could sell concentrate Any disruption could impact production, may directly to customers.
require the Group to incur unplanned expenditure and negatively impact cash flows.
New projects and commissioning Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic New projects are subject to rigorous assessment Deliver major growth projects 1 returns due to an inability to recover mineral prior to approval including feasibility or technical resources, design or construction deficiencies, a studies and capital appraisal.
Specialists are utilised Risk change failure to achieve expected operating parameters throughout the life cycle of projects.
Project This risk is assessed to have increased or because of capital or operating costs being management and capital expenditure planning and following the acquisition of Baimskaya higher than expected.
Failure to effectively manage monitoring procedures are in place to review and the increase in construction new projects or a lack of available financing may performance against milestones and budgets.
During 2018 prevent or delay completion of projects.
includes the Projects Assurance Committee which Bozshakol and Aktogay operated at reports to the Board.
There are various project risks associated with the design capacity for a sustained period.
successful development of the recently acquired The Group performed a detailed due diligence Baimskaya copper project, including its remote exercise, led by its experienced projects team and location, the delivery of government support for supported by external consultants, prior to the infrastructure, obtaining certain tax incentives and acquisition of Baimskaya.
An international standard local weather conditions.
pre-feasibility study has been performed byFluor and the mine plan is based on a JORC resource.
The acquisition was structured with Deferred Consideration to incentivise the Vendor, as a local partner, to assist in the delivery of the project.
Further details of the major growth projects are included in the Operating review.
Represents those principal risks considered as specific downside cases as part of the viability assessment on page 67.
70 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves and resources Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Groups ore reserves are in part based on an The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources Deliver major growth projects 1 estimation method established by the former are published annually in accordance with the Soviet Union.
There are numerous uncertainties criteria of the JORC Code and reviewed by an 2 Optimise existing assets inherent in estimating ore reserves, which if independent technical expert.
This includes mine Take advantage of natural 3 changed, could require the need to restate ore site visits where considered appropriate and the resource opportunities reserves and impact the economic viability of conversion from the former Soviet Union affected operations and development projects.
estimation to that prescribed by the JORC Code.
Risk change Drilling and exploration programmes are No change.
conducted to enhance the understanding of geological information.
Political Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group could be affected by political instability A proactive dialogue is maintained with KAZ 1 Deliver major growth projects or social and economic changes in the countries in Minerals host governments across a range of Optimise existing assets which it operates.
This could include a change in issues.
Developments are monitored closely and 2 government, the granting and renewal of permits lobbying is conducted where appropriate.
Take advantage of natural 3 and changes to foreign trade or legislation that resource opportunities Kazakhstan is one of the most politically stable and could affect the business environment and economically developed countries in Central Asia Risk change negatively impact the Groups business, financial and the Board continues to view the political, social performance and licence to operate.
and economic environment within Kazakhstan The risk is assessed to have increased Following the acquisition of Baimskaya the Group favourably and remains optimistic about the as a result of risk exposures isnow exposed to political risks associated with conditions for business in the region.
associated with the acquisition of operating in Russia, a new jurisdiction for Baimskaya in Russia.
In Russia, the Baimskaya acquisition was structured theGroup.
with Deferred Consideration to incentivise the Further international sanctions on Russia could Vendor, as a local partner, to assist in the delivery impact the development of Baimskaya, as well as ofthe project.
Prior to the acquisition, the Group the supply of certain goods and services to the engaged with the Russian government at different Groups existing operations.
levels and has subsequently maintained an ongoingdialogue.
Legal and regulatory compliance Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Management engages with the relevant regulatory The Group is subject to various legal and Deliver major growth projects 1 authorities and seeks appropriate advice to ensure regulatory requirements across all of its compliance with all relevant legislation and subsoil 2 Optimise existing assets jurisdictions including subsoil usage rights in use contracts.
A specialist department is tasked Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and UK governance Take advantage of natural 3 with monitoring compliance with the terms of rules including related party transactions and resource opportunities subsoil use contracts in Kazakhstan.
Legislation and works closely with the tax authorities in the review Risk change taxation may be subject to change and of proposed amendments to legislation.
Further uncertainty of interpretation, application and The risk is assessed to have increased details of the Groups tax strategy and risk enforcement.
In a number of jurisdictions around now that the Group is exposed to management are set out in the Financial review.
the world governments have been increasing additional legal and regulatory taxation on resource companies.
Appropriate monitoring and disclosure procedures requirements inRussia.
are in place for related party transactions.
The Non-compliance with legislation could result in Groups corporate policies are being applied in regulatory challenges, fines, litigation and ultimately Russia where a dedicated team is managing legal the loss of operating licences.
Substantial payments and regulatory compliance.
of tax could arise for the Group, or tax receivable balances may not be recovered as expected.
com 71 Principal risks continued Financial risks Commodity price Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Groups results are heavily dependent on the The Group regularly reviews its sensitivity to Deliver major growth projects 1 commodity price for copper and to a lesser extent, fluctuations in commodity prices.
The Group is not 2 Optimise existing assets the prices of gold, silver and zinc.
Commodity currently and does not normally hedge commodity prices can fluctuate significantly and are dependent prices, but may enter into a hedge programme Take advantage of natural 3 on several factors, including world supply and where the Board determines it is appropriate to resource opportunities demand and investor sentiment.
provide greater certainty over future cash flows.
Risk change The imposition of trade tariffs between the US Sensitivity analysis to movements in commodity and China in 2018 have negatively impacted the prices is included in the Market overview.
Given continued volatility and Chinese economy and its outlook.
China is the uncertainty, commodity prices largest market for copper and the trade tariffs continue to be a principal risk driver.
have had a negative impact on copper prices and their near-term outlook.
Foreign exchange and inflation Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Fluctuations in rates of exchange or inflation in the Where possible the Group conducts its business Optimise existing assets 2 jurisdictions to which the Group is exposed could and maintains its financial assets and liabilities in US result in future increased costs.
The Group will be dollars.
The Group generally does not hedge its Risk change exposed to fluctuations in the Russian rouble, exposure to foreign currency risk in respect of No change.
which may affect the capital cost associated with operating expenses.
Further details are set out in note 31 to the As the functional currency of the Groups financial statements.
operating entities is their local currency, fluctuations in exchange rates can give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement and volatility in the level of net assets recorded on the Groups balance sheet.
Exposure to China Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Sales are made to a limited number of customers Bozshakol and Aktogay produce a copper Deliver major growth projects 1 in China, particularly in respect of copper concentrate that is attractive to Chinese smelters, 2 Optimise existing assets concentrate output.
Treatment and refining charges being clean and high in sulphur content.
The Group are dependent upon Chinese smelting capacity has established good relationships with strategic Take advantage of natural 3 andthe level of copper concentrate supply in customers inChina.
The Group maintains relationships with a number Risk change China is an important source of financing to the of international lending banks, having the PXF and Group with long-term debt facilities of $2.7 billion DBK facilities in place and has the flexibility to No change.
In addition, the Group uses consider other sources of capital if required.
contractors, services and materials from China.
The imposition of trade tariffs between the US and China in 2018 have negatively impacted the Chinese economy and its outlook.
A slowdown in the Chinese economy could impact the availability of Chinese credit and its demand for commodities, both important to the Group.
72 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisitions and divestments Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group may acquire or dispose of assets and A rigorous assessment process is undertaken to Optimise existing assets 2 businesses which fail to achieve the expected assess all potential acquisitions and divestments by Take advantage of natural benefit or value to the Group.
Changing market specialist staff, supported by external advisers 3 resource opportunities conditions, incorrect assumptions or deficiencies in where appropriate.
Due diligence processes are due diligence could result in the wrong decisions undertaken, and material transactions are subject Risk change being made and in acquisitions or disposals failing to to Board review and approval, including ensuring deliver expected benefits.
the transaction is aligned with the Groups strategy, The acquisition of Baimskaya consideration of the key assumptions being applied represents a material transaction to The $900 million acquisition of the Baimskaya and the risks identified.
copper project represents a material acquisition for the Group.
The due diligence on the Baimskaya acquisition was led by the Groups experienced project team, The Restructuring was effected under the laws supported by external consultants, the results of and regulations of Kazakhstan which are subject which were reported on an on-going basis to tochange and open to interpretation, including theBoard.
thelegal and tax aspects of the Restructuring, which could give rise to liabilities for KAZ Minerals.
Liquidity Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group is exposed to liquidity risk if it is unable Forecast cash flows are closely monitored and the Deliver major growth projects 1 to meet payment obligations as they fall due or is financing strategy is set by the Board.
Adequate Optimise existing assets unable to access acceptable sources of finance.
levels of committed funds are maintained with 2 Non-compliance with financial covenants could $1,469 million cash and cash equivalents and Take advantage of natural 3 result in borrowing facilities becoming current investments at 31 December 2018. resource opportunities uncommitted and repayable.
TheGroups existing operations are highly cashgenerative.
Risk change Baimskaya is a large-scale project and its development will require additional financing which The Group has a successful track record of raising Liquidity risk is considered to have will increase the debt levels of the Group.
In respect of Baimskaya, increased given the requirement to in parallel with the feasibility study, the Group will finance the Groups growth strategy Failure to manage liquidity risk could have a continue discussions with banks on financing the including the acquisition and material impact on the Groups cash flows, earnings construction phase and evaluate the potential subsequent development of the and financial position.
Increased uncertainty in the near-term outlook Further details regarding going concern and for commodity prices has also viability are included in note 2 to the financial negatively impacted liquidity risk.
Represents those principal risks considered as specific downside cases as part of the viability assessment on page 67. www.
