risks Risk management Given the scale of our businesses, the Board To Assess Our Risks, we consider the potential financial, recognisesthat the nature, scope and potential reputational, regulatory or operational impact and the impactof our business and strategic risks is subject to probability that the risk may materialise.
This helps us to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented assess the level of control we need to put in place.
For the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient each of the principal risks, we have included an assessment visibility of the principal risks and the opportunity to of the change in risk from last year.
This assessment is regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of based on the external environment, the companys ourmitigating controls and strategies.
operations, and before considering the impact of the controls in place.
We have considered whether the risk is increasing, decreasing or remains unchanged.
Our approach to risk management To Manage Our Risks, ownership is assigned at all levels.
To Identify Our Risks, we start with our strategic pillars Each Operating Company leadership team owns and is and consider what might stop us achieving our ONE responsible for managing its own risks, putting appropriate Kingfisher plan.
The process is therefore looking at the controls in place and procedures to ensure that the risks we face within our strategic planning period.
The controls are operating effectively.
The same process approach combines a top-down strategic companyis followed for our principal risks.
level view and a bottom-up operational view of the risks at Operating Company and functional level.
Meetings To ensure we effectively Monitor Our Risks, the are held with our Operating Company leadership teams principal risks are reviewed by the Group Executive to identify the risks within their operations.
To identify and Board twice a year.
Changes to the principal risks our principal risks, discussions are held with the Group and mitigation strategies are considered as part of this Executive and non-executive directors.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviews the from the operational assessments is also considered to risk assessment process and receives presentations from arrive at our principal risks.
The table on page 41 shows some of the Operating Companies.
These presentations how the principal risks link to the strategic pillars.
Risk management process group Management executive Group Executive The Group Executive takes ownership of operating the principal risks.
They are accountable companies for identifying, assessing and managing the principal risks, and for reviewing and assessing the Operating Company risks.
Operating Company Boards how do we monitor how do we identify our risks our risks The Operating Company boards are accountable for identifying, assessing and managing the risks within their Operating Company.
ONE Kingfisher plan Governance Board how do we manage how do we assess The Board has overall responsibility for our risks our risks our risk management, and for the level of risk that the company is willing to take.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee takes responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, including reviewing the process the company has put in place to identify, assess and manage our risks.
40 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 include the risk assessment for the Operating Company We fail to identify and maximise potential cost enabling the Audit Committee to monitor the risks and reductions and efficiency savings.
level of control in place.
Internal Audit also considers A plan is in place to deliver the savings and is delivering the risks at Operating Company and Group level when against targets to date, therefore we do not think this developing the internal audit plan.
We fail to deliver our sustainability targets due to not The Corporate Governance report on page 54 gives integrating our sustainability plan into the day to day further details about our governance processes.
This years update Sustainability remains an important area for the Group The principal risks have been reviewed this year in light and is now integrated into the operations and therefore of the progress made against our transformation plan.
we do not think this is one of our principal risks.
We have decided that the following risks are no longer We fail to maintain a safe environment for our principal risks.
Each of these areas are still monitored and customers and store colleagues which results in a managed, however we do not believe they are principal major incident or fatality that is directly attributable to risks for us.
a failure in our Health & Safety management systems.
Health & Safety is a very important area to the company We fail to manage the transformation of organising and is managed and monitored in each of Kingfisher as a more unified company with a unified our operations.
This area does by its nature present customer offer rather than a collection of individual some risk to the business, but we no longer consider businesses, impacting the delivery of the anticipated it a principal risk.
benefits and disrupting the underlying business.
This risk relates to our transformation and strategic We have added two new principal risks relating to the EU pillars.
The principal risks for 2018 19 cover each of our referendum outcome and cyber and data security.
Both strategic pillars and this risk is reflected in those risks.
these areas have been considered in previous years by Our investments fail to deliver value to the company.
the Group Executive and Board as potential principal risks.
This year, we think the risk has increased and therefore As the key investment in the Company relates to included both areas in our principal risks.
Further details our transformation we believe that this risk is also are included on pages 42 to 47. covered in our other principal risks Strategic pillars Unified Operational Retail & Unique Digital Efficiency Operations How our risks map against Offer our strategic pillars 1.
Unifying our offer and processes 3.
Cyber and data security www.
com 41 Risks continued Our principal risks The principal risks to delivering our strategy are set out on the following pages.
Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Technology delivery The implementation is complete at B&Q and is Change control procedure in place with the leadership team Retaining knowledge by ensuring the colleagues who D 1 Technology is key to enabling our nearing completion at Castorama France.
The having final approval on all functional changes.
established the template are involved in the programme strategy, meeting customer needs roll-out is commencing in the remainder of our through the central team or via the local roll-out.
The roll-out plan avoids a big bang implementation and growing the business.
The risk is increased for approach.
Instead gradual increments are implemented Applications are being provided in accordance with our IT platform is designed to deliver our us as more of the estate is exposed to the over a short period, ensuring that dual running is kept to proposed three-tier architecture, which provides flexibility requirements in line with the plan to implementation.
However this is balanced by a minimum and allowing any issues to be identified and to areas where innovative ideas are most likely, tools are support the strategy.
Failure to do this the lessons learnt to date and the opportunity resolved before moving on.
typically agnostic and therefore can be interchanged in the may impact the anticipated benefits to see the systems running day to day and event this is required.
Process in place to establish learning points and to ensure and disrupt the underlying business.
helping us identify any additional capacity or these are built into future roll outs.
Digital IT team is integrated within the overall IT function with actions required.
common release management and operations in place.
Agile ways of working are already in place and are currently being enhanced to support the appropriate areas.
Transformation team and Operating Company transformation directors in place to deliver the Existing partners have skills that can support our needs in transformational change.
Unifying our offer and processes There are plans in place for the range changes Teams with specialised roles to develop and take the best Performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and U 2 We aim to offer customers a product and the process is better understood following practice and the best products from across the company.
range which is differentiated from that the implementations from last year, however Strong project management process in place, including A strong sourcing network which is focused on securing of our competitors through innovation as this project progresses the level of ranges capturing lessons learned for continuous improvement.
We are unifying our impacted continues to increase and our risk Monthly tracking and review by the Offer & Supply Chain Vendor management process in place which includes vendor offer and standardising our activities exposure increases.
board to identify and respond to potential risks.
selection, risk assessments, monitoring of vendor responses, and processes.
This is a large and and communication.
Validation and governance processes in place for business complex project, therefore there case approvals of range and procurement decisions.
Systems and data improvements have been identified and is a risk of not delivering the are part of the unified IT platform implementation.
Clearly defined range and purchasing standards, projected benefits.
principles and methodology with guidance and support from expert leads.
Channel development Failing to keep pace within the digital area is A Group digital strategy has been developed and a Plans in place for a digital centre of excellence and digital U D R 3 As consumer preferences continue a risk for us.
However, we have continued to prioritised delivery roadmap is underway across the delivery, roles, skills and knowledge have been defined.
to change we must ensure we create make good progress this year to ensure we are local markets.
The ways of working a culture of innovation in our offer, better positioned to fulfil our digital ambitions.
are also being reviewed across all digital functions.
Digital priorities programmes underway, Brilliant Basics and format and digital channels that Home Improvement Platform.
Unified IT programme continues to be rolled out across keeps pace with changing consumer the Group to provide the systems and capabilities required A monthly Digital Governance forum is in place to monitor behaviours and our competitors, to be to deliver the foundations for the digital strategy.
financial and project portfolio performance and to prioritise able to stimulate spend and deliver upcoming digital initiatives, ensuring we deliver the greatest Click & Collect now live in B&Q stores to join up digital and the desired sales growth.
benefits features to customers through our digital channels offline journeys.
This will be rolled group wide with the unified across our Brilliant Basics and Home Improvement Platform IT platform.
Group mobile platform built and launched in B&Q: this Retail concepts and common and unique customer will extend to desktop during 2018 to improve diy.
A roll-out plan has also been Starting to develop plans combining the best of store format developed for our other local markets in line with Easier and and digital.
42 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Key: Increasing No change Decreasing R U D O Unified & Unique Offer Digital Operational Efficiency Retail Operations Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Technology delivery The implementation is complete at B&Q and is Change control procedure in place with the leadership team Retaining knowledge by ensuring the colleagues who Technology is key to enabling our nearing completion at Castorama France.
Unifying our offer and processes There are plans in place for the range changes Teams with specialised roles to develop and take the best Performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and We aim to offer customers a product and the process is better understood following practice and the best products from across the company.
Channel development Failing to keep pace within the digital area is A Group digital strategy has been developed and a Plans in place for a digital centre of excellence and digital As consumer preferences continue a risk for us.
com 43 Risks continued Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Macro-economic factors There are still a number of uncertainties relating The provision of supply chain finance programmes to Government Affairs team actively monitors the political and R 4 With continuing geopolitical to the economy and heightened geopolitical support suppliers.
economic situations in the countries in which we operate or uncertainty and market volatility tensions in some of our markets.
Portfolio of international banking partners that provide across all the economies in which flexibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash Strategies in place to identify, monitor and aim to influence we operate, we are exposed to and card payment processing services.
changes to legislation which may impact the business.
potential risks which may impact Diversification of cash holdings across a number of financial The Government Affairs team oversees direct policy and both consumer confidence and institutions with the strongest short-term credit rating.
political engagement with dedicated resource in the UK, the long-term sustainability and France, Belgium, Poland and Russia, supported by local An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash capabilities of our supplier base.
representatives in our Operating Companies and our deposits and debt financing to minimise the impact of foreign membership of key business trade associations in exchange currency volatility on the company.
Offer and pricing strategies designed to address consumer confidence.
EU referendum This risk has increased due to the continuing A Brexit Steering Group has been in place since As the situation becomes clearer and the mechanics of 5 R Following the decision to leave uncertainty as to the operational implications the 2016 referendum.
an exit are known, more detailed plans will be prepared.
the EU we have seen increased of the decision to leave the EU and the impact Actively monitoring the Brexit process via the Government Updates are planned for the Board as part of the forward economic uncertainty, exchange rate on trading performance from impacts on Affairs team, Treasury, Finance and Tax, People and IT teams plan of work for the year.
volatility and an impact on consumer the economy in our key markets.
We have alongside UK and French Operating Companies.
confidence in the UK market.
This therefore decided to specifically include Work is underway to consider the implications of is likely to continue until EU exit this within our principal risks.
Brexit, considering different scenarios and preparing negotiations are complete.
negotiations may result in further changes to regulation and operational frameworks which may impact our ability to operate across our European businesses as we do today.
Investing in our people We continue to monitor and manage this risk The Chief People Officer is leading the work to improve our Creating a strong pipeline of developing talent through 6 U D O R Our colleagues are critical to the closely.
While the risk exposure is significant we capabilities, ensuring we have effective KPIs and relevant structured programmes including graduate and high successful delivery of our strategy have a clear understanding of the scale of the reward structures.
potential schemes for the development of senior leaders.
We must make the change and plans in place to deliver the model.
Work is underway to redesign, where required, HR Nomination Committee oversees the Board composition necessary investment in our people to processes, policies and guidelines to ensure they are fit and succession planning.
ensure that we have the appropriate for purpose and in line with our ambition.
Initial focus will Continue to invest in development activities for our storecapacity, skills and experience.
be on recruitment, reward, talent and engagement.
based colleagues and in how we support and recognise the Remuneration Committee oversees the reward policy.
role of our customer advisors across the organisation.
New engagement tool introduced to ensure we have an Home Improvement and Range Academies developed to appropriate and timely engagement methodology which build capability and inform colleagues on the new ways of enables us to check across all staff our ability to drive the working and product ranges.
changes we need whilst being able to respond to any insights which may impact upon our duty of care as an employer.
44 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Key: Increasing No change Decreasing R U D O Unified & Unique Offer Digital Operational Efficiency Retail Operations Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Macro-economic factors There are still a number of uncertainties relating The provision of supply chain finance programmes to Government Affairs team actively monitors the political and With continuing geopolitical to the economy and heightened geopolitical support suppliers.
EU referendum This risk has increased due to the continuing A Brexit Steering Group has been in place since As the situation becomes clearer and the mechanics of Following the decision to leave uncertainty as to the operational implications the 2016 referendum.
Investing in our people We continue to monitor and manage this risk The Chief People Officer is leading the work to improve our Creating a strong pipeline of developing talent through Our colleagues are critical to the closely.
com 45 Risks continued Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Price competitiveness We have taken further steps this year to A group pricing strategy is in place.
The Offer & Supply Developing improved customer insight and analytical tools 7 U We continue to face a broad range monitor and manage this risk and therefore Chain and trading functions set recommended prices on to optimise product ranging and pricing strategies.
of competitors across our markets.
believe the risk level is unchanged.
all unified ranges, securing the best selling price whilst More targeted use of online and mass media tools A lack of actual or perceived price optimising margin.
to communicate and reinforce price perception.
competitiveness, particularly when Regular pricing studies undertaken with regards to the Role of Director of Pricing created, responsibilities include compared to more discount based or market and price positioning aligned with competition.
overseeing the pricing strategy for the Group.
online competitors, would affect our Investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our ability to maintain market share or value credentials.
result in a loss of market share Legal and regulatory Regulatory requirements are increasing in Employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must A Crisis Communications team is in place to manage 8 R U D The Groups operations are subject many areas and therefore we see this as conduct themselves according to our minimum standards of major incidents.
to a broad range of regulatory an area of increasing risk for us.
ethics and behaviours as defined by our Code of Conduct.
Policies and procedures in place to support the health & requirements in the countries in which Responsibility for compliance with our Code of Conduct safety, environmental, ethical, fraud, crisis management, it operates.
A major corporate issue rests with each Operating Company Chief Executive.
or crisis, a significant corporate fraud Appropriate resources are available to our Operating Anti-bribery training in place and all key individuals must or material non-compliance with Companies to ensure that both colleagues and suppliers complete this training.
legislative or regulatory requirements are aware of, and comply with, the Code.
Whistleblowing hotline throughout the Group and all calls would impact Kingfishers brand Legal teams in Group and each of our Operating are followed up, including monitoring at the local Audit and reputation.
Companies work and communicate together to Committee level.
Market Abuse Regulations policy and training in place.
Communications teams at Kingfisher and each of our Operating Companies work together to form a communications network.
Cyber and data security This risk has been monitored by the Group Cyber Security Data Protection D R 9 Cyber attacks and security incidents Executive and Audit Committee for the last few Cyber security continues to receive Executive level We have data protection and management policies in place.
have increased in recent years and years, however this year we have decided to sponsorship and Group Audit Committee focus.
Steps are being taken to enhance data protection in light the retail sector is now a target.
There add this area to our principal risks as we believe Dedicated IT Governance boards are established to monitor of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR being have been a number of high profile the risk of this type of incident is increasing.
this evolving risk and the associated mitigating controls.
introduced in May 2018. attacks in the sector in recent times Independent reviews are performed of the Cyber security IT solutions and appropriate training regarding data that have had an impact on operations, processes and initiatives on an annual basis.
We have reviewed the threats facing Kingfisher and have been working with partners and security specialists to implement tools and processes to identify and remediate vulnerabilities.
We have a clear roadmap for 2018 to further enhance our threat intelligence and incident responses to meet the challenges of the continually changing cyber environment.
46 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Key: Increasing No change Decreasing U D O R Unified & Unique Offer Digital Operational Efficiency Retail Operations Principal risk Strategic pillar How our risks have changed How we manage and monitor therisk Price competitiveness We have taken further steps this year to A group pricing strategy is in place.
The Offer & Supply Developing improved customer insight and analytical tools We continue to face a broad range monitor and manage this risk and therefore Chain and trading functions set recommended prices on to optimise product ranging and pricing strategies.
result in a loss of market share Legal and regulatory Regulatory requirements are increasing in Employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must A Crisis Communications team is in place to manage The Groups operations are subject many areas and therefore we see this as conduct themselves according to our minimum standards of major incidents.
Cyber and data security This risk has been monitored by the Group Cyber Security Data Protection Cyber attacks and security incidents Executive and Audit Committee for the last few Cyber security continues to receive Executive level We have data protection and management policies in place.
