Strategic Report Risk management framework ACTIVELY MANAGING OUR RISK PROFILE Introduction The Groups risk management framework continues to evolve to support the delivery of Vision 2020.
A summary of the key elements of the framework is set out below: Board Overall responsibility for risk management across the Group Conducts an assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and its appetite with respect to those risks Risk Management and Audit Committee Responsibility for overseeing the management of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control Executive Directors Oversee the management of risk within the business Business senior management Responsible for the management of risk within the business Risk Oversight Forum Provides an independent assessment of risk management within the business Group Risk function Challenges the prioritisation of risks within the business, supports the business in aggregating risks and reviews risk registers and heatmaps Risk review Investment Standing Other Group-wide committees Committee orders committees Review risks arising during Reviews risks relating Set out delegated Review risks associated tenders for new contracts to the Groups authorities within with specialist areas and projects investmentdecisions the Group for example, IT and SHE 36 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Introduction Risk management process Kiers risk management framework continues to evolve to ensure The Risk and Internal Audit team works with the business and that it supports the Groups ongoing growth and the range of thecentral functions to support the network of risk champions.
Management recognises that a robust, but Theseindividuals act as the sponsors for risk management flexible, approach to the management of risk is fundamental to the withintheir respective parts of the business or central function.
continued success of the Group.
The changes made to the Groups Risk champion forums are held to share best practice and systems of risk management and internal control during the year lessonslearned.
are summarised below under Principal areas of focus Examples Risk appetite of progress made in 2018.
During the year, the Board undertook an assessment of its risk Oversight appetite, mapping risks against a sliding scale of risk averse, The Board has overall responsibility for the way in which the Group risk balanced and risk tolerant, so as to inform the development manages risk.
The Board determines its appetite with respect to of a range of acceptable risk parameters within which the business the Groups principal risks which are summarised on pages 38 to is authorised to operate.
Please see Assessment of principal risks 43 inclusive and, via the RMAC, assesses the effectiveness of and risk appetite on page 71 for further details of how the Board the systems of risk management and internal control which are assessed its risk appetite.
designed to mitigate the impact of those risks on the Groups One of the Boards principal areas of focus during the year has operations.
Please see Accountability on pages 71 and 72 and been to assess its appetite with respect to particular forms of the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on pages 73 contract entered into by the Group.
To be able to do so, the Board to80 inclusive for further information.
reviews information about the risk profile of the Groups portfolio ofcontracts.
Common approach to risk management The Groups flexible approach to risk management allows management to oversee the risk profile of the business in a number of different ways.
For example, the RMAC reviews risk registers prepared by the business on a quarterly basis and ensures that internal audits are planned so as to focus on the principal risks facing the Group.
Principal areas of focus In last years Annual Report, we highlighted certain elements of theGroups risk management framework for development during the 2018 financial year.
A summary of the progress made is asfollows: Area of focus Examples of progress made in 2018 Continued assessment of the Groups principal risks Ongoing, with a particular focus on managements appetite for contract risk anduncertainties Sharing of best practice across the Group Continued development of the Groups risk portal: embedding the risk champions network Good progress made, with high levels of senior management Continued development of Kiers risk management culture sponsorship Development of a interactive risk dashboard to highlight Increasing the communication of risk management issues keyissues acrossthe Group Introduction of tool kits and online sites to assist in the Continuing to drive a focus on risk management management of risk within the Group Principal areas of focus 2019 The Group regularly reviews its systems of risk management and internal control.
In the 2019 financial year, the Groups principal areas of focus, with respect to such systems, will include: Continuing to review its risk culture: Continuing to share best practice with respect to risk management across the Group: Increasing the use of IT in the management of risk:and Continuing to assess the risk profile of the Groups portfolio ofcontracts.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 37
