Probable Possible Improbable Likelihood Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Introduction During the year, the Board identified the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and conducted a robust assessment of its riskappetite.
Understanding the Groups risk profile, and how the Group manages risk, is central to the Boards decision-making process.
Thefollowing section contains information about the potential impact of the principal risks identified by the Board, a summary of progress made in 2018 to mitigate them and details of proposed mitigation in 2019.
Our principal risks 1 Safety, health and sustainability 2 Regulation 3 Funding 4 Market and sector performance 3 5 Operating model 9 2 4 6 Contract management 8 6 1 7 Pre-contract governance 5 7 8 People 10 9 Innovation 10 Cyber-security Low Medium High Impact Impact indicates the potential effect of the risk on a number of aspects of the business, such as its site-based operations, safety and the Groups reputation, while likelihood indicates the potential probability of a risk materialising.
Each of the risks is indicated following mitigation which is summarised on pages 39 to 43 inclusive.
The definitions of impact and likelihood are as follows: Likelihood Impact Improbable the risk is not foreseen as likely to occur or may Low the exposure is well understood, with a relatively low cost occur in exceptional circumstances of mitigation Possible a relatively infrequent occurrence for the Group Medium risk may be tolerated provided that the benefits are considered to outweigh the costs Probable a relatively frequent occurrence for the Group High risk threatens the viability of the Group or there is a reasonable likelihood of danger to people or material reputational damage Key changes to the principal risks and uncertainties since 2017 The Board reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties listed in the 2017 Annual Report to assess their continued relevance in 2018.
The Board concluded that two of the 2017 principal risks were either no longer considered material or could be included within another risk and introduced three principal risks to the above table.
The risks which were referred to in the 2017 Annual Report, The Board included three new risks in 2018: but which are not included in the above table are: Risk Reason for exclusion Risk Reason for inclusion The risk is now included within the safety, health The Group faces increasing scrutiny, regulation Sustainability Regulation and sustainability risk andoversight requirements The Group has a broad client base and, therefore, To support the Groups growth, strict pre-contract Loss of key Pre-contract does not consider itself to be dependent or reliant governance is important customer governance on a small number of relationships relationships The loss of data and cyber-attacks are, increasingly, Cyber-security risks for a number of businesses 38 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Boards risk appetite is defined as being averse, balanced or tolerant: Tolerant the Company has a greater risk appetite where there is a clear opportunity for a greater than normal reward: Balanced the Company has some appetite for risk and balances its mitigation efforts with its view of the potential rewards of anopportunity: and Averse the Company has a very low appetite for risk that is likely to have adverse consequences and aims to eliminate, orsubstantially reduce, such risks.
The Boards assessment of risk The Boards assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, their movement during the year in terms of either impact or likelihood and a summary of the key controls and mitigations are each summarised below.
The Board considers these to be the most significant risks facing Kier.
Not all risks facing the business are listed and the risks are not listed in any order of priority.
Safety, health and sustainability Principal risk: failure to maintain a safe and sustainable environment Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary The Groups activities are inherently complex Continuation of the Groups SHE behavioural Impact: and potentially hazardous and require the change programme: High continuous management of safety, health and Management continuing to undertake visible Likelihood: sustainability risks.
leadership tours: Possible Continued focus on the reduction in lost Failure to do so could result in any of timeaccidents and the resulting cost of Movement: thefollowing: sickness absence: Small decrease in likelihood: no change in impact an increase in safety or environmental Implementation of Kiers energy saving incidents on site: Risk appetite: programme: and Averse the cost of sickness absence not reducing: Continued implementation of various social Kiers energy costs not reducing: impact strategies.
Progress during the year: the failure to meet clients expectations: Continued reduction in the Groups AIR the failure to meet investors expectations: andAAIR: reduced ability to bid for and win new work: Launch of health and wellbeing strategy: and reputational damage: and Good progress against the 30 by 30 strategy.
financial penalties arising from fines, legal Link to strategy: action and project delays.
Regulation Principal risk: failure to manage increased scrutiny and oversight and or comply with new regulations Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary The Groups operations are subject to increased Regular engagement with government and Impact: scrutiny, regulation and oversight due to external government agencies with respect to the High factors for example, corporate failures, the Groups performance and other matters Likelihood: Grenfell Tower fire and Brexit.
ofinterest: Possible Close monitoring and planning of the impact The UK construction and services sectors have of new legislation and regulations: recently experienced a significant increase in the Movement: Establishing strategies and policies to ensure N a new risk level of public focus under which they operate.
compliance with regulatory requirements: and We expect that scrutiny to increase, particularly Risk appetite: for major suppliers to the public sector.
Collaborative engagement with our clients Balanced and subcontractors.
These sectors are also subject to increasing Progress during the year: regulation and reporting requirements, including N a new risk new regulations relating to building standards, payments to suppliers and the gender pay gap.
Link to strategy: Failure to manage effectively the increased scrutiny and oversight and or comply with new regulations could result in: the loss of business: the failure to win new business: increased operating costs: the Group defending material claims: and reputational damage.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 3.
Funding Principal risk: reduced liquidity affects our ability to invest and grow Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary Political, market or lender sentiment may affect Focus on cash forecasting and working Impact: the Groups available funding, thereby reducing capital management to generate positive Medium its liquidity and restricting its ability to invest in cash flow: Likelihood: the Property and Residential businesses and Maintenance of appropriate levels of Possible deliver plans for future growth.
committed bank facilities: Maintenance of appropriate bank and surety Movement: The Group has a number of committed and bonding facilities: Small increase in both likelihood and impact uncommitted facilities available to meet its funding needs.
Any or all of these facilities could Collaborative engagement with banks, Risk appetite: be reduced or removed.
lenders and sureties: and Averse Continue to identify appropriate alternative A reduction in or removal of the Groups Progress during the year: funding structures.
principal financing facilities could result in: Maintenance of appropriate liquidity headroom a slowdown of investment for future throughout the year: growth, particularly in the Property and Available bonding facilities demonstrate Residential businesses: appropriate headroom: and reduced profit as a result of the inability Treasury Committee now fully established.
tofund growth opportunities: and Link to strategy: the loss of confidence by stakeholders forexample, investors, clients, subcontractors and employees.
Market and sector performance Principal risk: market downturn may reduce growth opportunities Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary Delivery of the Groups strategy depends on the Continue to evaluate market performance, Impact: economic performance of the UK, in particular, including the impact of macro-economic Medium and the markets and sectors in which the Group factors and the associated market risk of Likelihood: operates.
Although the Group provides a range specific events for example, Brexit : Possible of services and operates across a number of Review the Groups portfolio of businesses to diverse market sectors, reduced economic enable management to focus on the Groups Movement: activity and expenditure in public, regulated and core businesses: No change in likelihood: decreased impact private sectors would likely result in lower Continue to review its pipeline of future work growth or lower revenue for the Group.
In Risk appetite: to identify trends in the Groups core addition, the performance of the Property and Balanced markets: and Residential businesses relies on successful Via the newly-appointed Group Business Progress during the year: investments across the market sectors in Development Director, ensure a focused Market risks were reviewed through the annual whichthey operate.
approach to winning new work.
strategy and business planning processes: A downturn in the Groups markets and or The business performance is formally unsuccessful allocation of investment capital reviewed quarterly: and could result in: The appointment of the new Group Business a failure to meet the Groups financial targets: Development Director to co-ordinate business development activities across the Group.
a failure of one or more of the Groups businesses: Link to strategy: an increase in the competition for new work:and a decrease in stakeholder confidence intheGroup.
40 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5.
Operating model Principal risk: efficiency benefits are not achieved Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary The Group needs to maintain and evolve its Continue to monitor the long-term prospects, Impact: operating model so as to build and sustain the opportunities and risks associated with High long-term confidence of its key stakeholders, ourkey markets and adapt the operating Likelihood: deliver sector-leading customer experience model accordingly: Improbable andmaximise the opportunities for growth.
Implement the Future Proofing Kier TheGroup needs to maintain an efficient programme to improve productivity, operating Movement: operating model.
margins and cash generation: Small decrease in likelihood: no change in impact Seek to dispose of non-core operations: and Failure to do so could result in: Risk appetite: Deliver the benefits of the Oracle ERP business failure: Balanced implementation.
the failure to deliver growth and profitability: Progress during the year: the failure to remain competitive: Repositioned the Group to focus on its three the failure to reduce costs: and key market positions: the failure to meet the expectations of Completion of a number of disposals: stakeholders for example, investors, clients, Continued progress against our Vision 2020 subcontractors and employees.
targets: and Continued the implementation of the Oracle ERP system.
Contract management Principal risk: ineffective contract management leads to losses Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary Effective contract management is central to the Continued use of metrics to provide early Impact: Groups business model and its continued warnings of under-performing contracts: High growth.
The Group has a number of large and Completion of the review of the Groups Likelihood: complex contracts in progress at any one time.
contract risk governance framework: and Possible Each of these contracts requires careful and Continued focus on supply-chain procurement.
effective management, according to a number of Movement: factors, including type of work, location, length Small decrease in likelihood: no change in impact of contract and form of contract.
Risk appetite: Failure to manage contracts effectively could Averse result in: Progress during the year: a failure to meet the Groups financial targets: Increased the rigour of the monthly the Group incurring losses: operationaland financial contract reviews the Group failing to win new work: within the business: reputational damage to the Group: and Via the quarterly review process, introduced a loss of confidence of stakeholders for greater accountability for contract example, investors, clients, subcontractors performance: and and employees.
Introduced the Oracle ERP system to simplify and rationalise contract performance data.
Link to strategy: Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 41 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 7.
Pre-contract governance Principal risk: inadequate pre-contract governance fails to identify contract risk Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary Effective pre-contract governance is essential to Continue to assess contract risk through the Impact: ensure that the Group understands the risks Groups standing orders, commercial High associated with projects and has in place standards and screening assessment matrix: Likelihood: appropriate plans to mitigate those risks.
Continue to focus on selective tendering: and Improbable Share lessons learned across the Group.
A failure in the Groups pre-contract controls Movement: could result in: N a new risk poorly performing contracts: the Group incurring losses: Risk appetite: Balanced the failure to meet a clients expectations on cost and quality: Progress during the year: claims and litigation against the Group: N a new risk a failure to meet the Groups financial Link to strategy: targets: and the Group failing to win new work.
People Principal risk: failure to deliver the Groups people strategy Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary The Group recognises the importance of a clear Continue to progress internal targets on Impact: people strategy to the delivery of its overall gender diversity at all levels: Medium strategy and the need to identify, retain and Continue to focus on skills development and Likelihood: motivate people with the right skills, experience retention plans for critical skills and the talent Possible and behaviours.
In particular, the Group pipeline: and recognises the benefits of a diverse workforce Embed visible leadership of the balanced Movement: which is representative of society.
business agenda and engagement actions so Small decrease in likelihood: no change in impact as to create a fully inclusive work environment.
Failure to deliver the Groups people strategy Risk appetite: could result in: Tolerant the failure to deliver a specific business need Progress during the year: or contract requirement: Voluntary attrition reduced in line with targets: reputational damage, to both the corporate Engagement survey score increased: and andthe employee brand: Targets in place to drive improvement in early the failure to develop future leaders: career development and gender diversity.
the over-reliance on key staff: and a failure to meet the Groups financial targets.
Link to strategy: 42 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9.
Innovation Principal risk: failure to innovate to keep ahead of market and client expectations Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary The Group operates in an increasingly dynamic Ensure that employees have access to online Impact: and changing environment.
To exploit the innovation and idea-sharing platforms: Medium opportunities that this presents, the Group Further develop the Groups partnerships Likelihood: seeks to embrace innovation and capitalise on withclients and third party organisations to Possible technological advancements.
progress its innovation agenda: and Monitor, and respond to, prospective Movement: Failure to do so may result in: marketdisruptors.
Small increase in impact: no change in likelihood a failure to maintain the Groups marketposition: Risk appetite: Tolerant the failure to reduce cost or increase the speed of delivery for clients: Progress during the year: the failure to provide visibility of Innovative solutions are now at the forefront performance:and ofa number of businesses for example, the failure to attract and retain staff.
Highways and Construction: Continued to invest in digital platforms to support customer-facing and back-office operations: and Continued to support the Groups innovationforum.
Cyber-security Principal risk: failure to maintain adequate cyber-security measures Description 2019 mitigation plan Summary Cyber-attack and data loss is a risk to all Continue to strengthen the Groups dedicated Impact: organisations and individuals.
The Group is at cyber-security team: High risk because it handles sensitive information of Consider outsourcing elements of the Likelihood: a personal, confidential and commercial nature, GroupsIT systems where it is appropriate Improbable its business operations depend upon IT systems todo so: and and it has an increasing profile with clients, Continue to test information security Movement: suppliers and other stakeholders.
alongside recognised UK and International N a new risk standards for example, ISO27001.
Failure to manage the cyber-security risk may Risk appetite: result in: Averse business interruptions and operational delay: Progress during the year: the loss of data, resulting in confidentiality N a new risk breaches, financial loss and reputational damage: Link to strategy: fines from regulatory authorities: and reputational damage to the Group.
Brexit The UK will be leaving the EU in March 2019.
Kier has established a senior level Brexit Taskforce to consider the potential effectofBrexit on the Group, which will be influenced by the outcome of the negotiations between the UK Government and the EuropeanCommission.
We have identified potential risks relating to the supply chain, the workforce and the supply and cost of materials, in particular.
TheGroup is developing contingency plans against a range of scenarios, including one in which the UK leaves the EU without an agreement and, potentially, without a transition period.
We are monitoring developments and will amend and update these plansaccordingly.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 43
