Governance Management of risks The Board has overall responsibility for oversight Ownership and management of the risks Managing risk of risk and for maintaining a robust risk are assigned to members of the Executive management and internal control system.
They are responsible for ensuring The Board recognises the importance of the operating effectiveness of the internal We set out an overview identifying and actively monitoring our strategic, control systems and for implementing key reputational, financial and operational risks, risk mitigation plans.
ofour risk management and other longer-term threats, trends and process explaining the As part of our risk process this year, we challenges facing the business.
The Audit have also facilitated business unit workshops Committee supports the Board in the key elements of our to explore and understand how risks are management of risk and is responsible interconnected and critical risk dependencies.
for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk approach to risk, how This allows us to understand risk movement management and internal control processes wehave continued to trends and to prioritise the key mitigating during the year.
controls that the business is dependent on.
develop our process over Identification of risks The Board undertakes an annual assessment Identifying risk is a continual process.
We have the course of the current of the principal risks, taking account of those established a network of risk champions across that would threaten our business model, future year, the key successes the business and we utilise this network, in performance, solvency or liquidity as well as conjunction with ongoing discussions with inrisk management and the Groups strategic objectives.
management, external agencies and stakeholders, to identify the risks facing our our priorities for 2018 19. business.
The London and Retail executive Helping the business to committees also complete a detailed review of their risks, controls and mitigation strategies navigate the challenges Our key successes in 2017 18 four times a year as we continue to further andopportunities it faces embed the risk culture across our business.
Board deep-dive session on through proactive risk This forms the basis for the principal and principal risks, emerging risks management.
emerging risks, which are challenged and andGroup risk appetite validated by the Executive Committee and then the Audit Committee.
In addition, an Further embedded risk in-depth risk session is held with the Board Risk appetite management processes and every two years, with the latest one completed The Board is responsible for defining the level culture at the business unit level in December 2017.
As input to the session, we and type of risk that the Group is willing to take surveyed all members of the Board, Executive and ensuring it remains in line with our strategy.
Established a business unit Committee and senior leadership team.
The The Board regularly reviews the risk appetite risk champion network session then focussed on our principal risks, of the business, re-assesses the information emerging risks and risk appetite, with the results Facilitated business unit available and the risk factors that are relevant.
of the survey providing insight from across the This ensures our risk exposure remains workshops to establish risk business to inform the discussion.
appropriate at any point in the cycle and that interdependencies risk is considered dynamic.
Our risk appetite is Evaluation of risks Conducted analysis to assess cascaded throughout the organisation by being The business considers both external and embedded within our policies, procedures and thephysical risks of climate internal risks from the business units through delegated authorities.
We use a risk scoring matrix change toour property portfolio to ensure risks are evaluated consistently.
One of our key priorities next year is to Our matrix considers likelihood, financial impact consolidate existing risk appetite statements to income and capital values and reputational and tolerance ranges into a single risk Our key priorities in 2018 19 impact.
When we evaluate risk, we consider monitoring dashboard for the Board and theinherent or gross risk the level of the risk Refine the Group risk appetite Executive Committee.
This will explicitly align before any mitigating action and the residual our risk appetite and the corresponding key andrisk monitoring dashboard or net risk the risk that remains after we risk indicators to our strategy and KPIs.
It will consider the effect of mitigating actions and Operationalise risk appetite at help to ensure that risk appetite is consistently controls.
From this, we identify principal risks reviewed, understood and applied across the abusiness unit level current risks with relatively high impact and organisation.
This will also allow us to articulate Enhance the business key controls certainty and emerging risks risks where the risk appetite more effectively at an individual extent and implications are not yet fully to encompass additional controls business unit level.
Where there is a relatively high that help improve the mitigation inherent risk and relatively low residual risk, we of our principal risks know we have a high dependency on internal controls, which helps to focus the work of the Embed the risk champion network Internal Audit function.
52 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risk management framework The Executive Committee is responsible for Internal Audit provide assurance to the As shown in the diagram below, we have an theday-to-day management of risk.
Senior Audit Committee and Executive Committee established risk management and control Management also attend the Executive in evaluating the design and operating framework that enables us to effectively Committee and the Audit Committee to discuss effectiveness of the risk management and identify, evaluate and manage our principal specific risk areas, and will be accompanied by internal control processes, through independent and emerging risks.
Our approach is not to external advisers where relevant.
On a quarterly basis, management eliminate risk entirely, but to ensure we have specific risk focus areas from this year included self-certify that the key controls within their the right structure to effectively navigate the cyber security and data privacy.
area of responsibility have been operating challenges and opportunities we face.
These results are independently The Risk Management function, headed by validated by Internal Audit through sample We focus on being risk aware, clearly defining the Director of Risk Management and Internal testing.
We continue to enhance and refine our risk appetite, responding to changes to Audit, assists management with facilitating thekey controls to ensure we have the most our risk profile quickly and having a strong risk the risk discussions and provides challenge and effective set of key controls to mitigate our culture among employees.
The Risk Management principal risks and this is an area of focus function also oversees and provides support to for 2018 19. a network of risk champions across the business.
Risk management framework Risk Board Top-down governance Set the risk culture Oversight, Approve risk appetite identification, assessment Agree the risk programme and mitigation Discuss the Group principal risks with executive management of risk at a Group level 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Risk Executive Committee Risk Management Audit Committee management Define the risk appetite Aggregate risk Support the Board in information monitoring risk exposure Evaluate proposed against risk appetite strategies against risk Assist management with Review the effectiveness appetite and risk the identification and of our risk management tolerances assessment of principal and internal control and emerging risks Identify the principal risks processes Monitor risks and risk Design, implementation response plans against Internal Audit and evaluation of the risk appetite and Provide assurance on system of internal tolerance levels effectiveness of the risk control, and for ensuring programme, testing of its operational Create a common risk key controls and risk effectiveness framework and language response plans for Identify and monitor Provide direction on significant risks emerging risks applying framework Provide guidance and training Facilitate risk escalations Bottom-up Risk Business units and Support functions ownership risk champions Provide guidance Identification, Identify and assess risks support to the risk team assessment and business units Respond to risks and mitigation of risk at a Monitor risks and risk business unit response and functional Ensure operating level effectiveness of key controls Landsec Annual Report 2018 53
