Very High Impact Low Our principal Risk heat map The risk heat maps illustrate the relative positioning of our principal risks and risks before and after mitigating actions.
We set out further details on our principal risks below, explaining how the risks link to our strategic objectives, our risk mitigation strategies and the rationale for the risk uncertainties movement in the year.
Principal risks before and after mitigating actions Strategic objectives Before mitigating actions Deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value 2 A fter mitigating actions 5 2 Maximise the returns from the 1 Customers 1 investment portfolio 2 Market cyclicality 8 1 Maximise development performance 6 4 7 3 Disruption 3 Ensure high levels of customer 4 People and skills satisfaction 3 8 4 5 Major health, safety and Attract, develop, retain and motivate security incident 5 high performance individuals 7 6 6 Information security and Continually improve sustainability cyber threat performance 7 Sustainability 8 Investment and development strategy Low Probability Very high Change in the year Increased No change Reduced Risk Strategic Mitigation Change in the year Opportunity objective Customer relationship management processes actively monitor Enhance and 1 Customers our customer base and performance.
We are focused on maintain our Structural changes in customer and establishing strategic relationships and ensuring we properly position as the The residual risk shows consumer behaviours leading to an understand our customer needs and expectations.
We aim to partner of choice a decrease in impact, adverse change in demand for our have the right discussions at the right time for our customers but an increase in space and the consequent impact Quantitative Risk Report is reviewed by the Board twice a by better probability.
onnew lettings, renewals of existing year to monitor risk metrics against defined risk tolerances.
understanding This reflects our leases and rental growth.
This ensures we remain within our riskappetite.
inability to prevent Executives responsible: risk metrics include leaseexpiries and breaks, and tenant structural changes ColetteOShea ScottParsons counterparty credit risk to our sectors, but an Robust credit policy and process which defines what level of ability to reduce the credit risk we will accept impact through robust London and Retail executive committees review customers at strategic planning risk and agree the best plan of action, as well as monitoring processes.
online sales trends Monthly management review of lease expiries, breaks, re-gears and comparison of new lettings against estimated rental value.
Measure footfall and retail sales at our shopping centres to provide insight into consumer trends Share Your Thoughts programme measures customer satisfaction at our shopping centres Complete post-occupancy surveys in London to measure customer satisfaction All employees attended the Creating Experiences training programme focused on creating a customer-centric culture.
54 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risk Strategic Mitigation Change in the year Opportunity objective Strategy team prepares a quarterly report for the Retail and Assets we would 2 Market cyclicality London executive committees, which measures both macrolike to acquire Market and political uncertainty economic and internal risk metrics, against tolerance ranges, may become The inherent risk has leading to a reduction in demand e. g. occupancy vacancy levels available at a increased due to or deferral of decisions by occupiers, Strategy team also produces a biannual cycle watch document, reduced price.
greater UK economic impacting real estate values and which analyses macro-economic, political and market risk and political uncertainty the ability to buy, develop, manage factors.
This drives the assumptions used in our budget and and the potential and sell assets at the appropriate forecasting process impact of Brexit.
Complete scenario analyses as part of our annual budgeting Executive responsible: and five-year forecasting process.
Specific scenarios we have Robert Noel modelled include the impact of different Brexit outcomes and changes in legislation Quantitative Risk Report is reviewed by the Board twice a year to monitor risk metrics against defined risk tolerances.
The market cyclicality risk metrics include loan-to-value ratios, the debt maturity profile, analysis of available borrowing facilities, asset liquidity, asset concentration, investment lot size and average unexpired lease terms Managing Directors prepare quarterly reports which analyse and interpret market risk for each sector Active members of local business and community groups, as well as industry and professional bodies.
This ensures we are engaged in decisions affecting our business, customers, partners and communities.
London and Retail executive committees completed pre-mortem Managing 3 Disruption exercises identifying potential disruptors for further investigation change Failure to react effectively which could fundamentally derail the business effectively will Our residual risk has toadisruptive change in Commissioned independent research into customer trends and enable us to slightly decreased, the competitive landscape disruptors so that we have a better understanding of the deliver further reflecting the changes resulting in asset obsolescence.
potential impact on our business value and in management Executive responsible: Our Workplace Director holds a monthly Future of Work forum growthwhile structure to incorporate Robert Noel examining disruption themes and customer needs maintaining innovation roles Actively invest in training our people to help create an innovation our competitive andfocus.
mindset and have established innovation roles in the business advantage.
Reviewing each element of the customer journey in Retail to identify opportunities to be more innovative through our use of technology In London, we have established an innovation process to capture ideas and workshop with our customers their needs in a test office environment Innovation team is actively debating and investigating ways to build more efficiently with our strategic partners.
Remuneration plans are benchmarked annually to ensure they Build further 4 People and skills remain competitive and support us in attracting and retaining expertise, Inability to attract, retain and the best talent knowledge Incremental increase in develop the right people and Talent management programme identifies high potential and capability both the inherent and skills required todeliver the individuals within the organisation in the business.
residual risks, reflecting business objectives in aculture Robust succession plans are in place for senior and critical roles the level of staff and environment where to mitigate key people risks turnover within the employees canthrive.
Clear organisation design, with clarity of job roles andindividual business and the Executive responsible: accountabilities challenges in finding Diana Breeze Clear employee objectives and development plans toensure appropriate candidates alignment to business goals for some key roles.
Recognise the value of employee health and wellbeing through Refer to the section our Health and Wellbeing Statement of Practice Our employees on Specific diversity metrics to be achieved by 2020 page 46.
Flexible working policy to promote work-life balance, reduce employee stress and improve performance Annual employee engagement survey to understand areas of strength and opportunities for improvement High-profile, market leading developments and assets to manage, in places people want to work.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 55 Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Strategic Mitigation Change in the year Opportunity objective Group Health, Safety & Security Committee HS&S is chaired Lead the industry 5 Major health, safety by the CEO and governs the health, safety and security in health, safety andsecurity incident management systems and processes.
Health, safety and and security to The gross level of this Failure to identify or mitigate a security performance is reported to the Board quarterly reduce incident risk has increased, major health, safety or security One Best Way standards define mandatory health, safety levels.
which is largely driven related threat and or react and security compliance policies for the business, our supply by the UK threat level.
Enhance our effectively to an incident, leading to: chain, and construction projects The residual level has reputation as Serious injury, illness or loss of life Quarterly customer improvement groups with our principal decreased due to the atrusted and to employees, partners, occupiers contractors and key service providers drive continuous appointment of the responsible or visitors to our properties improvement across our supply chain.
All our key service Group Security and partner.
Criminal civil proceedings providers are assessed against health, safety and security KPIs Protection Manager, Loss of consumer confidence All Landsec employees must attend health, safety and and the subsequent Delays to building projects and securitytraining progression in the access restrictions to our properties All of our properties have completed fire risk assessments which maturity of physical resulting in loss of income are reviewed annually by a third party specialist consultant security risk Reputational impact All accidents and incidents are reported and recorded in our identification and Accident and Incident system with analysis performed on management Executive responsible: trends and root causes of the incidents processes.
Robert Noel All of our properties have completed security risk assessments, which drives the physical security measures in place at that property.
Our properties havededicated security teams, which are supported byCCTV and other physical security measures The HS&S team completes regular property health checks at ourassets to audit compliance with our policies, procedures andlegislation Our Group insurance programme protects against losses of rent and service charge due to terrorism All our properties have business continuity and crisis management plans in place, which are tested at least annually.
Dedicated information security team who monitor information Enhance our 6 Information security security risk.
Team expanded to address new and emerging risks reputation as andcyberthreat Robust IT security management policy sets out our standards atrusted and The gross level of this Data loss or disruption to the for security and penetration testing, vulnerability and patch responsible risk has increased, corporate systems and building management, data management and access control partner.
which reflects the management systems resulting Quarterly management self-certification that key IT controls trend of an increasing in a negative reputational, are operating effectively number of attempted operational or financial impact.
All third party IT providers must complete an information cyber attacks.
This must be reviewed and approved Executive responsible: the overall residual by the Cyber Security Officer before the supplier can be used MartinGreenslade risk has remained Work closely with our IT service partners to manage risk and unchanged with improve technical standards improved mitigations.
Development brief clearly defines the required technical IT This follows the standards for all building systems appointment of the Well defined disaster recovery plan which is regularly reviewed Cyber Security Officer and updated and the deployment Effective vulnerability management system, including an annual of a more robust third rolling penetration testing programme for our corporate network party information and at our properties security risk assessment Internal Audit has conducted audits of IT general controls, and monitoring corporate cyber security and cyber security atour buildings.
56 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risk Strategic Mitigation Change in the year Opportunity objective Science-based carbon target means we are reducing carbon Lead our business 7 Sustainability emissions and increasing energy efficiency for our customers and the property Failure to properly consider and act Stakeholder engagement policy and practice is adopted sector toward The inherent risk has upon the environmental and social through the property life-cycle alow carbon increased, to reflect impact of our activities, leading to Sustainability charter and processes in place which ensure economy, a global increase in negative impact on our reputation, ourpartners treat their employees and sub-suppliers fairly creating longthe risk of failure delays in our development activities, andinanethical manner term value for ofclimate change poor relationships with our customers Sustainability brief for developments and our associated our shareholders mitigation and or erosion of shareholder value.
processes ensure consideration and creation of social value and wider adaptation.
The net Executive responsible: forcommunities.
stakeholder risk is unchanged Miles Webber groups.
reflecting a better understanding of the risk and improved mitigations.
Refer to our Physical review and climate change risk disclosure for more details.
Investment Appraisal Guidelines define the key investment Enhance and 8 Investment and criteria including hurdle rates and alignment to strategic maintain our development strategy objectives, the risk assessment process, key stakeholders and position as the This risk has been Unable to effectively execute our thedelegations of authority to approve investment decisions partner of expanded toinclude strategy of buying, developing and Appointed a Head of Strategy to support the effective choicefor our investment, as well selling assets at the appropriate time formulation and execution of our strategy customers.
Specifically: Actively considering other sector opportunities and running Investment inappropriate sector trials as appropriate to test our propositions and market or asset selection demand and requirements Development unable to deliver Quantitative Risk Report is reviewed by the Board twice a capex programme to agreed year tomonitor risk metrics against defined risk tolerances.
returns and or occupiers reluctant The risk metrics include speculative development exposure, to commit to take new space pre-development exposure, headroom against development capex and counterparty credit risk for development suppliers Executive responsible: Highly experienced development team and partners with a Robert Noel track-record of delivery.
