Strategic report Managing risk Understanding the risks that we are exposed to and deploying strategies to ensure residual exposures remain within acceptable parameters is an integral part of our business.
Our risk management framework Risk appetite The groups overall attitude to risk and the ranges and limits of acceptable risk taking Risk taking The formal cascade of our risk appetite to managers, empowering them to authorities make decisions within clearly defined parameters Risk policies Our strategies for managing the risks in the environments in which we operate, so as to ensure residual risk exposures are those within appetite Risk identification Tools that help managers identify and evaluate the risks to which wemay be exposed so that they can be managed in line with ourrisk policies and assessment Simon Gadd Group Chief Risk Officer Risk management How we report and review ongoing and emerging risks, and assess actual risk positions relative to the risk targets and limits that we set information Risk oversight Review and challenge, by the group and divisional Chief Risk Officer teams, Overview of how we identify and manage risk Our risk management framework supports informed risk taking by Risk committees Our structure of group level committees oversees the management of risks and challenges how the risk framework is working.
The role of the Group our businesses, settingout those Risk Committee is set out on pages 70 and 71 rewarded risks that we are prepared to be exposed to and the risks that Culture and reward Performance measures that focus on the delivery of effective risk we want to avoid, together with risk management, business and customer strategy, and culture limits and required standards of internal control to ensure exposures remain within our overall riskappetite.
We seek to deeply embed the necessary capabilities to assess andprice for those risks that we believe offer sustainable returns withineach of our operating businesses, as well as ensuring the skill sets to closely manage those risk factors which could otherwise We operate a three lines of defence risk Rewarding the right behaviours lead to unexpected outcomes.
The Groups Remuneration Committee in Our straightforward, collaborative itsconsideration of directors remuneration Our operating businesses are our first line and purposeful behaviours receives a comprehensive report by the of defence, responsible for risk taking within underpin the operation of our risk GroupChief Risk Officer, assessing whether the parameters of our risk appetite and framework, providing a culture of executive directors have achieved objectives accountable for managing risks in line with openness and transparency in how whilst at the same time operating within we make decisions and manage risk policies.
The skills to assess and price agreed risk appetite.
risks, and balancing performance for risk form part of our first line business with principles to do whats rightfor management activity.
For example, in our The objectives of the directors include a the business and our customers.
pension risk transfer and annuities businesses specific risk management component within we have a deep understanding of longevity the overall annual variable bonus scheme.
The risk and the science of life expectancy.
LGIM, criteria, if successfully delivered, contribute as one of the worlds largest asset managers, positively to the groups overall risk position, has extensive business expertise in managing focusing on the more significant risk exposures credit risk: and within our Insurance business, for the group, andreward the right behaviours as the UKs largest provider of individual life in managingrisk exposures.
cover, we have extensive knowledge of mortality and morbidity risks.
Our second line of defence is our risk oversight function under the direction of our Group Chief Risk Officer.
The team of 150 risk professionals provides our businesses with expert advice and guidance on risk and capital management, alongside ensuring risk taking remains within acceptable parameters.
Finding what you need online Detailed information can be Our Group Internal Audit function is our foundin our risk management third line of defence, providing independent supplement.
assurance on the effectiveness of business Please visit: risk management and the overall operation legalandgeneralgroup.
com of our risk framework.
investors reporting-centre 44 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Managing risk Our risk landscape The risks that we are exposed to fall into Our largest risk exposures are longevity.
Our intellectual property credit and longevity covers a range of disciplines including thebroad categories of: actuarial, medical, public health, Our exposure to credit risk largely Longevity, mortality, morbidity and statistical analysis and modelling.
arises in our portfolio of corporate household insurance risks that are We also work with the Longevity bonds and, where we provide transferred to us by the customers of Science Advisory Panel and University long-term funding, within our direct College of London, enabling us to our pension risk transfer and annuities, investment portfolio.
As an investor for access the most advanced data, the long term, assessing and managing protection and general insurance businesses.
techniques and knowledge to credit risk is a core competency, and The period that customers continue their understand and inform our longevity alongside setting a range of tolerances policies is also important for profitability.
Future to diversify our portfolios, we seek to Investment, credit and counterparty risks trends in mortality are generally slow continuously track a variety of risk from holding portfolios of assets to meet our to emerge due to the pace of medical factors that could adversely impact obligations to our customers and to deliver and health development, and, whilst credit markets.
For direct investments, were living longer, we have seen a returns to shareholders: and liquidity risks as part of our underwriting decision, slowing in the rate of this improvement we also evaluate the quality of the from contingent events.
But we security that we will take under the Operational risks in respect of our business remain vigilant to emerging trends and, transaction.
processes and IT systems, as well as broader alongside continuous investigation into We are exposed to longevity risk regulatory and legislative risks that can arise causes of death, we consider a wide in our pension risk transfer and in the environments in which we operate.
range of scenarios when assessing annuities businesses.
Over the years our capital requirements for the risk Where our businesses directly engage in house we have built significant expertise including significant advances in in understanding and pricing for building and commercial property development, medical science.
we are also exposed to risks associated with the management of construction projects, including health and safety risks.
Risk appetite Customer We treat our customers with Our risk appetite sets the ranges and limits of integrity and act in a manner that protects or acceptable risk-taking for the group as a whole.
Monitoring Risk appetite is at the We express our overall attitude to risk using metric: customer and reputation risk heart of our decision the following statements and measures: dashboard.
making, defining the risks Strategy We manage a diversified portfolio in Liquidity We expect to be able to meet our that we are prepared to which we accept risk in the normal course of payment and collateral obligations under business and aim to deliver sustainable returns extreme, but plausible, liquidity scenarios.
be exposed to, the on risk-based capital in excess of the cost of Monitoring metric: minimum liquidity capital we wish to deploy capital.
Monitoring metric: minimum return on coverage ratio.
and the level of volatility capital over the planning cycle.
The metrics we use to assess acceptable risk in earnings that we seek Strategy We have an appetite for risks we taking include Solvency II measures of capital understand and are rewarded for, and which usage, return on capital, and surplus emerging.
are consistent with delivery of our strategic We set further risk tolerances covering our objectives.
Monitoring metric: maximum Simon Gadd specific exposures to credit, market, insurance risk-based capital to be deployed over the Group Chief Risk Officer and operational risks including, where planning cycle.
appropriate, limits on concentrations and Capital We aim to maintain an appropriate significant aggregation of risks.
buffer of capital resources over the minimum Our risk appetite is used to govern the nature regulatory capital requirements.
Monitoring and quantity of risks that we are exposed to.
metric: minimum capital coverage ratios.
Whether we are making a direct property Earnings We have a low appetite for volatility investment or pricing a pension risk transfer of earnings: in particular volatility arising from deal, we use our risk appetite framework to Risk management supplement risks where Legal & General has more assess the risk profile and potential rewards to Further information on our appetite exposure than the wider market.
Monitoring ensure we continue to operate within the ranges for specific risks and our approach to managing them can be found in metric: Maximum acceptable variance in of acceptable risk taking that we have set.
com investors reporting-centre Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic report Risk outlook Principal risks and uncertainties An assessment of principal risks and Reserves and our assessment of capital requirements may require revision as a result uncertainties, together with current trends of changes in experience, regulation or legislation.
and mitigating actions, is set out on pages Investment market performance and conditions in the broader economy may adversely 48 and 49.
A more detailed review of the impact earnings, profitability or surplus capital.
groups inherent risk exposures to market, credit, liquidity, insurance and operational In dealing with issuers of debt and other typesof counterparty the group is exposed risks, together with an overview of our tothe risk of financial loss.
control processes, is included in notes 7 and Changes in regulation or legislation may haveadetrimental effect on our strategy.
15 to 17 of the financial statements.
New entrants, or legislative change, may disrupt the markets in which we operate.
Whilst the global economy continues to see positive, albeit subdued levels of growth, A material failure in our business processes orITsecurity may result in unanticipated financialloss or reputation damage.
political events look set to continue to dominate, with potential for significant asset price volatility as financial markets respond to a range of factors, including global trade tensions and the UKs withdrawal from the Brexit Reflecting the range of outcomes, we EU.
Other external factors include continued have undertaken significant analysis As a predominantly UK and US regulatory and legislative changes which to ensure our capital position remains focused business, our operating model can lead to uncertainty in our operating resilient under a number of scenarios is not materially impacted by the UKs environments.
Cyber threats also continue including those described by the Bank withdrawal from the EU.
We have, to be a risk for the financial services sector of England as being disorderly and however, established businesses in disruptive.
We have also evaluated risk as a whole.
Dublin to support LGIMs EU based factors that are idiosyncratic to the UK, investment clients and funds.
We have Own Risk and Solvency including the impacts for particular UK also taken steps to ensure the continuity Assessment ORSA business sectors and asset classes, to of the financial instruments on which Our ORSA process is an ongoing analysis of determine the need for the re-structuring we rely, and assessed the contingency our investment portfolios.
the groups risk profile and the sufficiency planning activities of those EU based financial counterparties with which of capital resources to sustain our business As much of the UK financial services we deal.
strategy over the plan horizon.
The process, regulation is derived from EU law, over which covers the whole group, considers how the longer term it is likely that elements At the time of writing, markets continue the financial and broader business risks to will be re-written.
We expect, however, to price for an orderly Brexit outcome, the overall Solvency II regulatory which we are exposed may evolve over the although there have been periods of regime to continue to apply for the volatility in equity and currency markets planning cycle.
foreseeable future, with any EU derived in response to the negotiation process, Stress and scenario testing is an essential change being applicable during a and there remains considerable element of the ORSA process.
It is used to transition period.
uncertainty as to the final withdrawal show us how our key risk exposures respond terms and future trade agreement.
to different risk factors, together with the sensitivity and the resilience of capital and earnings to a range of extreme but plausible events.
The stress testing component of our Capital management Risk Based Capital framework assesses the effect of a move in Our risk-based capital model seeks to one, or a small number, of risk factors at a provide a quantitative assessment of the point in time.
The scenario element considers groups risk exposures.
It forms part of the group wide multi-year projections of capital suite of tools that we use to evaluate our and earnings across a range of downside strategic plans, set risk appetite, allocate conditions in financial markets, demographics capital and evaluate product pricing.
We also and the broader economy.
use our capital model to assess significant The ORSA process is integrated into our transactions, including large pension risk business risk and capital management transfer deals.
The key output from our activities and aligned with the strategic capital model is the generation of capital Insurance risk 45% planning process to inform forward looking requirements.
Wecalibrate our model to a Market risk 48% decision making.
As such, it is a key business 99.5% value at risk confidence level over Operational risk 5% management tool for the group.
one year, equivalentto ensuring that we Miscellaneous 2% hold sufficient capital to survive our assessment of a worse case 1-in-200 year event.
In terms of risk based capital, market credit and insurance longevity risks remain our mostsignificant drivers.
46 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Managing risk Group Board viability statement Our business planning process is an annual The scenarios tested showed that the group The groups strategy is developed, and process and culminates in the annual would continue to have sufficient headroom to economic decisions are made, around meeting production and review of the groups business maintain viability over the five-year planning the long-term protection and savings needs of plan.
Our plan is built up from divisional period, after taking into account mitigating its customers, and around creating long-term submissions, and considers the profitability, actions to manage the impacts on capital and value for customers and shareholders over a liquidity, cash generation and capital position liquidity.
This includes maintaining the groups period of many years.
This reflects the groups of the group.
This projection process involves current dividend policy, but this and other business and investment models which setting a number of key assumptions, which commitments would be reassessed if the combine managing credit, longevity and are inherently volatile over a much longer circumstances determined this to be mortality risks over long-term relationships.
reporting period such as foreign exchange necessary over the longer term.
Furthermore, rates, interest rates, economic growth rates, it is possible that shocks could be more The groups long-term prospects the continued optimisation of capital severe, occur sooner and or last longer than The groups prospects are primarily assessed strategies for Solvency II, and the impact on we have currently considered plausible.
through our strategic and planning processes.
the business environment of changes in Our strategic planning process is a continuous Additionally, reverse stress testing and regulation or similar events.
one, and underpins our business planning contingency planning gives the Board a solid model.
We consider the sustainability and The Board carries out a detailed review of the understanding of the groups resilience to resilience of our business model over the long draft plan at the Group Boards annual strategy extremely severe scenarios which could term including strategic factors detailed on assessment, and amendments are made threaten the groups business model and pages 6 and 7, and longer-term trends in accordingly.
Part of the Boards role is to viability.
This analysis assists in identifying areas such as technology and climate change, consider the appropriateness of any key any mitigating actions that could be taken as both our investment and insurance assumptions made.
The latest annual plan was now, or triggers to put in place for future products and customer relationships are approved in December 2018, resulting in our actions.
Potential scenarios that were explored long-standing ones.
included severe capital market stresses, adverse regulatory changes, reputational and The group is also subject to continuous How we assessed our viability internal external events causing falls in business regulation and supervision, which requires The Board regularly considers the potential volumes, and severely adverse claims us to manage and monitor solvency, liquidity financial and reputational impact of the groups experience.
The results confirmed that the and longer-term risks, to ensure that we can principal risks as set out on pages 48 and 49 group remains resilient to extreme stresses continue to meet our policyholder obligations.
on our ability to deliver the business plan.
We as a result of the risk management system regularly refresh our principal risks to reflect This long-term prospect assessment is over a in place and the diverse range of mitigating current market conditions and changes in our longer period than that over which the Board actions available, such as the raising of capital risk profile, for instance in 2018 we have seen has assessed the groups viability.
or reduction in the payment of dividends.
an increase in market risks as a result of Brexit Period of viability assessment uncertainty.
Our conclusion on viability While the Board has considered adopting a Following this assessment, taking into account Quantitative stress and scenario testing longer period, it believes that five years is the the groups current position and principal risks, considers the groups ability to respond to a most appropriate time-frame over which we the Board can confirm that they have a number of plausible individual and combined should assess the long term viability of the reasonable expectation that the group will shocks, both financial and operational, which group, as required within provision C. 2.2 of the continue in operation and meet its liabilities, could adversely impact the profits, capital UK Corporate Governance Code.
The following as they fall due, over a viability horizon of five and liquidity projections in the group plan.
factors have been taken into account in making years.
The Boards five-year viability and For example, the Board considered the this decision: longer-term prospects assessment is based impacts of a plausible market stress which is upon information known today.
We have reasonable clarity over a five-year commensurate with a market shock in the late period, allowing an appropriate assessment cycle environment, as well as a severe market of our principal risks to be made: and event akin to the 2008 global financial crisis.
These stresses included a severe global shock The assessment is underpinned by our based on the Bank of England Annually Cyclical business planning process, and so aligns to Scenario, but assuming widespread credit the period over which major strategic actions downgrades, and removing two elements of are typically delivered, and takes account of the scenario which would if included benefit the uncertain economic environment and Legal & General, being a sharp increase in changing political and regulatory landscape.
interest rates and the depreciation of sterling against the US dollar.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
