Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing thegroup, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out below including details of how they have been managed or mitigated.
Further details of the groups inherent risk exposures are set out at Notes 7 and 15 to 17 ofthe financial statements.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Reserves and our assessment of capital We regularly appraise the assumptions We undertake significant analysis of the requirements may require revision as a result of underpinning the business we write.
We remain, variables associated with writing long-term changes in experience, regulation or legislation however, inherently exposed to certain extreme insurance business to ensure that a suitable The pricing of long-term insurance business events, that could require us to adjust our premium is charged for the risks we take on, and requires the setting of assumptions for long-term reserves.
For example, in our pensions risk that reserves continue to remain appropriate for trends in factors such as mortality, lapse rates, transfer and annuities business, while trend data factors including mortality, lapse rates, valuation valuation interest rates, expenses and credit continues to suggest that the rate of longevity interest rates, expenses and credit defaults.
We defaults as well as the availability of assets with improvement is slowing, a dramatic advance in also seek to pre-fund and warehouse appropriate appropriate returns.
Actual experience may medical science beyond that anticipated may investment assets to support the pricing of require recalibration of these assumptions, lead to an unexpected change in life expectancy, long-term business.
In seeking a comprehensive impacting profitability.
Management estimates requiring adjustment to reserves.
In our understanding of longevity science we aim to are also required in the derivation of Solvency II protection businesses a widespread increase in anticipate long-term trends in mortality, and capital metrics.
These include modelling mortality or morbidity, for example as a result of continue to evolve and develop our underwriting simplifications to reflect that it is not possible the emergence of new diseases or reductions in capabilities for our protection business.
Our to perfectly model the external environment, immunology, may also require us to re-evaluate selective use of reinsurance also acts to reduce with adjustment necessitated where new data reserves.
Weare also exposed to lapse risks if the impacts of significant variations in life emerges.
Forced changes in reserves can also our US term policies are not continued in line expectancy and mortality.
Thesensitivities of arise from regulatory or legislative intervention with our renewal assumptions.
our business to selected scenarios are set out impacting capital requirements and profitability.
Investment market performance and conditions The outlook for the global economy is looking Although we cannot fully eliminate the downside in the broader economy may adversely impact less certain than a year ago, with forecasts impacts from these and other risk factors on our earnings, profitability or surplus capital suggesting a general slowing in the rate of earnings, profitability or surplus capital, as part The performance and liquidity of investment growth in many advanced economies.
Recent US of our strategic planning activity we seek to markets, interest rate movements and inflation and China trade tensions, as well as impacting model our business plans across a range of impact the value of investments we hold in growth prospects, have also weighed heavily on economic scenarios to ensure they will be shareholders funds and those to meet the market sentiment with potential for a broader resilient.
Our ORSA process plays an integral obligations from insurance business, with the re-pricing of assets should relations further part in this process, ensuring a clear link between movement in certain investments directly deteriorate.
Other factors adding to downside capital sufficiency and the nature of risks to impacting profitability.
Interest rate movements risk include a  slowdown which wemay be exposed, and confirming that and inflation can also change the value of our in China: in the euro-area, increasing political exposures are within our risk appetite.
We use a range of techniques to uncertainty with the potential for a renewed within the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 31, we manage mismatches between assets and Italian debt crisis: and on-going geo-political have sought to ensure focus upon those market liabilities, however, losses can still arise from tensions in the Middle East and East Asia.
The segments that we expect to be resilient in adverse markets.
Interest rate expectations possibility of a disruptive, no-deal Brexit with projected conditions.
We cannot, however, leading to falls in the risk free yield curve can negative cross-border spillovers and increased completely eliminate risk.
Sensitivities to interest also create a greater degree of inherent volatility euro-scepticism affecting European rates, and exposures to worldwide equity to be managed in the Solvency II balance sheet parliamentary election outcomes also has markets and currencies are set out on page 174, than the underlying economic position would potential to lead to greater risk aversion.
dictate, potentially impacting capital requirements and surplus capital.
In addition, significant falls in investment values can reducefee income to our investment management business.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other Although the level of credit default increases We actively manage our exposure to default risks typesof counterparty the group is exposed in periods of low economic growth, an event within our bond portfolios, setting selection tothe risk of financial loss leading to widespread default among the issuers criteria and exposure limits, and using the Systemic corporate sector failures, or a major of investment grade debt is still considered to capabilities of LGIMs global credit team to sovereign debt event, could, in extreme be a more remote risk: however, we are closely ensure the risks are effectively controlled, and if scenarios, trigger defaults impacting the value monitoring a number of factors that may lead appropriate trade out to improve credit quality.
Under Solvency II, to a widening of credit spreads including the Within our property lending businesses, our loan awidespread widening of credit spreads and outlook for global interest rates, the effects of a criteria take account of both the default risk of downgrades can also result in a reduction in global slowdown on emerging markets, and the the borrower and the potential for adverse ourSolvency II balance sheet surplus, despite potential economic impacts of an unfavourable movements in the value of security.
In placing already setting aside significant capital for Brexit outcome for specific industrial and service reinsurance we set counterparty specific creditrisk.
We are also exposed to default sectors.
The UK residential property market is exposure limits, where appropriate taking risksindealing with banking, money market also showing signs of slowing confidence, collateral.
We manage risks to our Solvency II andreinsurance counterparties, aswell as although weakness on the supply side continues balance sheet through monitoring factors that settlement, custody and other bespoke business to ensure a degree of market resilience.
Whilst could give rise to a heightened level of default services.
A default by a counterparty could considered to be more extreme risk scenarios risk.
However, we can never completely eliminate expose us to both financial loss and operational in the current environment, factors that could default risks or their impacts to our Solvency II disruption of business processes.
Default risk increase the level of default risk, if they were to balance sheet, although we seek to hold a strong also arises where we undertake property occur, include a material deterioration in global balance sheet that we believe to be prudent for a lending, with exposure to loss if an accrued economic conditions: arenewed banking crisis: range of adverse scenarios.
Details of our credit debtexceeds the value of security taken.
and default on debt linked to emergingmarkets.
portfolios are on pages 161 to 165.
48 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Principal risks anduncertainties Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Changes in regulation or legislation may The regulatory regimes under which the group We are supportive of regulation in the markets haveadetrimental effect on our strategy operates continue to evolve.
In the UK, Solvency II inwhich we operate where it ensures trust and Legislation and government fiscal policy is now well established and whilst we do not confidence and can be a positive force on influence our product design, the period of envisage Brexit leading to immediate changes business.
We seek to actively participate with retention of products and required reserves for to the current capital regime, we continue to see government and regulatory bodies in the UK and future liabilities.
Regulation defines the overall refinement in rules by the PRA, for example in Europe to assist in the evaluation of change so as framework for the design, marketing, taxation the treatment of lifetime mortgages and other to develop outcomes that meet the needs of all and distribution of our products, and the illiquid assets, and the matching adjustment for stakeholders.
Internally, we evaluate change as prudential capital that we hold.
The FCA also continues to part of our formal risk assessment processes, changes in legislation or regulation may increase develop its approach to supervision, focusing on with material matters being considered at the our cost base, reduce our future revenues and consumer protection, market integrity and the Group Risk Committee and the Group Board.
impact profitability or require us to hold more promotion of competition, and we are preparing Ourinternal control framework seeks to ensure capital.
The prominence of the risk increases for the FCAs transition in 2021 from LIBOR to ongoing compliance with relevant legislation where change is implemented without prior SONIA.
There is also increasing regulatory andregulation.
We cannot, however, completely engagement with the sector.
The nature of interest in utilising current supervisory eliminate the risk that controls may fail or long-term business can also result in some frameworks to influence the transition to a thathistoric financial services industry accepted changes in regulation, and the re-interpretation lower-carbon economy.
The approach to, practices may be reappraised by regulators, of regulation over time, having a retrospective territory of and level of corporate taxation resulting in sanctionsagainst the group.
effect on in-force books of business, impacting also continues to be an area of political debate future cash generation.
internationally and in the specific jurisdictions in which we operate.
New entrants, or legislative change, We closely monitor the factors that may impact We continue to build our digital businesses, may disrupt the markets in which we operate the markets in which we operate, including including MyAccount: our SmartQuote and There is already strong competition in governmental initiatives, developing industry SmartClaim apps for household insurance: and ourmarkets, and although we have had practices and competitor activity.
Alongside the use of technology to transform our insurance considerable past success at building scale digital enabled changes to business operating product distribution reach in the US.
In asset tooffer low cost products, we recognise that models that enhance the customer experience, management alongside positioning the business markets remain attractive to new entrants.
In technology is being widely applied to achieve to protect existing market share, we are particular, as has been seen in other business cost savings and efficiencies for market accessing new markets and sources of funds, in sectors, itispossible that alternative digitally participants.
The UK government is also particular overseas.
In our pensions risk transfer enabled providers of financial services products consulting on a new legislative framework for business, where pricing is an important factor in emerge with lower cost business models or defined benefit superfund consolidation trustee purchasing decisions, our capabilities to innovative service propositions and capital schemes, that has potential to significantly assess risk and offer bespoke solutions enable structures, and disrupt the current competitive transform the operating environment for us to differentiate our offer from competitors, landscape.
Changes in regulation or legislation our asset management and pension risk and we believe that LGIM and LGRI are well can also influence the competitive landscape.
positioned for the next evolution of the defined benefit pensions market.
A material failure in our business processes Our plans for growth and the digitalisation Our risk governance model seeks to ensure that orITsecurity may result in unanticipated of our businesses, together with the regulatory business management are actively engaged in financialloss or reputation damage change agenda, inherently increase the profile of maintaining an appropriate control environment, We have constructed our framework of internal operational risks across our businesses.
We are supported by risk functions ledby the Group controls to minimise the risk of unanticipated also exposed to property construction and safety Chief Risk Officer, with independent assurance financial loss or damage to our reputation.
risks within our housing and future cities from Group Internal Audit.
The work of the Group However, no system of internal control can businesses.
We continue to invest in our system Audit Committee in the review of the internal completely eliminate the risk of error, financial capabilities and business processes to ensure control system is set out on page 68.
We loss, fraudulent actions or reputational damage.
that we meet the expectations of our customers: recognise, however, that residual risk will always We are also inherently exposed to the risk that comply with regulatory, legal and financial remain and have designed our risk governance third parties may seek to disrupt our online reporting requirements: and mitigate the risks framework to ensure that when adverse events business operations, steal customer data or ofloss or reputational damage from occur we can deploy appropriate responses.
perpetrate acts of fraud using digital media.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Governance A first-rate experience for the first Bucklers Park residents Ken and Tracy Perrett moved to a two-bedroom, two-storey semi-detached home in Bucklers Park, Crowthorne.
They were the very first residents to move to a new development delivered by Legal & General Homes.
We made the decision to move in May, and Bucklers Park was the first place we saw it was perfect.
We liked the Legal & General Homes way of doing things, we felt we could trust this business and its paid off.
We looked at the plans, put our name down and got a call a week later saying the house type we wanted was available.
Legal & General Homes helped us with the sale of our old place.
They employed the estate agents, we had all the valuations and agreed a price with them on the basis it would sell more quickly.
Ken and Tracys priority was for a simple move that would give them time to concentrate on the important things in life and thats the hassle-free experience they got.
Tracy explained: Ken hates decorating, so being able to move straight in and not have to do anything really appealed to us.
50 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Board of directors 52 Letter from the Chairman 56 Governance report 58 Nominations Committee report 64 Audit Committee report 66 Group Risk Committee report 70 Directors report on remuneration 72 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
