110 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Methodology Capital stress testing The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory requirements, Overview achieved through comprehensive construction of macroeconomic Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool by the Boards, scenarios and a rigorous divisional, functional, risk and executive review senior management, the businesses and the Risk and Finance functions and challenge process, supported by analysis and insight into impacts on of all parts of the Group and its legal entities.
It is fully embedded in the customers and business drivers.
planning process of the Group and its legal entities as a key activity in The engagement of all required business, Risk and Finance areas is medium-term planning, and senior management is actively involved in built into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of stress testing activities via a strict governance process.
each risk categorys impact upon the business plans is understood and Scenario stress testing is used for: documented.
The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress testing ensure that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic Risk Identification: scenarios, the business drivers for each area and the resultant stress testing Understand key vulnerabilities of the Group and its key legal entities outputs.
All material assumptions used in modelling are documented under adverse economic conditions.
and justified, with a clearly communicated review and sign-off process.
Modelling is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group Risk Appetite: Model Governance Policy.
Assess the results of the stress test against the risk appetite of all parts of the Group to ensure the Group and its legal entities are managed within Governance their risk parameters.
Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are assigned Inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks under to senior management and the Risk and Finance functions throughout stress conditions.
the Group and its key legal entities.
This is formalised through the Group Business Planning and Stress Testing Policy and Procedure, which are Strategic and Capital Planning: reviewed at least annually.
Allow senior management and the Boards of the Group and its The Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, chaired by the Chief Risk applicable legal entities to adjust strategies if the plan does not meet risk Officer and attended by the Chief Financial Officer and other senior Risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
and Finance colleagues, is the committee that has primary responsibility Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP for overseeing the development and execution of the Groups stress tests.
by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the requirements of Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets LBCM Risk Committee performs a similar regulatory stress tests that are used to inform the setting of the Prudential function within the scope of LBCM.
Regulation Authority PRA and management buffers see capital risk on The review and challenge of the Groups detailed stress forecasts, the pages 139 to 147 of the Group and its separately regulated legal entities.
key assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to translate Risk Mitigation: the economic assumptions into stressed outputs conclude with the divisional Finance Directors, appropriate Risk Directors and Managing Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans to Directors sign-off.
The outputs are then presented to GFRC and Board mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios.
Stress testing also links directly Risk Committee for review and challenge, before being approved by the to the recovery planning process of the Group and its legal entities.
There is a similar process within LBCM for the governance of the LBCM-specific results.
Regulatory stress tests In 2018 the Group participated in both the concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England BoE and in the European Banking Authoritys EBA How risk is managed in bi-annual EU-wide stress test.
The EBA stress test did not contain a pass Lloyds Banking Group fail threshold and as announced in November, the Group demonstrated The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF see risk overview, its ability to meet applicable capital requirements under stress conditions.
page30 is structured around the following components which meet and In the case of the BoE stress test, despite the severity of the scenario, the align with the industry-accepted internal control framework standards.
Group exceeded the capital and leverage hurdles after the application of management actions and as a consequence was not required to take any The RMF applies to every area of the business and covers all types of risk.
Itis reviewed, updated and approved by the Board at least annually to reflect any changes in the nature of our business and external regulations, Internal stress tests law, corporate governance and industry best practice.
The RMF provides the Group with an effective mechanism for developing and embedding On at least an annual basis, the Group conducts macroeconomic stress risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with tests of the operating plan, which are supplemented with higher level the risks faced by its businesses.
It also seeks to facilitate effective refreshes if necessary.
The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities communication on these matters across the Group.
of the Groups and its legal entities business plans to adverse changes in the economic environment, and to ensure that there are adequate financial Role of the Board and senior management resources in the event of a downturn.
Key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include: Reverse stress testing setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Groups approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies: and its key legal entities strategies and plans to extreme adverse events the cascade of delegated authority for example to Board that would cause the businesses to fail, in order to facilitate contingency sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive : and planning.
The scenarios used are those that would cause the businesses to effective oversight of risk management consistent with risk appetite.
be unable to carry on their activities.
Where reverse stress testing reveals plausible scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when considered Risk appetite against the Groups or its entities risk appetite, they will adopt measures to Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of risk prevent or mitigate that risk, which are then reflected in strategic plans.
that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate in delivering our Group Strategy see the Groups approach to risk page 106.
Other stress testing activity The Groups stress testing programme also involves undertaking Governance frameworks assessments of liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities and scenarios, The policy framework is founded on Board-approved key principles and business specific scenarios see the primary risk categories on pages for the overall management of risk in the organisation.
These are 114 to 159 for further information on risk-specific stress testing.
If required, aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite and based on a current ad hoc stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess emerging and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the risks, as well as in response to regulatory requests.
The principles are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies programme provides a comprehensive view of the potential impacts which define mandatory requirements for risk management and control.
arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects the These are consistently implemented across the Group.
nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy breaches are Risk and control cycle from identification to in place.
These include clear materiality criteria and escalation procedures reporting which ensure an appropriate level of visibility and prioritisation of remedial To allow senior management to make informed risk decisions, the actions.
business follows a continuous risk management approach which includes The risk committee governance framework is outlined on page 112. producing appropriate, accurate and focused risk reporting.
The risk and control cycle sets out how this should be approached, with the Three lines of defence model appropriate controls and processes in place.
This cycle, from identification The RMF is implemented through a three lines of defence model which to reporting, ensures consistency and is intended to manage and mitigate defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective the risks impacting the Group.
independent oversight and assurance activities take place covering key The process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated decisions.
into the overall framework for risk governance.
Risk identification Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions, processes are forward-looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas Risks are captured and measured using robust and consistent of accountability.
They are required to establish effective governance quantification methodologies.
The measurement of risks includes the and control frameworks for their business to be compliant with Group application of stress testing and scenario analysis, and considers whether policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, relevant controls are in place before risks are incurred.
mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite parameters Identified risks are reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as set and approved by the Board.
necessary to the appropriate committee.
The extent of the risk is Risk division second line is a centralised function, headed by the Chief compared to the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
Risk Officer, providing oversight and independent constructive challenge When thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, actions and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing, challenging and within given tolerances.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks and reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that mitigating risk events.
All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review CER annually, It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
The CER reports are by the Board that encompasses: approved at divisional risk committees or directly by the relevant member of the Group Executive Committee to confirm the accuracy of the oversighting embedding of effective risk management processes: assessment.
This key process is overseen and independently challenged transparent, focused risk monitoring and reporting: by Risk division, reviewed by Group Internal Audit against the findings of provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board, its assurance activities, and reported to the Board.
executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning, including pending regulatory changes: and Risk culture a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision of advice, Supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the underlying culture, development of common methodologies, understanding, education, or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what training, and development of new risk management tools.
constitutes good behaviour and good practice.
In order to effectively manage risk across the organisation, the functions encompassed within The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an the three lines of defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite, industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: business strategy and an understanding of and commitment to the role providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile for they play in delivering it.
A number of levers are used to reinforce the both current and emerging key risks, and associated management risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective actions: communication and challenge and an appropriately aligned performance proposing Group risk appetite to the Board for approval with input from incentive.
the business areas and Risk division, and overseeing performance of the Group against risk appetite: Risk resources and capabilities developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements for Appropriate mechanisms are in place to avoid over-reliance on key approval by the Board, and overseeing its execution and compliance: personnel or system technical expertise within the Group.
Adequate and resources are in place to serve customers both under normal working conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in place challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased if required.
and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills control framework.
and knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair outcomes for The Risk Directors reporting to the Chief Risk Officer: customers.
provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business: There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk type Groups investment in customer and product systems and processes.
frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting and regulatory requirements: leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and efficient compliance with relevant risk type risk appetites and policies: lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon scanning and regulatory development for their risk type: and recommend risk appetite and provide oversight of the associated risk profile across the Group.
The primary role of Group Internal Audit third line is to help the Board and executive management protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the Group.
Group Internal Audit is led by the Group Chief Internal Auditor.
Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board through performing reviews and engaging with committees executive management, providing opinion and challenge on risk and the state of the control environment.
Group Internal Audit is a single independent internal audit function, reporting to the Board Audit Committee of the Group and the Board Audit Committee of the key subsidiaries.
