108 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Emerging risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups operating plan.
Risk Key mitigating actions Regulatory and legal: The financial sector continues to witness an We work closely with regulatory authorities and industry bodies to ensure increased pace, volume and complexity of oversight and regulation from that the Group can identify and respond to the evolving regulatory and various bodies including government and regulators.
We actively implement programmes to deliver legal, regulatory and Increasing regulatory rules and laws from both the UK and overseas may mandatory change requirements.
affect the Groups operation, placing pressure on expert resource and investment priorities.
We have implemented a programme to assess the legal impacts and risks of an EU exit including a no deal outcome and to identify appropriate There continues to be uncertainty as to the impact of EU exit or the impact mitigants, such as establishing EU entities to ensure continuity of certain of a no deal outcome on the regulatory and legal landscape.
One impact of business activities.
EU exit will be that the UK loses its ability to make use of the EU Passport for provision of banking services into the EU.
Cyber: Increases in the volume and sophistication of cyber-attacks Continued investment and priority focus on the Groups Cyber alongside the growth in connected devices continues to heighten the Programme to ensure confidentiality and integrity of data and availability potential for cyber-enabled crime.
Key areas of focus relate to access controls, network security, disruptive technology, and denial of service capability.
Increases in geopolitical tensions increase the indirect threat of a Embedding of Group Cyber control framework aligned to industry sophisticated attack on the Group.
The capability of organised crime recognised cyber security framework NIST: National Institute of Standards groups is growing rapidly, which along with the commoditisation of cyberand Technology.
crime increases the likelihood that the Group or one of its suppliers will be the direct target of a sophisticated attack.
This increases the risk of the Three year cyber strategy to deliver an industry-leading approach across Groups exposure through the supplychain.
the Group and to embed innovation in our approach to cyber.
Increased business and colleague engagement through education and awareness, phishing testing and security culture initiatives.
Cyber risk is governed through all key risk committees and there are quarterly reviews of all cyberrisks.
Political uncertainties including EU exit: The continued lack of clarity over Internal contingency plans recalibrated and regularly reviewed for the UKs eventual relationship with the EU allied to ongoing challenges in potential strategic, operational and reputational impacts.
the Eurozone, including protests in France and changes in government in Engagement with politicians, officials, media, trade and other bodies to Italy, raise additional uncertainty for the UK economic outlook.
Growing reassure our commitment to Helping Britain Prosper.
public concern over perceived income inequality has also led to a rise in Specifically for the potential impacts of EU exit: political populism.
There also remains the possibility of a further referendum Executive forum considering and tracking developments and activity on Scottish independence.
Committed investments to establish new Group entities in the EU to There is a risk of a no deal EU exit outcome or a delay to EU exit, which ensure continuity of certain business activities, and contingency planning could result in continuing business uncertainty across the whole UK banking in relation to wider areas of impact sector.
Group Corporate Treasury tracking market conditions closely and actively managing the Groups balance sheet Credit applications and sector reviews include assessment of EU exit risk.
Initiatives to help clients effectively identify and manage associated risks Review of the Groups top EU suppliers to identify any impact on service provision and drive appropriate mitigating action No deal EU exit outcome analysed to identify impacts and assess robustness of the Groups contingency plans.
Competition: Adoption of technological trends is accelerating with The Group is transforming the business to improve customer experience customer preferences increasingly shaped by tech giants and other by digitising customer journeys and leveraging branches for complex challengers who are able to exploit their own infrastructure and are needs, in response to customers evolving needs and expectations.
impacted by different market dynamics.
Regulation is focusing on The Group will deepen insight into customer segments, their perception lowering barriers for new entrants, which could have an adverse impact of brands and what they value.
Agility will be increased by consolidating platforms and building new Operational complexity has the potential to restrict our speed of response architecture aligned with customer journeys.
Inability to leverage data and innovate could lead to loss The Group is responsive to changing customer behaviour business of market share as challengers capitalise on Open Banking.
Timely delivery models and adjusts its risk management approach as appropriate of GSR3 objectives remains key to addressing the competitive challenges GSR3 is designed to support the Group to strengthen its competitive position.
Data: Advancements in new technologies and new services, an increasing The Groups strategy is to introduce advanced data management external threat landscape, and changing regulatory requirements increase practices, based on Group-wide standards, data-first culture and the need for the Group to effectively govern, manage, and protect its data modern enterprise data platforms, supported by a simplified modern IT or the data shared with third-party suppliers.
Failure to manage data risk architecture.
will impact the accuracy, access to and availability of data, ultimately leading The Group has implemented Open Banking and actively monitors to poor customer outcomes, loss of value to the bank and reputational implications for our customers, including protection from fraud.
We are making a significant investment to improve data privacy, including the security of data and oversight of third-parties.
Macroeconomic headwinds: The UK economic outlook is uncertain.
Wide array of risks considered in setting strategic plans.
Business investment is lower than historical averages with early signs of Capital and liquidity are reviewed regularly through committees, ensuring pressure in Retail and high street sectors.
High levels of credit market compliance with risk appetite and regulatory requirements.
liquidity have reduced spreads and weakened terms in some sectors, creating a potential under-pricing of risk and heightened risk of a market correction.
These factors could lead to downward pressure on credit quality.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Risk Key mitigating actions Uncertainty remains over UK monetary policy, and tightening US monetary The Group has a robust through the cycle credit risk appetite, including policy is pressuring some emerging markets with potential spill over effects appropriate product, sector and single name concentration parameters, on growth and asset prices in other markets.
robust sector appetite statements and policies, as well as affordability and indebtedness controls at origination.
In addition to ongoing focused Policy tightening in the US and China has weakened global growth monitoring, we conduct portfolio deep dives and quarterly larger prospects: this is likely to bring a pause to US policy normalisation and exposure reviews.
We have enhanced our use of early warning indicators Chinese deleveraging of its high debt levels, in turn weakening crisis including sector specific indicators.
The Group is well positioned against an uncertain economic outlook and is able to withstand potential market volatility and or downturn due to its selective and pre-emptive credit tightening, robust affordability controls and close monitoring of internal and external trends.
Geopolitical shocks: Current uncertainties could further impede the global Risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank and non-bank economic recovery.
Global events, as well as terrorist activity including exposures complemented by a UK-focused strategy.
cyber-attacks, have the potential to trigger changes in the economic The Chief Security Office develops and maintains an Emerald Response outlook, market risk pricing and funding conditions.
Process to respond to external crisis events.
This is a rapid reaction group, incorporating Financial Stability Response where appropriate.
The Chief Security Office also maintains the operational resilience framework to embed resilience activities across the Group and limit the impact of internal or external events.
Hedging of market risk considers, inter alia, potential shocks as a result of geopolitical events.
Financial services transformation impact on customers: The risk that Group vulnerability strategy and associated actions being developed transformation of the financial services industry and the Group does not throughout the transformation programme.
As technology and innovation Digital principles are being agreed across the Group, primarily aimed move at increasing pace, the more vulnerable could be at a disadvantage.
at preventing material conduct residual risk and giving customers an optimal, informative and fair buying journey to mitigate the increased The increase in execution only propositions due to digitisation may lead to risks.
increased conduct risk where customers including vulnerable customers choose unsuitable products.
Our approach to customer segmentation will Technology risks, including those related to machine learning, are need to ensure conduct and reputational risks are well managed.
escalated and discussed through governance to ensure ongoing monitoring of any emerging unintended consequences.
Further, there is an emerging risk of unintended consequences within Emerging customer risks, including those pertaining to vulnerable decision-making undertaken by machine learning which could occur on customers, are managed through customer segmentation strategy a large scale in a short period of time, creating new operational risks that governance throughout the change lifecycle.
affect financial and non-financial outcomes, for example credit portfolio anomalies or conduct impacts.
This is relevant for the Group at present as the delivery of GSR3 utilises new technologies.
Climate change: The key risks associated with climate change are physical We have embedded Sustainability in our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and risks arising from climate and weather-related events, and transition risks, Group Property Objectives.
which are the financial risks resulting from the process of adjustment We are taking a strategic approach to align with the UK Governments towards a lower carbon economy.
Both of these risks may cause the Clean Growth Strategy and have committed to adopting the approach impairment of asset values and impact the creditworthiness of our clients, set out by the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-related which could result in currently profitable business deteriorating over the Financial Disclosures TCFD.
Conversely propositions currently outside of We are identifying new opportunities to support customers and clients appetite may constitute an acceptable opportunity in the future.
and to finance the UKs transition to a lower carbon economy.
There is increased focus on these risks by key stakeholders including We will embed sustainability into the way we do business and manage businesses, clients and investors, and the regulatory landscape is evolving our own operations in a more sustainable way, identifying and managing to reflect these risks.
material  risks across the Group, and disclosing these in line with the TCFD recommendations.
There is also a risk that campaign groups or other bodies could seek to take legal action including indirect action against the Group and or the financial We will ensure that appropriate training is provided to Relationship managers and Risk colleagues to enable them to have effective services industry for investing in or lending to organisations that they deem to be responsible for, or contributing to, climate change.
sustainability conversations with their clients.
Transition from IBORs to Alternative Risk Free Reference Rates: The Group is working closely with the Bank of England initiated Working Widely used benchmark rates, such as the London Interbank Offered Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates on the transition away from Rate LIBOR, have been subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny, with LIBOR in the UK.
regulators signalling the need to use alternative benchmark rates.
As a Maintain close engagement with the FCA on potential impacts.
result, existing benchmark rates may be discontinued or the basis on which Working closely with industry bodies to understand and manage the they are calculated may change.
impact of benchmark transition in other geographies.
There is uncertainty across the whole UK Banking sector as to the impact Transition project established and the appointment of an IBOR Transition such discontinuation or changes may have and they may adversely affect Director as accountable executive.
a broad array of financial products, including any LIBOR-based securities, Working with our customers to ensure they understand the risks or loans and derivatives.
outcomes they might face from transition.
Any discontinuation or changes could have important implications for both Establish a clear client communication strategy for all new IBOR linked the Group and our customers, for example: necessitating amendments to products.
Consider appropriate client communications for legacy existing documents and contracts: changes to systems and infrastructures: contracts as the market end-state position evolves.
and the possibility of disputes.
Implement an internal communication strategy and ensure that all relevant staff are aware and have the tools and training required.
