30 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk overview Effective risk management and control The Board is responsible for approving Our approach to risk Risk as a strategic differentiator the Groups risk appetite statement at As a Group, managing risk effectively is Risks are identified, managed and mitigated least annually.
Group Board-level metrics fundamental to our strategy and future using our comprehensive Risk Management are cascaded into more detailed business success.
We are a simple, low risk, UK-focused Framework, and our well-articulated risk appetite metrics and limits.
financial services provider with a culture appetite provides a clear framework for founded on strong risk management and decision-making.
The principal risks we face, Business focus and accountability a prudent through the cycle risk appetite.
which could significantly impact the delivery Risk management is an integral feature of Theseare at the heart of everything we do, of our strategy, are discussed onpages 32 how we measure and manage performance and ensure constructive challenge takes place to 35. for individuals, businesses and the Group.
across the business and underpins sustainable In the first line of defence, business units are We believe effective risk management can growth.
accountable for managing risk with oversight be a strategic differentiator, in particular: from a strong and independent second line Our approach to risk is founded on an effective Prudent approach to risk of defence Risk division.
control framework, which guides how our Being low risk is fundamental to our business colleagues work, behave and the decisions Effective risk analysis, management model and drives our participation choices.
As part of this framework, risk and reporting Strategy and risk appetite are developed in appetite the amount and type of risk that Regular close monitoring and tandem and together outline the parameters the Group is prepared to seek, accept or within which the Group operates.
comprehensive reporting to all levels tolerate in delivering our Group Strategy is of management and the Board ensures embedded in policies, authorities and limits Strong control framework appetite limits are maintained and subject across the Group.
The Groups Risk Management Framework to stressed analysis at a risk type and Our prudent risk culture and appetite, along is the foundation for the delivery of effective portfoliolevel, as appropriate.
with close collaboration between Risk division risk control and ensures that the Group and the business, supports decision-making risk appetite is continually developed and has enabled us to continue to deliver andcontrolled.
against our strategic priorities in 2018.
Our approach to risk plays a key role in the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers, colleagues andshareholders.
Our risk management framework The diagram below outlines the framework in place for risk management across the Group.
Accountability for ensuring risk is managed Confirmation of the effectiveness of consistently within the Risk Management the Risk Management Framework and Framework approved by the Board underlying risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy.
Approval of the Risk Management Framework and Group-wide Board Board authorities role risk principles Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles Through Board-delegated executive authorities to be recommended to the Board.
Be exemplars Senior there is effective oversight of risk management management role of risk management consistent with risk appetite Determined by the Board and senior management.
The risk appetite framework ensures our risks are Business units formulate their strategy in line with Risk appetite managed in line with our risk appetite the Groups risk appetite Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide Supports a consistent approach to enterprise-wide behaviour and risk decision-making.
Consistency Governance framework is delivered through the policy framework and risk behaviour and decision-making committee structures Maintains a robust control framework, Monitoring, oversight and assurance ensure Three lines of defence identifying and escalating emerging risks and effective risk management across the Group supporting sustainable growth Risk and control cycle Defined processes exist to identify, measure and Carried out by all three lines of defence and is an from identification to reporting control our current and emerging risks integral part of our control effectiveness assessment Risk Risk resources In line with our code of responsibility.
Culture Processes and infrastructure are being invested in to culture and capabilities ensures performance, risk and reward are aligned further improve our risk management capabilities Risk-specific needs defined in detail for Primary risk categories Risk type specific sub-frameworks e. g. credit risk implementation by each business Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 We are simplifying and modernising Data 2018 themes our IT architecture, alongside deploying Our Group is trusted with large volumes Our priorities for risk management have technologies such as cloud computing which of data, which must be protected, whilst continued to evolve, alongside progression offer greater levels of resilience, capacity providing customers with ease of access of the Groups strategy and development of management and speed of processing.
We through our multichannel model.
Data is our external factors.
are a member of the UKs Cyber Defence most valuable asset and so we must ensure Our principal risks are outlined over the next Alliance, where a number of UKbased banks that the information we hold is accurate, few pages but a number of themes have and law enforcement agencies collaborate secure and managed appropriately.
Wemeet been particularly prevalent in 2018. in the fight against cyberattacks, sharing the requirements of the General Data expertise, intelligence and knowledge.
EU exit Protection Regulation GDPR that came into Within Lloyds Banking Group, our Chief Given the vast majority of our business is in force in May 2018.
The Group has taken this Security Office engenders a culture whereby opportunity to implement new governance the UK, the direct impact on the Group from colleagues are considered to be our first line leaving the EU is relatively small and we are structures and demonstrate increased of defence.
Vigilance and training are key to levels of accountability and transparency, well prepared to ensure continuity of our preventing cyberattacks.
as establishing trust is critical to our vision of being the best bank for customers.
Given our UK focus, our performance is Sustainability Wehave created a Group Data Protection inextricably linked to the health of the UK The Group has been developing its Office GDPO to independently oversee economy.
Economic performance has sustainability strategy, to address more compliance, reporting on this to Group and remained resilient in recent years and broadly the opportunities and threats Board Risk Committees.
whilst the near term outlook for the UK related to climate change, and the need for economy remains unclear given the ongoing The Group drives a culture of compliance the UK to transition to a sustainable, lower EU withdrawal negotiations, we have through its Data Privacy policy and control carbon economy.
This is in line with our contingency plans in place.
framework and has implemented robust commitment to implement the Task Force We have also taken a prudent approach to governance to oversee compliance with for Climaterelated Financial Disclosures our balance sheet, increasing the amount of GDPR, as well as enhanced staff training.
For risk management, liquidity held and pre funding some issuance.
During 2019 the Group will continue to drive addressing the potential impacts of climate enhancements to the maturity of our data Irrespective of the outcome, our customer change plays a key role in our approach to control environment.
focused strategy remains the right one.
sustainability, and this year we have identified We will continue to support our personal climate change as a top emerging risk.
Cyber and business customers and have already Cyber threats are increasingly complex and announced that we will lend up to 18 billion like all financial services providers, attempts to UK businesses in 2019, reaffirming our are made on a regular basis to attack our support for the UK economy.
systems and services, and to steal customer Guided by the overriding principle of Helping and bank data.
Given the significant threat Britain Prosper, we will seek to minimise the we continue to strengthen the resilience of Emerging risks page 108 impact on our customers.
We have also been our IT systems and invest in our cyber control Operational risk page 136 working hard to ensure we are well prepared framework.
to provide customers with effective and Sustainability strategy page 24 timely support.
Environmental risk management page 135 Risk management enhancing the customer experience We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to protect our customers, colleagues and the Group, whilst enabling sustainable growth.
We are able to fulfil this purpose whilst also supporting the Groups strategic priorities and delivering better outcomes for customers.
Here are some of the ways we have contributed to the Groups strategic priorities and enhancing the customer experience this year.
Credit risk Operational risk Leading customer experience Maximising the Groups Digitising the Group Transforming ways of working We are committed to adapting to capabilities Deploying new technology to Our nationwide Fraud analytics changing customer expectations.
We remain committed to make banking simpler and safer and insight team looks after the systems which detect fraud for With increasing competition and supporting our customers and for customers is a key priority for digital propositions in the market, their businesses across the the Group.
customers expect great service country.
We have already implemented The team has embraced agile and a frictionless experience.
Within Commercial Banking we a number of significant working due to the nature of its look specifically at how industry enhancements across various role: at short notice they might This year Risk division increased the use of automated property risks impact success, and tailor products and services.
For be called upon to respond to advice and lending based on example, from a risk perspective a new fraud attack, which can valuations for the mortgage application process through the dynamics of a segment or we have changed how we require working long hours or sector.
One such example is in authenticate suspicious into the night.
The team also Halifax, reducing the time it takes for us to offer customers our SME dairy sector which has transactions across personal supports a large number of the experienced significant pressures debit and credit cards.
Rather Groups change programmes, a mortgage to buy a property by an average of one week.
By due to falling milk prices.
Our than decline the payment and often working outside regular relationship managers and request that the customer hours.
To meet the needs of speeding up this part of the process and removing an extra risk teams have been working contact us, we send a text with the colleague, the team and the together to understand each a unique code which enables Group, working patterns are step, our customers have more time to focus on what matters clients farm and its changing our customer to quickly and agreed on an individual basis.
needs so we can provide the easily verify that the transaction most during lifechanging events There has been a strong such as buying a home.
This has helped reduction in fraud losses over the be through extending working to protect our customers and last five years: while some of this capital or restructuring facilities, made the experience simpler is due to investment in systems, in order to drive better outcomes by communicating in a method we place great reliance on having for the businesses we serve.
well trained, engaged and Strategic priorities pages 12 to 15 motivated teams.
32 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our principal risks The most significant risks which could impact the delivery of our long-term strategic objectives and our approach to each risk are detailed below.
There remains continued uncertainty Credit Regulatory and legal around both the UK and global political and The risk that parties with whom we have The risk that the Group is exposed to financial macroeconomic environment.
The potential contracted, fail to meet their financial loss, fines, censure, or legal or enforcement impacts of external factors have been obligations both on and off balance sheet.
action: or to civil or criminal proceedings in considered in all principal risks to ensure the courts or equivalent and or the Group any material uncertainties continue to be Example is unable to enforce its rights due to failing monitored and are appropriately mitigated.
to comply with applicable laws including Observed or anticipated changes in the As part of the Groups ongoing assessment codes of practice which could have legal economic environment could impact of the potential implications of the UK leaving implications, regulations, codes of conduct profitability due to an increase in delinquency, the European Union, the Group continues or legal obligations, or a failure to adequately defaults, write-downs and or expected credit to consider the impact to its customers, manage actual or threatened litigation, losses colleagues and products as well as including criminal proceedings.
legal, regulatory, tax, financial and capital Key mitigating actions implications.
Example Credit policy, incorporating prudent lending Principal risks and uncertainties are reviewed Failure to deliver key regulatory changes or to criteria, aligned with Board-approved risk and reported regularly.
As part of a review of comply with ongoing requirements appetite, to effectively manage risk the Groups risk categories, the secondary risk categories of Change, Data management and Key mitigating actions Robust risk assessment and credit sanctioning Operational resilience have been elevated to ensure we lend appropriately and Implementation of compliance and legal risk to primary risk categories, and Strategic responsibly management policies and procedures to risk has been included as a new primary risk Extensive and thorough credit processes and ensure appropriate controls and processes category, in the Groups Risk Management controls to ensure effective risk identification, are in place to comply with legislation, rules Framework.
These changes will be embedded management and oversight and regulation during 2019 and reflected within the Groups principalrisks.
During the year we strengthened affordability Embedding Group-wide processes to monitor Full analysis of risk categories page 114 buffers and improved controls to restrict ongoing compliance with new legislation, lending to consumers with higher risk of rules and regulation over-indebtedness Continued investment in people, processes, Effective, well-established governance training and IT to help meet our legal and process supported by independent credit risk regulatory commitments oversight and assurance Ongoing engagement with regulatory Early identification of signs of stress leading to authorities and industry bodies on prompt engagement with the customer forthcoming regulatory changes, market reviews and investigations, ensuring Key risk indicators programmes are established to deliver new regulation and legislation 937m 9,215m Ongoing horizon scanning to identify changes 1 in regulatory and legal requirements Impairment charge Stage 3 assets 2017: 795m 1 Jan 2018: 9,055m Key risk indicators Alignment to strategic priorities and future focus 993m Maximising the Groups capabilities Mandatory, legal and regulatory investment spend 2017: 886m We seek to support sustainable growth in our targeted segments.
We have a conservative Alignment to strategic priorities and well-balanced credit portfolio, managed and future focus through the economic cycle and supported by strong credit portfolio management.
Delivering a leading customer experience We are committed to better addressing our We are committed to operating sustainably customers banking needs through consistent, and responsibly, and commit significant fair and responsible credit risk decisions, resource and expense to ensure we meet our aligned to customers circumstances, whilst legal and regulatory obligations.
staying within prudent risk appetite.
We respond as appropriate to impending Impairments remain below long-term levels legislation, regulation and associated and are expected to increase as the level consultations and participate in industry of write-backs and releases reduces and bodies.
We continue to be proactive in impairments normalise.
responding to significant ongoing and new 1 Underlying total gross lending.
legislation, regulation and court proceedings.
Read more pages 115 to 135 Read more page 135 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Conduct Operational People The risk of customer detriment due to poor We face significant operational risks which Key people risks include the risk that we fail design, distribution and execution of products may disrupt services to customers, cause to maintain organisational skills, capability, and services or other activities which could reputational damage, and result in financial resilience and capacity levels in response to undermine the integrity of the market or loss.
These include the availability, resilience organisational, political and external market distort competition leading to unfair customer and security of our core IT systems, unlawful change and evolving business needs.
outcomes, regulatory censure and financial or inappropriate use of customer data, theft Example and reputational loss.
of sensitive data, fraud and financial crime threats, and the potential for failings in our Inability to attract or retain colleagues with Example customer processes.
key skills could impact the achievement of The most significant conduct cost in recent business objectives Example years has been PPI mis-selling Key mitigating actions The dynamic threat posed by cyber risk to the Key mitigating actions confidentiality and integrity of electronic data Focused action to attract, retain and develop or the availability of systems Conduct policies and procedures are in place high calibre people.
Delivering initiatives to to ensure appropriate controls and processes reinforce behaviours which generate the best Key mitigating actions that deliver fair customer outcomes outcomes for customers and colleagues Investing in enhanced cyber controls to Conduct risk appetite metrics provide a Managing organisational capability and protect against external threats to the granular view of how our products and capacity to ensure there are the right skills and confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, services are performing for customers through resources to meet our customers needs or the availability of systems, and to ensure the customer lifecycle effective third-party assurance Effective remuneration arrangements to Product approval, continuous product review promote appropriate colleague behaviours Enhancing the resilience of systems that support processes and customer outcome testing in and meet regulatory expectations critical business processes with independent place across products and services verification of progress on an annual basis During 2018 we enhanced our colleague Learning from past mistakes through root wellbeing strategies to ensure support is Significant investment in compliance with cause analysis in place to meet colleague needs, and to General Data Protection Regulation and Basel help achieve the skills and capability growth Clear customer accountabilities for Committee on Banking Supervision standards required to build a workforce for the Bank of colleagues, with rewards driven by customerWorking with industry bodies and law the Future centric metrics enforcement agencies to identify and combat Key risk indicators Further enhancements and embedding of our fraud and money laundering framework to support all customers, including Key risk indicators those in vulnerable circumstances 79% 1 Values and behaviours index Key risk indicators 2017: 80% 99.97% Availability of core systems 92.5% Alignment to strategic priorities 2017: 99.98% Conduct risk appetite metric performance-Group and future focus Alignment to strategic priorities 2017: 92.3% Transforming ways of working and future focus Alignment to strategic priorities Regulatory requirements relating to personal Delivering a leading customer experience and future focus accountability and remuneration rules could We recognise that resilient and secure affect the Groups ability to attract and retain Delivering a leading customer experience technology, and appropriate use of data, the calibre of colleagues required to meet As we transform our business, minimising is critical to delivering a leading customer changing customer needs.
We recognise the conduct risk is critical to achieving our experience and maintaining trust across the challenges in delivering the Groups strategic strategic goals and meeting regulatory wider industry.
priorities and we will continue to invest in standards.
The availability and resilience of IT systems the development of colleague capabilities We have senior committees that ensure our remains a key strategic priority and the Cyber and agile working practices.
This investment focus on embedding a customer-centric programme continues to focus on enhancing will deliver a leading customer experience culture and delivering fair outcomes across cyber security controls.
Internal programmes and allow the Group to respond quickly to the Group.
Further enhancements to ensure that data is used correctly, and the customers rapidly changing decision-making our conduct risk framework continue to control environment is regularly assessed in a digital era.
support this through robust and effective through both internal and third-party testing.
1 Formerly known as Best bank for customers index.
Together these Read more pages 136 to 138 Read more page 138 support our vision of being the best bank for customers, enabling the delivery of a leading customer experience through effective root cause analysis and learning from customer feedback.
Read more page 136 34 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our principal risks continued Insurance underwriting Capital Funding and liquidity Key insurance underwriting risks within the The risk that we have a sub-optimal quantity or Funding risk is the risk that we do not have Insurance business are longevity, persistency quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently sufficiently stable and diverse sources of and property insurance.
Longevity risk is deployed across the Group.
Liquidity risk is the risk that we have expected to increase as our presence in the insufficient financial resources to meet our Example bulk annuity market increases.
commitments as they fall due.
A worsening macroeconomic environment Example Example could lead to adverse financial performance, Uncertain property insurance claims impact which could deplete capital resources A deterioration in either the Groups or the Insurance earnings and capital, e. g. extreme and or increase capital requirements due to a UKs credit rating, or a sudden and significant weather conditions, such as flooding, can deterioration in customers creditworthiness withdrawal of customer deposits, would result in high property damage claims adversely impact our funding and liquidity Key mitigating actions position Key mitigating actions A comprehensive capital management Key mitigating actions Strategic decisions made consider the framework that includes setting of capital risk maintenance of the current well-diversified appetite and dividend policy Holding liquid assets to cover potential cash portfolio of insurance risks and collateral outflows and to meet regulatory Close monitoring of capital and leverage requirements.
In addition, maintaining a Processes for underwriting, claims ratios to ensure we meet regulatory further pool of assets that can be used to management, pricing and product design requirements and risk appetite access central bank liquidity facilities seek to control exposure.
Experts in Comprehensive stress testing analyses to demographic risk for example longevity Undertaking daily monitoring against a evidence capital adequacy support the propositions number of market and Group-specific early warning indicators Key risk indicators Reinsurance and other risk transfer arrangements are actively reviewed for their Maintaining a contingency funding plan efficacy, including monitoring the strength of detailing actions and strategies available in 13.9% 5.6% third-parties with whom the risk is shared stressed conditions 1 Common equity tier 1 UK leverage ratio 1,2 Key risk indicators ratio 2017: 5.4% Key risk indicators 2017: 13.9% 14,384m 690m 129bn 107% Alignment to strategic priorities Insurance Life and Pensions General Insurance and future focus LCR eligible assets Loan to deposit ratio present value of new underwritten 2017: 121bn 1 Jan 2018: 107% business premiums total gross written Maximising the Groups capabilities 2017: 9,951m premiums Alignment to strategic priorities Ensuring we hold an appropriate level of 2017: 733m and future focus capital to maintain financial resilience and market confidence underpins our strategic Alignment to strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities objectives of supporting the UK economy, and future focus We maintain a strong funding position in line and growth in targeted segments through Delivering a leading customer experience with our low risk strategy, and the loan to thecycle.
deposit ratio remains within our target range.
We are committed to meeting the changing Our funding position allows the Group to 2 CET1 ratio after ordinary dividends and share buyback.
needs of customers by working to provide grow targeted business segments, and better a range of insurance products via multiple Read more pages 139 to 147 address our customers needs.
The focus is on delivering a leading Read more pages 147 to 152 customer experience by helping customers protect themselves today whilst preparing for a secure financial future.
Strategic growth initiatives within Insurance are developed and managed in line with a defined risk appetite, aligned to the Group risk appetite and strategy.
Read more pages 138 to 139 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Governance Market Model Against a background of increased regulatory The risk that our capital or earnings profile is The risk of financial loss, regulatory censure, focus on governance and risk management, affected by adverse market rates, in particular reputational damage or customer detriment, the most significant challenges arise interest rates and credit spreads in the as a result of deficiencies in the development, from ensuring that the Group continues banking business, equity and credit spreads in application and ongoing operation of models to demonstrate compliance with the the Insurance business, and credit spreads in and rating systems.
requirements to ring-fence core UK financial the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
Example services and activities, the potential impact Examples of EU exit and further requirements under The consequences of inadequate models the Senior Manager & Certification Regime Earnings are impacted by our ability to could include: inappropriate levels of capital SM&CR.
forecast and model customer behaviour or impairments: inappropriate credit or pricing accurately and establish appropriate hedging decisions: and adverse impacts on funding or Examples strategies liquidity, or the Groups earnings and profits Inadequate or complex governance The Insurance business is exposed indirectly Key mitigating actions arrangements to address ring-fencing to equity risk through the value of future requirements and the potential impact management charges on policyholder A comprehensive model risk management of EU exit could result in a weaker control funds.
Credit spread risk within the Insurance framework environment, delays in decision-making and business primarily arises from bonds and loans lack of clear accountability Defined roles and responsibilities, with clear used to back annuities ownership and accountability Non-compliance with, or breaches of SM&CR Narrowing credit spreads will increase the cost requirements could result in lack of clear Principles regarding the requirements of of pension scheme benefits accountability, and legal and regulatory data integrity, development, validation, consequences implementation and ongoing maintenance Key mitigating actions Regular model monitoring Key mitigating actions Structural hedge programmes implemented Independent review of models to manage liability margins and margin To meet ring-fencing requirements, core UK compression Periodic validation and re-approval of models financial services and activities have been Equity and credit spread risks are closely ring-fenced from other activities of the Group Key risk indicators and an appropriate control environment and monitored and, where appropriate, asset and liability matching is undertaken governance structures are in place to ensure compliance N A The Groups defined benefit pension schemes A dedicated change programme is in place and continue to monitor their credit allocation as Alignment to strategic priorities well as the hedges in place against nominal addressing the additional SM&CR requirements and future focus which will come into force during2019 rate and inflation movements Digitising the Group A dedicated programme is in place to assess Key risk indicators and address the potential impacts of EU exit The Groups models play a vital role in on the Groups operations in Europe.
The supporting Group strategy to ensure 1,146m Group is in close and regular contact with profitable growth in targeted segments IAS 19 Pension surplus regulators to develop and deploy our planned and the Groups drive toward automation 2017: 509m operating and legal structure to mitigate the and digital solutions to enhance customer potential impacts of EU exit outcomes.
Model risk management helps Alignment to strategic priorities ensure these models are implemented in Evolving risk and governance arrangements and future focus a controlled and safe manner for both the to ensure they continue to be appropriate to Group and customers.
Maximising the Groups capabilities comply with regulatory objectives Read more page 159 We actively manage our exposure to Key risk indicators movements in market rates, to drive lower volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive customer proposition with hedging strategies N A to support strategic aims.
Mitigating actions Alignment to strategic priorities are implemented to reduce the impact of and future focus market movements, resulting in a more stable capital position.
Effective interest rate and Delivering a leading customer experience inflation hedging has kept volatility in the Ring-fencing ensures that we are safer and Groups defined benefit pension schemes continue to deliver a leading customer low.
This combined with improved market experience by providing further protection conditions has helped keep the schemes in to core retail and SME deposits, increasing IAS 19 surplus in 2018.
This allows us to more transparency of our operations and facilitating efficiently utilise available capital resources the options available in resolution.
to better enable the Group to maximise its capabilities.
Our governance framework and strong culture Read more pages 154 to 159 of ownership and accountability enabled effective, on time, compliance with the SM&CR requirements and enable us to demonstrate clear accountability for decisions.
Read more page 153 36 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial results Summary of Group results 37 Divisional results 44 Other financial information 48 Helping students from low income backgrounds to aim high Since its inception in 2011, nearly 900 students have benefited The bursary support is from our Lloyds Scholars programme, which provides the financial extremely valuable to me.
It c. 900 support they need to study at university along with a package of means that I do not have to feel young people have support, including mentoring and internships.
Oxford University has anxious about making financial benefited from our welcomed 94 Lloyds Scholars so far, and those who have taken the Lloyds Scholars decisions such as joining new programme are very positive about the experience.
To encourage programme clubs and societies, and I feel school pupils to consider applying to top universities, whatever their background and financial circumstances, Lloyds Banking Group has like it puts me on a level playing also supported the IntoOxford project.
This gives Year 10 students field with everyone else.
I also the chance to spend a day at an Oxford college, develop their appreciate that a firm genuinely study skills for GCSEs in a workshop and get help with university wants to help my development background information.
Our Lloyds Scholars programme has and it is not simply about taking recently been awarded Highest Impact Employer Initiative in the up a job with them at the end, 2018 upReach Student Social Mobility Awards.
as it allows me to be more open with my mentor about my personal development.
Suzanne Norman, Law, Jesus College visit lloydsbankinggroup.
