LondonMetric Property Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management Our risk management procedures reduce the negative impact of risk on the business.
They are critical to maintaining our sustainable, progressive earnings and long term capital growth whilst operating in a socially responsible manner.
Although risk cannot be eliminated completely the Boards risk tolerance is low where it prejudices these objectives.
Risk management structure and processes The table below illustrates our risk management structure.
Has ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal controls Considers the long term viability of the business Sets strategic objectives and considers risk as part of this process Board Determines risk appetite Sets delegated authority limits for the Executive Committee Responsible for detailed assurance on risk Audit Committee management, internalcontrols and viability Reports to the Board Identies risks Executive Committee Assesses and quanties risks Implements and monitors risk mitigation processes Senior Management Assist the Executive Committee The Board recognises its overall Committee last considered the register weighting is applied the higher responsibility for undertaking a robust at its March 2018 meeting following a the signicance and probability risk assessment and the extent to comprehensive review of the register.
These weightings are then which it is willing to accept some mathematically combined to The Executive Committee is responsible level of risk in achieving its strategy.
produce an overall gross risk rating for the ongoing identication of risk It considers risk at a high level at which is colour coded using a traffic and the design, implementation each meeting via a risk dashboard light system.
Risk specic safeguards and maintenance of robust internal which enables material issues to are identied, detailed in the register control systems assisted by senior be monitored so that key risks can and rated as strong, medium or management.
Appropriate mitigation be managed and emerging risks weak.
The stronger the safeguard, plans are developed based on identied early with appropriate the greater the weighting applied.
an assessment of the impact action taken to remove or reduce The gross risk rating and strength of the and likelihood of a risk occurring.
their likelihood and any potential safeguards against that risk are then Executive Committee members are negative impact.
combined to produce a resultant closely involved in day to day matters.
Consideration is given The responsibility for detailed The Company has a small number to the implementation of further assurance on the risk management of employees and operates from action to reduce risk where necessary.
process has been delegated by one office.
This and the relatively at Finally, every risk is allocated an owner the Board to the Audit Committee.
management structure enable risks and details of how the safeguards are The Audit Committee reviews the to be swiftly identied so appropriate evidenced is noted.
The risk register Companys risk register and internal responses can be put in place.
is comprehensively reviewed at least controls in detail to consider the Within the risk register, specic risks are once a year.
effectiveness of risk management and identied and their probability rated internal control processes and reports by management as having either a its findings to the Board.
The Audit high, medium or low impact.
A greater Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Our three risk areas We consider risks under three main headings but recognise that they are often inextricably interlinked.
These relate to the Group as a whole Strategy, market, systems, employees, wider stakeholders, Corporate risks regulatory, social and environmental responsibilities These focus on the Groups core business Portfolio composition and management, developments, Property risks valuation andoccupiers These focus on how the business Investors, joint ventures, debt and cash management Financing risk operations are funded Corporate governance and The chart below illustrates the Principal risks reporting bodies are increasing their probability and post mitigation Principal risks and uncertainties are focus on environmental, social and residual risk level of the principal risks those that affect our business with governance ESG issues and how which have been identied.
They are the potential to cause material companies take into account wider categorised in a manner consistent harm, impact our ability to execute stakeholder interests.
These priorities with the Boards risk dashboard which our strategic priorities or exceed have been broadly repeated in it considers ateach meeting.
They are recent public statements from large identied and reported on in pages institutional investors.
To provide 50 to 59. greater clarity and acknowledge that No new principal risks have been ESG concerns have become more identied and at a corporate level mainstream we have split out non there has been no significant increase compliance with responsible business or decrease in any principal risk during practices from non compliance with the year.
We do not however consider that the overall risk has changed materially.
Post mitigation residual risk Corporate risks 1 Strategy 2 Economic and political factors 3 Human resources 4 Regulatory and tax framework 5 Responsible Business approach 2 6 Systems, processes and nancialmanagement 9 7 10 Property risks 8 7 Investment risk 8 Development risk 4 9 Valuation risk 10 Transaction and tenant risk 5 3 11 Financing risk 6 11 Capital and finance risk 1 Low Medium High Potential impact Probability Low Medium High LondonMetric Property Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Corporate risks 1 Strategy Risk Impact Mitigation Our strategic objectives may be: Suboptimal returns for Our strategy and objectives are regularly shareholders reviewed by the Board to adapt to change Inappropriate for the current Missed opportunities We commission retail and logistics related economic climate or market cycle Ineffective threat research to assist strategic decision making Not achieved due to poor management Senior management have extensive financial and implementation Wrong balance of real estate experience with strong, longstanding skills and resources for retailer relationships Appetite ongoingsuccess We have a UK only portfolio in a world leading online shopping market The Board view the Companys Impact on strategy We undertake regular and rigorous portfolio strategic priorities as fundamental reviews which take into account considerations toitsbusiness and reputation.
such as sector weightings, tenant and geographical concentrations, perceived threats and market changes, balance of income to non-income producing assets and asset management opportunities Our three year forecast is regularly exed andreported The Executive Directors are closely involved in day to day management and a relatively at organisational structure operating from one office makes it easier to identify market changes and monitor operations Managements interests are aligned with external shareholders through their substantial shareholdings 2 Economic and political factors Risk Impact Mitigation Economic and political factors may Suboptimal returns for We commission economic and market research lead to a market downturn or specic shareholders and monitor marketvolatility sector turbulence.
Occupier demand We have limited exposure to the London market and solvency may be The majority of our portfolio is in resilient impacted assetclasses Appetite Asset liquidity may reduce We maintain a high weighted average unexpired Market conditions are outside of the Debt markets may be lease term reducing re-letting risk Companyscontrol.
impacted We have a low vacancy rate due to our strict investment and development criteria Impact on strategy Our occupier base is diverse.
Acquisition due diligence considers tenant covenant strength, which is then monitored on an ongoing basis.
Strong retailer relationships help to provide marketintelligence We have limited exposure to speculative development which is only undertaken where aresearched supply demand imbalance exists We have medium term, exible funding with significant headroom in covenant levels Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Our portfolio is We focus on We manage, enhance Our expertise and aligned to modern sustainable and and create property relationships shape shoppinghabits growing income ina responsible way our decisionmaking Commentary Change Read more 91% of the portfolio is now in our preferred sectors of No significant See Our Story on distribution, long income and convenience retail.
These change in risk pages01 to 09 sectors have proved to be resilient and have real prospects There has been no significant See Chief Executives for rental and capital growth driven by structural changes change in this risk during review on pages 15 in consumer shopping habits.
Logistics space is still heavily theyear.
Having successfully anticipated the See Remuneration migration of consumer spending online, our sector choices onpage 102 have resulted in like for like rental growth of 4.3% this year Executive Directors hold 10.7 million shares and comfortably meet the Companys high shareholdingtargets Commentary Change Read more Our portfolio metrics continue to be strong.
Our average No significant See Chief Executives unexpired lease length is 12.4 years and occupancy 97.5%, change in risk review on pages 15 both high within the industry.
Only 6% of our income expires to 19 While there has been no within three years significant change in this risk See Property review We have further diversied our tenant base this year.
at a corporate level during onpages 26 to 33 Our top five tenants, which account for 35% of rent, are the year, a nely balanced nancially strong UK General Election result Our exposure to the stagnated London residential market and lack of clarity on through our 40% interest in Moore House has reduced.
Brexit arrangements mean Asattodays date only 37 units remain unsold continuing political and We exited our last remaining, non core office asset at economic uncertainty.
The Marlow during the year Board has limited controls Although our portfolio is UK only, we acknowledge that over such external factors Brexit uncertainty could impact occupier near term but will continue to monitor decision making them.
Our strategy to closely align our portfolio to rapidly changing consumer shopping habits mean structural drivers in demand for our assets continue to outweigh these uncertainties at present.
LondonMetric Property Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Corporate risks continued 3 Human resources Risk Impact Mitigation There may be an inability to attract, The business may lack We maintain an organisational structure with motivate and retain high calibre the skill set to establish clear responsibilities and reporting lines employees.
and deliver strategy and Our remuneration structure and incentive maintain a competitive arrangements are aligned with long term advantage.
performance targets for the business Appetite Senior management have significant The Board believes it is vitally Impact on strategy shareholdings in the business important that the Company has Annual appraisals identify training requirements the appropriate level of leadership, and assess performance expertise and experience to deliver Specialist support is contracted itsobjectives and adapt to change.
whereappropriate Our staffing plan focuses on experience and expertise necessary to deliverstrategy There is a phased refreshment plan for NonExecutive Directors 4 Regulatory and tax framework Risk Impact Mitigation Non compliance with legal or Reputational damage We monitor regulatory changes that impact regulatory obligations.
Potential loss of REIT status our business with support from specialist Increased costs consultants, on issues such as health and safety, Reduced access to debt employment, data protection and anti-corruption Appetite and capital markets relatedlegislation The Board has no appetite where non Fines, penalties, sanctions We have allocated responsibility for specic compliance risks injury or damage to obligations to individuals with Executive its broad range of stakeholders, assets Impact on strategy Committee oversight andreputation.
Our health and safety handbook is regularly updated and health and safety audits are carried out on developments Our procurement and supply chain policy sets standards for areas such as labour, human rights, pollution risk and community Staff training is provided on wide ranging issues such as those identiedabove We use external tax specialists to provide advice Our REIT compliance is monitored We consider the impact of legislative changes onstrategy Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Our portfolio is We focus on We manage, enhance Our expertise and aligned to modern sustainable and and create property relationships shape shoppinghabits growing income ina responsible way our decisionmaking Commentary Change Read more During the year the Board undertook an externally No significant See Responsible facilitated performance evaluation: its findings were change in risk Business on page 45 extremely positive There has been no significant See Remuneration The Chairmans letter of appointment has been extended change in perceived risk report on pages 88 for a further three years with a mutual six month rolling from2017.
to103 breakoption See Nomination We have diversied the Boards skill base through the Committee report appointment of Suzanne Avery who has extensive onpages 74 to 79 financial, banking and real estate experience.
Succession planning and diversity remain high on the Boards agenda for 2019 A number of exible working initiatives have been introduced to improve employee wellbeing The Executive Directors have significant unvested share awards in the Company to incentivise performance and retention providing stability to the management structure Senior managers are incentivised in a similar way to the Executive Directors Commentary Change Read more During the year a re risk assessment was undertaken No significant See Financial review on our entire portfolio.
change in risk onpage 36 Allproperties were rated as low risk The Board considers this risk to See Responsible In response to the introduction of new legislation against have remained broadly similar Business onpages 45 the criminal facilitation of tax evasion and GDPR we during the year.
There has and 46 have undertaken detailed mapping and risk assessment however been an increase in exercises, made changes to some of our policies management time diverted and processes with assistance from Jones Day, our to new regulations and legaladvisors evolving best practice due to the ow of recent changes which impact the business.
LondonMetric Property Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Corporate risks continued 5 Responsible Business approach Risk Impact Mitigation Non compliance with responsible Reputational damage.
We monitor changes in law, stakeholder business practices.
Suboptimal returns for sentiment and best practice in relation shareholders to responsible business practices such as Asset liquidity may be sustainability, environmental matters and our Appetite impacted societal impact and receive advice and support Reduced access to debt from specialist consultants The Board has a low tolerance for non and capital markets We consider the impact of changes on strategy compliance with risks which impact We give proper consideration to the needs of reputation and stakeholder sentiment Impact on strategy our occupiers and shareholders by maintaining towards the Company.
a high degree of engagement and also consider our impact on the environment and localcommunities Responsibility for specic obligations has been allocated to individuals and is overseen by the Executive Committee.
A Responsible Business Working Group meets at least three times a year and reports to the Board Staff training is provided EPC rating benchmarks are set to ensure compliance with Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards MEES that could otherwise impact the quality and desirability of our assets leading tohigher voids, lost income and reduced liquidity Sustainability targets are set, monitored andreported Contractors are required to conform to our responsible development requirements Th 6 S is ry iss k ca tem te s, p gor ro y wa ces s p sers a evio nu d sly i nn a c n lu ci da eld w ma itn ha in R gee m ge un lattory and tax framework.
Risk Impact Mitigation Controls for safeguarding assets and Compromised asset The Company has a strong control culture supporting strategy may beweak.
security We have IT security systems in place with back Suboptimal returns for upsupported and tested by a specialist advisor shareholders Our property assets are safeguarded by Appetite Decisions made on appropriate insurance inaccurate information We have safety and security arrangements The Boards appetite for such risk is low in place on our developments, multi-let and and management continually strives Impact on strategy vacantproperties to monitor and improve processes.
Appropriate data capture procedures ensure the accuracy of the property database and financial reporting systems We maintain appropriate segregation of duties with controls over nancialsystems Management receive timely financial information for approval and decision making Cost control procedures ensure expenditure is valid, properly authorised and monitored Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Our portfolio is We focus on We manage, enhance Our expertise and aligned to modern sustainable and and create property relationships shape shoppinghabits growing income ina responsible way our decisionmaking Commentary Change Read more During the year we met with over 200 investors and carried No significant See Responsible out an investor survey targeting 50% of our register on change in risk Business on pages 40 responsible business matters.
Feedback was positive and to 47 There has been no significant will be incorporated into our 2019  change in perceived risk from We met with the 30% Club Investor Group and joined Real 2017, however focus on how Estate Balance which aims to promote greater gender companies take into account diversity within the industry wider stakeholder interests The appointment of Suzanne Avery will add a fresh hasincreased.
perspective to the Board on responsible business matters.
Suzanne was formerly Managing Director of Real Estate Finance Group and Sustainability at RBS and is a co-founder of Real Estate Balance with keen interests in governance, responsible business practices and a number of societalissues We supplemented direct meetings with our tenants with our biennial customer satisfaction survey of key occupiers.
Tenant responses representing half our income scored us 8.5 10.
Feedback has been discussed with several occupiers.
We propose to increase the frequency of the survey to further improve processes We have increased the green credentials of our portfolio over recent years through development and modernisation.
28% of our portfolio is now rated BREEAM Very Good, our GRESB score has improved to 69% and we have maintained our green star rating.
78% of our portfolio has an EPC of C or above During the year we undertook numerous green initiatives.
At Newark, for example we completed the UKs largest landlord funded distribution solar panel installation to provide a proportion of the tenants power requirements from renewable sources Our Communities Policy and Charity and Communities Working Group aim to maximise the local benets of our activities, for example urban regeneration andemployment Commentary Change Read more During the course of the year we have improved No significant See Audit Committee ourITsecurity and back up systems change in risk report on pages 82 We have also made improvements to our financial to83 There has been no significant reporting processes and have further integrated our change in perceived risk property database and our accounting system from2017.
LondonMetric Property Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Property risks 7 Investment risk Risk Impact Mitigation We may be unable to source Ability to implement strategy Managements extensive experience and their affordable investment opportunities.
and deploy capital into strong network of relationships provide insight into value and earnings accretive the property market and opportunities.
Appetite The Board aims to keep this risk to a Impact on strategy minimum but matters outside of its control may have a negative impact.
The Board continues to focus on having the right people and funding in place to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
8 Development risk Risk Impact Mitigation Excessive capital may be allocated Poorer than expected We only undertake short cycle and relatively to activities with development risk performance uncomplicated developments on a pre-let basis Developments may fail to deliver Reputational damage or where there is high occupier demand expected returns due to inconsistent Development exposure as a percentage of our timing with the economic and Impact on strategy total portfolio is limited with larger projectsphased market cycle, adverse letting Development sites are acquired with planning conditions, increased costs, consent where possible planning or construction delays Management have significant experience resulting from contractor failure or ofcomplex development supply chain interruption We use standardised appraisals and cost budgets and monitor expenditure against budget to Appetite highlight potential overruns early External project managers are appointed The Board is willing to take some Our procurement processes include tendering speculative development and and the use of highly regarded rms with proven planning risk if it represents a relatively track records small proportion of the total property We review and monitor contractor portfolio and is supported by robust covenantstrength research in respect of demand and a high likelihood of planning approval.
9 Valuation risk Risk Impact Mitigation Investments may fall invalue.
Pressure on NAV growth and Our core portfolio is pivoted to structural changes in potentially loan covenants.
shopping patterns with a significant supply imbalance Appetite inavailable distribution space Impact on strategy Our focus is on sustainable income with lettings to high There is no certainty that property quality tenants within a diversied portfolio of well values will be realised.
Thisisan located assets with a high weighted average unexpired inherent risk in the industry.
lease term reducing the risk of negative movements inadownturn The property cycle is continually monitored with investment and divestment decisions made strategically in anticipation of changingconditions Property portfolio performance is regularly reviewed andbenchmarked on an asset by assetbasis We monitor tenant covenants and trading performance Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Our portfolio is We focus on We manage, enhance Our expertise and aligned to modern sustainable and and create property relationships shape shoppinghabits growing income ina responsible way our decisionmaking Commentary Change Read more We used our strong occupier and developer No significant See Property review relationships to acquire over 300 million of change in risk onpages 26 to 27 distribution assets and deployed all the equity There has been no significant change we raised in March 2017 inperceived risk from2017.
Distribution assets now represent 69% of the portfolio, up from 62% last year We made a strong valuation gain of 74.4million on our distribution assets alone Commentary Change Read more Developments represent 2.4% of the portfolio No significant See Property review atthe year end.
No developments completed change in risk onpage 33 in the year were late or over budget There has been no significant change See Responsible Development activity this year has added rent inperceived risk from2017.
Business review on of 4.2 million per annum.
Of this 43% was built page 43 speculatively.
We are in advanced discussions on the remaining unlet space Assets under construction and in our development pipeline of 1.0 million sq ft, predominantly at our Bedford site, are expected to add a further 8.1 million of rental income.
The Bedford development will be phased with the first phase commencing thisyear Commentary Change Read more 50.3% of our income has contractually xed No significant See Property review orindex linkeduplifts change in risk onpages 26 to 27 Our valuation gain this year was 121.6 million, There has been no significant change in See Financial review with the largest increase in our urban logistics perceived risk from 2017.
Technological onpage 39 distribution and development sectors advances continue to cause significant See Audit Committee A high average WAULT of 12.4 years was disruption in the retail landscape.
The report onpages 84 maintained Companys preferred asset classes are to 85 We have substantial headroom under our however aligned to modern shopping financial loan covenants habits where the prospects for valuation preservation and growth are signicantly better than traditional retail.
LondonMetric Property Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management continued Property risks continued 10 Transaction and tenant risk Risk Impact Mitigation Property purchases and asset Pressure on NAV, earnings We undertake thorough due diligence on all management initiatives may be and potentially loan acquisitions including legal and property, tenant inconsistent with strategy covenants.
covenant strength and trading performance Due diligence may fail to Tenant concentration within the portfolio is highlightrisks Impact on strategy considered for all acquisitions and leasing Lettings may be made to transactions.
We have a diversied tenant base inappropriate tenants and limited exposure to individual occupiers Tenant failure risk inbespoke properties Asset management initiatives undergo cost-benefit analysis prior to implementation Appetite We use external advisors to benchmark The Boards appetite to risks arising lease transactions and advise on acquisition out of poor due diligence processes duediligence on acquisitions, disposals and Our experienced asset management team lettings is low.
The Board is willing workclosely with tenants to offer them real estate to accept a higher degree of risk solutions that meet their business objectives.
in relation to tenant covenant This proactive management approach helps strength and unexpired lease term toreduce vacancy risk on urban logistics assets where We monitor rent collection closely to identify there is high occupational demand, potentialissues redevelopment opportunity or alternative site use.
Financing risk 11 Capital and finance risk Risk Impact Mitigation The Company may have insufficient Strategy implementation We maintain a disciplined investment approach funds and available credit.
Assets which have achieved target returns and strategic asset plans Impact on strategy are sold Appetite Cash ow forecasts are closely monitored The Board has no appetite for Relationships with a diversied range of lenders imprudently low levels of available are nurtured and loan facilities regularly headroom in its reserves or credit lines.
The availability of debt and the terms on which it is available is considered as part It accepts a low degree of market oftheCompanys long term strategy standard inexibility in return for the Loan facilities incorporate covenant headroom, availability of credit.
appropriate cure provisions and exibility The Board has some appetite for Headroom and non-financial covenants interest rate risk, loans are not fully aremonitored hedged.
This follows cost benefit We maintain a modest level of gearing assessment and takes into account The impact of disposals on secured loan facilities that not all loans are fully drawn all covering multiple assets is considered as part thetime.
ofthe decision makingprocess Interest rate derivatives are used to x or cap exposure to rising rates.
A specialist hedging advisor is used Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Our portfolio is We focus on We manage, enhance Our expertise and aligned to modern sustainable and and create property relationships shape shoppinghabits growing income ina responsible way our decisionmaking Commentary Change Read more Our tenant default rate within the industry is very low No significant See Chief Executives and we have no significant arrears.
The impact of recent change in risk review onpages 15 retailer collapses and CVAs has had a negligible impact to19 There has been no significant onearnings change in perceived risk from See Property review We maintain a high occupancy level within the industry 2017 despite a number of onpage 32 despite a number of smaller speculative developments high prole retail casualties completing recently.
Our EPRA vacancy rate at the year and more retailers looking end was 2.5% to restructure their physical store portfolios through a CVA process.
Retail occupiers continue to invest heavily in distribution and logistics and convenience retail fulls a top up function for onlineshoppers.
Commentary Change Read more The majority of our debt is diversied, unsecured and No significant See Financial review extremely exible.
Headroom on our revolving credit facility change in risk onpages 38 to 39 and proceeds from forecast capital recycling are sufficient There has been no significant to fund our forecast investment programme change in perceived risk During the year we reduced our secured loan with Helaba from2017.
but extended its term to seven years and incorporated greater exibility We recouponed 190 million of swaps and cancelled 128million in excess of our requirements.
The cost of doing this has a 2.5 to 4.0year payback period 73% of facilities are hedged by way of interest rate swaps and caps
