STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Risk management a unified approach Risk management is fully embedded into our approach, both to the management of funds on behalf of our investors, and the management of Man Groups business on behalf of our shareholders.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management Our operating model is reliant on technology rests with Man Groups Board, however, therefore the evolving threat from cybercrime Brexit accountability is embedded throughout the requires ongoing focus for the Group.
Our risk management framework The UKs decision to invoke Article 50 In March, we completed the $100 million requires that the business operates within of the Treaty on European Union in share repurchase programme announced acceptable risk tolerances, as defined by March 2017 triggered a withdraw in 2017.
In April, we announced a $100 million the Boards risk appetite.
Our governance process of the UK from the European share repurchase programme which we structure provides a foundation for ongoing Union EU by 29 March 2019.
Later in October, we oversight in a changing environment.
process has political, legal and tax began a new share repurchase programme Independent fund boards are responsible implications for the UK and may which will return $100 million of capital to for protecting the interests of fund investors.
impact general economic conditions in shareholders.
As at 31 December 2018, the UK and other European countries.
Developments in 2018 As a result of the ongoing political Investment underperformance continues to Man Groups risk appetite processes, UK investment managers be the biggest risk facing the Group.
2018 statements face continued uncertainty as to the has been a challenging year for the Groups The risk appetite statements are set by future regulations, and to their fund performance on an absolute basis, but the Board and cover all significant risk post-Brexit ability to access markets, saw average outperformance against peers.
They apply to both the make investments or enter into legal The risk is mitigated by diversification of investment management functions and Man agreements within the EU.
Performance fees fell by Group itself.
The statements express the 56% compared to 2017, as described on Man Group has planned for a range Boards appetite for risk, promote a risk page 20.
Funds under management fell by of Brexit scenarios that may impact aware culture and set out objectives and $0.6 billion in 2018, as described on page 21. its employees, business or its clients, boundaries for Man Groups business.
As of the The expansion of our product offering is The primary goal of risk management is beginning of 2019, Man has received supported by our balance sheet, which we to support the achievement of the Groups regulatory approval to upgrade the have utilised to continue the Groups seeding objectives by encouraging an appropriate regulatory permissions of its existing programme.
2018 saw the launch of several balance between risk and benefit, in a Irish entity and has opened a physical new quantitative and discretionary funds.
controlled and regulatory compliant context.
office in Dublin, with locally-based Whilst the Group is exposed to a decline in staff.
This sits alongside Man Groups the value of seed investments, supporting the The governance framework and control existing regulated entity in development of new products is an important environment within the Group have been Liechtenstein.
This allows Man Group way to increase and diversify revenues.
designed to manage risks in accordance to remain able to service its existing Senior management assess whether seeding with risk appetite.
The Board and Audit and European clients and to access new positions continue to support the business.
Risk Committee ARCom receive regular business in the EU.
reporting on the Groups risk profile and Markets in 2018 were challenging for adherence with risk appetite.
In the event Man Group will continue to monitor investors.
We saw a February volatility spike that breaches to risk appetite occur, these the political and regulatory which was challenging for all trend following would be resolved in line with the Groups developments closely throughout strategies, and declines in equity markets procedures and processes.
The statements 2019, and will take necessary steps to which affected our long only strategies.
are reviewed periodically by the Board.
ensure that the impact of Brexit on its Our counterparty and clearing house credit employees, business and its clients is The risk appetite statements were reviewed risk exposures at corporate and fund level minimised, whatever its form.
during 2018 and there were no material are closely monitored.
The risk to the changes to the risk tolerances of the Groups balance sheet from counterparty business.
A summary of the risk appetite defaults remains low.
We are conscious, statements is available on our website.
however, of the continued risk of individual events or downturns in market sentiment and continue to take a conservative approach to counterparty selection.
Man Group is regulated globally: the Group focuses on ensuring our operational and risk management frameworks are appropriate for our evolving global business.
Regulation evolved at different paces across the world.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued The directors assessment has been made The plan is also stress tested in a number Viability statement with reference to the Groups current of downside scenarios as part of the The directors believe that there continues position and prospects, the Groups strategy, Groups Internal Adequacy Assessment to be robust global demand for asset the Boards risk appetite and the Groups Process ICAAP which was reviewed and management firms, such as Man Group, principal and emerging risks and how these approved by the Board in July.
The Board to provide fund management services and are managed, as described later on in this receives regular updates throughout the year make active investment decisions on behalf section of the Annual Report.
The principal of the internally assessed level of economic of their clients in order to manage their capital.
risks are linked to each of the Groups capital requirement, relative to available Man Groups value-adding services form the strategic priorities.
basis of a sustainable business model.
The strategy and associated principal risks The Medium-Term Plan and ICAAP A failure to deliver superior performance form the basis of the Groups Medium-Term assessments are augmented throughout is the main risk to the Groups ability to Plan.
This covers a three year period, and the year by regular briefings at the ARCom maintain a capital and liquidity surplus, but includes downside scenario testing.
on strategy, risk and controls, as well as is mitigated through its diversified offerings.
dashboards across risk, compliance, The Groups Medium-Term Plan is built The directors confirm that they have a finance and internal audit.
The principal by aggregating the expected business reasonable expectation that the Group will and emerging risks are considered within performance across the Group, and continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as the Boards risk appetite framework.
then stressing key business assumptions they fall due, for the next three years.
A three particularly investment performance year period is consistent with the Groups and fund flows.
Three lines of defence First Second Third Business Compliance Internal Audit External Audit The overall risk management framework management at Man Group is based on the three lines of defence model, and is overseen by the ARCom as delegated by the Board.
The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for risk management in each business unit.
Embedding accountability with each employee at the business level is the first line of defence.
In Business risk The business units are monitored by the management Risk and Compliance control functions which form the second line of defence.
The independent review and oversight Risk provided by Internal Audit is the third line of defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control Operational and governance processes against 1 management best practice.
Although Man Group and the investors in its products are susceptible to losses, we believe our risk management framework supports long-term value through the process of risk-aware decision making.
1 Includes the Groups financial controls framework.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 28 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board oversight of risk Financial reporting controls Specific annual review of risk management and internal management and internal The Groups financial controls framework is designed to provide assurance that controls controls proper accounting records are adequately The Board oversees and monitors the In addition to its ongoing monitoring of the maintained and that financial information Groups risk management and internal Groups risk management and internal used within the business and for external control systems on an ongoing basis and, controls, the Board has conducted a specific publication is reliable and free from material at least annually, carries out a review of their annual review of their effectiveness in respect misstatement, thereby safeguarding the effectiveness.
A summary of the Groups risk of 2018 and up to the date of this Annual Groups assets.
This framework is managed management and internal control systems, Report.
This review included a robust through a process whereby control owners including those relating to the financial assessment of the Groups principal and certify that key preventative and detective reporting process is given below.
emerging risks see details on pages 3133 controls have been performed and are and all significant operational risk events operating effectively.
These include balance Objectives and governance and Internal Audit findings raised during the sheet reconciliations and the financial framework period.
The Board also considered the statements preparation process.
During potential impact of certain risks identified The Groups risk management framework the year senior management monitored by the business, the outcome of the Risk and and internal control systems aim to the results of the certification process Control Self Assessment RCSA process safeguard assets, maintain proper and a sample of the certifications was performed by business management and the accounting records and provide assurance independently spot checked each month quality of the controls in place to mitigate that the financial information used in the to provide assurance that the certifications these risks.
Following this review, the Board business and published externally is robust were correct.
concluded that the Groups risk management and reliable.
The framework is designed to processes were effective and that there were manage key risks, but cannot eliminate the Ongoing risk reporting no significant weaknesses or failings in the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, The Board receives regular reports from system of internal controls.
and can only provide reasonable and not the Chairman of the ARCom, business absolute assurance against material management and Group Risk on the risks to misstatement or loss.
The risk management the achievement of the Groups operational framework and internal control systems, and financial objectives, together with which have been in place throughout the assurance that the level of risk taken is year and up to the date of this Annual consistent with and being managed in Report, comply with the FRCs Guidance accordance with the Boards risk appetite on Risk Management, Internal Control and and with business planning.
These reports Related Financial and Business Reporting.
include a summary risk dashboard and current and forward looking assessments During the year, the Board reviewed and of capital and liquidity adequacy.
The Board approved the output from the annual refresh also reviewed an update on the commercial of Man Groups Risk Governance and risks relating to Man Groups current Appetite Framework.
This included a change business mix and model, along with relative to a quantitative risk metric and associated revenue impacts, that could have a material loss tolerance, and refinements to the impact at Group level.
The Board reviewed qualitative statements.
There was no material and discussed the Groups emerging risks change to the Board risk appetite.
and Man Groups response to these.
Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control systems, it has delegated oversight to the ARCom.
The report from the Chairman of the ARCom on pages 5863 provides further information on how the ARCom has discharged its risk oversight responsibilities during the year.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Given its increasingly wide range of The directors confirm that they have carried Assessment of principal and investment products and strategies the out a robust assessment of the principal emerging risks Group has to manage a wide array of and emerging risks facing the Company, Our comprehensive risk framework includes operational risks.
including those that would threaten its business, credit, liquidity, market, operational business model, future performance, The breadth and complexity of the and reputational risks to both Man Group solvency or liquidity.
regulations that Man Group and its funds and our funds.
are subject to across multiple jurisdictions The directors have described and assessed The Groups risk profile has not changed represent significant operational risks these principal and emerging risks on pages materially in 2018, however risks linked should the Group fail to comply with 3133 and explained how they are being to a no-deal Brexit have been a focus these regulations.
Man Group supports managed or mitigated.
and the Group does not currently have any proportionate and thoughtful regulation integration risk.
Business risks continue to and initiatives that develop the regulatory represent the biggest risks to the Group, environment.
However, regulatory change of these investment underperformance can also result in increased operational is the single biggest risk facing the Group.
Man Groups governance The committees below have been given a mandate by the Board and the CEO to oversee the risk management framework.
These committees provide assurance to the Board that risk has been managed according to the risk appetite statements.
Board CEO Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is a committee of the Board Senior Management Executive Committee which has oversight of the assurance functions see page 58 for further detail.
The Senior Management Executive Committee is accountable for all risks assumed in the business and is responsible for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline.
Risk and Finance Committee The Risk and Finance Committee RAF oversees the operational, regulatory and reputational risks faced by the Group and the internal control environment.
It also monitors balance sheet financial risks and the adequacy of economic capital and liquidity buffers.
The RAF is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 30 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Principal and emerging risks Our strategic priorities Change in status and trend Innovative investment Increased strategies Strong client relationships Unchanged Efficient and effective Decreased operations Returns to shareholders Business risks Link to strategy Risks Mitigants Status and trend Investment underperformance Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, Man Groups investment businesses each have 2018 was a challenging year for many of relative to a benchmark or relative to peer groups clearly defined investment processes designed to Man Groups funds in absolute terms.
However could reduce FUM and may result in lower target and deliver on the investment mandate of asset-weighted relative performance to peers subscriptions and higher redemptions.
We focus on hiring and retaining has been positive.
Net flows have not been is exacerbated at times of volatile markets.
This highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to materially impacted by absolute performance may also result in dissatisfied clients, negative perform within the parameters of their mandate.
but the risk has increased.
Diversification press and reputational damage.
across Man Groups product offerings reduces Man Groups diversified range of products and the overall risk.
Lower FUM results in lower management fees strategies across the alternatives marketplace and underperformance results in lower limits the risk to the business from The discussion of Man Groups performance performance fees, if any.
underperformance of any particular strategy.
Key person risk A key person to the business leaves or is unable Business and investment processes are Man Group has continued to be able to attract to perform their role.
designed with a view to minimise the impact of and retain an array of talented individuals losing any key individuals.
Diversification of across the Group.
Voluntary staff turnover has Retention risk increases in years of poor strategies reduces the overall risk to Man Group.
been higher than prior years.
portfolio managers were managed through a Succession plans and deferred compensation succession plan of internal promotion and new schemes are in place to support the retention hires and resulted in low voluntary redemptions of senior investment professionals and key from strategies they were managing.
Link to strategy Credit risks Risks Mitigants Status and trend A counterparty with which the funds or Man Man Group diversifies its deposits across a Increased regulatory scrutiny, stress testing and Group have financial transactions, directly or number of strong financial counterparties, each capital requirements for investment banks and indirectly, becomes distressed or defaults.
of which is approved and regularly reviewed for central clearing houses supports the overall creditworthiness by the Counterparty Monitoring stability of Man Groups core counterparties.
Shareholders and investors in Man Group funds Committee CMC.
The CMC also oversees and products are exposed to credit risk of prime 2018 saw credit spreads widen for most contingency planning ahead of significant market brokers, custodians, sub-custodians, clearing names, particularly European banks.
houses, depository banks and guarantee there were no periods of heightened concern providers.
The Group Risk function monitors credit metrics, any individual names which resulted in a such as CDS spreads and ratings, of the change in Mans risk appetite to them.
Man Group also provides loans to guaranteed approved counterparties on a daily basis.
products, and so is subject to counterparty risk to certain investor funds.
Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is actively adjusted such that the risk of default on balance sheet loans to funds is small.
Link to strategy Liquidity risks Risks Mitigants Status and trend Volatile markets can place additional, Man Group has access to a revolving credit A reduced guaranteed products portfolio often short term, demands on the balance sheet.
facility, and maintains a liquidity surplus.
Liquidity and illiquid funds assets within portfolios has Man Group is exposed to having insufficient forecasting, including downside cases, facilitates reduced potential demands for liquidity.
liquidity resources to meet its obligations.
planning and informs decision making.
The asset liquidity distribution across funds Adverse market moves and high volatility may Man Group conducts regular liquidity tests on its has remained broadly unchanged.
sharply increase the demands on the liquid funds and endeavours to manage resources in resources in Man Groups funds.
Market stress such a way as to meet all demands for fund and increased redemptions could result in the redemptions according to contractual terms.
deterioration of fund liquidity and in the severest cases this could lead to the gating of funds.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal and emerging risks continued Market risks Link to strategy Risks Mitigants Status and trend Investment book Man Group uses capital to seed new funds A disciplined framework ensures that each The seeding book grew in size in 2018, but its to build our fund offering and expand product request for seed capital is assessed on its risk downside risks were reasonably constant over distribution.
Man Group is therefore exposed and return on capital.
the period due to our hedging processes.
to a decline in value of the seeding book.
Overall seeding book returns for 2018 were Approvals are granted by the Seed Investment moderately negative: a strong H1 followed by Committee SIC, which is comprised of senior more challenging markets in H2.
Nevertheless, management, Risk and Treasury.
Investments the hedges performed as expected and helped are subject to risk limits, an exit strategy and are protect capital in a more difficult market.
hedged to a benchmark where appropriate.
The positions and hedges are monitored regularly by Group Risk and reviewed by the SIC.
Pension Man Group underwrites the risks related to the The UK pension plan has a low net exposure to Following the completion of triennial valuation the UK defined benefit pension plan which closed to UK interest rates.
The return seeking assets are fund received the asset value from the Reservoir new members in 1999 and future accrual in low volatility and have a low correlation to equity Trust such that it was fully funded as of 2017 year 2011.
The plan is well funded, but is exposed to markets.
Longevity is the largest remaining risk, end, with the surplus returned to Man Group.
changes in net asset versus liability values.
but is uncorrelated to Man Groups other risks.
During 2018 a small deficit, on an actuarial basis, has appeared due to underperformance of the return seeking funds.
Link to strategy Operational risks Risks Mitigants Status and trend Internal process failures Risk of losses resulting from inadequate or failed The Groups risk management framework and The Group remains focused on enhancing its processes within Man Group.
internal control systems are based on a three systems and control processes where required lines of defence model.
and ensuring internal process failures are kept to a minimum.
Internal Audit evaluates the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and governance processes.
External process failures Man Group continues to outsource a number of Man Groups operations team has implemented The Group continues to concentrate its functions that were previously performed a robust methodology including ongoing third outsourcing into a smaller number of carefully internally as well as managing outsourcing party due diligence and KPI monitoring to selected and proven outsource providers with arrangements on behalf of its funds.
The risk is confirm that outsourced service providers are which it has established working relationships that the outsourced service providers do not delivering as required.
allowing for greater process consolidation and perform as required, resulting in knock-on rationalisation.
implications for our business as a whole.
Information and cybercrime security The risk of loss resulting from cybercrime, Man Group has a mature information security In 2018 cyber-crime groups have used the malicious disruption to our networks or from management programme which governs current tactics, techniques, and processes more the theft, misplacing, interception, corruption and future strategy.
commonly associated with state sponsored or deletion of information.
Such techniques The Group has deployed cyber controls and include whaling, spear phishing, and extensive counter-measures which are continuously reconnaissance and lateral movement within reviewed, maintained and adjusted in line with our a victim network.
The attacks have been assessments and those of trusted advisors.
These effective because they circumvent traditional security mechanisms are deployed in a layered endpoint defence technologies.
These groups defence involving preventative, detective, reactive are frequently looking for data to sell on or and recovery controls.
If one control fails, other request a ransom for its safe return.
This trend controls are in place to detect, prevent or counter is expected to continue through 2019. an attack.
To keep pace with emerging risks, some of the technology solutions are utilising machine learning and behavioural analysis.
The Group has a cyber-risk training programme and has commissioned independent threat and security assessments, including simulated staged attacks on our network to test our detection and response capability.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 32 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our strategic priorities Change in status and trend Innovative investment Increased strategies Strong client relationships Unchanged Efficient and effective Decreased operations Returns to shareholders Operational risks continued Link to strategy Risks Mitigants Status and trend Information technology Risk of losses incurred by IT software and The Group recognises the fundamental role of The Group continued to improve its technology capability through 2018 with the implementation hardware failures resulting in system downtime, technology in delivering the Groups objectives.
severely degraded performance or limited Alpha and Enterprise Technology are focused on of a cloud based Finance and HR platform and further enhancements to the trading and support system functionality.
delivering five key themes: improving data management, improving the digital experience systems.
across the Group, improving the operating model A strategic roadmap for further advances in by consolidating technology, investing in the technology to support the business needs has control and security framework and innovating in also been developed.
the right technology at the right time.
Legal and regulatory Man Group operates a global legal and Man continues to experience new regulatory The global nature of Man Groups business, the expansion of its investment businesses and the compliance framework which underpins all requirements.
In 2018 this included the Markets aspects of its business and is resourced by in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II and acquisition of new investment businesses, with corporate and fund entities located in multiple experienced teams.
These teams are physically the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR jurisdictions and a diverse investor base makes located in Man Groups key jurisdictions helping both of which were successfully implemented.
it subject to a wide range of laws and regulations.
them to understand the context and impact of Work is already underway on the Senior Failure to comply with these laws and regulations any requirements.
Managers Certification Regime SMCR due may put Man Group at risk of fines, lawsuits or in December 2019.
Emphasis is placed on proactively analysing new reputational damage.
legal and regulatory developments to assess These new regulations may result in an increase Changes in laws and regulations can materially likely impacts and mitigate risks.
in regulatory risk in the short term as the impact Man Group or the sectors or the market regulator starts to review implementation and Man Group continues to liaise directly and within which it operates.
understand their effect on investment markets.
indirectly with competent authorities e. g. FCA, The FCA in the UK is Man Groups lead regulator.
Brexit The Group faces legal and regulatory uncertainty Man Group has upgraded the regulatory The prospect of a no-deal Brexit has increased.
which could impact the ability of funds to access permissions The group is monitoring the political and markets or cause investors to redeem.
of its Irish entity to serve European clients.
regulatory developments closely and will take the necessary steps to ensure that the impact on the Fund performance may be adversely impacted The fund risk toolkit, including limits and stress business, investors and employees is minimised.
by market volatility or reduced liquidity.
testing, ensures that funds are managed within their mandate and downside risks are Operational events may result from an elevated understood.
volume of legal or operational tasks.
Link to strategy Reputational risks Risks Mitigants Status and trend The risk that an incident or negative publicity Our reputation is dependent on both our Man Group continues to enjoy a good reputation undermines our reputation as a leading operational and fund performance.
Our and this risk is assessed as stable.
Reputational damage governance and control structure mitigates could result in significant redemptions from our operational concerns, and our attention to funds, and could lead to issues with external people and investment processes are designed financing, credit ratings and relations with core to comply with accepted standards of counterparties and outsourcing providers.
Emerging risks Link to strategy Risks Mitigants Status and trend Primarily external in nature and complementary The Board and Group Risk monitor emerging The emerging risks have been reviewed by to the principal risks which are focused on risks, trends and changes in the likelihood of the Board.
No changes were made to the current internal risk.
This assessment informs the universe firms principal risks.
categories include disruption to financial markets of principal risks faced by the firm.
and business infrastructure, political risk and changes in the competitive landscape.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33
