22 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES RISK APPETITE Our Group Risk Profile The details of our principal risks and While our capacity to influence external evolves as circumstances uncertainties and the key mitigating risks is often limited, we recognise the and priorities change.
activities can be found on pages 23 and 24. importance of operating a business model We disclose those we believe are likely to that has the potential to flex and adapt This year we have have the greatest impact on our business to a changing environment.
For example, aggregated risks that at this moment in time.
Our risk profile the consequences of the UKs decision share common causes, continues to evolve as we transform our to leave the European Union is expected business and, while our principal risks and to impact our business in a variety of impacts or mitigation.
uncertainties remain broadly consistent, ways.
While this impact is not yet fully we have refined our disclosure to ensure understood or quantifiable, we have they remain relevant and reflect the considered Brexit within each Groupchanging landscape.
The diagram below level risk where it is expected to have an shows how our disclosure has evolved influence.
We acknowledge the need to since the prior year.
be proactive, taking action as implications are better understood and we therefore The Company is exposed to a wide range monitor the Brexit risk profile of our of risks in addition to those listed.
These are business at both a Group and business monitored for any increase in likelihood arealevel.
or impact and to ensure that appropriate mitigations are in place.
We also continue to monitor current issues as they develop to ensure they are being effectively managed.
EVOLUTION OF PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 2016 17 2017 18 Clothing & Home recovery Profitable growth Trading environment Margin UK store estate Business transformation Food safety & integrity Food safety & integrity Corporate responsibility Corporate compliance & responsibility Information security including cyber Information security including cyber Technology Technology Talent & succession Talent & capability Brand Brand and customer experience Customer proposition & experience Third party management Third party management Risk key Consolidation of risks Change in scope No Limited change year-on-year 23 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION & CONTEXT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES Development of, and delivery against, the five-year transformation plan.
TRADING ENVIRONMENT Targeted recruitment to strengthen capabilities of our senior 1 The performance of our business will be impacted if we fail to meet customer leadership teams in both Clothing & Home and Food.
expectations or respond to the continued pressures of a changing retail S Full strategic reviews and setting of clear shortand medium-term environment.
Aggressive competition, cost pressures and the consumer impact of the UKs departure from the European Union all contribute to the challenge that priorities for our businesses.
Delivery of our International strategy.
Our Clothing & Home business must respond to the continued shift in customer Refining our operating model to eliminate silos and create devolved, preferences towards online and mobile shopping.
Consequently, our strategy is accountable businesses.
focused on the creation of a seamless, relevant customer experience and the need Revised disciplines around store prices, ranges and promotions across to be Digital First.
We must also continue to strengthen capability across all areas of our business.
our Clothing & Home business to ensure we deliver contemporary, wearable style and wardrobe essentials that our customers want.
Implementation of our Digital First initiatives.
Food consumers continue to be driven by value and we need to ensure our product Improved alignment of business needs and engagement with the ranges resonate and are available at the right price.
While we have limited influence UK store estate team, and changes to our Property leadership.
over a number of contributory factors, for example raw material prices and the Completion of a forensic review of costs and commencement of impact of Brexit, we recognise the need to manage costs, driving efficiencies and our cost delivery plan.
delivering savings in areas such as packaging and waste.
This new risk is a consolidation of a number of risks, which were disclosed separately in the prior year, to better reflect the increasingly challenging conditions facing our business.
Acceleration of our plan to operate from fewer, larger Clothing & BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Home stores.
2 As we build a platform for change, the successful delivery of our business Reassessment of the Simply Food store opening programme.
transformation programme is critical a failure to execute faultlessly and S at pace will hinder progression.
Our business is undertaking a number of Implementation of a Technology Transformation Programme, transformation projects: many of these are significant in their own right but the level leveraging the support of key third-party relationships.
of interdependency also requires careful alignment.
Transforming our business will Improvements to our website.
generate cost savings but also underpins the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Commencement of an end-to-end review of our supply chain and The reshaping of our UK store estate continues at an accelerated pace.
logistics network across both businesses to deliver improved We need to ensure that the programme delivers against agreed targets and efficiency of picking, improved trade utilisation and a faster, more that we incorporate changes in customer preferences into decision making reliable service for stores and customers.
Operational improvements at Castle Donington.
We must deliver on our Digital First ambitions improving customer experience, Strong programme governance to track progress against plan, reducing costs and working smarter across the business.
resourcing and capability and to monitor critical interdependencies.
Our supply chain must be fit for purpose.
It is currently slow, outdated and High levels of cross functional engagement to ensure consistency expensive, and must be improved.
and collaboration in setting and achieving objectives.
This new risk is an expansion of the prior years specific risk around our store estate Independent audit reviews of key programme delivery.
programme and now incorporates a far broader range of transformational projects.
Clearly defined requirements through Terms of Trade, Codes of FOOD SAFETY & INTEGRITY Practice, Standard Operating Procedures and Specifications from 3 A food safety or integrity related incident occurs or is not effectively farm to fork, including in-store processes.
Food safety and integrity remains vital for our business.
We need to Qualified and capable technical team.
Professional status maintained manage the potential risk to customer health and confidence that faces all food through training and Technologist Continual Professional retailers, while also considering how external pressures facing the food industry Development programme independently validated by Institute could influence the integrity of our food, our reputation and shareholder value.
of Food Science and Technology.
Many of these pressures, including inflationary costs, labour quality and availability, Clear accountabilities for policy and standard development at increased regulatory scrutiny and the as yet unknown impact of Brexit are outside technical leadership level coupled with individual accountability of our control.
for product safety at technologist level.
We also recognise the criticality of internal influences including the level of Long established store, supplier and depot auditing programme in change underway in our Food business and the significant levels of new place, including unannounced audits and raw material testing.
Quarterly review of control framework by the technical leadership.
This all places greater demand on the technical team and suppliers to complete required raw material testing and product safety checks to guarantee provenance, Clear and tested crisis management plan in place to respond to incidents.
Sector-leading initiatives, such as over the provenance of our beef.
Membership of Food Industry Intelligence Forum.
Clear policies and procedures in place, including Human Rights, CORPORATE COMPLIANCE & RESPONSIBILITY Modern Slavery and Global Sourcing Principles.
4 Failure to deliver against our regulatory obligations, social commitments or Mandatory induction briefings and annual training for relevant stakeholder expectations undermines our reputation as a responsible retailer.
Responsible corporate behaviour is a basic expectation of all businesses, especially Oversight from established committees where necessary, including those that are consumer facing.
Public sentiment can shift rapidly, especially as the traditional influencers of public perception evolve and issues can escalate rapidly Data Protection, Fire Health & Safety and Plan A. through social media.
Experienced in-house regulatory legal team with external expertise There are also many examples of where good corporate behaviour has, over time, sought as needed.
become a legal or regulatory requirement.
Human Rights, Modern Slavery, Dedicated regulatory officers in place across the business responsible Anti-Bribery and Data Protection are just a few examples impacting our business.
The mandatory nature of an increasingly broad and stringent legal and regulatory Strong and transparent engagement with regulators.
framework creates pressure on both business performance and market reaction.
While our business operates appropriate controls, we recognise that potential nonForward looking Plan A 2025 commitments with associated compliance is a risk for all businesses and that there can be no room for complacency.
governance to anticipate future environmental and social issues.
Given the high level of trust we have with customers and stakeholders, coupled Established audit and monitoring systems in place.
with our high media profile, we must get this right.
Customer contact centre insight and analysis of live social media issues.
S Risk key Consolidation of risks Change in scope No Limited change year-on-year Link to strategy FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 24 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION & CONTEXT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES Established security controls, including policies, procedures and use INFORMATION SECURITY INCLUDING CYBER of security technologies.
5 Failure to adequately prevent or respond to a data breach resulting in Head of Data Governance and Data Governance Group in place.
business disruption, brand damage or loss of information for our customers, stakeholders or our business.
The increasing sophistication of potential Dedicated Corporate Security team with ongoing focus on improving the physical security environment.
cyber-attacks, coupled with the General Data Protection Regulation, highlight the escalating information security risk facing all businesses.
Our reliance on a Dedicated Head of Cyber Security, leading a team of cyber security number of third-parties to host and hold data also means the risk profile of experts and analysts, with 24 7 monitoring and defence tools.
our information security is changeable.
Third-party cyber maturity assessments performed and refreshed.
We recognise the importance of ongoing education and vigilance within M&S Ongoing monitoring of developments in cyber security threats, to reduce the likelihood of attack or breach in i an internal environment that is engaging with third-party specialists as appropriate.
undergoing significant transformation and ii an external environment that is changing at pace.
We must ensure that our control environment evolves and that Periodic testing by Internal Audit.
A data protection breach would not only impact Control of sensitive data through limited and monitored access and our reputation, but would also cause business disruption and could result in a the roll-out of systems with enhanced security.
Dedicated workstream focused on information security as part of the Technology Transformation Programme.
Technology Transformation Programme in place, supported by strong TECHNOLOGY governance principles, to enable the Digital First ambitions and to 6 To support future profitable growth, we need to keep pace and develop our deliver improved customer experience.
The digital world continues to evolve at New Technology Operating Model to drive clear accountabilities and S an unprecedented rate, influencing consumer behaviours and setting a high bar efficiencies, including the adoption of industry standard agile methods.
in terms of IT infrastructure requirements.
Appointment of a leading technology company as our principal We have clearly communicated our aim to be Digital First, and recognise the need partner, coupled with simplification and consolidation of the to invest to achieve this.
Our existing IT infrastructure needs to be more flexible to lower costs, Proactive simplification of IT infrastructure through clearly leverage developments and enable us to move with pace to meet customer defined technology roadmaps for all business areas and strong and colleague needs.
In addition to developing our technology, we must develop the skills and Cross channel technology investment strategy in place and aligned capabilities of our people.
This will be critical to providing a top quartile, to the family of businesses to mutually agreed priorities.
Quarterly reviews to ensure benefits are being delivered.
Talent identified as a critical component of our People Strategy TALENT & CAPABILITY and a key enabler in the delivery of our overall business strategy.
7 We need to attract, develop, motivate and retain the right individuals to People KPIs in place supported by talent review at all levels of achieve our operational and strategic objectives to transform the culture the organisation.
As we transform our business, the calibre of our people is Established biannual employee engagement survey, enhanced integral to delivering operational and strategic objectives, and is especially important in our drive to be Digital First.
during the year to provide additional insight.
Attracting, developing and retaining quality individuals is influenced by many Clear focus and transparent action on fair pay, including gender, factors, a number of which are outside of our control.
Growing market labour ethnicity, disability and age.
shortages, which may be further compounded by Brexit, and the perceived Launch of a new diversity forum.
fragility of UK retail could influence our ability to attract external talent.
Simplified, outputs focused framework introduced for However, our focus cannot solely be outwards looking our existing workforce performance management.
is one of our greatest assets.
We need to ensure that our colleagues and culture Commencement of externally facilitated culture assessment.
are developed to drive a Digital First and customer centric mindset, colleagues need to feel empowered to drive change at pace.
Active engagement with our Business Involvement Group.
Targeted external hires to strengthen capability.
BRAND AND CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Revised operating model to better align brand and marketing with 8 Our brand and underpinning customer experience need to evolve with the specific needs of our two businesses.
consumer lifestyles and attitudes for us to remain relevant and successfully Investment in capability to measure customer experience through attract and retain customers.
Consumer lifestyles and attitudes continue to evolve at pace in an increasingly diversified and competitive retail environment.
introduction of an end-to-end and multichannel Net Promoter Score programme, supported by third party expertise.
We are proud of our strong brand recognition, but external pressures make it more difficult for all businesses to drive brand relevance and attract and retain Established Customer Insight Unit and focus groups in place.
customers, failure to do so creates the very real risk of a decline in market share.
Review of Sparks loyalty programme underway, supported by We must attract and retain our core customer segments.
proposition improvements to strengthen member engagement.
Our intention to be a customer-centric, Digital First business has been clearly Increasing our relevance and proactive monitoring of social media communicated.
We need to ensure that our organisational design and operating to observe and respond to trends in customer experience.
model support this aim and that we put the customer at the forefront of all our decision making.
Our Sparks loyalty programme, marketing strategies and cross functional ways of working will be key enablers in achieving this, supported by meaningful measurement of customer experience.
Clear procurement and supplier management policies in place, THIRD PARTY MANAGEMENT including specific requirements for strategic suppliers.
9 To drive value for our business we need to successfully manage and leverage Defined service level agreements and key performance indicators our third-party relationships and partners.
Our business is increasingly engaged in place for key contracts.
These span our full operating model, from Defined contract governance and oversight standards, including products and services to franchise management and our international joint ventures.
dedicated supplier owners managing key contracts.
To fully leverage these relationships, we need to have clear, consistently applied Strong engagement with in-house legal and procurement teams.
processes to track performance, ensuring commercial expectations are delivered.
We also recognise the importance of managing the business interruption risk Key supplier business contingency planning.
conferred by such dependencies, and of maintaining appropriate contingency Internal audit engagement.
We cannot lose sight of the expertise and effort that is required to effectively manage third-parties, especially as we move through our transformation programme.
S Risk key Consolidation of risks Change in scope No Limited change year-on-year Link to strategy
