INTERNAL REPORTING 20 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT As with any business, The Board is accountable for identifying To ensure the most significant risks are we face risks and the principal risks facing the Company, managed effectively, we have enhanced uncertainties on a including those impacting its business our key risk analysis and reporting during performance, customers, people, the year.
The changes provide more daily basis.
Effective values, operations and ongoing viability.
transparent insight into how these risks risk management is On behalf of the Board, the Audit are being managed and to what extent essential to support Committee reviews the effectiveness performance is being impacted.
of the risk management process, which the achievement of These improvements also drive clear is illustrated in the diagram below.
accountability and ownership for risk at our strategic and Each business area is responsible for the most senior levels and improved operational objectives.
formally identifying and assessing its risks monitoring at the Operating Committee.
half-yearly, measuring them against a The principal risks identified by this process defined set of criteria, and considering the form our Group Risk Profile, which is agreed likelihood of occurrence and potential See our Principal Risks on p22-24 by the Operating Committee ahead of impact to the Group.
The Group Risk approval by the Board.
In addition to this function facilitates a similar exercise with formal review, significant areas of risk are members of the Operating Committee, subject to regular oversight and challenge before combining these perspectives to by the Operating Committee and, where create a consolidated view.
In compiling appropriate, by the Board and Audit this risk profile, consideration is given to Committee, during the course of the year.
risks that are external to our business, core to our day-to-day operations, The directors assessment of the long-term shaped by business change, or any other viability of the Company is also reviewed that may impact achievement of our annually, mindful of the principal risks faced.
Current issues and areas Further detail on our approach to assessing of change emerging outside the long-term viability can be found on page 21. half-yearly review are also monitored.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT BUSINESS AREA RISK REGISTERS BUSINESS UNIT Updated by the business.
FUNCTION OWNED RISK REGISTERS Content owned by business area leadership.
KEY RISKS: DETAILED ANALYSIS DETAIL OF RISKS, Deep dive analysis of all risks included on Group Risk Profile.
MITIGATION & KPIs Content owned by individual Operating Committee members.
GROUP RISK PROFILE KEY RISK ALLOCATED Group level summary including likelihood impact.
TO OPERATING Internally monitored by Operating Committee.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS Process and output reviewed by Audit Committee.
PRINCIPAL RISKS EXTERNAL Externally disclosed in the Annual Report DISCLOSURE approved by the Board.
21 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 HOW OUR RISKS AFFECT ONE ANOTHER We recognise that there is significant interdependency between our key risks.
This diagram illustrates how changes to one risk might impact those connected to it.
By understanding this relationship, we are better placed to ensure we are managing them appropriately and to understand our broader risk exposure.
This is especially important when assessing the Companys long-term viability.
Our business continues to operate in a As part of our improvement programme, we invest The strength of our brand is based, in part, on the way tradingenvironment that is unpredictable in technology to respond to changes in customer we run our Company.
Customers have high expectations andhighly competitive.
preferences and behaviour, and drive operational of us in terms of how we manage information security, effectiveness.
Meanwhile, improving our brand food safety and integrity, and corporate compliance and customer experience ensures webecome andresponsibility risks.
more relevant, more often, to our target customers.
While our business transformation, suchas reshaping our store estate, ensures we create an environment that is relevant for today.
TECHNOLOGY Read more on p24 INFORMATION SECURITY Read more TRADING BUSINESS on p24 ENVIRONMENT TRANSFORMATION CORPORATE Read more Read more COMPLIANCE & on p23 RESPONSIBILITY on p23 Read more on p23 FOOD SAFETY BRAND & & INTEGRITY CUSTOMER Read more EXPERIENCE on p23 Read more on p24 Operational execution is dependent on attracting, retaining and rewarding the right people and effectively working with our third-party suppliers and partners.
OUR APPROACH TO ASSESSING LONG-TERM VIABILITY The UK Corporate Governance Code We have modelled scenarios which group The directors also satisfied themselves that requires us to issue a viability statement together principal risks where we believe they have the evidence necessary to declaring whether we believe the Company interdependencies exist between the risks, support the statement in terms of the is able to continue to operate and meet its in addition to scenarios where unconnected effectiveness of the internal control liabilities, taking into account its current risks occur simultaneously.
These scenarios environment in place to mitigate risk.
The overriding focused on both external factors, such as In making the statement, the directors aim is to encourage directors to focus Brexit and lower than expected market have applied the following assumptions on the longer term and be more actively growth, and internal factors, such as in preparing the scenarios: involved in risk management and strategic programmes delivering lower internal controls.
The scenario with Bonds maturing during the assessment the most significant adverse impact was period will be repaid through our existing The Board is required to assess the reviewed against the current and projected bank facilities.
Companys viability over a period greater liquidity position to conclude on the than 12 months.
The increased levels of The actions included in our plan to grow Companys viability.
The assessment uncertainty within the global economic sales are not fully realised or are offset also took account of additional potential and political environment and the macroby lower than expected market growth.
mitigations available in the event of further economic challenges being experienced downside factors, including a reduction in The actions included in our plans to within the retail sector, mean the Board capital expenditure and reduced returns to mitigate input cost increases that we continues to believe a three-year period shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews expect are not delivered in full or the is appropriate for business planning, the output of the viability assessment in input cost increases are greater than measuring performance and remunerating advance of final evaluation by the Board.
Our assessment of viability therefore continues to align In assessing viability the Board considered The UK governments notification of its with this three-year outlook.
a number of key factors, including our intention to exit the European Union will business model see page 10, our strategy have adverse financial impacts, including The process adopted to assess the viability see pages 4-5, risk appetite see page 22 input cost inflation from increased tariffs of the Company involves collaborative and our principal risks and uncertainties and a weakening in sterling, as well as input from a number of functions across the see pages 22-24.
These have been reviewed reduced UK consumer spending.
business to model severe but plausible in the context of our financial plans, scenarios in which a number of the Groups The Boards assessment is that M&S is a specifically the Annual Budget and principal risks and uncertainties materialise viable business.
The Viability Statement Three-Year Plan.
within the period of the three-year plan.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
