Strategic report Risk Management and Principal Risks Managing risk to deliver strategic objectives Managing risk is key to the delivery of long-term sustainable improvement in shareholder value.
All risks are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
Approach to risk management Achievements in 2018 Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is a The Groups risk function has placed particular emphasis on the key factor in the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The following areas during the year: Board establishes the culture of effective risk management and is responsible for maintaining appropriate systems and controls.
Cyber risk has continued to be a major focus area for risk The Board sets the risk appetite and determines the policies and assessment.
Further internal audit projects and penetration procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risks.
tests have been undertaken and continued improvements have been made to mitigate risk, improve IT security and safeguard Process business continuity and our industrial network.
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse risks and those of a potentially significant nature are included in Health and safety has been a key priority for the CPM the Group Risk Register.
integration and the reduction of health and safety risk continues to be a key focus for the Group.
The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated by the full KPMG completed a number of targeted internal audit projects Executive management team at least every 6 months and the during 2018 including post-acquisition business integration overall process is the subject of regular review.
Risks are recorded following the acquisition of CPM, inventory management, with a full analysis and risk owners are nominated who have GDPR, human resource systems and procedures.
authority and responsibility for assessing and managing the risk.
KPMG, as the Groups internal auditor, attended the most recent A detailed annual review of the Groups capital structure has risk review meeting.
The conclusion of KPMG is that the process been undertaken to ensure it remains aligned with corporate continues to be a robust mechanism for monitoring and growth objectives and takes full account of the increasing controlling the Groups principal risks.
All risks are aligned with the external political and economic uncertainty in the pre-Brexit risk Groups strategic objectives and each risk is analysed for impact environment.
and probability to determine exposure and impact to the business and the determination of a gross risk score enables risk exposure The Group has maintained a conservative capital structure with to be prioritised.
a strong balance sheet and comfortable headroom against bank facilities provides significant mitigation against potential The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, market risk.
financial and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls are subjected to internal audit and periodic Priorities for 2019 testing in order to provide independent verification where this The priorities for the Groups risk function in 2019 include the is deemed appropriate.
The effectiveness and impact of key following areas of focus: controls are evaluated and this is used to determine a net risk score for each risk.
The process is used to develop action plans The potential impact of Brexit and wider economic and political that are used to manage, or respond to, the risks and these uncertainty continues to be a major risk.
During 2019, the Groups are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups Brexit and downturn contingency planning will continue to be Audit Committee.
In addition, the Group has established a formal framework for the The rapid pace of change in the wider environment ongoing assessment of operational, financial and IT-based controls.
necessitates cyber risk remaining a key priority for 2019.
Further The overriding objective is to gain assurance that the control assignments and penetration tests are planned.
framework is complete and that the individual controls are Health and safety remains a major focus area.
Additional independent verification checking increases in the financial penalty regime have increased the of key controls and reconciliations are undertaken on a rolling potential impact of health and safety incidents.
Such testing includes key controls over access to, and changing permissions on, base data and metadata.
The completion of a number of targeted projects will again be a major focus for KPMG.
In 2019, projects covering general Risk appetite IT controls, health and safety, rebates, logistics and fleet The Group is prepared to accept a certain level of risk to remain management are planned.
competitive but continues to adopt a conservative approach to risk management.
The risk framework is robust and provides Proactive supply chain management continues to be a focus clarity in determining the risks faced and the level of risk that area for the Group and a further internal audit project is being we are prepared to accept.
Marshalls continues to put in place planned by KPMG in 2019.
This will include further consideration detailed plans to manage all risks through strategies that are of risk mitigation in relation to the certainty of the supply of raw designed to either treat, transfer or terminate the source of the materials within the wider supply chain.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic report Risk Management and Principal Risks continued Framework Viability Statement After considering the principal risks overleaf, the Directors have The Board: assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the the period of at least 12 months required by the going concern procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
The Directors consider that the Groups risk management process satisfies the requirements of provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee: has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a 3-year management and internal controls: strategic plan, which is assessed with reference to the Groups reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and current position and prospects, the strategic objectives and internal control procedures: and the operation of the procedures and policies to manage the monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the principal risks that might threaten the business model, future independence of the external audit.
performance and target capital structure.
In this assessment, security, flexibility and efficiency are the guiding principles that underpin the Groups capital structure objectives.
Executive Directors: Internal audit: are responsible for the independently reviews the The Board continues to believe that 3 years is an appropriate effective maintenance of effectiveness of internal period of assessment and considers that it has reasonable visibility the Groups Risk Register: control procedures: of the market over a 3-year period to 31 December 2021.
A 3-year oversee the management reports on effectiveness of period is consequently considered appropriate for the Viability of risk: management actions: and Statement.
The Groups strategic plan includes an integrated model monitor risk mitigation and provides assurance to the that incorporates the income statement, balance sheet and cash controls: and Audit Committee.
Key KPIs and financial ratios are reviewed along monitor the effective with the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions used.
Scenario implementation of planning is undertaken along with stress testing against downside action plans.
The stress testing reflects the principal risks that could conceivably threaten the Groups ability to continue operating as a going concern and focuses on scenarios that might give Operational managers: rise to sales volume reductions, deteriorating operating margins are responsible for the identification of operational and increases in interest rates.
The macro-economic and political and strategic risks: background is the Groups key risk area and all of the Groups other are responsible for the ownership and control of specific risks: principal risks are covered within the same downside stress tests.
are responsible for establishing and managing the The stress testing applied in 2018 has been especially mindful of the implementation of appropriate action plans: and increased Brexit uncertainty and a greater assessment of market are responsible for the impact of controls net basis.
risk due to political and economic uncertainty.
The stress testing undertaken reflects a suitably cautious economic outlook and remains a key part of the Groups detailed approach to capital structure and forecasting.
A significant stress test has been applied Risk heatmap net risk scores to reflect a dramatic economic downturn and to replicate the financial impact of the last recession as the core sensitivity, with 1 significantly reduced sales volumes giving rise to a 33 per cent 4 decrease in revenue over the next 3 years.
None of the individual 2 sensitivities applied impact the Directors assessment of viability.
3 Even under the deep stress test all bank covenants are met and the gearing and net debt EBITDA metrics remain sustainable.
The Group would undertake significant mitigation measures in a deep downturn and this would create additional contingency.
6 7 Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 8 9 in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next 3 years.
5 Brexit Prolonged uncertainty over exit terms and continued weakness in Sterling may lead to a slowdown in the UK economy and a reduction in consumer confidence.
Marshalls has strong market positions and a strategy of targeting those market areas where growth prospects are greatest.
During 2018, the potential impact of Brexit and wider economic and political uncertainties have been considered in the assessment of risk 1 on page 25.
This LOW MEDIUM HIGH assessment has included significant stress testing of financial models and risk mitigation measures within the Groups supply LIKELIHOOD chain.
The Group has developed a detailed Brexit plan to mitigate 1 Macro-economic 5 Integration of 8 Threat from new the risk of raw material shortages.
and political acquisitions technologies and business models Principal risks and uncertainties 2 Cyber security risks 6 Customers The Directors have undertaken a robust, systematic assessment 9 Corporate, legal 7 Competitor 3 Security of raw and regulatory of the Groups principal risks.
These have been considered activity material supply within the timeframe of 3 years, which aligns with our Viability 4 Weather Statement above.
Marshalls plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 IMPACT LOW MEDIUM HIGH Strategic report Impact on business model: Sourcing Manufacturing Distribution Customers Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure and control framework Macro-economic and political Impact on business model Link to strategy Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The Group is dependent on the level of Delays in the awarding of and completion of contracts.
The continued uncertainty and activity in its end markets.
Accordingly, volatility in world markets has Reductions in consumer confidence and order pipeline.
it is susceptible to economic downturn, increased global economic Mitigating factors the impact of Government policy, interest uncertainty.
The CPA forecasts The Group closely monitors trends and lead indicators, rates and any political and economic have continued to soften in invests in market research and is an active member of uncertainty in relation to Brexit.
the shorter term in the wake the CPA.
of continued Brexit uncertainty Potential impact The Group benefits from the diversity of its business and the increased likelihood The potential impact of Brexit and and end markets.
The proactive development of the of a no deal outcome.
wider global macro-economic product range continues to offer protection.
Political divisions in the UK uncertainty could lead to lower activity Parliament continue to The Group has developed a detailed Brexit plan levels which could reduce sales and increase uncertainty with to mitigate the risk of raw material shortages.
This could have an implications for Sterling The Group continues to target those market areas adverse effect on the Groups financial and business confidence.
where growth prospects are greatest, e. g. New Build results.
The impact of exchange rate Housing, Road, Rail and Water Management.
fluctuations and increased interest rates could also have an adverse The Group focuses on its supplier relationships, flexible impact on material costs.
contracts and the use of hedging instruments.
Impact on business model Link to strategy Cyber security risks Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year Inadequate controls and procedures Emergence of new cyber security risks.
This remains a high profile area over the protection of intellectual and considerable focus is being Increased examples of data loss in the wider market.
property, sensitive employee information given to promoting awareness Mitigating factors and market influencing data.
The risk is Use of IT security policies.
increasing despite the continued The failure to improve controls against extension of mitigation controls.
The undertaking of regular cyber security risk audits by cyber security risk quickly enough, There is a perception that the specialists and the quick introduction of mitigation given the rapid pace of change risk of data loss through new or controls and other recommended procedure updates.
and the continuing introduction as yet unseen security threats Sensitive data is currently restricted to selected senior of new threats.
and experienced employees who are used to handling Potential impact such data.
Appropriate tools and training Risk of data loss causing financial Where sensitive data is made available to third parties, procedures are in place to and reputational risk.
it is done using encryption under confidentiality protect sensitive data when agreements with reputable suppliers.
stored and transmitted between parties e. g. encryption of hard A continuous programme of awareness training for staff.
drives, restricted USB devices, secure data transmission mechanisms and third party security audits.
Impact on business model Link to strategy Security of raw material supply Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year In view of the continued Brexit uncertainty, Temporary shortages and exchange rate cost inflation.
The risk of temporary shortages there is a risk to the security of raw is mitigated by proactive Decreases in vehicle availability and labour material supply and the risk of shortages supply chain management and driver shortages.
the use of alternative suppliers.
Mitigating factors The Group is susceptible to significant Cost inflation remains a risk as The Group benefits from the diversity of its business increases in the price of raw materials, demand for raw materials and end markets.
utilities, fuel oil and haulage costs and increases against a backdrop We are collaborating with all EU-based Tier 1 and decreases in vehicle availability.
of increased economic Tier 2 suppliers to ensure any supply risks from a uncertainty.
All importers are Hard Brexit are minimised.
Potential impact faced with the same issues.
The increased costs could reduce margins The Group focuses on its supplier relationships, flexible In 2019 we will be digitising and may be further impacted in the event contracts and the use of hedging instruments.
our supply chain through the of imbalances in the mix of regional activity.
The Group utilises sales pricing and purchasing policies implementation of a best-indesigned to mitigate the risks.
The risk of market demand exceeding raw class Supply Relationship material supply could lead to inefficient The Group uses specialist delivery vehicles.
production, which could reduce margins.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic report Risk Management and Principal Risks continued Impact on business model Link to strategy Weather Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The Group is exposed to the impact Prolonged periods of bad weather e. g. snow, ice Weather conditions of prolonged periods of bad weather.
and floods which makes groundworking difficult or continue to be closely impossible.
An example of this was the extensive period monitored but are beyond Potential impact of snow and ice in Q1 2018 when the Groups plants had the Groups control.
Adverse working conditions could give to be closed for several days.
rise to disruption and delays that might Mitigating factors reduce short-term activity levels.
This The Group has a continuing focus on new product could reduce sales and production development, including landscape water management.
volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
The Group is developing its internal flooring offer and International strategy in order to diversify its activities.
The development of the Groups Water Management business is a significant opportunity.
The acquisition of CPM has significantly moved the Group forward in this area and the successful integration of CPM has been a significant step in the stated strategy of providing a full water management capability.
Impact on business model Link to strategy Integration of acquisitions Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The successful integration of The acquisitions of CPM and Edenhall could potentially The successful integration of acquisitions e. g. Edenhall and CPM put increased pressure on the Groups resources.
CPM has provided a proven into the Marshalls Group is a significant template for the Groups Mitigating factors business issue.
integration model and Any legal or regulatory matters identified during due planning.
The integration diligence are addressed in the sale and purchase Potential impact projects continue to receive agreement.
For example, risk mitigation for CPM required There is a risk that business integration significant management and 12 million to be paid into an escrow account pending the could take longer than expected.
The Group has a right could impact the expected financial of reimbursement of amounts held in the escrow account performance and reduce the positive to the extent that any liability crystallises.
impact of potential synergy benefits.
The Group has a detailed integration plan which covers all business areas and is focused on risk reduction and maximising opportunity.
The plan also focuses on ethical training and a detailed health and safety plan.
The integration plans have Executive-level focus and is being administered by a dedicated Integration Manager.
Post-integration reviews are undertaken by KPMG e. g. CPM integration review in Q3 2018.
Impact on business model Link to strategy Customers Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The UK business has a number of key Changes to market structure or trading relationships.
Although the underlying risk customers, in particular the national continues, the effective New customer strategies.
This is partly as a result of management of key Mitigating factors the consolidated nature of this market.
relationships and the ongoing The Group focuses on brand and new product diversification of the business Potential impact development, quality and customer continue to mitigate the risk.
The loss of a significant customer may service improvement.
give rise to a significant adverse effect The Group maintains a national network of manufacturing on the Groups financial results.
The Group undertakes ongoing reviews of trading policies and relationships and maintains constant communication with customers.
Marshalls plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Impact on business model: Sourcing Manufacturing Distribution Customers Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure and control framework Impact on business model Link to strategy Competitor activity Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The Group has a number of existing Threat from new competitors and new technologies.
The more uncertain market competitors which compete on range, environment has not led to Less demand for traditional products and the price, quality and service.
any significant changes in increased emergence of new digital business models competitive pressure.
Potential new low cost competitors may be attracted into the market Mitigating factors through increased demand for The Group has unique selling points that differentiate imported natural stone products.
The Group focuses on quality, service, reliability and Potential impact ethical standards that differentiate Marshalls from The increased competition could competitor products.
reduce volumes and margins on manufactured and traded products.
The Group continues to have the lowest cost to market.
The Group has a continuing focus on new product development.
The continued development of the Groups digital strategy and its focus for customers and all stakeholders.
Threat from new technologies Impact on business model Link to strategy and new business models Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year Reduction in demand for traditional Less demand for traditional products.
The ongoing diversification of products.
Risk of new competitors the business, the continued Emergence of new competitors and new digital and new substitute products development of the Marshalls business models.
Failure to react to market brand and the focus on new Mitigating factors developments, including digital and products and greater Good market intelligence.
manufacturing efficiency continue to mitigate the risk.
Flexible business strategy able to embrace Potential impact new technologies.
The increased competition could Significant focus on research and development and reduce volumes and margins on new products.
Development of the Groups e-platform and developing digital strategy.
Link to strategy Corporate, legal and regulatory Impact on business model Nature of risk Key risk indicators Change in risk in the year The Group may be adversely affected Increased regulatory and compliance requirements.
The Group continues by an unexpected reputational event, to improve compliance Integration requirements for new acquisitions.
e. g. an issue in its ethical supply chain procedures within the Significant increases in the penalty regime for health or due to a health and safety incident.
and safety and environmental incidents.
The impact of the Environmental Health and safety and Mitigating factors Protocol leads to the need for the potential impact of the The Group has a formal Group sustainability strategy increasingly expensive processes.
Bribery Act continue to be focusing on impact reduction.
These Potential impact The Group employs compliance procedures, policies, areas are receiving additional An incident could lead to a ISO standards and independent audit processes which management focus.
disruption to production and the seek to ensure that local, national and international supply of products for customers.
regulatory and compliance procedures are fully This could increase costs and have complied with.
a potential negative impact on the The Group uses professional specialists covering carbon Groups reputation.
reduction, water management and biodiversity.
Significant increases in the penalty regime have increased the potential financial impact of health and safety as well as environmental incidents.
An environmental contamination event may lead to a prosecution and to reputational loss.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Strategic report Case Study Innovation and new product development A strategic objective is to invest in new product development within the core landscaping product range in order to focus on consumer demand and the requirements of the customer.
Our innovation cycle There is a critical relationship between products, process and materials for development of new products.
The Groups innovation cycle combines intelligence, innovation and delivery, and is a driver Improve Improve of growth.
We apply dedicated and focused resources to deliver a aesthetics installation high level of technical competence in materials, automation, digital technology, engineering and product design.
Marshalls has excellent trial and development facilities and can deliver a high level of product complexity.
Improve Improve sustainability functionality In the current innovation R&D investment cycle we have launched 4.9m Reduce 67 whole life new product ranges costs 20 20 20 20 20 R&D case study Drivesett Coppice incorporates the Groups new surface performance technology and also provides an innovative blend of colours which provides a practical solution and beautiful aesthetic for the customer.
SPT products accounted for 20% of overall Domestic Concrete Block Paving sales in 2018.
co. uk homeowners Strategy on pages 18 and 19 Marshalls plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
