RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED REFERENCE CATEGORY BUSINESS PROCESSES STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Regulatory Legal and secretarial Ensuring good corporate governance 5 compliance risks Governance, risk and compliance Acting as a responsible corporate citizen Environmental management Clinical risks Clinical Delivering superior value to its 6 patients Nursing Delivering integrated healthcare in Pharmacy collaboration with doctors and allied Coding healthcare professional communities People risks Human resources Being an employer of choice 7 Compensation and benefits cycle Having constructive relationships with all stakeholders Being a valued member of the community Risk exposure increased due to change in business environment, increased investments, increased dependency of operations on information technology, information sensitivity and cost involved.
Proactive and continuous monitoring, favourable results of negotiations, effective treasury and risk management processes resulted in lowering of risk exposure.
Risk exposure has not changed significantly as the operating and regulatory environment has remained mostly the same and enhanced risk mitigation measures have kept the risk at same level.
The Group makes use of an outsourced internal audit INTERNAL CONTROLS function which is closely aligned to the Group risk The Group upholds an effective control environment management function.
It reports independently to the designed to ensure risks are mitigated and the Group attains Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
At each operating its objectives, including the accuracy and reliability of the division, the effectiveness of the system of internal financial Groups financial reporting.
The system includes monitoring control is independently evaluated through the internal and mechanisms and ensures that appropriate actions are taken external audit programmes.
In addition to these audits, the to correct deficiencies when they are identified.
effectiveness of operational procedures is examined internally The key features of the Groups internal control and risk through various peer review and control self-assessment processes.
The results of these assurance processes are management systems in relation to the financial reporting process include: monitored by the Groups risk management function and reported to each operating divisions management team.
clearly defined matters reserved for the Board or its Each operating division has, in addition to the above Committees, delegations of authority and lines of mentioned assurance processes, implemented further accountability: independent assurance processes with professional policies and procedures covering: organisations, as summarised in the table on page 49. the Groups approach to treasury activities and tax matters: The company secretaries at Group and operating division internal and external audit mandates: level, as well as the internal legal advisors, are responsible for providing guidance in respect of compliance with applicable preparation of financial reports: laws and regulations.
governance of key projects: and ICT security: EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK periodic audits conducted by the Internal Auditor: MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND representation letters from the divisional CEOs regarding the key risks and mitigating actions for their division: and SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL review of disclosures in financial reports by the divisional The Board, via the Audit and Risk Committee, regularly CEOs and CFOs and the Group senior management as receives reports on, and considers the activities of, the relevant, as well as the Audit and Risk Committee and the internal and external auditors of Hirslanden, Mediclinic Board, to ensure that they fulfil the relevant requirements.
Southern Africa and Mediclinic Middle East, and the During the year, the Group and each operating division Groups risk management function.
The Board, via the Audit executed their assurance plans.
These plans comprise various and Risk Committee, is satisfied that there is an effective assurance processes, including internal and external audit risk management process in place and that there is an processes which are in place to evaluate the effectiveness adequate and effective system of internal control in place of key controls designed to mitigate the significant risks to appropriately mitigate the significant risks faced by identified in each operating division.
48 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES COMBINED ASSURANCE BUSINESS PROCESSES ASSURANCE OUTPUT ASSURED PROVIDER STANDARD External calculation of carbon Carbon footprint calculation Carbon Calculated footprint based on carbon emissions data of Mediclinic Southern Africa ISO 14001:2004 certification of Environmental management British Standards Institute, as 42 of Mediclinic Southern Africas system accredited by United Kingdom 52hospitals Accreditation Service UKAS COHSASA accreditation of 34 Quality standards of healthcare Council for Health Services of Mediclinic Southern Africas facilities Accreditation of Southern Africa 37 participating hospitals COHSASA, which is accredited by the International Society for Quality in Health Care ISQua B-BBEE verification Broad-based black economic Empowerdex empowerment ISO 9001:2008 certification of all Process and Quality Swiss Association for Quality Hirslanden hospitals and Hirslanden management and Management Systems Corporate Office.
Five hospitals are SQS already ISO 9001:2015 certified with the remainder to be concluded by September 2018 Self-assessment against EFQM Assessment against the EFQM European Foundation for Excellence Model by all Hirslanden Excellence Model, a framework Quality Management EFQM hospitals and Hirslanden for organisational management Excellence Model Corporate Office systems aimed at promoting sustainable excellence within organisations ISO 14001:2015 certification of Environmental management SQS Hirslanden Klinik Belair system JCI reaccreditation of Mediclinic Quality and safety of patient Joint Commission International Al Noor Hospital in Abu Dhabi in care JCI Accreditation November 2017 JCI accreditation and re-accreditation of all Mediclinic Middle East facilities hospitals and clinics is scheduled for mid-2019 All Mediclinic Middle East laboratories Pathology laboratories of International Organisation for operating within Mediclinic hospital Mediclinic Middle East hospitals Standardisation ISO and clinic facilities are ISO 15189:2012 and clinics in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, accredited.
Al Ain and Western Region CAP re-accreditation of the laboratory Pathology laboratory of College of American Mediclinic City Hospital Pathologists CAP of Mediclinic City Hospital in 2017 The flags indicate the operating division where the assurance process is in place Key: Mediclinic Southern Africa Hirslanden Mediclinic Middle East MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 VIABILITY STATEMENT The assessment of viability is an extension of the risk would be refinanced broadly in line with the terms and management and annual financial planning processes conditions of the existing facilities.
The Group successfully which translate into each of the Groups operating divisions refinanced CHF1.9bn and R4.2bn in 2012: CHF1.7bn in 2015: business plans.
The business plans reflect the current Group and in 2016 refinanced the UK bridge facility of 266m with strategies and their associated risks and the directors facilities amounting to R2.7bn in South Africa and US$155m best estimations of their prospects.
Fundamental to the in the Middle East.
At the end of October 2017, the elective assessment of the Groups prospects is the long-term refinancing of the Groups Swiss debt was successfully business model of quality service delivery and revenue completed.
The refinanced Swiss debt funding comprises growth under manageable risk tolerance.
up to CHF2bn of property-backed facilities for a minimum period of six years and up to a maximum of 10 years.
The annual financial planning process includes a detailed bottom-up approach per division for the budget year The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Groups robust performed by each clinic and hospital and the extension of risk management process and system of internal control AR the key assumptions to the forecast period.
The budgets are via a mandate from the Board see pages 124 and 125.
The subject to review and, if necessary, re-budgeting.
The annual principal risks as detailed on pages 44 to 47 were identified financial planning, including the strategic Group goals and by these systems and, for the purposes of the viability objectives, are reviewed and approved by the divisional assessment, severe but plausible scenarios reflecting the Executive Committees, Mediclinic International Executive risks that could impair the viability of the Group were Committee and Mediclinic International plc Board.
identified for each of the operating divisions to form the basis for stress testing.
The Board has adopted a five-year time frame for the assessment, in line with the Groups business planning period On a divisional level the potential impact of each scenario which reflects the impact of investments made in the present and certain scenarios in combination, were modelled and period.
The five-year period extends beyond the maturities assessed on EBITDA or profit after tax as appropriate, net of a material portion of the Groups borrowings.
Under debt and debt covenants over the five-year forecast period.
current operating and market circumstances, as well as the The principal risks and related key assumptions underlying existing levels of debt and the forecast headroom in respect each of the operating divisions business plans that were of debt covenants, the assumption is that these borrowings flexed in the stress testing are set out below: KEY ASSUMPTION STRESS TESTED PRINCIPAL RISK DIVISIONS STRESS TESTED Reductions in tariffs and fees Economic and business environment Switzerland: Southern Africa: UAE Regulatory and compliance risk Reduction in volumes Competition Switzerland: Southern Africa: UAE Economic and business environment Regulatory and compliance risk Change in insurance patient mix Regulatory and compliance risk Switzerland: UAE Interest rate increases Availability and cost of capital Switzerland A downturn in the macroeconomic Availability and cost of capital Southern Africa and business environment Economic and business environment The shortage and availability of Availability, recruitment and Southern Africa qualified and experienced retention of skilled resources and healthcare staff medical practitioners Adverse regulatory changes Regulatory and compliance risk Switzerland: Southern Africa: UAE Outmigration of care Economic and business environment Switzerland The investment in Group initiatives Information systems security and Switzerland not being successfully implemented availability risk 50 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION VIABILITY STATEMENT KEY ASSUMPTION STRESS TESTED PRINCIPAL RISK DIVISIONS STRESS TESTED Delays in expansion projects Information systems security and UAE availability risk which includes project delivery risk Accounts receivable book tracks Operational and credit risk UAE above expectation and relationship with key funders deteriorates This analysis showed that the business, in its geographically 31March 2023.
In making their assessment, the Directors diverse portfolio, would be able to withstand any individual have assumed that there will be no material change in the and certain combinations of the severe but plausible business environment as such assumptions are subject to scenarios by taking management action, ceteris paribus, with a level of uncertainty and judgment for which outcomes the key mitigating steps being a reduction in discretionary cannot be projected and foreseen.
investment, obtaining a new facility GBP100m at Group The analysis does not take account of any changes arising level subject to being able to agree appropriate terms from the introduction of new accounting standards over the and conditions and subject to market conditions, cost forecast period.
management initiatives and improvement in net working Having considered the principal risks and the viability capital days.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable assessment, the Board also considers it appropriate to expectation that the Group will be able to continue in adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the financial statements.
five-year period of their detailed assessment, ending in MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND 17 2% NUMBER OF REVENUE HOSPITALS CHF1 735M 4 -7% NUMBER OF ADJUSTED EBITDA CHF318M CLINICS 1 805 2% NUMBER OF BED DAYS SOLD BEDS 104 87.7% NUMBER OF PATIENT EXPERIENCE THEATRES INDEX Dr Ole Wiesinger Chief Executive Offi cer: Hirslanden CEOS STATEMENT This year was a particularly challenging one with a number of Swiss healthcare regulatory changes impacting Hirslanden.
To address the trends in inpatient and outpatient activity driven by this evolving regulatory environment, Hirslanden is adapting its business model.
We are continuing to transform from being a pure acute hospital operator to an integrated healthcare service provider that off ers medical services across various levels of care.
During the year we opened the Bellaria Outpatient Surgery Unit in Zurich, which allows procedures to be carried out safely and effi ciently in an ambulatory environment that aligns with the regulatory changes.
Through our Hirslanden 2020 strategic programme we are accessing the most appropriate outpatient solution for each hospital and seeking to increase the effi ciency of the existing business by implementing standardised systems and processes.
Despite these challenges and the mature, saturated market, as the largest private healthcare service provider in Switzerland, Hirslanden is well positioned to take advantage of future opportunities for growth through selective investments.
In July, we successfully completed the acquisition of the 115-bed Linde Private Hospital in Biel which has performed well since its integration.
Throughout all this ux, patients remain at the core of Hirslandens long-term strategy and we remain focused on providing them with excellent clinical care.
52 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 9 635 As at the end of the reporting period, Hirslanden operated NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 17 hospitals and 4 outpatient clinics with a total of 1 805 inpatient beds and 9 635 employees 7 633 full-time equivalents.
It is the largest private acute care hospital group in Switzerland servicing approximately one third of 3.93 inpatients treated in Swiss private hospitals.
Hirslanden EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT accounted for 47% of the Groups revenues FY17: 48% and grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale 48% of its adjusted EBITDA FY17: 53%.
Eff ective 1 July 2017, Hirslanden acquired Linde Holding -1.5% Biel Bienne AG Linde for a total consideration of CHF107m.
Linde is a leading private hospital in the Biel region AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY of Switzerland off ering a wide range of medical services with 115 beds, an outpatient clinic facility, emergency unit, six operating theatres, physiotherapy, radiology and an 73.3% ophthalmology centre.
In March 2017, the hospitals main building was expanded with a new wing which provides BED OCCUPANCY the opportunity for future growth.
Linde delivered a good operating performance following its successful integration.
Net fi finance costs increased by 42% to CHF81m FY17: Hirslandens FY18 revenues were impacted by the timing of CHF57m, mainly due to the derecognition of unamortised the Easter period, a subdued summer market, the continued fi finance expenses of CHF24m due to the refi finance of debt change in insurance mix and the evolving changes in the facilities implemented during the year.
Revenue in FY18 was up 2% to CHF1 735m FY17: CHF1 704m as a result of fl at inpatient Hirslanden contributed 106m to the Groups adjusted revenues and an 8% increase in outpatient revenues, which earnings representing 48% compared to 121m contributed around 19% of the divisions total revenue.
The representing 55% in the prior year.
Hirslanden converted gradual insurance mix change continued, with a 10% increase 81% FY17: 96% of adjusted EBITDA into cash generated in general insured patients and a 3% decline in supplementary from operations, down from 96% in FY17 due to an increase in insured patients.
This, together with the integration of Linde, trade receivables largely caused by billing process changes.
contributed to the 1.5% decline in revenue per bed day.
In October 2017, the Group completed the refi nancing of Bed days sold and inpatient admissions were up 1.6% and 2.6% Hirslandens secured long-term bank loans with a 25bps respectively.
Excluding Linde, Hirslanden revenue was down reduction in the cost of debt on a like for like basis and an 1% and outpatient revenue was up 3% with bed days sold and extended maturity profi le to at least 2023.
The new facilities inpatient admissions down 2.6% and 2.1% respectively.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 7% in FY18 to CHF318m In line with the requirements of IFRS, the Group performs FY17: CHF340m with the adjusted EBITDA margin an annual review of the carrying value for goodwill and decreasing to 18.3% from 20.0%.
This refl ects the impact other intangible assets.
In Switzerland, the changes in the on revenue of current trends in the market and regulatory market and regulatory environment aff ected key inputs to environment as well as the continued investment costs the review that gave rise to impairment charges recorded relating to the Hirslanden 2020 strategic programme off set against properties and intangible assets of 84m and by the benefi ts from cost-management programmes and 560m, respectively.
Hirslanden's goodwill and indefi nite life effi ciency savings.
trade names were carried at 307m and 341m, respectively, Depreciation and amortisation increased by 12% to CHF110m at the previous year end balance sheet date of 31 March 2017.
FY17: CHF98m refl ecting the incorporation of Linde The impairment charges are non-cash and excluded from and ongoing fi xed asset investments.
Adjusted operating the adjusted earnings metrics.
The remaining trade names profi t decreased by 14% to CHF208m FY17: CHF242m.
will be amortised over their respective estimated useful lives.
