Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there may be other risks of which the Group is unaware or are considered less significant which may affect our performance.
The potential impacts of each of our principal risks were considered as part of the viability stress testing and considered to be consistent with, analogous to or less significant than the scenarios modelled.
Strategic priorities Change in risk Risk velocity KPIs Financial performance H 1 Portfolio Increase High: Impact within 6 months of gross margin, organic revenue risk occurring growth, underlying operating profit, return on trading assets, Customers No change M Medium: Impact between 6 and 2 underlying EPS growth and 36 months of risk occurring free cash flow Competitiveness Decrease Low: Impact after more than 3 L R&D investment 36 months of risk occurring TRIR total recordable incident rate Culture 4 Inventory turns Strategic risks Risk Description Impact How we manage it Alignment of Group, divisional and functional Failure to respond to Decreased Business model strategy processes.
revenue and fundamental changes in our Dedicated fullservice aftermarket organisation.
2 Longterm customer agreements as part of primarily the evolving aftermarket.
This includes more maintaining and monitoring pricing strategy.
M durable parts requiring less Investment in research and development to maintain frequent replacement, a and enhance Meggitts intellectual property.
KPIs: growing supply of surplus parts, OE customers seeking greater Financial performance control of their aftermarket R&D investment supply chain and accelerated pace of new aircraft deliveries leading to the earlier retirement of older aircraft.
Monitoring external economic and commercial Significant variation in demand Volatility in Industry changes environment and longlead indicators whilst for products should civil underlying maintaining focus on balanced portfolio.
aerospace, defence and energy profitability.
1 EASA European Aviation Safety Agency has business downcycles coincide: a serious political, economic or acknowledged our application for third country M terrorist event that adversely certification that mirrors the existing EASA affects the aerospace industry certifications held by UK Meggitt sites.
We have now occur or consolidation that started to be issued with the third country certificates KPIs: materially changes the Financial performance which allow continued trading with our European competitive landscape.
Maintaining sufficient headroom in committed credit facilities and against covenants in those facilities whilst implementing appropriate costbase contingency plans.
Failure to develop and Restriction Management of technology development plans Technology strategy implement meaningful of ability to that align technology readiness, market needs and technology strategies to meet compete on new financial returns using a gated process.
programmes Recruiting and training firstclass engineers and with consequent scientists with appropriate technology skills.
L decrease in Ringfenced budgets focused on longerterm revenue and technology developments.
KPIs: Leveraging our R&D budget through partnerships Financial performance including government, academia and other R&D investment companies.
Meggitt PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational risks Risk Description Impact How we manage it System safety analysis, verification and validation Defective product leading to Decreased Quality escape policy and processes, combined inservice failure, accidents, revenue and equipment failure with quality and customer audits and industry the grounding of aircraft or profit, damage certifications.
prolonged production to operational 3 shutdowns for the Group and performance Meggitt Production System.
H KPIs: Financial performance Groupwide business continuity and crisis A catastrophic event such as Decreased Business interruption management plans, subject to regular testing.
an earthquake the Group has a revenue and Comprehensive insurance programme, renewed significant operational presence profit, damage annually and subject to property risk assessment in Southern California or fire to operational visits.
could lead to infrastructure performance H and property damage which and reputation.
prevents the Group from fulfilling its contractual KPIs: obligations.
Financial performance Failure to meet new product Failure to deliver Rigorous commercial and technological reviews of Project programme development programme financial returns bids and contractual terms before entering into management milestones and certification against programmes.
requirements and successfully investment and Continuous review of programme performance 3 transition new products into or significant through the Programme Lifecycle Management PLM manufacturing as production financial process including: rates increase.
This also covers penalties leading M regular monitoring of the end market performance lower than expected production to decreased of key OE programmes: volumes, including programme profit and KPIs: internal review process, to stresstest readiness to cancellations.
damage to Financial performance reputation.
proceed at each stage of key programmes: and R&D investment regular monitoring of the financial health of customers.
Failure to meet customers cost, Failure to win Creation of a customer facing organisational Customer satisfaction quality and delivery standards future structure including a dedicated aftermarket division.
or qualify as preferred suppliers.
programmes, Regular monitoring of customer scorecards and 2 decreased ensuring responsiveness to issues via Voice of revenue and the Customer process.
Functional excellence in operations, project management and engineering.
KPIs: Increased utilisation of lowcost manufacturing base.
Financial performance Inventory turns Meggitt PLC 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Risk Description Impact How we manage it Failure to effectively integrate Decreased Internal preacquisition due diligence supplemented Acquisition acquisitions and failure to revenue and by external experts.
integration realise financial returns from profit.
Increase in local capabilities to manage production performance the advanced composites rampup and delivery of the financial model, acquisitions.
including cost synergies, under Group PMO 3 oversight.
Standard Meggitt processes implemented as part of a proven postmerger process led by incumbent M divisional management, supported by experienced dedicated operational teams with a senior oversight KPIs: committee.
Financial performance A breach of IT security due to Decreased IT security infrastructure, policies and procedures.
Cyber breach cyber crime terrorism resulting revenue and Groupwide intellectual property protection in intellectual property or other profit, damage programme.
3 sensitive information being lost, to operational Management of third party service providers and made inaccessible, corrupted performance and risks, including resilience and disaster recovery H or accessed by unauthorised reputation.
This also includes the Implementation of rolling programme of system KPIs: loss of critical systems such as upgrades including SAP implementation to replace Financial performance SAP due to badly executed legacy systems.
implementation or change of control: poor maintenance, business continuity or backup procedures and the failure of third parties to meet service level agreements.
Failure or inability of critical Decreased Supplier excellence framework combined with Supply chain suppliers to supply unique revenue and integrated commercial and procurement approach products, capabilities or services profit, damage to contractual terms and conditions including 3 preventing the Group from to operational development of longterm agreements.
satisfying customers or meeting performance and Local sourcing strategy to improve operational M contractual requirements.
efficiency and minimise potential impacts and disruption from crossborder tariffs.
KPIs: Maintenance of buffer inventory for critical and Financial performance solesource suppliers.
Inventory turns Implementation of measures to mitigate counterfeit and fraudulent parts at highrisk facilities.
Failure to successfully, Decreased Creation of dedicated site consolidation and Group change simultaneously, deliver the revenue and property management teams for Ansty Park.
management significant change programmes profit, increased Regular monitoring by Executive Leadership Team currently in process and planned, costs, damage through operational and project reviews.
3 including site consolidation to operational MPS implementation at new expanded sites.
activity such as Ansty Park.
KPIs: Financial performance Inventory turns Failure to attract, retain or Decreased Rollout of High Performance Culture.
People mobilise people due to factors revenue and Employee engagement programmes.
including industrial action, profit, damage Graduate and apprentice programmes in partnership 4 workforce demographics, lack of to operational with schools and universities.
training, availability of talent and performance.
Regular monitoring by Executive Leadership Team.
KPIs: Financial performance Meggitt PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate risks Risk Description Impact How we manage it Significant breach of increasingly Damage to Continuing investment in compliance programmes Legal & compliance complex trade compliance, reputation, including Board approved policies and roll out of bribery and corruption, US loss of supplier training and IT solutions.
3 Government contracting, accreditations, Regular monitoring by Ethics and Trade Compliance ethics, intellectual property, suspension of Committee, supported by ongoing trade compliance H data protection, competition activity, fines from programme including third party audits.
antitrust laws and facilitation of civil and criminal Comprehensive ethics programme including training, KPIs: tax evasion.
anticorruption policy and Ethics line.
Financial performance Third party audits including HS&E and the Criminal TRIR Finance Act.
MPS implementation to enhance safety measures, validated by third party audits.
Financial risks Tax legislation is complex and Higher effective Monitoring international tax developments to Taxation compliance can be subject to tax rates resulting assess implications of future legislation.
Events such as in decreased Maintenance of a lowrisk rating with UK HMRC and 3 the OECD BEPS programme, profit.
other tax authorities through open dialogue and, the US tax and tariff changes where possible, preagreement of arrangements to H and the impact of Brexit create confirm compliance with legislation.
uncertainty which could negate Assessment of options to mitigate impact of KPIs: the effectiveness of the Groups legislative changes on the Groups effective tax rate.
Financial performance current, well established, tax Use of multiple expert third party tax advisors.
efficient international structures, including those used to finance acquisitions.
Meggitt PLC 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Oversight of risk and internal control Regular compliance reports from the Executive Director, Commercial and Corporate Affairs: The Board is responsible for risk management and internal Regular reports on the state of the business from the control and for maintaining and reviewing its financial and Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: operational effectiveness.
The Board has taken into account A presentation on IT security activities and plans: the guidance provided by the FRC on Risk Management and Internal Control in carrying out its duties.
The system of internal Strategy reviews, review of the ten year financial plan and review and approval of the 2019 budget: control is designed to manage, but not to eliminate, the risk Written reports to the Ethics and Trade Compliance of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide Committee on the effectiveness and outcomes of reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material whistleblowing procedures: and misstatement or loss.
Reports on insurance coverage and uninsured risks.
The Groups functions are responsible for determining Group The risk management and internal control systems have been in policies and processes.
The businesses are responsible for place for the year under review and up to the date of approval implementing them, with internal and or external audits to of the Annual Report, and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The key features of the risk management and internal control system are described below, The Board monitors executive managements action plans to implement improvements in internal controls that have been including those relating to the financial reporting process, identified following the above mentioned reviews and reports.
as required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The Board confirms that it has not identified any significant Rules DTR : failings or weaknesses in the Groups systems of risk Group policies key policies are approved by the Board and other policies are approved by Group functions: management or internal control as a result of information provided to the Board and resulting discussions.
Process controls for example financial controls including the Group Finance Policies and Procedures Manual, the bid approval process, programme lifecycle management reviews, IT security framework and risk management: and The forecasting, budget and strategic plan processes.
The Groups programmes for insurance and business continuity form part of our risk management and internal control framework.
The following features allow the Group to monitor the effective implementation of policies and process controls by business units: A business performance review process including financial, operational and compliance performance : Semiannual business unit and divisional signoff of compliance with Group policies and processes: Compliance programmes and external audits including trade compliance, ethics, anticorruption, health, safety and environmental : An effective internal audit function which, primarily, performs business unit reviews by rotation including finance, programme management, IT, HR and ethics : and A whistleblowing line to enable employees to raise concerns.
To review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, the Board and Audit Committee applied the following processes and activities in 2018 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report: Reviews of the risk management process, risk register and risk appetite: Written and verbal reports to the Audit Committee from internal and external audit on progress with internal control activities, including: Reviews of business processes and activities, including action plans to address any identified control weaknesses and recommendations for improvements to controls or processes: The results of internal audits: Internal control recommendations made by the external auditors: and Followup actions from previous internal control recommendations.
Meggitt PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Viability statement Assessed the likelihood of bank and other debt facilities continuing to be available to the Group as existing facilities In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Code, the mature over the next five years: directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a Assessed the exposure to cross border trade, in relation to period of five years from the balance sheet date, taking account potential changes to import and export tariffs: and of its current position and the potential impact of the principal risks set out above.
Specifically assessed the impact of the UKs decision to leave the EU which is not expected to be significant, for three key reasons The Board selected the period of five years for the following From a trade perspective the WTO treaty for trade reasons: in civil aviation parts provides for tariff free trade The Groups multiyear strategic plan covers an initial fiveyear period.
Modelling by the Group for periods of over five years defence is generally covered under separate trade arrangements, with nontariff barriers not expected involves extrapolating the trend in years three to five and thus to threaten our ability to operate: inevitably is more uncertain: Levels of trade between the UK and other EU countries are The investment cycle for a typical engineering development not especially significant to Meggitt UK exports to the EU programme is up to five years: Although individual platforms operate for periods of 30 years were 6% of Group revenues in 2018, whilst imports to the UK from the EU were under 1% : and or more, our fiveyear viability period aligns with the typical We have a significant amount of nonSterling denominated aerospace cycle.
The longer term nature of our platform revenue, costs and debt, meaning we have benefited from cycles, and the support that brings to the expectation of the weakening of the Pound since the UKs decision to viability beyond the formal five year assessment period, is explained elsewhere in the Annual Report: and leave the EU.
Remaining net transaction exposures are hedged forward giving us time to respond to further The fiveyear viability period is consistent with the period movements over time.
over which we consider risks covered by the Group Risk Register.
In the event of an extension to the timeframe for the UKs In making this statement, the Board has reviewed and discussed withdrawal from the EU increasing the risks faced, the impact is still considered to remain within the scenarios modelled above.
the overall process undertaken by management and has: Discussed and agreed key assumptions in the stress testing Based on the results of its review and as set out above, the model used by management: directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be Considered the Groups current position and future prospects, the Groups strategy and principal risks and how able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the fiveyear period of their assessment.
these are managed as detailed in the Strategic report: Assessed the outcome of the stresstesting, carried out using the Groups fiveyear strategic plan as the base case.
The fiveyear strategic plan considers the Groups cash flows, dividend cover, Net Debt:EBITDA covenant ratio and other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics are assessed against the Group Risk Register to determine the most impactful ones to stress test against, and this is carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Groups principal risks actually occurring.
Considered the Group Risk Register to determine those risks which could potentially pose the most significant threat to viability across the Group over this period and which should be modelled, including: A significant market downturn, of greater magnitude than both the after effects of 9 11 and the global recession in 2008.
The downturn was assumed to last for the full stress testing period, impacting both civil aerospace and energy, with defence being unaffected as history has shown : A decline commensurate with losing one of our most significant customers, leading to a sharp loss of revenue across the full stress test period: and A set of reverse engineered scenarios which deliberately stress test to break our banking covenants or our committed facility requirements, to assess the headroom against our risk based scenarios.
Meggitt PLC 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
