Risk management Meggitt seeks to operate within a low risk appetite range assurance activities taking place throughout the Group in overall.
Effective risk management is required to deliver to this relation to the principal risks.
Where appropriate, insurance is appetite while supporting the achievement of the Groups used to manage risks and our risk management procedures strategy and business objectives.
Our risk management are shared with our insurers when assessing any potential framework is based on ISO 31000 and includes a formal process exposures.
Our insurers have provided funding via a bursary for identifying, assessing and responding to risk.
to enable more detailed reviews of certain risks to increase understanding of the key drivers and enable more efficient During 2018, we continued to refine our approach.
The Board action to address these, either through mitigation or insurance.
approved an updated Group risk appetite statement with These reviews have been well received by the risk owners for associated risk tolerances to ensure that identified risks are improving their ability to monitor and assess their risks and by managed within acceptable limits.
Comfort over the the insurers for providing a more detailed analysis of the causes management of these risks is demonstrated through the and their respective impacts.
updated Group risk assurance map which summarises the Governance The responsibility for risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt: The Board The Board takes overall responsibility, determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving Meggitts strategic objectives: and overseeing the Groups risk governance structure and internal control framework.
During 2018, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This report describes those risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Audit Committee The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing and ensuring the effectiveness of the risk management process to the Audit Committee.
Executive Committee Divisional and functional leadership are responsible for the management of risk and for compiling and maintaining their own risk registers, which outline risks at business unit and programme levels.
The Executive Committee as a whole regularly reviews the Groups principal risks, while individual members own specific risks.
The resultant Group Risk Register is subject to a detailed review Our process and discussion by the Executive Committee which includes Our risk management processes require identified risks throughout the Group to be owned by a named individual.
They must review discussion of risks which may not have been identified through the normal channels.
The Board assesses the outputs from this process them regularly and consider related new risks.
Risk identification is embedded within other processes, including strategy, project and and takes comfort from the 3 lines of defence risk assurance model.
The first line represents operational management who own programme management, bid approvals and other operational and manage risk on a daytoday basis, utilising effective internal activities.
Risk tolerance levels are flowed down to the divisions and functions.
The likely timeframe within which the impact of controls.
Group functions and divisions monitor and oversee these activities, representing governance and compliance at the second risks might be felt risk velocity and how we prioritise risks is considered as part of our risk management strategy and feeds into line.
The third line is the independent assurance over these activities provided by internal and external audits.
our assessment of long term viability.
Once identified, risks are reviewed at a facility level and Meggitts corporate strategy is designed to optimise our business model and take risk, with the required controls, on an informed aggregated for review at divisional and functional levels on a consistent basis, before being submitted for the Groups regular basis.
See pages 12 to 23 for a full description of our business model and strategy.
To enable value to be created for our review process.
shareholders, we set varying risk tolerances and associated criteria.
We accept and manage risk as described on the following page.
Meggitt PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Risk heat map The heat map below shows the outcome of the risk identification and assessment processes used to compile the Group Risk Register.
This shows the relative likelihood and impact of the principal risks identified.
Risks rated as green or those with a low expected impact are not considered principal risks of the Group for inclusion in the Group Risk Register, although they may feature on divisional or functional risk registers and be managed at that level.
01 10 07 02 09 11 04 08 12 14 03 06 05 13 Medium High Very high Increasing risk impact Strategic risks Operational risks Corporate risks Medium to low tolerance for risks Low to nearzero tolerance for risks Low to nearzero tolerance for arising from poor business decisions arising from business processes including compliance and reputational risks or substandard execution of business the technical, quality, and project including those related to the law, objectives.
management or organisational risks health, safety and the environment.
associated with programmes and products.
13 Legal & compliance 01 Business model 04 Quality escape equipment failure Financial risks Medium to low tolerance for financial 02 Industry changes 05 Business interruption risks including taxation, pension funding, failure to provide adequate liquidity to 03 Technology strategy 06 Project programme management meet our obligations and managing currency, interest rate and credit risks.
07 Customer satisfaction 14 08 Acquisition integration performance Taxation 09 Cyber breach 10 Supply chain 11 Group change management 12 People Meggitt PLC 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Increasing probability frequency Very Highly Almost unlikely Unlikely Probable probable certain Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
