C o m p l i a s n k c s i e r a c i n g d e t e a t r h t i S c a l r i s k s Risks and uncertainties This section outlines the principal risks and Strategic risk profile uncertainties that may affect the Group and Our updated view of the current strategic risk profile is shown highlights the mitigating actions that are being below.
The residual risk scores have been calculated on taken.
This section is not intended to be an a post-mitigation basis.
exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties Risk trend since that may arise and nor is the order of the content No.
Risk rating Risk title last Annual Report intended to be any indication of priority.
Acquisition of new businesses 1 Moderate Increase and improvement strategies A risk management and internal controls framework 2 Moderate Timing of disposals No change is in place within the Group and has been reviewed and adapted following the acquisition of GKN 3 Moderate Economic and political Increase to reflect the risk profile of the newly enlarged 4 Group and to continue to ensure that such risks Moderate Commercial n a and uncertainties can be identified and, where Loss of key management 5 Moderate No change possible, managed suitably.
Each Group business and capabilities unit maintains a risk register which is reviewed 6 Moderate Legal, regulatory and environmental Increase regularly by Melrose senior management and by the Melrose Board.
7 Moderate Information security and cyber threats Increase 8 Moderate Foreign exchange Increase 9 Moderate Pensions Increase 10 Moderate Liquidity Increase 10 2 9 1 8 3 4 6 7 5 Risk rating Likelihood Moderate impact Likely Unlikely 52 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 O s p k e s r i a r t l i a o i n c a n l a r n i i s F k s Strategic Report Strategic risks Risk 1 Risk 2 Acquisition of new businesses Timing of disposals and improvement strategies Description and impact Description and impact The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on In line with our strategy and depending where the Group is identifying available and suitable targets, obtaining any consents within the Buy, Improve, Sell cycle, the expected timing of any or authorisations required to carry out an acquisition and disposal of businesses is considered as a principal risk which procuring the necessary financing, be this from equity, debt or could have a material impact on the Group strategy.
Further, a combination of the two.
In making acquisitions, there is a risk due to the Groups global operations, there may be a significant of unforeseen liabilities being later discovered which were not impact on the timings of disposals due to political and uncovered or known at the time of the due diligence process, macroeconomic factors.
Depending on the timings of disposals particularly in the context of limited access in public bids.
and nature of businesses operations there may be long-term Further, as per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good liabilities which could be retained by the Group following a but underperforming manufacturing businesses, once an disposal.
Insufficient allowance for such retained liabilities acquisition is completed, there are risks that the Group will may affect the Groups financial position.
not succeed in driving strategic operational improvements to Mitigation achieve the expected post-acquisition trading results or value Directors are experienced in judging and regularly which were originally anticipated, that the acquired products reviewing the appropriate time in a business cycle for and technologies may not be successful or that the business a disposal to realise maximum value for shareholders.
may require significantly greater resources and investment than Each disposal is assessed on its merits, with a key focus anticipated.
If anticipated benefits are not realised or trading on a clean disposal.
by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
The Melrose is not bound by a set investment or divestment Groups return on shareholder investment may fall if acquisition period, enabling it to choose the opportune time.
The Groups financial performance 1 Responsibility Executive management may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges, or from the identification of additional liabilities not Risk trend known at the time of the acquisition.
Mitigation Trend commentary Structured and appropriate due diligence undertaken on Although global M&A markets have been experiencing some potential new targets where permitted and practicable.
uncertainty there remain opportunities for value realisation.
Management will remain disciplined and there is no obligation Focus on acquisition targets that have strong headline to sell before it is appropriate to do so.
fundamentals, high-quality products, leading market share but which are underperforming their potential and ability Strategic priorities Buy Improve Sell to generate sustainable cash flows and profit growth.
Hands-on role taken by executive Directors and other senior employees of the Group.
Development of strategic plans, restructuring opportunities, capital expenditure, procurement and working capital management.
Proper incentivisation of operational management teams to align with Melrose strategy.
1 Responsibility Executive management Risk trend Trend commentary Having acquired GKN this year, the Group is focused principally on improvement but is considering a number of bolt-on acquisitions, some of which it completed in the year, that would materially improve the businesses owned by the Group.
Strategic priorities Buy Improve Sell 1 Comprises executive Directors and Melrose senior management.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 53 Risks and uncertainties Continued Operational risks Risk 3 Economic and political Description and impact Mitigation The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales Regular monitoring of order books, cash generation and facilities, in numerous countries and is affected by global economic other leading indicators, to ensure the Group and each of conditions.
Businesses are also affected by government spending its businesses can respond quickly to any adverse trading priorities and the willingness of governments to commit substantial conditions.
This includes the identification of cost reduction resources.
Current global economic and financial market conditions, and efficiency measures.
including headwinds in the automotive sector, any fluctuation in Finance for acquisitions is readily available to the Group commodity prices, the potential for a significant and prolonged from banking syndicates.
This has proven to be available global recession and any uncertainty in the political environment to the Group even during periods of economic downturn, may materially and adversely affect the Groups operational for example during the global financial crisis in 2008. performance, financial condition and could have significant Short-term inventory buffers are being planned to minimise impact on timing of acquisitions and disposals.
the initial impact of a No Deal Brexit on import costs and A recession may also materially affect customers, suppliers tariffs and border disruption.
and other parties with which the Group does business.
Adverse Sales from the EU to the UK within the GKN Automotive and economic and financial market conditions may cause customers GKN Aerospace divisions are frequently on ex works terms to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases from and therefore a cost to customers.
This continues to be the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay reviewed in light of the various potential forms of UK exit outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may from the EU being considered by the UK Government.
also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments Strong customer relationships built on long-term partnerships to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to the often with plants in close proximity, technical excellence and Groups businesses.
Planning for potential discussions in respect of Whilst it is anticipated that the UK will leave the EU in 2019, increased tariff costs that materialise from a No Deal Brexit.
there continues to be some uncertainty in the UK regarding the Applications for third country status for two UK GKN nature of Brexit and what this will mean for business and the Aerospace sites holding production organisation approvals UK economy.
Whilst Brexit is not isolated as aprincipal risk or maintenance organisation approvals have been submitted.
to the Group as a whole, it does present potential risks that the Actions underway to arrange relevant WTO tariff business units continue to monitor and assess closely relating administrative requirements.
to potential changes to the cross-border trade and regulatory The Group remains agile, diversified and well positioned to environment.
The Board continues to assess and review deal with any short-term uncertainty in the UK.
1 Prior to the GKN acquisition, the majority of the Groups revenue Responsibility Executive management was generated in North America, which this year has experienced Risk trend challenges such as increasing tariffs from the US China trade war.
Whilst the impact from Brexit is expected to be minimal inrespect of North America operations, since acquiring GKN Trend commentary a larger proportion of the Groups revenue is now generated from There continues to be a degree of geopolitical uncertainty into the UK and European-based GKN Aerospace and GKN 2019.
However, the Board notes that economic uncertainty can Automotive divisions.
Therefore, the GKN Automotive and depress business valuations and this may increase the number Aerospace divisions continue to assess the potential shortof potential acquisition opportunities for Melrose.
to medium-term impact of changes to international trading The Groups senior management are actively engaging with the relationships, border controls, supply chain friction and customs executive teams of each division to track the potential impacts tariffs following a No Deal Brexit and if the UK reverts to of Brexit, engage actively with those who are working on the WTO rules.
However, the Groups geographically balanced impact assessments and mitigation actions, and report the manufacturing footprint is expected to mitigate negative impacts material findings to the Board.
which may arise from such changes on the Group as a whole.
54 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Operational risks Risk 4 Commercial Since acquiring GKN, Melrose senior management have Description and impact actively engaged with and supported the GKN Aerospace The Group operates in competitive markets throughout the world and GKN Automotive divisional management teams in and is diversified across a variety of industries and production identifying embedded contractual and business conduct and sales geographies.
This provides a degree of Group-level risks relating to key supply chain and production impact mitigation from the potential commercial challenges and programme partners.
The management teams of the market disruptions that face each of the divisions.
GKN Aerospace and GKN Automotive divisions have Each division is exposed to particular commercial and market begun to implement and direct a series of operational risks, which are primarily accentuated where customer change management programmes to mitigate the risks competitor concentration is high within their respective they have identified.
1 Responsibility Executive management Melrose operates a decentralised control and management structure which empowers divisional management teams Risk trend n a to take full responsibility for planning, mitigating, navigating and Trend commentary responding to the specific commercial risks and challenges Melrose senior management engage actively with the divisional facing their respective businesses.
Melrose senior management executive teams to track, monitor and support strategic planning monitor the aggregated impact of such risks and provides activities and impact mitigation assessments in respect of ongoing active support to the divisional management teams in fulfilling commercial risks.
Particular focus is placed on certain GKN their responsibilities.
Aerospace and GKN Automotive market segments where Common commercial risk areas that potentially affect a large customer and or competitor concentration is high and heavier proportion of the Melrose businesses include those related to reliance is placed on supply chain efficiency and programme production quality assurance, health and safety performance, partner management.
With support from the Melrose senior customer concentration and uncertainties related to future management, the divisional Chief Executives report material customer demand, the impact of increased competitive updates directly to the Groups executive Directors.
pressures on the maintenance improvement of market share, Strategic priorities Buy Improve Sell potential disruptions to supply chains and increases to the price of raw materials, technological innovation and market disruption, and the performance and management of programme partners.
Mitigation The Group continued to actively invest in research and development activities in 2018 to augment its platforms for future product expansion, quality improvements, customer alignment and achieving further production efficiencies.
Details about the Groups research and development activities are provided on page 76.
Health and safety, awareness initiatives and performance enhancements continued to be implemented in alignment with regulation, market practice and site-based risk assessments and requirements.
Further details are provided on pages 66 and 67.
1 Comprises executive Directors and Melrose senior management.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 55 Risks and uncertainties Continued Operational risks Compliance and ethical risks Risk 5 Risk 6 Loss of key management and capabilities Legal, regulatory and environmental Description and impact Description and impact The success of the Group is built upon strong management There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete teams.
As a result, the loss of key personnel could have a compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example significant impact on performance, at least for a time.
The loss concerning environmental requirements.
The Group could be of key personnel or the failure to plan adequately for succession held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from or develop new talent may impact the reputation of the Group past or future environmental damage, including potentially or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
There can also be no assurance Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not that any provisions for expected environmental liabilities and be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, remediation costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
The Group operates in highly regulated sectors, which has been Mitigation accentuated by the GKN acquisition.
In addition, new legislation, Succession planning within the Group is coordinated via regulations or certification requirements may require additional the Nomination Committee in conjunction with the Board expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business strategies and includes all Directors and senior employees.
In line or introduce additional liabilities for the Group or Directors.
For with the Groups decentralised structure, each divisional example, the Groups operations are subject to anti-bribery and CEO, in consultation with the Chief Executive, is responsible anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, competition, anti-trust for the appointment of their respective executive team and trade compliance laws and regulations.
Failure to comply members, with disclosure to the Nomination Committee.
with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, reputational damage and impact our business strategy.
particularly those operating within a technical field, it is dependent on Directors and employees with particular Mitigation managerial, engineering or technical skills.
Appropriate Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both remuneration packages and long-term incentive a Group and business unit level.
Consultation with external arrangements are offered in an effort to attract and advisers where necessary.
A robust control framework is in place, underpinned by comprehensive corporate governance and compliance 1 Responsibility Executive management procedures at both a Group and business unit level.
Risk trend Where possible and practicable, due diligence processes during the acquisition stage seek to identify legal, regulatory Trend commentary and environmental risks.
At the business unit level, controls Succession planning remains a core focus for the Nomination are in place to prevent such risks from crystallising.
Succession planning of executive Any environmental risks that crystallise are subject to Directors and senior management, together with visibility of mitigation by specialist consultants engaged for this potential successors within the Group, has been selected as purpose.
External consultants assist the Group in complying an area for targeted management focus during 2019. with new and emerging environmental regulations.
Strategic priorities Insurance cover mitigates certain levels of risk.
Buy Improve Sell 1 Responsibility Executive management Risk trend Trend commentary The Group undertakes annual reviews to ensure it has a robust legal and compliance framework and considers the risk to be consistent with prior years.
56 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Compliance and ethical risks Financial risks Risk 7 Risk 8 Information security and cyber threats Foreign exchange Description and impact Description and impact Information security and cyber threats are an increasing Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign priority across all industries and remain a key UK government exchange market, exchange rate fluctuations have and could agenda item.
continue to have a material impact on the reported results of the Group.
Like many businesses, Melrose recognises that the Group may have a potential exposure in this area.
Potential exposure to The Group is exposed to three types of currency risk: such risks has increased in the year due to the scale, complexity transaction risk, translation risk and risk that when a business and public-facing nature of the acquisition of GKN.
In addition, that is predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold, it is Melrose recognises that the inherent security threat is considered sold in that foreign currency.
The Groups reported results will highest in GKN Aerospace where data is held in relation to fluctuate as average exchange rates change.
The Groups civil aerospace technology and controlled military contracts.
reported net assets will fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
Mitigation Management continues to work with its business leaders Mitigation and external security consultants to better understand The Group policy is to protect against the majority the Groups increased exposure to cyber security risk and of foreign exchange risk which affects cash, by hedging to ensure appropriate mitigations are in place for the such risks with financial instruments.
Protection against specific transaction risks is taken Melrose has deployed its information security strategy by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
and risk-based governance framework to the acquired 1 Responsibility Executive management GKN group within the year to mitigate the Groups exposure to cyber risk, which follows the UK governments Risk trend recommended steps on cyber security.
This strategy has been successfully implemented across the whole Group Trend commentary with significant progress made during the year in both our Group results are reported in Sterling but a large proportion of GKN and existing businesses.
the revenues are denominated in currencies other than Sterling, The progress of each business is measured against primarily US Dollar and Euro.
Following the GKN acquisition, the the information security strategy and is monitored on Group has exposure on both a transactional and translational a quarterly basis.
Sensitivity to the key currency pairs isshown in the Finance Directors review on pages 47 and 48.
1 Responsibility Executive management Strategic priorities Buy Improve Sell Risk trend Trend commentary Information security and cyber threats are an increasing priority across all industries.
Cyber security breaches of the Groups IT systems could result in the misappropriation of confidential information belonging to it or its customers, suppliers or employees.
In response to the increased sophistication of information security and cyber threats, the Group has worked, and continues to work, with external security consultants to monitor, improve and refine its Group-wide strategy to aid the prevention, identification and mitigation of any threats.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 57 Risks and uncertainties Continued Financial risks Risk 9 Risk 10 Pensions Liquidity Description and impact Description and impact The ability to raise debt or to refinance existing borrowings in the The defined benefit pension schemes acquired with GKN were bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and proportionately less well funded and higher profile than those the proper functioning of financial markets.
As set out in more of the 2017 Group.
detail in the Finance Directors review on pages 46 to 47, Any shortfall in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes the Group has term loans of US$960m and 100m and may require additional funding.
As at 31 December 2018, the revolving credit facilities comprising US$2 billion, 0.5 billion Groups pension schemes had an aggregate deficit, on an and 1.1 billion.
Changes in discount rates, In addition, the GKN net debt at acquisition included capital inflation, asset values or mortality assumptions could lead to market borrowings across three unsecured bonds which in total amaterially higher deficit.
For example, the cost of a buyout on amount to 1.1 billion.
These bonds remain outstanding as at a discontinued basis uses more conservative assumptions and 31December 2018 and further detail is provided in the Finance is likely to be significantly higher than the accounting deficit.
Directors review on pages 46 to 47.
Alternatively, if the plans are managed on an ongoing basis, Furthermore, in line with the Groups strategy, investment is there is a risk that the plans assets, such as investments in made in the businesses capital expenditure in excess of equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the depreciation and there is a requirement to assess liquidity value of the retirement benefits to be provided under the plans.
and headroom when new businesses are acquired.
In addition, The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct the Group may be unable to refinance its debt when it falls due.
impact on valuation, implied credit rating and potential additional funding requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
In the Mitigation event of a major disposal that generates significant cash To ensure it has comprehensive and timely visibility of the proceeds which are returned to the shareholders, the Group liquidity position, the Group conducts monthly reviews of may be required to make additional cash payments to the its cash forecast, which are in turn revised quarterly.
plans or provide additional security.
The Group operates cash management mechanisms, Mitigation including cash pooling across the Group and maintenance The Groups key funded pension plans, including the of revolving credit facilities to mitigate the risk of any GKN plans, are closed to new entrants and future service liquidity issues.
Long-term funding arrangements are agreed The Group operates a conservative level of headroom with the Trustees and reviewed following completion of across its financing covenants which is designed to avoid actuarial valuations.
the need for any unplanned refinancing.
Active engagement with Trustees on pension plan asset 1 allocations and strategies.
Responsibility Executive management Risk trend 1 Responsibility Executive management Risk trend Trend commentary The Group is satisfied that it has adequate resources available Trend commentary to meet its liabilities.
Although the risks are well understood and funding plans Strategic priorities Buy Improve Sell for the GKN Schemes have already been agreed with Scheme Trustees, the size of the gross liabilities as a proportion of the Groups net assets has increased significantly.
58 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018
