Bottom up Top down Risk exposure identification At the Group level, risk and assessment at the oversight and assessment business unit level Risk management The Board recognises that operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving commercial environment requires a pragmatic, flexible and responsive risk management framework comprising policies, visibility and controls that change with the business and provide management with a comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile at any given time, enabling risk to be identified, assessed and managed.
Risk management responsibilities The Board, having overall responsibility for risk management, has approved a formalised but pragmatic Group risk management framework.
Agrees the Groups risk management strategy and defines its risk appetite Board Reviews reports and recommendations from the Audit Committee on risk Overall responsibility governance and risk processes and controls for risk management Determines the nature and extent of the Groups principal risks and regularly discusses and assesses them throughout the year with the Melrose senior management Maintains oversight of principal risks and mitigation plans Oversees the process and review of controls Audit Committee Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure against risk appetite Monitors the Groups internal financial control processes Sets the risk management processes and controls Melrose senior Considers emerging risks management and Oversees and challenges risk mitigation plans and supports the legal business unit senior and compliance teams within the business units managers Risk identification, assessment and monitoring at the business unit level Operational Implementing, reviewing and continually monitoring compliance with risk managers and mitigation plans and controls financial controllers Embedding risk awareness and culture throughout the business The Boards view of our principal risks and uncertainties is detailed in the table on pages 52 to 58.
Risk management strategy and framework The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, The objectives of the Directors and Melrose senior management evaluating, tracking and managing the principal risks faced by are to safeguard and increase the value of the businesses and the Group and that these systems, which are subject to regular assets of the Group.
Achievement of these objectives requires the monitoring and review, have been in place for the year under review development of policies and appropriate internal control frameworks up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial to ensure the Groups resources are managed properly and any statements.
The Board further confirms that the systems, processes key risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
and controls that are in place accord with the guidance contained in the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting.
determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
It also recognises the The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the risk need to define a risk appetite for the Group, to maintain sound risk management and internal control processes implemented across management and internal control systems and to monitor its risk the Group, through regular updates and discussions with exposures and mitigation measures to ensure that the nature and management and a review of the key findings presented by extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned with, and the external and internal auditors.
The Board is responsible for proportionate to, its strategic objectives.
considering the Audit Committees recommendations and ensuring implementation by divisional management of those The Group operates on a decentralised basis and the Board has recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
established an organisational structure with clear reporting A description of the Audit Committees activities during the year procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority as on risk management can be found on pages 80 and 81. depicted in the diagram above.
Consistent with this, the Group operates a top-down, bottom-up approach to risk management, The management team of each business unit is responsible for comprising Board and Melrose senior management oversight monitoring business level risk and implementing and maintaining coupled with bottom-up risk management embedded in the an effective risk and control environment within their business unit day-to-day activities of its individual businesses.
as part of day-to-day operations, in line with the risk management framework and internal control systems determined by the Board.
50 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Risk management framework Identification Evaluation Mitigation Analysis Review and monitoring Financial and non-financial Risk exposure Risk owners identified Risks analysed for Robust mitigation strategy risks recorded in controlled reviewed and risks and action plans impact and probability to subject to regular and risk registers prioritised implemented determine gross exposure rigorous review The Melrose senior management team set out the procedures and The results of the risk appetite review will support the Boards controls that each divisional management team is required to decision making processes during 2019.
It is the intention to implement and operate.
The legal and compliance teams of each undertake a review of the Boards risk appetite at least annually.
division report to the Melrose senior management team on a Risk management actions regular basis in respect of specific and ongoing risks related During 2018, the Board continued to deliver on the key to their respective business division and report formally to the management priorities identified in the 2017 review across the Melrose senior management team twice per year.
Group, utilising and updating where necessary the enhanced risk During 2018, in recognition of the enlarged Melrose Group as a management framework implemented in 2015.
Specific actions result of the GKN acquisition and in accordance with provision undertaken during the year include: C. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee reviewing and reaffirming the Boards risk appetite: undertook a robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk updating and monitoring the implementation of the risk management and internal control systems, covering all material management governance framework across all business controls including financial, operational and compliance controls.
This framework defines the Melrose principles for risk The Audit Committee reported its findings to the Board.
From management and sets the standards for the identification, this review of the risk management and internal control systems, evaluation, prioritisation, recording, review and reporting of risks the Board did not identify, nor was it advised of, any failings or and their management or mitigation throughout the organisation: weaknesses which it would determine to be significant.
The Board concluded that the Groups risk management and internal control fully embedding the Melrose risk register methods and risk systems and processes were operating effectively and therefore a profile mapping application throughout the GKN businesses confirmation in respect of necessary actions to be undertaken has and maintaining this practice within the Nortek and Brush not been considered appropriate.
These provide the Board with greater levels of detail and visibility on the risk management systems and processes Due to the size and scale of GKN, following its acquisition Melrose in place, and illustrate each principal risk facing the Group from engaged additional advisors to support the preparation of the both a gross risk pre-mitigation and net risk post-mitigation opening balance sheet.
A programme of site visits took place position.
The risk mapping application provides Directors with between May and October, covering a significant proportion of the a clear risk profile for the Group and enables the Board to GKN businesses with a detailed work plan to identify the fair value determine the degree to which its profile is aligned with of operational assets and liabilities.
The Audit Committee reviewed a its risk appetite: final paper prepared by management prior to the 2018 audit close, a review and reconciliation of the principal risks identified by the which comprehensively addresses the methodologies, assumptions previous GKN board against those of the Melrose Board: and and judgements taken in preparing the opening balance sheet.
The Melrose senior management team continue to assess the reviewing and improving the Groups processes around the impact of the resultant findings on the Groups principal risks and assessment of principal risks and the monitoring and reporting internal control and risk management systems and the Board has of the Groups risk management performance.
directed management that the monitoring, mapping and reporting Assessment of principal risks of the Groups risk management performance will be further During the year the Board undertook a robust, in-depth and enhanced by an intelligent data-driven Group reporting tool to comprehensive assessment of the principal risks facing the Group automate the aggregation of Group risks identified from the and specifically those that might threaten the delivery of its strategic diligence efforts and site visits undertaken to prepare the GKN business model, its future performance, solvency or liquidity.
opening balance sheet, in conjunction with ongoing divisional risk reporting.
Melrose senior management are working with external A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that could risk management advisors to build a risk management aggregation impact on the Groups performance is shown on pages 52 to 58. tool to enhance both the business units management and the Further information detailing the internal control and risk Boards visibility of risk reporting of the enlarged Group, to be management policies and procedures operated within the Group implemented in 2019. is shown on pages 78 to 81 of the Corporate governance report.
Risk appetite Risk management priorities for 2019 The Board has undertaken a comprehensive exercise to consider its Continual improvements have been made during 2018 in respect risk appetite across a number of key business risk areas.
The results of the Groups risk management processes.
However, the of this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the Board recognises that Melrose cannot be complacent.
In 2019, risk factors at a specific point in time.
Any material changes in risk management will continue to focus on refining the risk management factors will impact the Boards assessment of its risk appetite.
framework and embedding a culture of effective risk management across the newly enlarged Group to ensure that risks and The Board has a higher risk appetite towards its strategic and opportunities are identified and managed, to support the delivery operational risks and a balanced appetite towards macro-economic of long-term value creation.
Further resources will be devoted to and political risk.
The Board seeks to minimise all health and safety strengthening the mechanisms for providing independent assurance risks and has a low risk appetite in relation to legal, compliance and on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management governance, regulatory risk.
Similarly, a conservative appetite is indicated by the processes and controls.
Board with respect to pension and finance-related risks.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 51
