34 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Internal control and risk management INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible for maintaining effective internal control and risk management systems.
It FRAMEWORK ELEMENT MONITORING PROCESS keeps them under constant review through its regular monitoring of its sub-committees and Management structure executive management.
These activities are supported by The Merlin Way, our corporate Defined reporting lines, accountabilities, Regular visits to attractions.
It is the Boards aim that these values authority levels and duty segregation.
Reporting by internal and external assurance should drive good behaviours and actions by Principal operating units and functions are providers to confirm operation of authority all employees.
led by Executive Committee members.
Leadership teams at each attraction Regular review and update of authority levels Internal control framework and function.
The creation of an effective internal control framework has been delegated to executive management by the Board to ensure: Strategic planning, risk management and business performance monitoring proper financial records are maintained: Annually updated five year strategic plan.
Reporting and discussion of principal risks the Groups assets are safeguarded: Business objectives and performance that could prevent strategic plan objectives compliance with laws, regulations, policies measures set annually together with being achieved, together with associated and procedures including those relating to budgets and forecasts.
health and safety matters: and Regular business performance reviews.
Reporting by executive management at effective and efficient operation of Pipeline for new attractions reviewed regularly every Board meeting on business business processes.
to ensure developments are on schedule, new performance, commercial risks and ideas fit with our brand portfolio and expected opportunities.
The internal control framework is designed to commercial returns are acceptable.
Board review and approval for major manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure projects.
toachieve the Groups objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures in place to Compliance reporting by internal and manage operational, performance and external assurance providers.
Monitoring to ensure these remain appropriate as the business grows and external factors, legislation or regulatory requirements change.
Internal controls The most notable internal controls are in the following areas: Operational to ensure safe, effective and Regular reporting of operational efficient attraction operation.
performance metrics to the Board.
Health, safety and security to ensure compliance Regular reporting by assurance providers on with regulatory and legislative requirements.
the operation of internal controls.
Information technology to ensure a stable Reporting by profit protection professionals infrastructure platform exists.
to support management in addressing fraud Financial to support prevention and detection of and theft risks.
financial reporting misstatement or fraud, and Regular deep dive reviews on treasury, ensuring that day-to-day transactions are accurate.
taxation and IT, with ad-hoc matters covered Business continuity planning including escalation as necessary.
procedures and crisis management protocols that Self-certification by management of enable attractions to operate on the occurrence compliance and control issues.
Whistleblowing policy and independently operated employee hotline.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 35 Risk appetite RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Groups risk appetite falls into two distinct categories: TOP DOWN Oversight, identification, assessment and mitigation atcorporate level Compliance risk the requirement to comply withlegislative or regulatory requirements in all territories where the Group operates.
It includes, RESPONSIBILITIES PROCESSES but is not limited to, ride safety, accounting practices, fraud and bribery, as well as ensuring OVERSIGHT THE BOARD compliance with the Groups values and ethical Overall responsibility for risk management and Monitors risks against Group strategy.
In these areas the Board is risk averse internal control systems.
Receives regular updates from the Committees and does not countenance any breaches in Sets strategic objectives and defines risk noted below.
Annual reporting confirms risk management Provides tone and direction for risk policy and compliance with procedures.
Commercial risk commercial risks are taken to management processes.
maximise profitable growth and sustainable returns, without compromising the health, safety MONITORING AND REPORTING REGULAR UPDATES TO THE BOARD and security of guests, employees, contractors, Health, Safety and Security HSS Ongoing review of principal risks and animals or other visitors.
They must be aligned with 1 Committee groupwide risk assessment process.
the Groups policies on sustainability and the Oversight and guidance on management of HSS Ongoing assessment of whether material environment.
The Group manages these risks.
Responsible for ensuring compliance with changes in the external landscape or recent commercial risks through an appropriate analysis of legislation or industry standards in safeguarding trading trends require alternative approaches threats and opportunities together with structured guests, employees, visitors and contractors.
review processes, independent expert opinions Members of the various risk committees and decision making authority levels.
Factors such 1 Audit Committee regularly receive deep dive updates on topics as the scale of possible commercial upside, the Oversight and guidance on financial process risk.
ofsignificant risk to the organisation, such as potential market size, the quantum of downside Responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the treasury, taxation, IT security, EU GDPR, the risk and timescales involved may all be relevant to Groups overall approach to risk management consumer of the future and cost inflation in commercial risk decisions.
Commercial and Strategic Risk Regular reports on assurance programmes Quantitative and qualitative measures ensure 2 Management CSRM Committee covering financial processes and health, safety effective governance of the Groups risk appetite.
Oversight and guidance on management of and security controls across the Group.
Quantitative measures include defined financial commercial and strategic risk.
Responsible and non-financial targets such as EBITDA, forthe treatment of animals in our care.
operating profit, ROCE and customer satisfaction scores.
Qualitative measures consider items such OPERATING GROUP AND FUNCTIONAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT as reputational impact and compliance with laws Delivery of strategic direction.
Ongoing reviews of operational risk assessment.
Identification of significant risks and mitigation Quarterly updates provided to the Board to plans for inclusion in the Group risk register.
provide insight into risk management process.
Risk management framework Monitoring of significant risk and adequacy The risk management framework sets out the of mitigating actions at attraction and Groups relevant risk management responsibilities functional level.
together with the oversight, monitoring, reporting and management processes that support those ATTRACTIONS AND FUNCTIONS responsibilities.
The key elements are described in Execution of strategy.
Peer review by the senior leadership team the table alongside.
Identification of significant risk and mitigating ofrisk registers to ensure completeness and measures for inclusion in local risk registers.
accuracy prior to submission to the Operating Reviews of operational risk assessment of Group and executive management teams.
BOTTOM UP Identification, assessment and mitigation at attraction and function level Notes: 1 Sub-committee of the Board.
See pages 60 to 65 for details of Committee membership and the frequency of meetings.
2 Delegated responsibility from the Executive Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the CFO and meets four times a year, withmembership drawn from the Executive Committee.
36 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES C O N T I NUE D Brexit Effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems While not captured within the Groups ongoing principal risk assessments, the Based on its review of risk management systems, both throughout the year and Board continues to keep the potential implications of Brexit for the Groups annually, the Board issatisfied that the risk management and internal control operations under review.
systems in place remain effective and confirms that: there is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, managing and Although the Group is headquartered in the UK, the majority of our monitoring the Groupsprincipal risks: customers are in other countries and account for most of our revenue and managements assessment of the principal risks is considered to be cash flow.
Our operational activities are generally incorporated and licensed in appropriate and those risks that have the potential to impact liquidity have the jurisdiction in which they operate, enabling them toadapt to a wide range been considered in the assessment of the Groups viability: of local market influences.
Assuch, our ability to provide services to our the principal risks and internal control processeshave been in place and customers in the countries in which we operate, inside or outside the EU, is considered bymanagement and the Board throughout theyear and up to unlikely to be significantly affected by Brexit.
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: and no significant failings or weaknesses in internal control processes have To ensure the Group remains in a position to react to the outcome from the been identified.
negotiation process, a cross-functional team, led by the Group CFO, has identified a number of areas in which Brexit might affect the Groups The Groups risk management and internal control process in relation to operations.
If there is no agreement between the UK and the EU, we believe financial process risk has been documented within the risk management and that the following matters could directly affect our operations: internal control section of the Audit Committee Report on pages 72 to 73.
Structural issues longer term impacts where resolution will require bilateral Plans for 2019-20 or multilateral governmental agreement.
The areas of current focus relate to The process of designing and implementing new finance systems has started, resolving issues that will arise as a result of: acting as the focal point for driving standardisation of business processes and tax and tariff relief being lost from not being within the EU tax and trade the automation of transactional activities.
This project, combined with the treaty umbrella: and ongoing roll out of common HR processes and systems, will help improve immigration restrictions limiting access to non-UK staff currently needed to consistency and strengthen our internal control framework across operate the UK attraction estate.
Transitory issues short term impacts as a consequence of administrative, process or market changes, which will unwind over a number of months after exiting the EU.
The principal areas where these transitory issues can occur are: delays in the movement of goods and products that disrupt retail, food and beverage and ride operations, when either sourced directly or through third party providers in the supply chain: and restrictions on the actual availability of goods and products that disrupt retail, food and beverage and ride operations, when either sourced directly or through third party providers in thesupply chain.
There are also a number of potential consequences of Brexit that are being considered as both a risk and an opportunity.
The areas currently being considered relate to: extreme movements in foreign exchange rates impacting visitation and underlying costs: and UK and European citizens staying at home as a consequence of anticipated travel friction in theearly months following a disorderly exit.
The final matter being considered relates to the impact on future performance if the Brexit process has a significant impact on the macro-economic climate in which we operate, in turn impacting the performance of our major European attractions including those in the UK.
In consideration of the matters noted above, a number of exercises have been undertaken to identify hot spots, perform analysis of particular contractual arrangements that could be threatened or become more expensive, assess increasing costs of duty, and analyse alternative supply options and the volume and location of inventory holdings across the estate.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 37 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND HEAT MAP Management has identified the principal risks as set out on pages 38 to 40.
The risk committees consider both gross and residual risk.
Gross risk reflects the exposure before mitigation and is used to compare to the previous year as to whether significant risks are stable, increasing or decreasing.
1 2 Risk Type KPI Viability Responsibility Appetite driver Gross trend 1 Safety HSS CS K V HSS Committee Compliance 2 Security HSS CS V HSS Committee Compliance 3 Innovation, brand CS K CSRM Committee Operating Commercial development and Group Managing Directors customer satisfaction 4 People availability CS K CSRM Committee Commercial and expertise HR Director 5 Competition and Intellectual CS CSRM Committee Commercial Property IP Chief Development Officer 6 External threats to CS V CSRM Committee Operating Commercial city centres Group Managing Directors 7 Availability and delivery of CS CSRM Committee Commercial new sites and attractions Chief Development Officer 8 Animal welfare CS CSRM Committee Compliance Divisional Director, CWE 9 IT robustness, technological CS CSRM Committee Commercial developments, cyber Chief Digital Marketing and Compliance security including GDPR Information Officer 10 Anti-bribery FP Audit Committee Compliance and corruption General Counsel 11 Liquidity cash flow risk FP Audit Committee Commercial Chief Financial Officer 12 Foreign exchange FP Audit Committee Commercial translation risk Chief Financial Officer Gross risk trend Risk type HSS Health, safety and security risk Increasing Decreasing Stable CS Commercial and strategic risk risk risk FP Financial process risk Notes: 1 Health and safety, customer satisfaction and employee engagement are Merlins non-financial key performance indicators.
2 Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on page 41.
High The heat map sets out the residual risk once the impact, likelihood and effectiveness of existing controls have been taken into account.
Risks are 11 5 8 assessed with reference to safety, financial, commercial and reputational impacts on the business.
3 2 The only change in the risk trends in 2018 is the security risk moving from increasing to stable.
This reflects the fact that during 2018 there was no 7 9 6 increased terrorist activity in the locations where the Group operates.
1 10 4 12 Increasing risk Decreasing risk Stable risk Low Low High Likelihood Frequency Potential impact 38 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES C O N T I NUE D Strong brands High growth High return Global portfolio Risk Description How risks are managed Serious incidents leading to guests, staff members Regular performance reviews.
1 Safety orcontractors being harmed as a result of: Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line management.
a failure to follow safety management systems Competent operational and engineering staff monitor whenoperating rides: and inspect facilities in accordance with a planned inadequate maintenance and management of programme, backed up by professional HSS teams.
buildings, infrastructure and vegetation: or Annual risk register and action planning processes by substandard build quality, asset degradation, each attraction.
fire, flood, storm or utility failure.
Regular internal and independent external auditing andreview regimes.
Contractor selection, approval and monitoring by in-house qualified project managers.
Board Committee established with specific mandate for this risk area.
Reduction in guest confidence to visit the Groups Detailed security protocols before guests or employees 2 Security attractions as a result of sabotage or a terrorist attack access an attraction e. g. bag searches.
on a ride or attraction leading to a guest or staff Regular infrastructure reviews to reduce the member or animal in our care being harmed.
opportunity for physical threats to guests, staff oranimals.
Regularly tested major incident management plans.
Current events vigilantly monitored to identify emerging risks.
Co-operation with local and national security forces.
Our growth potential could be impacted if guests: Customer feedback collected at every location and 3 I nnovation, brand development consider our offerings are outdated, no longer analysed against challenging satisfaction targets.
and customer satisfaction relevant or enjoyable: or Actionsthen taken accordingly.
provide negative social media comments that Ongoing investment in our attractions to continually adversely influence the likelihood of a customer refresh the customer experience.
Engagement with the public and on social media to takeany requisite action.
The increasing cost and challenge of attracting Driving greater productivity to ensure more motivated, 4 P eople availability and expertise andretaining appropriately experienced and better rewarded employees.
well-motivated customer service orientated Personal development plans across the business to staffcouldimpact: encourage long term employment stability.
guest satisfaction: or Proactively managed succession planning processes the successful delivery of planned future expansion.
Annual employee survey to monitor employee engagement and identify opportunities to develop HRpolicies and processes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 39 Risk Description How risks are managed Competition for leisure time: from new or existing Diversification of the portfolio.
5 Co mpetition and Intellectual providers of location based entertainment: and Ongoing investment to ensure continued appeal Property IP for IP around which compelling propositions tovisitors.
Withdrawal of permission to use third party IP Dedicated in-house creative team to deliver new content where contractual obligations are not met andinnovative compelling propositions and IP.
or partner relationships are not managed effectively.
Proactive management of IP partnerships.
Personal security concerns that flow from terrorist Increased geographical hedging as a result of further 6 C ommercial impact of external activity result in falling visitation to a location in global diversification.
threats to city centres leading which the Group operates, with displacement Ability to direct marketing and promotional activity todisplacement of tourists ofboth international and domestic tourists.
towards domestic or international audiences depending Exchange rate volatility can have a positive or on tourism trends.
adverse impact on inbound tourism.
If exchange Ability to promote access to a wide portfolio of rates work against a country in which the Group attractions using annual pass or cluster ticketing.
generates significant revenue this can adversely impact visitation.
The ability of the Group to grow in line with strategic Experienced site search and business development 7 A vailability and delivery of new objectives could be inhibited by the lack of: teams, working several years in advance to maintain sites and attractions economically viable sites to locate Midway astrong pipeline of opportunities.
attractions and LEGOLAND parks: and Sites regularly update development masterplans and timely approval of planning consent required work closely on fostering links with local communities forbuilding new rides and attractions.
The New Openings team provides dedicated resources to support the Groups roll out strategy.
Incidents or staff behaviours leading to animals in our External zoo licence audits.
8 Animal welfare care being harmed as a result of: An internal ethics committee and the SEA LIFE a failure to follow prescribed welfare protocols: or Conservation, Welfare and Engagement team monitor inadequate maintenance and management of the treatment of animals.
A comprehensive range of policies, standards, procedures and guidelines.
Training programmes for all staff who interact with animals.
Planned preventative maintenance programmes to ensure buildings, infrastructure and vegetation remain suitable for displaying the animals in our care.
40 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES C O N T I NUE D Risk Description How risks are managed The Group operates various IT systems and Strategic focus to ensure the long term stability of 9 I T robustness, technological applications, the obsolescence or failure of which could operating systems and data security, whilst keeping pace developments, cyber security impede trading or the ability to operate an attraction.
with changing consumer IT expectations.
including GDPR Increasing resilience and stability of IT infrastructure and Without the technical developments necessary to security through an expanded use of secured hosting meet consumer or business expectations, the Group partners and penetration testing regimes.
may fail to deliver the growth required by the Further security measures to mitigate the increasing businessstrategy.
threat of cyber security risk.
A number of data protection policies are in place to Failure to put in place adequate preventative measures, protect the privacy rights of individuals in accordance if attacked, could lead to data loss or inability to use the with relevant data protection legislation.
IT systems for a prolonged period or loss of personal Independent assessment of compliance arrangements.
data resulting in a GDPR compliance investigation.
While Merlins business model is lower risk as the A well-embedded corporate culture in which fraud and 10 A nti-bribery and corruption majority of transactions are of low value and typically bribery at any level are not tolerated.
from individual customers, a number of the territories Global fraud and bribery training programmes and a in which Merlin is operating and proposing to enter fraud policy sign-off for all staff.
have a greater historic propensity for incidents of Effective financial and contractual controls with regard bribery and corruption.
Internal audit monitors purchasing processes on a Any such incident could lead to criminal or civil rotational basis.
prosecution, fines and cause reputational damage A separate profit protection team monitors for theft tothe Group.
orother criminal activity across the Group and ensures best practice for protection is shared between sites.
A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an independently operated employee hotline.
A lack of liquidity could inhibit the ability of the Group A committed 600 million multi-currency revolving 11 L iquidity cash flow risk to grow in line with the strategic objectives if: credit facility assists with liquidity and seasonal cash flow insufficient cash is generated during peak trading requirements.
periods to cover fixed costs, interest and tax Review of weekly cash flow forecasts covering a period payments and capital investments including of 12 weeks assists planning for short term liquidity.
strategic acquisitions, the roll out of Midway Strategic plans cover at least four future years and are attractions, the development of new LEGOLAND reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial parks and new accommodation offerings : and headroom exists and to meet the covenant tests set out changes in the global credit market impact the in the Groups banking facilities.
Groups long term ability to meet current Merlin maintains strong relationships with a number of growthtargets.
lenders and keeps the debt markets under review in order to ensure that funding can be obtained at the right time and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds to meet strategic growth plans.
Merlin generates its main profits in Sterling, Euros The Group presents constant currency figures where 12 F oreign exchange translation risk and US Dollars and has long term debt in Euros and appropriate to show underlying results excluding the US Dollars.
Treasury policies in place and reviewed annually with Merlin reports its results in Sterling and is therefore regular reviews of currency exposures.
subject to translation risk from exchange rate Broad match of borrowings in the currencies of fluctuations when reporting its consolidated results.
Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 41 Viability Statement The results take into account the controls implemented by the Group as well In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code as the availability and likely effectiveness of specific mitigating actions that could 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a future four be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential underlying risks.
impact of the principal risks documented on pages 37 to 40 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a The diversification of the Groups attractions helps minimise the risk of serious reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in business interruption for many of its risks, for example, extreme weather operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period until conditions or changing economic and political environments.
Additionally, a December 2022. significant portion of planned spending on both the existing estate andfor new business development is discretionary in nature, which gives the Group Review period flexibility to manage cash flows.
This ability to flex the cost base and rephase The Group has a well-established portfolio of attractions that have or delay capital investment provides some protection to our viability in the face demonstrated their longevity and ability to evolve over time.
Additionally, the of macro events or uncertainty not in the Groups control.
Group is expanding its portfolio with existing and new brands as well as expanding into new markets.
Our proven profitability, ability to generate Access to financing operating cash flows, and access to long term funding give us confidence as to During the year the Group refinanced a significant portion of its long term the Groups long term prospects.
debt, issuing $400 million US Dollar denominated 5.75% senior notes due June 2026 and increasing its revolving multi-currency credit facility from The Groups strategic planning process occurs annually on a rolling basis, in the 300 million to 600 million with the repayment date extended to April 2023. middle of the year, covering the current year plus four further years.
It is then The proceeds and surplus cash were used to repay the 250 million of Sterling reviewed as necessary to take into account the Groups latest view of and $540 million of US Dollar denominated term loans due to mature in market conditions.
The remainder of the Groups facilities are a bond in the form of 700 million seven year notes with a coupon rate of 2.75% to mature in March The strategic plan considers all elements of the Groups growth strategy.
Taking into account Merlins profitability and financial position, it is focuses on: anticipated that the Group will be able to refinance these facilities.
The Group capital investment in the existing estate, where the review period matches will undertake a process to extend or replace all facilities well in advance of the or is in excess of pre-determined capital investment cycles: expiry date and therefore the Group does not consider there to be any new business development including the roll out of Midway attractions: material impact on the viability assessment.
the development of committed new LEGOLAND parks: and the expansion of our accommodation portfolio.
The Group also considers strategic acquisition opportunities and other uncommitted potential major capital projects within the plan period to assess the availability of appropriate funding.
Accordingly, the Directors have determined that a four year period to December 2022 is an appropriate period over which toprovide the Groups Viability Statement.
Risk assessment The Board also carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its growth drivers, future performance, solvency or liquidity, as well as the Groups approach to risk management as set out in this Strategic Report.
The outputs from these reviews werethen used to perform liquidity and debt covenant headroom analysis, including a downside sensitivity review based on principal risks.
While the review has considered all the principal risks identified by the Group, severe but plausible events were focused on for enhanced stress testing.
Examplesinclude: ride safety incidents: and security related incidents including acts of terrorism and or the impact of the threat of terrorism on consumer behaviours.
