RISK REPORT Aileen Gillan, Chief Risk Officer Safety and soundness: doing the right things the right way Our unique culture aligns our people, processes and systems mitigated, monitored and reported: risk appetite is clearly to the way we manage the risks inherent in our business articulated and policies aligned to it: appropriate processes, activities.
This ensures that our operations are carried out systems and controls are in place to support all colleagues ina safe and compliant way, balanced with the superior inperformance of their roles within risk appetite: and customer service that enables us to create FANS.
ongoing analysis of the environment in which we operate takes place to ensure we identify emerging risks and Our approach to risk management consists of: regulatory requirements.
putting our AMAZEING culture at the heart of everything Our unique, pervasive culture supports risk awareness by we do: encouraging every colleague to think about the relationship investment in growth capability: and between their role and our goal of creating FANS whilst enabling colleagues to focus on controls by doing the growing safely and sustainably: and to be comfortable right things the right way.
asking questions when they are not clear about policy toensure their actions do not result in financial loss, We believe a culture that truly focuses on creating FANS by reputational damage or customer detriment.
exceeding customers expectations will deliver consistently great outcomes.
In January 2019, we announced that we had adjusted the risk weighting of certain commercial loans secured on Overview commercial property and certain specialist buy-to-let loans All colleagues are responsible for managing risk as part that had the combined effect of increasing our RWAs by oftheir day-to-day role.
Whilst the risk weightings have been adjusted, atthe forefront of risk management, along with their line there is no deterioration in the credit quality of the affected managers.
The Risk team oversees risk management assets.
Asset quality remains strong overall, consistent with activities.
It also supports other colleagues in their risk our prudent approach to lending, and reflected in our low management work, for example, by providing centralised cost of risk and non-performing loans ratio.
We have now bump-up support contacts for more complex completed a review of the commercial loan book as at requirements, freeing up customer-facing colleagues 31 December 2018 supported by a major professional tofocus on creating FANS.
services firm and we are satisfied that the risk weightings have been assigned appropriately.
We are continuing to The risk and control framework is designed to ensure that: workon further enhancements to our systems.
all principal and emerging risks are identified, assessed, 28 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board role Chief Risk Officer and the Risk function The Board is responsible for setting strategy, corporate Our Chief Risk Officer CRO leads the Risk function, which objectives and risk appetite.
The strategy and risk appetite is independent from operational and commercial functions.
considers the interests of our customers, shareholders and She is responsible for ensuring that appropriate risk other stakeholders.
On the advice of the Risk Oversight management processes, policies and controls are in place, Committee ROC, the Board approves the level of risk that they are sufficiently robust, that key risks are identified, acceptable under each principal risk category, whilst assessed, monitored and mitigated, and that we are providing oversight to ensure there is an adequate operating within our risk appetite.
framework in place for reporting and managing those risks.
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing The Risk team provides specialist knowledge and support to the effectiveness of this framework to the ROC.
colleagues, acting as a reference point for advisory queries, whilst also overseeing colleagues and the risk management It is also responsible for maintaining an appropriate control and controls in place.
It operates themed, targeted and environment to manage risk effectively, and for ensuring that ad-hoc reviews to provide assurance to the leadership team, the capital, liquidity, and other resources are adequate to and ultimately to the Board, that risks are properly managed, achieve our objectives within our risk appetite.
controls are effective, and that we are not exceeding our riskappetite.
The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls to the Audit Committee.
Risk management policies This committee monitors and considers the internal control Weve established our risk management policies to identify environment, internal and external audits and risk assurance, and analyse the risks we face, to set appropriate risk limits and is assisted in its oversight role by our Internal Audit and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Internal Audit carries out both regular and ad-hoc The Risk team regularly reviews these policies and reviews of risk management controls and procedures and controlsto verify compliance and to reflect changes reports the results to the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit inmarket conditions and our activities.
We use training and the Audit Committee will review the commercial RWA andmanagement standards and procedures to develop controls enhancement programme in 2019.
The Director of arobust and effective control environment one where Internal Audits reporting line is to the Chairman of the Audit allcolleagues understand their roles and obligations.
Committee, with a dotted line to the CEO, and therefore supports the functions independence.
Risk appetite Our approach to risk appetite is to set relevant quantitative and qualitative measures against which risk management Governance and risk framework performance can be reviewed for each of our principal risks.
Risk appetite is set by the Board, based on the recommendation of the ROC, and implemented by the Executive Risk Committee.
Our risk appetite has been developed in line with our business plan, strategy and vision, and is underpinned by a culture in which all colleagues Board role: embed risk considerations in decision-making and are setting risk rewarded accordingly.
appetite, approval of risk management Risk Oversight Committee framework and risk The ROC assists the Board in providing leadership, principles.
directionand oversight with regard to risk governance andmanagement, and also assists the Board in fostering executive leadership committees: aculture that emphasises and demonstrates the benefits oversight of risk management of a risk-based approach to risk management and internal consistent with appetite, recommendations of risk strategy controls when creating FANS.
It works closely with the changes to Board.
It is chaired by a Non-Executive Director and meets at least quarterly.
Its responsibilities include: Policy framework and three lines of defence: recommending to the Board our risk appetite: policies which are aligned with risk and robust regularly reviewing risk exposures in relation to the risk monitoring, oversight and assurance.
appetite: reviewing risk policies, and approving or recommending culture, capability and processes: to the Board for approval: and procedures and processes are aligned to risk and colleagues are trained and highly aware in terms of risk monitoring the effectiveness of risk management categories, controls and mitigation responsibilities.
processes and procedures put in place by management.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 29 RISK REPORT CONTINUED Executive leadership committees Asset and Liability Committee ALCO The Committee The CEO, supported by the Executive Leadership Team, is is chaired by the CFO, meets monthly and is responsible responsible for executing the strategy and managing risk for: ensuring that an appropriate balance is maintained exposures and making decisions and recommendations between funding and lending activities: ensuring that we tothe Board, as appropriate, via the following executive meet internal liquidity targets as set out in the Liquidity riskcommittees: Policy: analysis of Capital Market trends, considered along with actual and projected business performance to assess Credit Risk Policy and Appetite Committee CRPAC the adequacy of funding to meet the projected targets: The Committee is chaired by the CRO, meets monthly agreement of pricing decisions to ensure visibility of andis responsible for: oversight of credit risk policies: trading and capital impact: and monitoring interest reviewing proposals on risk appetite: monitoring portfolio raterisk performance against risk appetite: along with the CFO, approving the impairment levels: and, approving all Enterprise Risk Committee The Committee is chaired by material aspects of IRB rating systems, including all the CRO, meets monthly and is responsible for: reviewing material models.
enterprise, regulatory and compliance risk management issues with regard to risk appetite: oversight of the Credit Approval Committee The Committee is chaired Enterprise Risk Management framework and performance by the CRO or Director of Commercial Credit and is of the Key Risk Indicators KRIs : reviewing Assurance responsible for: sanctioning of higher value lending reports and findings: and, making recommendations requests, and any exceptions to policy: monitoring foradjustment of policies to the Board.
overdue accounts: and granting and reviewing delegatedlending authorities.
Board of Directors Risk Oversight Remuneration chief Nomination Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee executive officer Credit Risk Policy and Credit Approval Asset and Liability Executive Leadership Executive Risk Committee Appetite Committee Committee Committee Team This graphic illustrates the key committees of the Bank with risk responsibility to keep it simple, not all are shown.
30 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Three lines of defence model The first line of defence is operational management, who manage risk by maintaining appropriate systems and controls that are operated and effective on a daily basis.
The second line of defence comprises the risk management function, providing advice and oversight through specialist support teams and the risk committees.
The third line of defence is Internal Audit, providing independent assurance through internal reviews and reporting the results to the Audit Committee.
Board of Directors Board establishes risk appetite and risk strategy Approves frameworks, methodologies, policies and responsibilities operational risk Internal management management audit First line Second line third line 1 of defence 2 of defence 3 of defence line management in each business area Independent risk management function Internal Audit function primary responsibility for system provides specialist advice, Independent assurance and risk management governance and oversight and reporting line create FAns supports and challenges the first line Principal risks Our principal risks represent defined groupings that we use to help consistently identify, assess, manage, monitor and report risks.
Using consistent risk categories enables risks to be aggregated to determine their overall impact to the organisation.
The principal risks are designed to be both comprehensive and mutually exclusive.
Our principal risks are detailed below.
In addition to the eight risks listed we also have ninth principal risk in the form of strategic risk.
Strategic risk is a manifestation of material instances, or a combination of the other eight principal risks.
Assuch strategic risk is assessed in line with those principal risks.
Credit Liquidity and Financial Conduct risk funding risk crime risk risk 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Operational Market Regulatory Model risk risk risk risk These are detailed further on pages 32 to 40 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 31 RISK REPORT CONTINUED 1. credit risk Definition credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to a borrowers failure to meet the terms of any contract or otherwise Change since 2017: fail to perform as agreed.
No change Link to strategy: For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Low-risk diversified lending Appetite and mitigation Appetite Interest-only lending the credit risk appetite and policy is owned and approved by the Board We have exposure to refinance risk.
this is the risk from loans to customers annually.
portfolio-level policies and credit risk appetite are recommended who are subject to a bullet or balloon payment at contractual maturity but by the executive to the Board via the credit risk, policy and Appetite who find themselves unable to refinance or otherwise make this payment.
committee crpAc and the risk oversight committee roc.
the this risk arises principally in the mortgage book where the exposure to credit risk appetite is specified as a set of key performance indicators interest-only loans stands at 4.4 billion.
there is further exposure to refinance KpIs, concentration measures, capital and impairment components.
risk in the commercial Book of 1.6 billion from interest-only loans and a policy and appetite are based on sound credit risk principles.
portion of non-fully amortising term loans.
Lending and collateral We manage this risk by ensuring the borrower has an appropriate repayment our foremost exposure to credit risk is through the loans and advances we plan in place or would be able to refinance the lending at the end of the term.
We primarily mitigate credit risk through holding Also by ensuring these loans are appropriately collateralised see lending and collateral against our residential mortgage and commercial term loan collateral section above we would have first charge in the event of default by portfolios.
collateral is usually held in the form of real estate, guarantees the borrower.
and other liens that we can call upon in the event of the borrower defaulting.
All real estate assets taken as security are supported by an Geographical and sector exposure external valuation with a first fixed charge registered at the land registry.
We manage the level of credit risk concentration based on individual At31 december 2018 94% of our loans consisted of retail mortgages and borrowing entities, deal type and sector.
We have specialist sector lending commercial term loans secured on collateral with average debt-to-value teams including in healthcare, hospitality, property and not for profit.
We also manage our lending exposure by region.
our current residential our exposure to loans of greater than 100% remains low at less than 1% of mortgage and commercial term lending is concentrated within london and retail mortgage lending 31 december 2017: 1% and 11% of commercial the south east, which is representative of our current customer base and store term lending 31 december 2017: 12%.
on the retail mortgage lending footprint.
As we expand our footprint over time we envisage our geographical portfolio, these loans have principally been part of portfolios we have exposure of lending will change.
All of our current loans exposures are secured acquired.
on the commercial term lending, additionally forms of collateral on uK based collateral.
such as debentures, unsupported guarantees providing recourse to our customers are excluded from these debt-to-value dtV figures, so the Investment securities true credit risk exposure on these loans is lower and is underwritten on As well as our loans and advances, the other main area where we are exposed thestrength of all types of collateral.
to credit risk is within our treasury portfolio.
At 31 december 2018 we held 4.1 billion of investment securities which are used for balance sheet and the approval for consumer lending and retail mortgages is automated and liquidity management purposes, of which 3.4 billion is eligible as collateral underpinned by scorecard and policy rules.
the end-to-end process is atthe Bank of england, overseen by our colleagues in the first line and approved in accordance with agreed delegated lending authorities.
We have a robust securities trading and investment policy which requires us to invest in high-quality liquid debt instruments.
At the 31 december 2018 81% of Undrawn commitments our investment securities were rated as AAA 31 december 2017: 79% with a We have additional limited credit exposure to committed and undrawn further 15% 31 december 2017: 13% rated AAor higher with minimal use of amounts, such as unused overdraft limits and facilities.
At 31 december derivatives for hedging purposes.
2018 we had 242 million 31 december 2017: 138 million of undrawn credit card and overdraft facilities.
We mitigate credit risk in respect of Additionally we hold 2.5 billion 31 december 2017: 2.2 billion in cash these undrawn balances by regular customer monitoring to allow undrawn balances, which is either held by ourselves or at the Bank of england, where limits to be removed if we observe credit quality deterioration.
there is minimal credit exposure.
Understand more about our credit risk exposure on pages 136 to 149 32 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. credit risk Definition credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to a borrowers failure to meet the terms of any contract or otherwise C hange since 2017: fail to perform as agreed.
No change L ink to strategy: For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Low-risk diversified lending Measurement and monitoring Measurement Monitoring We measure credit quality for impairment purposes using a suite of IFrs 9 credit risk is overseen by the chief risk office cro, credit risk, policy and models.
We have a strong suite of credit risk models and have invested Appetite committee crpAc and the risk oversight committee roc.
heavily in credit risk model development in support of enhancing our IFrs9 calculation, stress testing capability and IrB programme.
three functions support the management of credit risk and report to the cro: our commercial credit underwriting team supports the creation of our IFrs 9 models incorporate the impact of a range of possible future commercial credit policies, ensures the business has suitable credit economic scenarios we have placed a higher probability on our downside assessment tools and procedures and provides an independent review scenario a worsening economic outcome, largely to reflect a greater of individual commercial credit proposals and renewals.
likelihood of a worse outcome for the uK economy due to exiting the our credit risk and Analytics team develops credit risk policies in european union.
the models used are subject to the internal model accordance with the risk appetite, develops appropriate frameworks to governance, are validated by an independent team, regularly monitored comply with regulatory and statutory requirements and works with and annually reviewed.
other areas of the Bank to ensure credit risk control practices are effectively implemented throughout the Bank.
It monitors aggregate Key performance Indicators KpIs are defined, reported against and exposures and reviews portfolio performance and concentrations, escalated through to the risk oversight committee.
KpIs on portfolio providing comprehensive reports to senior management and the roc.
concentrations are included in the monitoring reviewed by the executive It also develops and monitors models used for automatic credit and Board committee as part of our risk appetite.
decisioning, portfolio management and impairment, and develops stress test methodologies.
We monitor lending policy exceptions and their subsequent performance.
our treasury risk team supports the development and implementation of applicable policies and procedures and monitors the credit risk our stress testing capability has been enhanced significantly over the last aspects of the treasury portfolio.
12 months in order to account for the introduction of the IFrs 9 models.
credit risk quality assurance reviews are performed regularly and cover portfolios and sector exposure.
the reviews cover top exposures, portfolio trends, concentration and key risk areas.
As of 31 december 2018 all exposures are measured under the standardised approach for credit risk for regulatory capital, we are parallel running the IrB rating system for residential mortgages and a slotting solution for commercial real estate will be implemented during 2019.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 33 RISK REPORT CONTINUED 2. operational risk Definition operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss from failed or inadequate Change since 2017: processes, people or systems, or exposure to external events.
No change Link to strategy: For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Unique culture Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement We aim to maintain robust operational systems and controls and seek We measure operating risk using a number of quantitative and qualitative alow level of operational risk.
We have detailed policies, procedures and metrics.
these KpIs are defined, reported against and escalated to controls in place which are designed to evaluate, monitor and report theroc.
these risks as well as, where appropriate, develop mitigation plans to Monitoring minimise the impact of losses suffered in the normal course of business We continuously develop and embed our approach to the management expected losses and to avoid or reduce the likelihood of suffering a large of operational risks with the aim of maintaining robust operational extreme or unexpected loss.
In 2018 we enhanced our risk and Investment in our systems and technology control framework through the further development of our tools and We continue to invest in the ongoing maintenance and development processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting ofour key controls, which combine system and process measures operational risks.
Key developments included: operational including It tomitigate risk or to minimise any impact on us or our customers.
resilience: the deployment of new automated controls to mitigate the fraud risk experienced widely by the industry: operational disruption the pace of our growth has the potential to increase the execution risks event response planning: and, enhanced operational risk scenario associated with delivery of consistently AMAZeInG service to our analysis, particularly as part of the our Internal capital Adequacy customers.
therefore, in 2018, we continued to invest heavily in our Assessment process IcAAp.
this included ongoing development of our end-to-end technology infrastructure to provide a single customer view, enabling better customer service.
Where possible, we have invested in fully or semi-automated controls to support us in managing within risk appetite, while freeing up colleagues to focus on our customers.
We continue to grow our omnichannel presence, offering customers a choice in how they interact with us to suit their needs.
this increases our digital risk, in an environment where online and mobile technologies are changing the way banks interact with customers.
to mitigate this risk we are investing even more in our digital platforms to build resilient and secure technologies.
the current era of evolving technology requires usto maintain a secure digital infrastructure.
this is central to our vision of creating FAns, by protecting their data.
Culture and training As we continue our growth journey, we do so safely through continued investment in our colleagues and training so that we can continue tosupport them in delivering consistently AMAZeInG service to ourcustomers, whilst maintaining a safe, reliable and resilient bankingoperation.
Operational resilience operational resilience has been a central part of our risk management activity throughout 2018. this includes assessing a number of top operational risks, including: business continuity: technology: cyber: information security: payments: and third-party suppliers and ensuring we continue to appropriately mitigate these.
34 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. liquidity and funding risk Definition liquidity risk is the risk that future financial obligations are not met or future Change since 2017: asset growth cannot occur because of an inability to obtain funds at a No change reasonable price within a reasonable time.
Link to strategy: Diversified low-cost deposits For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement the purpose of our liquidity policy is to ensure that we maintain liquidity our asset and liability management AlM model is used to capture all resources which are sufficient, both as to amount and quality: to ensure positions across the Bank and evaluate their liquidity.
We calculate our that liabilities can be met as they fall due: and to ensure that we maintain lcr and perform stress testing of our liquidity daily.
Forward-looking a prudent funding profile, appropriately diversified within the context of short-range forecasts are produced at least monthly.
our approach is to ensure that we can both meet payments as they fall due and support asset growth in line with plan, early warning indicators eWIs are set out in the liquidity policy.
inboth normal conditions and in the event of a liquidity stress, and colleagues monitor these and bump up any triggers.
A cost of funds thatwe can survive a severe liquidity stress event and continue as model is used help colleagues account for liquidity, capital and interest a going concern.
Deposit-funded approach We perform an Internal liquidity Adequacy Assessment process IlAAp our mid-term guidance as set out on page 15 underlines our approach every year for the identification, measurement, management and ofhaving a long-term loan-to-deposit ratio of 85-90%.
our deposit-led monitoring of liquidity, having due regard for the prA rulebook section approach means we do not have reliance on wholesale funding toenable Internal liquidity Adequacy Assessment.
treasury seeks IlAAp input our ongoing lending.
from a range of teams including Finance and products.
our deposits are diverse and are generally low cost.
this means they are the conclusions of the IlAAp are reviewed and approved by the Board, less sensitive to competition within the deposit market, especially in a assisting in: rising base rate environment.
At 31 december 2018 53% of our deposit identification of our material liquidity risks: came from commercial customers 31 december 2017: 53% with the deciding the management of material liquidity risks: and remaining 47% 31 december: 47% coming from retail customers.
determining the Boards risk appetite.
Additionally 30% of deposits at year end 31 december 2017: 32% were inthe form of current accounts, with the remainder split between a For liquidity risk, we assess against internal and external requirements.
combination of instant access and fixed-term savings products.
In 2018 the chief external requirement is the lcr, and a series of internal our cost of deposits was 0.61% 2017: 0.54% below the current Bank of requirements are set and maintained through our IlAAp.
Monitoring Liquidity management treasury risk has responsibility for our compliance with liquidity policy We aim to hold a prudent level of liquidity to cover unexpected outflows, and strategy.
the regulatory reporting team monitors compliance with ensuring that we are able to meet financial commitments for an lcr.
the Alco is responsible for liquidity and funding risk.
We recognise the potential difficulties in monetising funding cannot be considered in isolation, and we have regard to liquidity certain assets, so set higher-quality targets for liquid assets for the earlier risk, profitability, and capital optimisation when considering funding part of a stress period.
We have assessed the level of liquidity necessary sources.
We issued subordinated debt for the first time in 2018, primarily to cover both systemic and idiosyncratic risks and maintain an as a capital management measure.
appropriate liquidity buffer at all times.
our liquidity coverage ratio lcr ensures that we comply with our own risk appetite as well as our liquidity mismatch chart is in note 24 to the financial accounts.
ourliquidity position has remained stable over the year with our lcr remaining strong at 139% 2017: 141%.
our liquidity portfolio consists of cash and balances at the Bank of england as well as high-quality liquid assets HQlAs that are available tobe sold to raise funding in the event of stress.
We are conscious of the cost implications of holding high levels of liquid assets and seek to avoid holding a buffer over a buffer.
Contingency planning the contingency Funding plan cFp details a series of indicators which would tend to suggest a liquidity stress event may be in train.
It assigns responsibilities and actions to key individuals, specifies time frames, and establishes the contingency Funding committee cFc chaired by the cFo which sits as required in the event of a liquidity stress.
Understand more about our liquidity risk exposure on pages 149 to 151 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 35 RISK REPORT CONTINUED 4.
Market risk Definition Market risk is the risk that earnings or the economic value of equity will Change since 2017: underperform due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, Risk increased orother financial market asset prices.
our ability to manage market risks contributes to our overall capital management.
Link to strategy: Low-risk diversified lending For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement As maturity transformation is one of the primary roles of a bank, we are We measure interest rate risk exposure using: exposed to interest rate risk by many of our activities.
our Market risk economic value sensitivity: calculating repricing mismatches policy is set with a view to ensuring that our funding resources are across our assets and liabilities and then evaluating the change invested in assets that satisfy our earnings risk and economic value invalue arising from a change in the yield curve.
scenario is based on a parallel rate movement of 2% to all interest rates, but we evaluate based on a series of other parallel and Interest rate risk non-parallel rate changes.
the scenarios are designed to replicate We benefit from natural offsetting between certain assets and liabilities, severe but plausible economic events and to have regard to which may be based on both contractual and behavioural characteristics riskswhich would not be evident through the use of parallel of these positions.
Where natural hedging is insufficient we hedge net shocks alone.
interest rate risk exposures appropriately, including, where necessary, interest income sensitivity: the impact on 12-month future with the use of interest rate derivatives.
We enter into derivatives only income arising from various interest rate shifts.
our risk appetite forhedging purposes and not as part of customer transactions or for scenarios are based on parallel rate movements of 2% and of speculative purposes.
divergences of up to 1.15% between Bank of england base rate and lIBor against a constant balance sheet.
We also evaluate our treasury and treasury risk teams work closely together and ensure aseries of other parallel, non-parallel and non-instantaneous that risks are managed appropriately and that were well positioned ratechanges.
toavoid losses outside our appetite, in the event of unexpected interest rate gaps: calculating the net difference between total marketmoves.
assets and total liabilities across a range of time buckets.
Foreign exchange exposure the frequency of calculating and reporting each measure varies from We have very limited exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Foreign daily to quarterly appropriate to each risk type.
exchange assets and liabilities are matched off closely in each of the currencies we operate and less than 5% of our assets and liabilities are We use an integrated Asset and liability Management AlM system incurrencies other than pounds sterling.
We do not have any operations which consolidates all our positions and enables the measurement and outside the united Kingdom.
We offer currency accounts and foreign management of interest rate repricing profiles for the entire Bank.
the exchange facilities to facilitate customer requirements but do not model takes into account behavioural assumptions as specified in our perform speculative trading activities.
Material assumptions can be updated more frequently at the request of business areas, in response to changing market We have hedge accounting solutions in place to reduce the volatility conditions or customer behaviours.
inthe income statement arising from these hedging activities.
We measure and monitor our exposures to foreign exchange risk daily Treasury management and do not maintain net exposures overnight in any currency other than We are mindful of upcoming regulatory changes, such as ring-fencing, as pounds, beyond fide minimis amounts.
we shape the investment portfolio in 2019 and beyond and are working to reduce the proportion of our assets that are ineligible for a ring-fenced Monitoring entity.
As our loan to deposit ratio approaches its long-term target, Interest rate risk measures have limits set against them through the natural roll-off of ineligible assets is expected to continue, and we will Market risk policy, and these are monitored on a regular basis by the cease to acquire assets which a ring-fenced entity may not hold.
Measures close to the limits are escalated to treasury in order to enable prompt action, and limit excesses are escalated to the Alco.
A digest of interest rate risk measures and details of any excesses Understand more about our market risk exposure on pages 151 to 152 are presented monthly at the Alco.
36 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
Financial crime risk Definition Financial crime risk is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to Change since 2017: regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost of No change mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to comply with prevailing legal and regulatory requirements relating to financial crime which we Link to strategy: define to include internal or external fraud, anti-money laundering counter Diversified low-cost deposits terrorist financing, bribery and corruption and sanctions compliance.
For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement the Financial crime risk team own our control framework with the risk team define our risk appetite and recommend this to the Board for approval.
In order to monitor the effectiveness of our control accountability for execution owned by our colleagues across the first line.
the risk team define our risk appetite and recommend this to the framework and the alignment with our risk appetite, KpIs are defined, reported against and escalated to the roc.
In order to monitor the effectiveness of our control framework and the alignment with our risk appetite, Key performance Investment in our systems and technology Indicators are defined, reported against and escalated through to the We invest in and refine our financial crime technology such as customer riskoversight committee.
We report monthly on our Bank wide account screening, payment profiling and customer authentication systems opening pass rates, fraud volumes and associated operational losses where we have evolved the effectiveness of these technology capabilities through this process.
to reflect our risk appetite.
We have also invested in enhancing our data analytics capabilities to further enhance our fraud prevention, detection Monitoring and investigation controls.
our policy framework also sets out key requirements which must be complied with consistently to manage our risk.
In 2018 we saw fraudsters taking advantage of external operational disruption events impacting customers and financial institutions.
We We have risk-based audit and assurance plans to monitor the continue to invest in our operational resilience capabilities to ensure that effectiveness of our controls.
dedicated and skilled resources are in place we are proactively avoiding, responding, recovering and learning from to complete these reviews with findings and recommendations tracked internal and external operational incidents to minimise the impact on through our financial crime governance structure.
We maintain policies and minimum standards, aligned to our legal and Improving customer awareness regulatory obligations which also articulate our risk appetite.
We launched our Be Your own Hero campaign designed to provide our customers with new fraud trends as well as hints and tips to enable them each year we complete a financial crime risk assessment to ensure that to protect themselves from becoming a victim of fraud.
our financial crime control framework is commensurate and robust to manage our inherent business risks across each of the four areas.
We anticipate that in 2019 we will continue to see an increase in more sophisticated social engineering cases impacting our customers, with We participate in external industry forums including being an active fraudsters adapting and very closely mimicking the Bank.
this is making member of the cyber defence Alliance and liaise with government itharder for customers to identify targeted fraud attempts and protect bodies such as the Home office, HMrc, Financial conduct Authority against them even with targeted customer fraud awareness FcA and law enforcement to support our identification of new and communications and campaigns.
there is an interaction with our evolving risks.
cybersecurity, data privacy and cyber risk awareness in this area.
Colleague training A key focus of 2018 was strengthening our dedicated financial crime specialist resource and equipping this resource and our colleagues across the Bank with specific training.
We increased our headcount across both lines of defence and invested substantially in equipping anumber of our colleagues with industry recognised financial crime qualifications.
We rolled out further training and education to key colleagues in our stores.
Horizon scanning We actively conduct horizon scanning activity to identify emerging trends and typologies as well as to identify and prepare for new legislation and regulation.
As required, we will update our control framework to ensure alignment with these risks.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 37 RISK REPORT CONTINUED 6. regulatory risk Definition regulatory risk is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to Change since 2017: regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost Risk increased ofmandatory corrective action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations and supervisory guidance.
Link to strategy: Low-risk diversified lending Diversified low-cost deposits For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement We have no appetite for regulatory risk.
We aim to comply with the We have policies, procedures and standards in place to ensure relevant rules, regulations and sourcebooks.
We have policies and compliance with our regulatory obligations.
this is supported through procedures in place to ensure compliance with the regulatory our enterprise risk Management Framework by oversight and monitoring obligations, and robust oversight and monitoring to evidence activity to evidence compliance.
Alongside this we regularly engage with the prA, the FcA, and other industry bodies to proactively manage this risk.
As part of our ongoing supervision by the prA, the prA helped us identify potential inconsistencies in our regulatory reporting.
Following this, we Avoidance conducted an internal review of our risk-weighting of certain commercial our mitigation strategy favours risk avoidance through ensuring loans, supported by one of the big four professional service firms.
compliance with our relevant rules and requirements.
We seek to achieve thiswork identified that some adjustments were required to our rWAs.
this through the allocation of appropriate resources for regulatory on 26 February 2019, we received notification that the prA and FcA is compliance advisory and oversight activities.
In instances which investigating the circumstances and events that led to the rWA challenge our ability to comply or remain compliant with a particular rule, adjustment.
We are satisfied that the risk weightings have now been we seek to collaborate and engage early with our regulatory supervisors assigned properly.
We are continuing to work on further enhancements to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.
to our systems and controls.
our Board, roc and executive leadership team via the executive risk Monitoring committee continue to monitor and oversee our focus on maintaining As an industry we are increasing regulatory obligations including regulatory compliance.
this includes periodic reporting on regulatory minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities Mrel, themes, regulatory changes on the horizon and the regulatory IFrs16, IFrs 9, the second payment services directive psd II, open environment, alongside supporting key risk measures and BoardBanking and General data protection regulation Gdpr.
the Board and approved policies and standards.
senior Management are focused on responding in a timely and effective way to these changes including ensuring we are appropriately resourced and have sufficient capability in these areas.
38 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. conduct risk Definition conduct risk is the risk of treating customers unfairly, and delivering Change since 2017: inappropriate outcomes that lead to customer detriment.
No change Link to strategy: For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Unique culture Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement We have no appetite for conduct risk.
We provide customers with simple, We measure and monitor conduct risk through product governance fairly priced products delivered with unparalleled levels of service and activity, compliance monitoring, analysis of expressions of dissatisfaction, convenience and we are committed to avoiding materially unfair root cause analysis and reporting through customer treatment fora.
Wealso use our Voice of the customer surveys to inform continuous improvement activity.
Key performance Indicators are also defined, Simple and transparent products reported against and escalated to the roc.
our simple, transparent product range and activities continue to help ensure that customer outcomes are fair.
our colleagues are fully trained in Monitoring all relevant products and services and these are delivered to our customers the simplicity of our offering drives a low level of reportable complaints, through all channels, with openness and transparency.
We believe in below the industry average.
As well as monitoring the trends in the looking after our existing customers and will never offer teaser rates or metrics outlined above we constantly analyse the root cause of better rates for new customers that arent also available to our existing complaints and any underlying trends, to identify opportunities to customers.
our products are reviewed regularly to ensure they continue to improve service provision while delivering consistently fair outcomes meet customer needs and operate as expected.
We do not undertake any forcustomers.
financial promotions or marketing and are committed to ensuring that our communications are clear, fair and not misleading.
sales incentives in stores neither exist nor are perceived by colleagues to exist.
Make every wrong right our service-led business model and absence of legacy issues give us an inherent advantage.
We are committed to doing the right thing for our customers and to making every wrong right.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 39 RISK REPORT CONTINUED 8.
Model risk Definition Model risk is the potential for negative outcomes from random or systematic Change since 2017: errors in model development, input, calculation or use of outputs.
Models New risk are always approximations and never perfect and there are therefore risks associated with using them.
these risks range from their theoretical basis, Link to strategy: the data and methods used in their construction, the economic conditions Diversified low-cost deposits under which they are developed, and their use.
For more information on our strategy please see pages 10 to 11 Appetite and mitigation Measurement and monitoring Appetite Measurement there is a low appetite for model risk.
this is defined as part of our overall A set of KpIs are regularly reported and discussed at the MGc, crpAc, risk appetite and is regularly monitored by the crpAc and roc.
on a monthly basis the crpAc reviews any material models are evaluated on the basis of our model governance framework validation actions and tracks their completion.
and detailed procedures and target operating models are in place to manage the risk.
Monitoring A dedicated Model Monitoring team are responsible for assessing the Governance ongoing performance of models against pre-specified tolerances crpAc is the designated committee for the management of model approved by the crpAc as part of the model monitoring standards.
the Model Governance committee MGc is the technical Model monitoring is regularly performed and results are discussed at the committee overseeing the model risk lifecycle.
Any material model MGc and crpAc where actions are agreed and tracked for completion.
is presented to the crpAc for approval ahead of implementation ormodel changes.
the crpAc defines and approves the policies and procedures relevant to model risk and approves the model risk appetite on an annual basis.
the MGc owns the minimum standards and target operating models to mitigate model risk and also defined roles andresponsibilities, with clear ownership and accountability.
the model governance function maintains a model inventory which records key features of models including ownership and review schedules.
the model governance function also tracks model risk and actions.
Independent review An independent model validation function is part of the enterprise risk Function.
this team is independent from the Model development team and is responsible for reviewing the model development submissions and maintains a model validation action log to track model risk mitigation plans.
Models are also subject to internal and external audit.
40 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to our principal risks, we monitor other potentially significant or emerging risks Credit cycle cyclical risk the credit cycle is the expansion and contraction of access to credit over time.
It is widely accepted in the absence of a more direct measure that the impact credit cycle risk is the risk of our customers not being able to access credit in of credit cycle risk is instead reflected in the value of real estate assets.
adequate quantities when required, causing pressure on their cash flow and ability to meet credit obligations when due.
Management and mitigation are achieved through our robust lending policies ensuring appropriate customer gearing levels are maintained throughout cycle risk is systemic, affecting a number of providers of finance, but also thecredit cycle.
Additionally, the performance of individual exposures and idiosyncratic, affecting specific individuals, businesses and sectors.
It typically thequality of supporting real estate assets and other tangible assets are does not have a tangible measure.
credit cycles tend to drive the economic cycle which, over a period of time, portfolio monitoring and analysis are governed by a set of credit risk appetite has four distinct stages.
metrics measuring key areas such as performance and sector concentrations.
economic growth when credit is readily available portfolio monitoring reports are provided monthly for review and challenge at cycle peak when credit availability exceeds the underlying market senior management and Board level.
demand causing over-gearing economic contraction when credit availability is restricted cycle trough when credit is severely restricted preventing economicgrowth Cyber risk cyber risk management continues to be an area of key focus.
We continue to develop and embed our approach to managing maintain robust cyber security systems and control measures, and seek cyber risk across the Bank, learning from intelligence sources and industry a low level of risk in both of these areas.
peers to identify new and emerging cyber risks.
We use a combination of automated tooling metrics with intelligence-led insight to manage our cyber to mitigate the risk we combine traditional information security controls with risk profile, enabling us to stay ahead of the continuously evolving threat of acyber intelligence capability, and a proactive partnership with law cyber threats in order to protect our customers and the Bank.
Operational resilience recent disruptive events across the financial services industry, and beyond, these areas of resilience are likely to remain high on the regulatory agenda, evidence the importance of safe, resilient operations.
Increasing external alongside changes in the macroeconomic environment.
the FcA has complexities compound the risk exposure across the industry.
In response highlighted to retail banking firms its view of the need to focus on increased weare committed to investing in the continued enhancement of resilience technology-related resilience risks, while the prA requirements on controls and capabilities, so that we can continue to deliver consistently operational continuity in resolution came into effect on 1 January 2019. excellent service to our customers.
Weexpect that this will lead to additional regulatory supervision activity in2019 and beyond.
Culture A culture that truly focuses on creating FAns and exceeding customer We are one team aligned to a single purpose: creating FAns.
embedding our expectations will deliver great outcomes for customers.
this focus on culture, and reinforcing the behaviours that support it, is what sets us apart.
exceeding customers and colleagues expectations by delivering unparalleled our culture is the fabric of who we are, and it is why we are different.
A group service creates an emotional attachment to our brand it creates FAns!
of people creating FAns by doing the right thing for customers.
several years of successful growth, market-leading net promoter scores and fantastic customer retention demonstrate how our culture sits at the heart of our business model.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 41 RISK REPORT CONTINUED Economic conditions: Brexit the uK economy continues to face uncertainty resulting from the uK decision Business investment continues to wane and there are continuing structural to leave the eu Brexit.
Brexit poses a risk to the uK economy in the short, changes to the retail sector and some healthcare sectors.
We continue to medium and long term.
It includes the risks of withdrawal from the eu, monitor external projections.
our impairment provision outlook includes an negotiating new trade agreements and foreign investment.
additional scenario and higher weighting that reflects a worsening outlook forthe economy.
using these and more severe outlooks we have stressed the underlying economic performance across the uK has, since the referendum, lending portfolios to provide a view on how the business may perform and been better than initially projected.
In 2018 employment levels have improved thus ensure sufficient levels of capital and liquidity.
and wage growth has outpaced inflation.
there have been some property price decreases in london and the south east and we expect house prices to direct operational impacts on us from eu exit are limited but we are aware remain subdued with low turnover.
the overall picture supports a view that ofindirect effects on our colleagues and customers.
We believe the uKs conditions for lending in the consumer markets are stable, albeit with head continued provision of innovation and high-value services, the weaker pound winds for reduced growth.
and the relatively flexible labour market should enable the uK to prosper longer term.
uK exit from the eu creates a largely binary economic outlook.
our assumptions on credit losses attempt to reflect this on a probability basis.
Whilst there is a risk of greater volatility in the first two quarters of 2019, weexpect a lingering drag on the uK economy for some time.
Regulatory change the range and complexity of regulations with which the Bank is required to our culture, built on transparency, fairness and customer focus, sits at the comply has increased, and this continues into 2019. heart of how we deliver our vision and strategy, and this is implicit in our approach to delivering regulatory change.
It is the essence of who we are, and during 2018, several key initiatives to implement regulatory changes were it helps us to meet our legal and regulatory commitments.
notably, these included Gdpr, psd2 and the implementation of new measures required by the competition and Markets Authority cMA, including the cMA inaugural service quality results.
Technology and infrastructure We continue to evolve our ability to deliver superior service to our customers We are uniquely positioned by combining a streamlined approach to the through our integrated technology stack.
continuous improvement of our number of systems we operate, and our lack of legacy technology.
looking technology infrastructure is essential to our effective management of the tothe future, our agility will be further increased with investments in upgrades risksassociated with our rapid growth and the expansion of our physical to our core banking platform and a single operational data store ods.
thisaccompanies the delivery of in-flight work to build new architecture aligned with our customer journeys and touch points.
In 2018, we have invested heavily in our continued relationships with key technology partners alongside our investment in our mobile and digital capability, which we also use to support our colleagues to exceed customer expectations in our stores.
In recognition of this, we delivered significant enhancement to our vendor management tooling and capability, with a particular focus on automating our risk-based approach to managing key controls for core operational activities, such as onboarding, contracts and security.
Data privacy Gdpr came into force on 25 May 2018 and introduced new requirements supplier risk and enhance our information security capabilities: we have ondata protection and privacy to transform the way in which personal data is invested in building capability in our people and created the key colleague collected, shared and used.
roles to fulfil our obligations: and enhanced colleague training and expert support on data privacy embeds in our philosophy to protect our customers, our Gdpr programme was established in 2016, with the clear objective of as we continue to service our FAns by ensuring we keep their personal data achieving compliance through the delivery of a series of proportionate safe and secure.
our policies now include data privacy principles: we have invested in systems to store our records of processing activities, manage our 42 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MREL the Bank of england Boe promulgated Mrel in 2016. uK firms will become this requirement will mean that our Mrel requirement will be above its subject to interim Mrel requirements from 1 January 2020 prior to the final regulatory capital requirement and the Bank is therefore working to ensure requirements coming into force in 2022. itwill be compliant in good time.
Holding Mrel is a requirement placed on larger firms to ensure that in the event of their failing and requiring resolution by the Boe, their customers continue to have access to their funds, and the operation of their accounts willnot be affected.
Strategic risk to delivery of MetroBanks strategic objectives is influenced by a number We have a well-established annual planning process.
the annual business plan of competing external factors.
these include: the need to deliver performance is developed in the context of a seven-year plan that sets out the longer-term consistent with stakeholder expectations against a backdrop of significant growth trajectory of the Bank.
Both documents are presented to the Board regulatory change, which drives increased cost and operational burden: fordiscussion and approval.
execution against the annual plan is frequently ongoing regulatory and macroeconomic uncertainty that requires regular monitored by management and the Board to assess performance against review of planning assumptions: and a disruptive market environment thestretching targets we set ourselves.
Additional oversight is provided by the characterised by significant technological change that requires ongoing riskoversight committee, which considers the Banks growth and strategic investment in digital platforms to enable us to fulfil customer expectations delivery plans within the context of our risk appetite statement, and the across all channels.
to manage these influences, we seek to identify any resulting risk profile.
our strategic goals are described on pages 10 and 11. linkages and overlaps between each of our principal risk categories and the relevant emerging risks: and then develop appropriate action plans to ensure we deliver and sustain: our unique differentiated culture: our integrated model: diversified low-cost deposits: and low-risk diversified lending: whilst creating FAns for life.
Viability statement The raising of qualifying debt to meet regulatory minimum In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the revised UK requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the will require some changes to the organisational structure prospects of the Group and Parent Company over a longer of the group, as well as various regulatory approvals in the period than the 12 months that has in practice been the medium term.
focus of the going concern provision.
Forecasts were subject to appropriate downside stress While the Bank prepares a forecast spanning a seven-year andsensitivity analysis over the assessment period, taking period, the Directors concluded that a four-year period account of the Groups current position, the Groups wasappropriate for the assessment, as it is the period experience of managing change and the impact of a overwhich the financial forecasts have greatest certainty.
number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based on the Theseforecasts are updated annually and reflect the principal risks outlined in the risk factors and management Groups established strategy of creating FANS through section of this report.
ouruniqueculture and integrated model of stores and technology, in order to raise low-cost deposits and Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have low-risk diversified lending.
areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Key assumptions included in the model include store, dueover the period of their assessment.
deposit and lending growth, as well as remaining appropriately capitalised.
Over the forecast period, we expect to raise capital and qualifying debt to fund our anticipated growth and to meet regulatory requirements.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 43
