38 OUR RISKS Being faced with financial and operating risks is an inherent part of accountability for the effectiveness of the risk management framework conducting business in a challenging and fluid business environment.
In 2018, upon review of the structure of Many of our principal risks will be the same risks faced by similar the Boards committees, the Board decided to amalgamate the duties businesses in the hospitality industry.
of the Risk Committee and Audit Committee given the commonalities of their remits and recognizing the progress made towards establishing In this section, we describe the principal risks that could affect the a robust risk management framework within the Group, and the Groups ability to deliver against its strategy together with the controls new Audit & Risk Committee commenced operation in May 2018. and risk management framework in place to mitigate such risks.
Supporting the Audit & Risk Committee, the Group Management Risk Committee has accountability for ensuring effective risk management at MANAGEMENT OF RISK the operational level in line with the Board-approved risk appetite limits.
The Groups risk management framework has been developed to align The Group Management Risk Committee is comprised of the principal with the best practice risk management standard ISO 31000.
The risk owners, including regional operational heads and functional heads, framework consists of a group risk management process for standardized and is led by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
assessment, reporting and monitoring of risks to ensure a robust and consistent standard in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Under the To support this structure, a Global Director of Compliance and Risk Groups risk management framework, there are three levels of risks.
Level Management has been appointed to work with the Group Management 1 risks represent the principal risks that are monitored closely at Board Risk Committee and the business to help strengthen and further embed level.
Level 2 risks are those within the areas of responsibility of the the Groups regulatory compliance and enterprise risk management regional and functional heads.
Finally, Level 3 risks encompass hotel-level framework.
A third-party risk management consultancy also continues and project-specific risks.
to assist the Group in embedding risk management within the business.
As risks continue to evolve and grow in complexity, so too do our risk The Board have established a clear organizational structure for the management processes, ensuring continual improvement, and growth in management of these risks in the Group, with well-defined roles the organisations risk maturity.
Work on these initiatives will continue and responsibilities.
The Board retains overall responsibility and over the course of 2019.
RISK FRAMEWORK Board Risk Level 1 Profile Regional Functional Level 2 Risk Profiles Risk Profiles Project Risk Hotel Risk Project Risk Level 3 Profiles Profiles Profiles Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 39 RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board of Directors Overall accountability for strategic risk management and setting of risk appetite.
Audit & Risk Committee Responsible for conducting assessments of the principal financial and non-financial risks and reviewing the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
Group Management Risk Committee Operational accountability for the management and control of risks and the implementation of mitigation measures in line with risk appetite.
Global Risk & Compliance Group Internal Audit Supports the Group to strengthen and embed the Groups regulatory Review the effectiveness compliance and enterprise risk management framework.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 40 OUR RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS DISCLOSURE REGARDING BREXIT In the following table we have identified the key risks that are regarded as The Group does not consider the UK leaving the European Union a the most relevant for the Group.
The principal risks should be viewed as principal risk.
The Group has taken steps to mitigate risks within our the risks that we see as being material to our businesss performance and control and will continue to monitor developments and review our prospects at this time.
A Brexit Steering Group has been established and contingency plans are in place to deal with any challenges that may arise post-Brexit.
The following pages provide a description of each risk and how it could impact the business, a summary of controls and mitigating activities The order in which risks are presented below is not indicative of the being undertaken and the trend for the risk.
This trend represents relative potential impact to the Group.
The risks may, to varying degrees, the forward-looking view of the net risk exposure for each risk, taking impact the Groups revenues, profits, net assets, operations, guests, into account changes in the external risk environment and the Groups employees, partners and or reputation.
Not all potential risks are listed below: some risks that we are managing and monitoring in the business are excluded because the Board considers that they are not material to the Groups long-term strategy, performance or viability.
In general, the diversity and geographical spread of the Groups assets provide natural hedges against many of the principal risks identified below and our processes aim to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the principal risks that are significant to our business have been identified and addressed.
Additionally, there may be risks that are not reasonably foreseeable as at the date of this report.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 41 Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Activities Trend Competition, The hotel industry operates within an inherently The diverse nature of the Groups portfolio, both trading and cyclical sector, where competition, both online and geographically and in respect of its breadth of brands, market factors offline, is increasing.
The growth of room supply, provides a natural hedge against various external risks.
without corresponding increases in demand, may The Group has a concentration of hotels in key lead to downward pressure on rates, which in turn gateway cities such as London, Singapore and New could negatively impact the Groups performance.
York to benefit from corporate and leisure travel.
As a The hospitality industry also is seeing a degree of niche owner-operator, the Group keeps a close watch consolidation in pursuit of scale and the benefits on local events and developments to align its associated with it.
investment and marketing spend to target relevant customer segments and adapt to changing hospitality In addition, trading can be directly affected by localised trends.
eventssuch as natural catastrophes, country or regional The Groups internal Treasury Management geo-political mattersas well as global, macro-economic Committee monitors and addresses treasury matters, trends impacting travel and hotel stays.
including investment and counterparty risks, in Finally, the Group operates in numerous jurisdictions accordance with the Groups treasury policy.
The and trades in various international currencies, but reports Board and Audit & Risk Committee receive regular its financial results in pound sterling.
Fluctuations in updates on treasury matters.
currency exchange rates and interest rates may be either Foreign exchange exposure is primarily managed accretive or dilutive to the Groups reported trading through the funding of purchases and repayment of results and net asset value.
The 2016 referendum vote borrowings from income generated in the same in the UK to leave the European Union, for instance, currency.
resulted in a sustained devaluation of the pound sterling.
Interest rate hedges and fixed-rate lending facilities are Unhedged interest rate exposures pose a risk too.
Rising used from time to time to manage interest rate risks.
interest rates may result in increased borrowing costs and impact the Groups profits.
Investment The Groups hotels require investment, typically in The Group continues to develop property specific and asset cycles of minor and major refurbishments, to maintain refurbishment plans, which focus on the capital management their competitiveness.
Refurbishment projects invariably expenditure requirements of each property in terms of impact on revenues, particularly when major renovations regular maintenance and product enhancement to require the hotel to be closed for extended periods.
help ensure the products remain competitive.
These Also, refurbishment projects or other capital projects plans generally are developed by the hotel may overrun on time and costs or may not deliver the management teams and reviewed and approved at the expected returns on investment.
The size of investment Group level.
and appropriate allocation of limited resources across a Refurbishment projects are generally phased in order diverse portfolio are also key considerations.
The ability to minimise the impact on revenues.
Where it is of the Group to make the right investment decisions at justified, a decision to fully close and reopen a hotel the right time, and devote appropriate resources to its after renovation can be taken, in order to help investment programme, is crucial to enabling long-term, reposition the hotel, for instance.
With regard to large-scale capital projects, such as the Sunnyvale, California mixed-use development, the Yangdong development in Seoul and the refurbishment of the former Millennium hotel in Mayfair, London, dedicated project managers and cost consultants are engaged to help oversee the projects and track spending against approved budgets.
A Senior Vice President of Technical Services was appointed in September 2018 to help improve global oversight over, and monitoring of, large projects.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 42 OUR RISKS CONTINUED Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Activities Trend Brand equity and Brand equity and customer loyalty influence consumer The Group has in place brand standards that are customer loyalty choice and are created by understanding customer needs, designed to maintain a level of product consistency clear and consistent communication and consistently based on the brand collection to which a particular delivering products and services that meet those hotel belongs whilst allowing flexibility in order to customer needs.
Further, the Groups ability to protect its maintain the personality of the property.
The brand intellectual property rights in its brands is fundamental standards capture the key messaging behind each of to delivering on these endeavours.
Competition is fierce, the Groups brands.
and the Groups scale and marketing expenditure cannot To raise the profile of our brands and to help build match those of larger competitors.
Generally, the Group brand equity, marketing campaigns are highly targeted operates properties which it owns and therefore is able and often leverage strategic partnerships.
In 2018, the to exercise control over the service and product quality Group launched the M Collection and promoted the of those hotels.
In addition, management of hotels Lengs Collection.
It also signed a sponsorship involving third-party or joint-venture relationships in agreement with the Chelsea Football Club and certain markets gives rise to the risk of non-performance redesigned its loyalty programme for launch in 2019. by those parties, affecting the ability of the relevant Investment continues to be made in protecting the hotels to deliver service and product quality consistent Groups brands from misuse and infringement, by way with the Group brand and operating standards.
Failure of trademark registrations, enforcement of intellectual to create brand equity and customer loyalty could affect property rights, domain name protection and the pace of future revenue growth as well as the pricing enforcement of management agreements.
The Group power, image and reputation of the Group.
utilises third party online brand monitoring and protection agencies to assist with the Groups enforcement activities.
Health, safety The health, safety and security of guests, visitors and The Group has health, safety and environmental and security employees is a fundamental expectation and there is management systems in place, which include policies, a breadth of regulatory requirements across different procedures, testing, self and third-party audits, jurisdictions relating to health and safety matters.
Where possible, these seek to to implement and maintain sufficient controls regarding align with the requirements of best practice accredited health and safety issues could result in serious injury or systems e. g. OHSAS 18001.
By following these loss of life, lead to regulatory investigations and expose standards, the Group strives to work to the highest the Group to significant claims, sanctions or fines, both standards of health and safety.
civil and criminal, as well as reputational damage.
Following the tragic event at Grenfell Tower in London, in June 2017, related to flammable cladding, Whilst health and safety matters often are local to a the Group assessed its portfolio globally, testing and particular venue or location, security concerns can be confirming that such cladding is not used at any of the affected by global geopolitical events.
Groups owned and managed properties.
Management seeks to identify emerging risks at the earliest opportunity to ensure clear roles and responsibilities, internal controls and other steps to minimize these exposures to the greatest extent possible.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 43 Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Activities Trend Talent Hospitality is a people business.
The Groups brands and The Group has strong regional and local management management and ability to deliver consistent service quality are dependent structures threaded together with a common succession on its ability to attract, develop and retain employees commitment towards ensuring a rewarding and with the appropriate skills, experience and aptitude.
This is supported by Generally in the industry, frontline employees are prone performance management and recognition systems, to higher levels of turnover.
Also, with the growth in compensation and benefits programmes, e. g. bonus room supply, demand and consumer choice globally, plans, service reward programmes, share plans, and it becomes increasingly important for operators to be internal and external training and development able to find and retain senior leaders who inspire and programmes.
Failure of the Group to properly plan for The Group strives to provide internal talent with the recruitment and succession of key management roles opportunities for development and advancement as a may impact service quality, consistency and or delay the matter of priority.
execution of the Groups strategies.
The Nominations Committee and wider Board are tasked with ensuring proper succession plans are in Not unique to the Group, a considerable proportion place for key members of the senior management of hotel staff in the UK, and particularly in London, team.
originate from European Union countries.
The ability of The Group is keeping on top of the developments the Group to retain appropriate staff, as well as the cost relating to the UKs potential exit from the European of doing so, may be impacted depending on if and how Union as they unfold and management are continuing the UK exits the European Union.
to review the potential impact of the developments.
A Brexit Steering Group has been established to ensure the Group considers material risks and to develop appropriate mitigation strategies.
This allows the Group to remain nimble and ready to respond to different issues and scenarios.
Revenue channel Keeping abreast of digital transformation and online The Group continues to refresh its digital marketing optimisation and competition is critical given the growing proportion of strategy and invest in its e-commerce, customer cost of sale the Groups hotel rooms being booked online.
Online relationship management, revenue management and travel agencies OTA tend to have higher commission reservations systems in order to help increase rates, rates compared to traditional travel agents and are retain existing customers and generate new business.
taking an increasing share of bookings across the sector.
In 2018, the Group restructured its sales organisation Over time, consumers may develop loyalties to the and developed a global sales account management tool OTAs rather than to the Groups brands.
These trends to focus on growing corporate business in particular.
may impact the rising cost of sale ultimately affecting Fundamental to the Groups distribution strategy is profitability.
Other costs related to metasearch engines growing brand recognition and loyalty along with and tools that help direct online traffic towards our own increasing direct channel bookings.
In 2018, the websites are increasing.
On the supply side, sharing Group continued to enhance its brand website and it economy platforms, such as Airbnb, may expand their will be launching a revamped loyalty programme in market share and compete with more traditional business the first quarter of 2019. and leisure accommodations.
The Group is aggressively managing its portfolio of distribution channel partners, including established OTAs and new, niche or local players, to optimise revenue, gain access to new customers and minimise commission costs.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 44 OUR RISKS CONTINUED Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Activities Trend Information Increasing reliance on online distribution channels and The Groups regional Information Technology IT security, transactions over the internet and mobile applications, teams conduct periodic security and penetration vulnerability to and the aggregation and storage of guest and other testing, often using external consultants, and any cyber-attacks information electronically, both on company-controlled recommendations or enhancements are implemented and PCI-DSS servers and networks and in cloud-based environments, where necessary.
compliance present heightened risks of attacks affecting the operation Software systems are regularly updated to allow for the of those systems and networks and or a potential loss or latest security updates and patches to be installed.
misuse of confidential or proprietary information.
The Information technology policies and procedures have occurrence of a cyber security event or loss of data could been updated to reflect implementation of the latest disrupt business, the ability of the Group to take or fulfil PCI-DSS compliance standards.
bookings or lead to reputational and monetary damages, The Group has in place, and regularly reviews, cyber litigation or regulatory fines.
insurance coverage to protect against certain cyber risks.
In addition, various aspects of the Groups operations are required to achieve compliance with the payment card industry security standards PCI-DSS, and failure to do so could result in penalties and or withdrawal of credit card payment facilities.
Legal and The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is exposed The Group continues to monitor regulatory changes regulatory to the risk of non-compliance with increasingly complex in the jurisdictions in which it operates in order to compliance statutory and regulatory requirements, including identify its obligations and implement appropriate competition law, anti-bribery and corruption and data compliance and training programmes.
The Group has privacy compliance regimes.
Non-compliance with such comprehensive global and, where applicable, regional regulations, which differ by jurisdiction and are areas of policies and procedures in place to address increasing focus by regulators, could result in fines and competition law, data privacy, ethical business or other damages, including reputational damage, being conduct, whistle-blowing, anticorruption and bribery, incurred, particularly in the event a data breach should gifts and hospitality and charitable donations, among occur.
An area of particular regulatory focus in 2018, for others.
example, was in relation to the implementation of the The Group undertook a comprehensive project to new EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
ensure compliance with the GDPR, including data mapping, updating policies and procedures and In addition, the Group has contractual relationships in implementing additional controls and training.
place with various counterparties, including customers, The Group maintains in place industry standard suppliers, employees and other parties, and provides insurance cover to mitigate many potential litigation goods and services to customers.
As such, a breakdown risks, such as employment practices liability, workers in any of these relationships could lead to disputes and compensation and general liability policies.
ultimately litigation, which in turn could give rise to The Group has controls in place to manage and help reputational damages, management distraction and mitigate the risks associated with its various or the Company having to incur significant costs or contractual relationships, from execution through to damages, particularly where claims are not insured or are termination, insured and uninsured litigation and not fully insured.
Regular litigation reports are provided to the Board.
In certain countries where the Group operates, particularly in emerging markets, local practices and the A dedicated Global Director of Compliance and Risk legal environment may be such that enforcement of the Management has been hired to enhance the Groups Groups legal rights is challenging.
compliance and risk management regime.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 45 Viability risk assessment Viability Statement Risk reviews led by the Group Management Risk Committee and In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee identify and evaluate the Code, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Groups principal risks in the context of its operating environment, risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business business objectives and enterprise risk management controls that are in model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
involved a review of the prospects of the Group over the three-year period to 31 December 2021, considering the Groups strategy and the One element of this pertains to the assessment of the cash flow of Groups principal risks and how these are managed over this period, as the Group over a three-year period for a viability risk assessment, detailed on pages 40 to 44. taking into account projected cashflows available from operations and lending facilities versus the estimated investment and working capital The Directors believe the three-year period is appropriate for the requirements over the period.
The three-year strategic and financial plans are supplemented by regular Board briefings provided by management and Review period the discussion of any significant new initiatives, trends, transactions or For purposes of the Groups viability risk assessment, the Directors once other matters that may impact the Group or its business.
Based on this again selected a three-year review period ending 31 December 2021, assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group although they have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they fall over a longer period.
This three-year period was determined to be a due, over the period to 31 December 2021. reasonable assessment period for several reasons: Approval of Strategic Report First, the three-year period is in line with the Groups rolling strategic The Strategic Report comprises the following sections: Chairmans and financial plans, which are reviewed by the Board on an annual statement, Business review and strategy, Key performance indicators, basis: Financial performance and regional performances, Corporate responsibility and Our risks sections.
The Strategic Report was approved Second, many of the Groups revolving credit lines have three-year by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: terms: Third, the landscape of online competition has been changing rapidly, Kwek Leng Beng as previously reported, and is likely to continue to change further in Chairman of the Board the foreseeable future, and it would be difficult to form a reasonable judgment of how the online marketplace will evolve beyond a period 14 February 2019 of three years.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 48 Board of Directors 51 Directors report 57 Corporate governance statement 67 Audit & Risk Committee report 71 Directors remuneration report 88 Nominations Committee report 93 Statement of Directors responsibilities 94 Independent auditors report
