Risks and uncertainties Keeping risk under control This section highlights the top ten principal risks and uncertainties that affect the Company, together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage those risks.
This does not represent a comprehensive list of all of the risks that the Company faces, but focuses on those that are currently considered to be most relevant.
38 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Overview Risk management is critical to the proper discharge of our corporate Our three responsibilities and to the delivery of shareholder value.
Risk is at the heart of everything we do as an organisation.
Therefore, the process for lines of defence identifying and assessing risks and opportunities for improvements is an integral and inseparable part of the management skills and processes 1st which are at the core of our business.
Executive Committee There is a formally established Risk Committee in place which continues Leadership group management to meet on a quarterly basis to review the key risks facing the business.
Internal controls and processes Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed by the Risk Committee in Internal policies and procedures terms of their likelihood and impact and recorded on the Groups Key Risk Training Heat Map, in conjunction with associated agreed risk mitigation plans.
The processes that are used to identify and manage risks are described in 2nd the Internal Control and Risk Management statement on pages 62 and 63.
Financial authority limits Management support, involvement and enforcement is fundamental Risk Management processes to the success of our risk management framework and each member of Audit Committee the Executive Committee takes responsibility for the management of the specific risks associated with their function.
Our Group risk register Risk Committee clearly outlines the alignment of each key risk to an Executive Committee Health and Safety Team member and identifies an action owner, to ensure responsibilities are Technology specialists formally aligned.
Legal support Therefore, there is a robust and transparent process in place to provide an appropriate level of direction and support in the identification, 3rd assessment and management of those aspects of the business Group Assurance which have the potential to damage seriously our financial position, Operational Practices Team our shareholder value, our responsibilities to our staff and guests, our reputation and our relationships with key stakeholders.. 1.
Market risks Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement A.
Declining sales performance Right team and structure in place.
Brand alignment ensures the right Risk decreasing research gets done and is acted on.
This risk falls into three main categories: Daily, weekly and periodic sales reporting, monitoring and scrutiny Sales: There is a risk that declining sales, activity is in place.
concerns around consumer confidence, Our Eat Drink Share panel provides robust, quick and cost-effective increased personal debt levels, squeezes research.
This is our own panel of 27,000 Mitchells & Butlers guests whom on disposable income and rising inflation we can use for research purposes for quick and cost-effective insights.
individually, together or in combinations, Primary research in partnership with brand category teams.
may adversely affect our market share and profitability, reducing headroom against Working with suppliers to tap into their research.
Each brand has its own pricing strategy.
Consumer and market insight: Price promotions are in line with the agreed strategy.
If Mitchells & Butlers fails to manage and Sales training for Management.
develop its existing and new brands in Consumer insight-led innovation process and development line with consumer needs and market trends for new brands.
due to failure to obtain or use sufficient Reduce guest complaints by improving the local management insight in a timely manner, this may lead of social media responses e. g. TripAdvisor responses.
to a decline in revenues and profits.
Increased digital marketing activity including new loyalty apps.
Pricing and market changes: If price Increased activity from takeaway and delivery offerings.
changes are not intelligently applied due to a lack of appreciation of market sensitivities Online guest satisfaction survey to collect guest feedback.
This feedback, and elasticities, this may result in decreased together with the results of research studies, is monitored and evaluated revenue and profit particularly in relation by a dedicated guest insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests to exceptional dry hot summer weather of the Companys brands is maintained.
and extreme cold snow conditions.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 39 Risks and uncertainties continued 1.
Market risks continued Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement B.
Cost of goods price increases Overall, price increases are mitigated as Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale Risk increasing to drive competitive cost advantage and collaborates with suppliers to increase Food: The price of goods increases efficiencies in the supply chain.
The fragmented nature of the food supply due to changes in demand, legislation, industry in the world commodity markets gives the Company the opportunity exchange rates and or production costs to source products from a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive and uncertainty of supply, leading to down cost.
Consideration has been given to potential areas such as supply decreased profits.
chain risk e. g. customs controls on imports, labour risk and economic Drinks: The price of drinks goods disruption.
Key mitigating activities for food and drink are detailed below: increases due to changes in demand, Food: legislation, exchange rates and production A Food Procurement Strategy is in place.
costs, leading to decreased profits.
Full reviews have been carried out on key categories to ensure optimum Goods not for resale: Increases in the price value is achieved in each category.
of goods not for resale and utilities costs as A full range review was completed in 2017 ensuring the correct number a result of increases in global demand and of products suppliers.
uncertainty of supply in producing nations Regular reporting of current and projected inflation.
can have a significant impact on the cost base, consequently impacting margins.
Good relationships with key suppliers.
Brexit: Given that in FY 2019, the Drinks: transition period for the UK to exit from Each drinks category has a clearly defined strategic sourcing plan the EU will commence noting that c. 30% to ensure Company scale is leveraged, supply base is rationalised of food spend is sourced from EU countries, and consumer needs are met.
the overall risk and impact of additional Good relationships with key suppliers.
In addition, there is an Supplier collaboration programmes are in place.
increasing risk of sourcing certain products Plans in place to mitigate Sugar Tax.
given the expected delays at ports following exit from the EU.
On exit of the Risk is increasing mainly due to the devaluation of the pound following the EU, cost of goods would be impacted by EU referendum, changes in Government policy raising the risk of punitive changes in terms of trade and therefore duty changes and the introduction of the Sugar Tax in 2018.
Brexit risks tariffs, additional border controls and have been considered in detail during FY 2018 and mitigating plans continue fluctuations in the value of sterling.
Buying ahead to mitigate the increasing risk of a lack of availability of products upon exit from the EU.
Operational risks Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement A.
People planning and The Company makes significant investment in training to ensure that Risk increasing development its people have the right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
Furthermore, an employee survey is conducted annually to establish Mitchells & Butlers has a strong guest employee satisfaction and engagement and this is compared with other focus and so it is important that it is able companies, as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in specifically in to attract, retain, develop and motivate working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
London South East the best people with the right capabilities throughout the organisation.
There is a risk Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain that, without the right people, our customer competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured service levels would be affected.
The apprenticeship programme will also assist in mitigating against There are a large number of EU workers the increasing risk in relation to EU workers.
within the Group, particularly in London and the South East.
Therefore, the overall risk is increasing as the UK approaches its exit from the EU.
Any restriction on the free movement of labour would have a material impact on both the cost of labour and access to talent.
40 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 2.
Operational risks continued Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement B.
Business continuity and The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans that are tested and No movement crisis management refreshed regularly.
The Companys third-party back-up facility, for Retail Support Centre employees, has been successfully tested to ensure critical Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and business systems are able to function in the event of a disaster.
drink supply chain and the key IT systems In addition, during FY 2018, departmental Business Continuity Plans underlying the business to serve its guests have been revised, updated and reviewed by the Risk Committee.
Supply chain interruption, IT system failure or crises such During FY 2018, two key departments took part in a test of our third-party as terrorist activity or the threat of disease off-site back-up facility.
This test was a success and identified some key pandemic might restrict sales or reduce learnings to improve the overall service, all of which were implemented.
C. Information security and In FY 2018 a further review of cyber security was performed in order Risk increasing disaster recovery to highlight any gaps and address any challenges.
As a result, a number of further improvements have been made to address audit actions.
There is a risk that inadequate disaster In addition, controls include: recovery plans and information security processes are in place to mitigate against The work carried out by the Groups cross-functional Information a system outage, or failure to ensure Security Steering Group.
appropriate back-up facilities covering Group Assurance IT controls reviews.
key business systems and the recovery Implementation and revision of appropriate cyber security governance of critical data and loss of sensitive data.
Ongoing security awareness initiatives continue to be undertaken.
A regular cycle of penetration testing.
Risk of non-compliance with GDPR.
An effective implementation of a business wide Global Data Protection Regulation compliance programme, including training of all relevant employees and contractors.
Increased focus on protecting the business against potential cyber-attacks has resulted in the implementation of additional controls to mitigate against such risks.
Systems, processes and controls have been reviewed and updated to ensure GDPR compliance.
D. Wage cost inflation A detailed review of the risks associated with the National Living Wage Risk increasing has been completed.
This review has been undertaken at a strategic level There is a risk that increased costs and seeks to ensure that appropriate mitigating actions are in place, some associated with further increases to the of which are in relation to how the Group carefully manages productivity National Living Wage may adversely and efficiency across the estate.
impact upon overall operational costs.
We have successfully implemented a new Time and Attendance system to improve the management controls and reporting of staff hours.
E. Borrowing covenants The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
The finance team Risk increasing conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the Treasury There are risks that borrowing covenants Committee, the role of which include ensuring that the Board Treasury are breached because of circumstances Policy is adhered to, monitoring its operation and agreeing appropriate such as: strategies for recommendation to the Board.
A change in the economic climate In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance leading to reduced cash inflows: or is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
A material change in the valuation of the property portfolio.
Detailed assessment within the long-term viability statement.
The overall risk has increased in the year due to increased trading and cost pressures which could essentially drive reduced headroom.
F. Pension fund deficit The Company has made significant additional contributions to reduce No movement the funding deficit.
In July 2017, the Company reached agreement on the The material value of the pension fund triennial valuation of the Group pension schemes as at 31 March 2016, deficit remains a risk.
with a funding shortfall of 451m March 2013 valuation 572m shortfall.
The Company will continue to pay cash contributions of 48m p. a. indexed to 2023, with an additional payment of 13m into escrow in 2024 should such further funding be required at that time.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 41 Risks and uncertainties continued 2.
Operational risks continued Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement G. Failure to operate safely Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of health and safety No movement and legally checks both within its restaurants, pubs and bars and throughout the supply chain.
A major health and safety failure could The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical lead to illness, injury or loss of life or partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen significant damage to the Companys specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
If a business is identified as underperforming in terms of health and safety standards, it would be immediately targeted for improvement.
The Company has Primary Authority Partnerships with Westminster City Council for the provision of assured advice on, amongst other things, safety issues and with Hampshire Fire Service for the provision of support and guidance on fire safety risks.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
H. Food supply chain safety Mitchells & Butlers has a Safety Assurance team and uses a number Risk increasing of technical partners including food technologists, food safety experts, Malicious or accidental contamination microbiologists, allergy consultants, trading standards specialists in the supply chain could lead to food and nutritionists.
goods for resale being unfit for human Mitchells & Butlers uses a robust system of detailed product specifications.
consumption or being dangerous to consume.
This could lead to restrictions All food products are risk rated using standard industry definitions in supply which in turn causes an increase and assessment of the way the products are used in Mitchells & Butlers in cost of goods and reduced sales due kitchens.
Suppliers are then risk rated according to their products.
to consumer fears and physical harm Each food supplier is audited at least once per annum in respect of safety to customers employees.
and additionally in response to any serious food safety complaint or incident.
Allergens are becoming an increased A robust response has been taken to manage allergens and the associated risk within the industry.
data within the menu cycle coupled with a continuous review in place to ensure controls remain appropriate.
Long-term viability statement Assessment of prospects The Groups strategy provides long-term direction and considers the viability of the business model given prevailing market and economic conditions.
The Directors subsequent assessment of longer-term prospects has been made taking account of the current financial position, compliance with covenants, strategy, the budget planning process and the key risks and uncertainties, as detailed within the Annual Report.
Assessment period Three years is deemed an appropriate period of assessment as it aligns with the Groups planning horizon in a fast-moving market subject to economic and political uncertainties and is supported by three year forecasts as approved by the Board in September 2018.
This period also aligns with the triennial process of pensions valuations, a key consideration in respect of future cash flows.
Assessment of viability In accordance with Provision C2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have undertaken an assessment, including sensitivity analyses, of the prospects of the Group for a period of three years to September 2021.
The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of 1.8bn of long-term securitised debt and 150m of unsecured committed bank facilities.
The securitised debt amortises on a scheduled profile over the next 18 years and, whilst the unsecured facilities expire in December 2020, refinancing is believed to remain within the debt capacity of the business.
Secured debt covenants are tested quarterly both on an annual and a half year basis.
Unsecured facility covenants are tested twice yearly on an annual basis.
No significant changes to the capital structure are assumed.
The three year plan takes account of the prevailing economic outlook, capital allocation decisions and of significant cost headwinds that are expected to recur each year alongside planned mitigating activity to manage such costs, principally driven through the Ignite programme of initiatives.
The resilience of this plan is assessed through application of a significant but plausible downside sensitivity analysis focused in particular on the impact of the following Principal Risks described in the Annual Report: Declining Sales Performance, Cost of Goods Price Increases and Wage Cost Inflation including combinations of these factors.
Compliance with financial covenants on both secured debt and unsecured facilities is assessed for both the Plan and downside sensitivities.
Viability statement The Directors have therefore concluded, based upon the extent of the financial planning assessment, sensitivity analysis, potential mitigating actions and current financial position that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and will be able to continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
42 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018
