I d e n t i Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements f y i f f u r t y s h k e s g r i r P r o c e s o e l s n d o o t o r i r g n o v p l y s f l h o i e n t c n e r e a e d u P e T Q d s S Q k s u h i a r n y a t f i i r FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT We have set out in the Strategic Report how the Board intends to Risk management How we mitigate risk Governance and oversight serve its customers better in a mobile-led environment, together As part of the review of the strategic priorities, the Board A governance and oversight structure is in place, with clearly defined Risk management approach with progress against our twin-track strategy of reaccelerating identified the Groups Principal Risks around delivering these lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation of authority.
In common with many businesses, the Group faces risk in all areas priorities, which represent a risk or combination of risks in severe core growth and unlocking new market growth.
The strategy is of its activity.
The Group seeks to understand its risks and manage a clear demonstration of how the Board considers and seeks to but reasonable scenarios that can seriously affect the future The Board is ultimately responsible for the overall effectiveness them appropriately.
Effective risk management is vital in enabling mitigate risks.
prospects or reputation of the Group through threatening its of risk management across the business, supported by the Risk the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to secure the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board delegates day to day responsibility to business for the long term, whilst ensuring the desired outcomes These include competitive environment and consumer demands, Viability assessment executive management.
Executive management owns the Group for consumers.
Risk management is a key element of the Groups brand strength and reputation, data processing and protection, In making its assessment of viability, the Board has considered the risks, is responsible for ensuring that the business effectively decision-making processes and, alongside its governance structure data security and cyber, business transformation and relevance resilience of the Group using scenario-planning based on the manages risk and takes appropriate and timely action where and system of internal control, gives the Board assurance that to partners.
In addition, the Directors believe that the Group Principal Risks to test the Groups planned earnings, cash flows issues are identified.
The Risk Committee oversees executive risks are being appropriately identified and managed, in line with faces risks around regulation and economic conditions including, and viability over the three-year period.
Using its judgement on management on behalf of the Board in the management of risks.
in particular, the impact of the terms negotiated in relation to the the likelihood of the Principal Risks and the probability of them departure of the UK from the EU especially as that may influence being interrelated, the Board assessed the risks separately and in The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Principal the availability of attractive products for customers.
certain combinations of stressed scenarios.
In arriving at its Risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its conclusion, the Board is making the assumption that the key business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The risks described above were assessed in a range of scenarios, aspects of customer and provider behaviour set out above which Our Principal Risks and uncertainties are outlined on pages 32 encompassing: underpin the business model will continue.
It is also assuming that and 33, along with a description of how they are being managed.
competition taking significant market share: customers and providers will continue to want to transact online.
changes in customer habits as they continue to shift to mobile Based on the Companys current position and Principal Risks, as their preferred way to access the Groups services: together with the results of this robust assessment and the Companys ongoing risk management processes, the Directors increased reliance on paid search as a means of attracting Risk management have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to customers: governance and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over sizeable reduction in significant product categories, the three-year period of their assessment.
oversight including as a result of Brexit: Framework, policy and loss of trust in data, for example due to a data breach or data Going concern Lorem ipsum procedures errors, leading to a fall in visitor volumes and a significant Having reassessed the Principal Risks, the Directors are satisfied regulatory fine: that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation for Roles and responsibilities the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the significant slowdown in growth rates or new competitors Appetite and tolerance date of this Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt entering the market: and the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Risk registers and risk regulatory changes impacting a number of our channels.
assessment Investment proposition Stress scenarios were then combined into one combined scenario for those scenarios with impacts of medium or higher likelihood The Group is a data-driven online marketplace, providing marketand moderate or higher residual risk.
leading exclusive products to customers, value to our providers and a track record of returns to investors.
It is a Group with The Directors also considered possible mitigating circumstances leading brands, a diversified provider base and a large number Sustainable and actions in the event of such scenarios occurring, including the of customers as well as core strengths in marketing, journalism and growth availability of the Groups banking facilities, reduction of future provider relationships.
The Group operates in a wide set of markets, dividends, share buybacks or the slowdown of capital expenditure.
each with significant headroom and growth opportunities.
Risk We are delivering on our Reinvent strategy which is ensuring we The Board manages risks across the Group through a formal risk reaccelerate core growth and unlock future new ways of growth Risk management identification and management framework, designed to ensure that for the business.
Investors benefit from investing in a highly cash Management culture risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and mitigated generative business with a progressive ordinary dividend policy.
Key aspects of this framework include: Process Values, behaviours and a Risk Appetite Statement expressing the amount and type of risk communication the Board is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives: Training, education and regular assessments of current and emerging risks being faced by the Group including internal control effectiveness and awareness mitigating actions: Embedding in decision-making risk metrics and thresholds which are monitored as potential Continuous improvement indicators of risk: f scenario planning based on the Principal Risks: and oversight from the Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit functions.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 28 29 t y n e n e e d h t I r y i o l s t o l k r i d t l B n I i d e o r b e c n r a d a t s n i n f l a y a d r e o c x s t i i S s r n t i o n e M g r m i s k o m t i t s i g u a t i C o n Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Role Responsibilities Risk identification and assessment Future developments Board Approval of Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
The Group adopts formal risk identification and management We will continue to embed a risk aware culture within our Carry out a robust assessment at least annually of Principal Risks and effectiveness of risk processes which are designed to ensure that risks are properly strategic initiatives where risk management is part of everyday management and internal control policies: and report to shareholders on such matters.
identified and evaluated, in line with risk appetite.
At least business decision-making and is understood by our wider Assessment of the effectiveness of Risk Appetite Framework and system of internal control.
quarterly, the identification of significant risks is informed using business.
We continue to develop our management a bottom up and top down approach with each business area information and risk metrics in the light of our strategic identifying new risks as well as re-assessing those already being initiatives and ensure that specialist risk knowledge is readily Risk committee Advise the Board on Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
To aid in the identification of risks and development available to each of our brands to enable them to take and be Review and oversight of Risk Register.
of associated mitigating actions, risks are categorised into fully accountable for risk-based decisions, whilst providing an Assessment of identification and measurement of risks.
strategic, financial and operational conduct risks.
During 2018 effective level of risk and compliance oversight for the Group.
Oversight of executive management in management of risks.
we revised our risk register to bring it in line with our vertical structure.
In addition, robust risk and control assessments are We will further enhance our risk management and governance carried out at least bi-annually across all areas of the business, arrangements in preparation for upcoming regulatory change in order to understand the strength and performance of the including for the Senior Managers & Certification Regime.
executive Ensure risk management is an integral part of implementing the business strategy.
controls in place, and potential gaps and weaknesses.
Management Operate the business within set risk appetite and tolerances.
1st line of defence Responsibility for managing risks and implementing effective controls.
Our Principal Risks as at 31 December 2018 Ensure that appropriate policies are implemented to identify and evaluate risks.
Management reporting Outlined here are the most significant risks that may affect Timely and accurate management information is provided to our future.
There have been no changes to our Principal Risks the right people to support management decisions and manage from those reported in our 2017 Annual Report.
We assess Risk & compliance Monitor against Risk Appetite Framework and Statement, risk profile, control effectiveness risk effectively within the Group.
the probability of the risk materialising and the impact of the risk on a residual basis taking into account the benefit of 2nd line of defence and management actions.
Monitor and update the Risk Register.
Reporting enables management: to have clear visibility of mitigating controls.
Co-ordinate appropriate and timely delivery of risk management information to executive the most relevant risks: to identify areas of concern and or management and the Risk Committee.
priority: to have access to detailed information to enable root Maintain and implement risk policies.
cause analysis and identification of underlying trends: and to identify, escalate and potentially mitigate the impact of new Implement appropriate risk management processes and methodologies.
Advise and challenge management on risk management and internal control processes.
operational risk concerns in a timely manner.
Develop tools, techniques, methodologies, risk framework, analysis, reporting, communication and training.
Where risk exposures are identified as being outside appetite, this is escalated and reported to the Risk Committee, alongside clear action plans to bring the risk within tolerance, with appropriate timescales.
The type and extent of any Internal Audit Monitor effectiveness of risk management processes.
mitigating actions will be determined by the level and 3rd line of defence Perform tests of controls effectiveness.
nature of the risk and the Groups risk appetite.
Identify and agree corrective actions with management.
Liaise with Risk & Compliance function, including in relation to mapping of assurance activities to the Groups significant risks.
Report to the Audit Committee.
our principal Risks as at 31 december 2018 Outlined here are our most significant risks that may affect our future.
We assess the probability of the risk materialising In addition, the Audit Committee performs an annual assessment of the risk management and internal control framework, and the impact of the risk on a residual basis taking into account the benefit of mitigating controls.
covering financial, operational and compliance controls including the: assessment of the risk management framework for identifying and monitoring risks, with consideration of the integration 8 Competitive environment and with strategic and business planning processes.
This is supported by independent reporting on risk management and 1 A d consumer demands internal controls by the Internal Audit function or independent third parties, including the external auditor: assessment of the extent, frequency and quality of risk management and internal control reporting: 7 2 Brand strength and reputation review of the resolution of issues arising from internal control failings or weaknesses: and A B review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting processes.
3 5 Data processing and protection 6 B c 8 1 The Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on risk and internal control effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports from the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal 4 Data security and cyber 2 B c control systems.
5 5 Business transformation A B c d Risk management framework 6 4 During 2018, we further enhanced the Group Risk Appetite Framework and Statement following scenario analysis and 6 Relevance to partners c d consideration by executive management.
We have considered the impact of the Reinvent strategy including organisational 4 design and regulatory developments including GDPR on our Risk Appetite Framework & Statement and have advised the 7 Economic conditions A c 3 Board on the associated risks.
3 7 8 Regulation A c Risk appetite 2 Risk appetite defines the level and type of risk the Group is able and willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Groups risk appetite influences the business culture and operating decisions, and is reflected in the way risk is managed.
strategic priorities: The Group Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed at least annually, in line with the strategic direction of the Group, recent 1 A B c d experience and the regulatory environment, and is subject to Board approval.
Probability Customer Leading Leading New market experience provider trusted There are certain risk areas where we have a very low appetite such as complying with applicable laws, including applicable growth optimisation offer brands regulatory requirements.
This means that we take actions to try and avoid or eliminate this risk as far as possible.
In other areas, such as strategy, we recognise the importance of managed risk-taking in order to achieve business objectives and goals.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 30 31 Impact Strategic, operational conduct
