36 Key performance indicators Tracking our performance We track our long-term performance against strategic, sustainable development and financial keyperformance indicators.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Aligning KPIs to remuneration Our KPIs are intended to provide a broad Our Remuneration report describes measure of Mondis performance.
We set how our executive directors and senior individual targets for each of our business management are remunerated in line with units in support of these Group KPIs.
In particular, the executive directors are set specific targets relating to e Our strategic KPIs measure our success ROCE, underlying EBITDA and safety for in creating value accretive growth for purposes of the Bonus Share Plan and on our shareholders Total Shareholder Return and ROCE for the e Sustainable development KPIs track Long-Term Incentive Plan.
our progress against our Growing Responsibly commitments Remuneration report Page 122-141 e Financial KPIs provide comparable measures of our operating and cash generating performance Strategic Strategic performance Page 28-35 1 Return on capital employed ROCE Total shareholder return TSR % 12-month trailing % ROCE Mondi plc Median of peer group Current estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 23.6 1-year -10% 20.5 20.3 19.3 17.2 3-year 15% 10.5 5-year 74% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Based on 31 December value Why this is a KPI Why this is a KPI ROCE provides a measure of the efficient and TSR provides a market-related measure of the Groups effective use of capital in our operations.
progress against our objective of delivering long-term value for our shareholders.
We compare ROCE to our current estimated Group pre-tax weighted average cost of capital to measure TSR measures the total return to Mondis the value we create.
shareholders, including both share price appreciationand dividends paid.
2018 performance 2018 performance ROCE of 23.6% reflects an industry-leading performance.
Mondi realised a five-year TSR of 74% and recommended a total ordinary dividend of 76.0 euro cents per share.
In addition to the 2017 ordinary dividend, a special dividend of 100.0 euro cents per share was paid in 2018.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Sustainable development Sustainability performance Online Sustainable development report Page 48-63 www.
com sd18 1 Total recordable case rate TRCR Sustainable bre supply Total specic CO e emissions 2 per 200,000 hours worked % FSCor PEFC-certied wood procured tonnes per tonne of saleable production Wood Internal and external 2030 commitment against 2014 base: below 0.718t t 2020 commitment: above 70% 0.83 2 0.76 71 71 0.83 0.83 66 66 67 0.69 0.68 0.68 0.76 3 0.72 0.72 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 From our pulp and paper mills 1 20152017 restated to include acquisitions, and 2017 includes 1 2018 excludes Powerute acquired in 2018 2 The 2014 baseline of 0.844t t excludes a divested mill a confirmed fatality of a missing person in Syktyvkar 3 0.722t t excludes Powerute acquired in 2018 but includes 2 The total number of hours worked employees and contractors Pine Bluff until date of divestiture in 2018 was 77.6 million hours 2017: 75.3 million hours 3 2018 excludes Powerute and Egyptian industrial bag plants acquired in 2018 Why this is a KPI Why this is a KPI Why this is a KPI The safety and health of all our employees and Securing sustainable fibre for our integrated pulp We have continually focused on making our business contractors is of paramount importance, and we and paper mills is critical to their long-term success.
less carbon intensive to address climate impacts.
need to create a culture where people instinctively act We are committed to maintaining 100% FSC-certified We are committed to a 15% reduction in specific safely.
Our goal is azero harm workplace.
forests and procuring at least 70% of wood from CO e emissions by 2030 against our 2014 baseline.
2018 performance 2018 performance 2018 performance While our overall TRCR has improved by 11% against To date, we have reduced our specific CO2e emissions the 2015 baseline, we were deeply saddened by the 100% of our managed forests remained FSC-certified, by 14.5%, on track for our 2030 commitment.
We have fatality and life-altering injuries during the year.
and 71% of the wood we procured was FSC-or adopted a new science-based target for , on track with our 2020 commitment.
related CO emissions intensity to 2050.
2 Financial Financial performance Page 64-67 Underlying EBITDA Underlying operating profit Investment grade million million credit rating Standard & Poors Moodys Investors Service Non-investment grade Investment grade BBB Baa1 1,318 1,764 1,482 BBB Baa2 1,366 1,029 1,325 981 957 1,126 BBBBaa3 767 BB Ba1 BB Ba2 BBBa3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dec Oct May Sep Apr Dec 2013 2014 2015 2017 2018 2018 1 Compound annual growth rate 1 Compound annual growth rate Why this is a KPI Why this is a KPI Why this is a KPI Underlying EBITDA provides a measure of the cash Underlying operating profit provides a measure We aim to maintain investment grade credit ratings generating ability of the Group that is comparable of the operating performance of the Group that is to ensure we have access to funding for investment from year to year.
comparable from year to year.
opportunities through the business cycle.
2018 performance 2018 performance 2018 performance Underlying EBITDA of 1,764 million represents a 28% year-on-year increase in underlying operating Standard & Poors upgraded the Groups credit rating 19%year-on-year increase, with a 5-year CAGR profit to 1,318 million, with a 5-year CAGR of 14%.
to BBB stable outlook, while Moodys Investors of 12%.
Service maintained their Baa1 stable outlook credit rating.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 1 5-year CAGR : 12% 1 5-year CAGR : 14% 38 Principal risks Our proactive approach to risk management Our risk management framework and internal control environment is designed to address all the significant strategic, financial, operational andcompliance risks that could undermine our ability to achieve businessobjectives into the future.
Our risk management framework and internal control environment Boards External audit e Overall responsibility for the Groups strategy and risk management e External assurance e Determine risk appetite in line with Group strategy, and approve the Groups risk management framework is provided through e Approve the annual budget and three-year plan external audit which is designed to detect material errors and material Sustainable Audit irregularities that development committee committee impact the financial statements e Monitors and reviews material safety, health, environment and e Reviews and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the other sustainable development risks Groups internal control and risk management processes e Ongoing review of the principal risks through the course of Internal the year e Approves the annual internal audit plan audit e The Group has a centrally coordinated internal Executive committee audit function, which makes use of e Formulates risk management policies in terms of the approved risk management framework local competency, to ensure risks are managed within accepted tolerance levels and reports e Assesses and monitors risks on an ongoing basis directly to the audit committee Business units Group functions e Responsible for identification of emerging risks and for e Responsible for providing oversight, and management of certain implementation of risk management policies and procedures specialised risk areas that benefit from central coordination e Work closely with the business units to manage and monitor these risk areas The three levels of assurance in our internal control environment Operational Management review Independent management andassurance assurance e Key policies and procedures covering e Management is responsible for regularly e Internal and external audit.
all main areas of business conduct are reviewing the Groups operating and e Speakout provides a confidential approved by the Boards and each business financial performance, including monthly hotline for reporting irregularities.
unit is required to adhere to these overall management accounts, the progress of Follow up is coordinated by internal Group policies.
significant capital investment projects and audit and reported to the Boards and plans, safety, health, environmental and other e Management is responsible for regularly audit committee.
reviewing its entitys operating and financial e The Group is registered with, and performance and for preparing and e Management at Group level and, in more subject to, regular audits by a number of reviewing monthly management accounts depth, at business unit level is responsible standard setting authorities, such as ISO.
and business reports including safety, for a detailed assessment of current e The Group is subject to regular review health, environmental and other material market conditions.
and vetting by external regulatory sustainability matters for the reporting period.
e The Group functions information technology, bodies as well as non-regulatory e Twice a year, all financial managers are required Group and business unit controlling, parties, including annual insurance to complete an internal control assessment and sustainable development, safety and health, assessments, sustainable development provide written confirmation of compliance with treasury and tax each have board-approved data assurance, and information Group policies and procedures.
This formal policies in place against which conduct is security programmes.
confirmation highlights any control weaknesses regularly assessed.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 39 Risk management is by its nature Our risk management Our internal control a dynamic and ongoing process.
framework environment Our well-defined approach is flexible The Boards have overall responsibility for Our internal control environment is to ensure that it remains relevant at all setting the Groups strategy and they are designed to safeguard the Groups assets, levels of the business, and dynamic responsible for monitoring and maintaining ensure reliability and integrity of information to ensure we can be responsive the effectiveness of the Groups risk and ensure compliance with laws and to changing business conditions.
management activities and internal control regulations thereby providing reasonable This is particularly important given processes.
The Boards have put in place assurance that the Groups business the diversity of the Groups locations, procedures for identifying, evaluating, and objectives will be achieved.
managing the risks faced by the Group.
Through our structured approach, the In combination with the audit The Boards have determined the Groups control environment is subject to regular committee, the Boards have risk appetite, using a risk rating matrix which oversight and review to ensure that there conducted a robust assessment of takes into consideration both the likelihood are no significant deficiencies, control the principal risks to which Mondi is and the magnitude of the impact in the event weaknesses are identified and addressed, exposed and they are satisfied that that the risk event occurs.
The risk rating and new or emerging risks are identified the Group has effective systems matrix is based on the residual risk that the early and monitored regularly.
and controls in place to manage its Group faces after taking into consideration principal risks within the risk tolerance The Groups organisational structure the internal control environment and other levels established.
is regularly reviewed and where mitigating factors.
The Boards have also circumstances dictate, changes to the The details of the review and the established specific risk tolerance levels for organisational structure are recommended risk management framework and each category of risk.
The Boards consider to the executive committee or Boards to processes on which the Groups risk changes in current principal risks and review ensure it remains relevant.
review is based are set out in this emerging risks during the year.
This report addresses the The Boards and their committees have The audit committee performs an annual Groups principal risks.
approved the Groups financial, business review of the risk management policy and conduct, operating, and administrative plan, including consideration of acceptable policies, including those relating to risk tolerance levels for the Group.
Each of delegation of signing authorities and the Groups principal risks is reviewed in information security.
The policies provide detail by the audit committee through the a framework for the Groups internal course of the year, considering the detailed control environment and outline required risk description, the controls and mitigating standards of behaviour.
Business units actions in place and the resultant residual are required to ensure that they adhere to risk exposure.
As in prior years, in 2019 the approved Group policies and that they have committee will continue to focus on the implemented their own supporting policies principal risks to the Group and the actions where appropriate.
In line with the approved taken to mitigate these risks.
delegation of authorities, specific matters Business units are required to conduct are reserved for executive committee or an annual, detailed review of their risks board approval including the approval of and compile a risk register which is major capital investments, acquisitions, reviewed and approved by the business and disposals.
The risk Management is responsible for regularly management process ensures that the reviewing the Groups financial performance various business unit operating committees and it is the responsibility of management review the principal risks in their respective at all operational levels to ensure that risks businesses and identify the actions are appropriately managed and a proper and controls in place to mitigate risk.
control environment is in place to anticipate Management assurance is provided on and respond to risks.
The Groups reporting both a formal and informal basis, and risk cycle includes the monthly flash and management is embedded in all decisionmanagement reports, a quarterly outlook, making processes, with ongoing review by and the annual budget and three-year plan.
the Boards and risk assessments forming Detailed monthly management reports and part of all investment decisions.
variance analyses comparing actual with planned results are prepared.
These regular reviews are designed to ensure ongoing monitoring of financial performance and early identification of potential issues and or emerging risks.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 40 Principal risks Our principal risks Over the course of the past year, the audit committee 1.
Industry productive capacity has reviewed the principal risks set out below.
Product substitution 11 In evaluating the Groups risk management and internal 1 3 14 3.
Fluctuations and variability in selling control processes, the committee has considered prices or gross margins both internal and external audit reports and received confirmation from the finance directors of the business 4.
Country risk units that financial control frameworks have operated 13 4 5.
The sustainable development risks are 6.
Currency risk considered throughout our business and consolidated into the principal risks where relevant.
Tax risk have been reviewed by the sustainable development 10 8 8.
Cost and availability of raw materials committee during the year.
Energy security and related Key changes in the year input costs The majority of the Groups most significant risks are 10.
Technical integrity of our 2 long-term in nature and in general do not change 15 operating assets significantly in the short-term.
The Groups principal 9 risks are unchanged from prior year.
Employee and contractor safety review process the assessment of the principal risks 12.
Attraction and retention of key skills was updated to reflect the developments in our and talent strategic priorities.
In addition, during the year, further 5 13.
Environmental impact analyses were performed to understand the risks and implications around climate change and the UKs exit 14.
Reputational risk from the European Union.
Information technology risk Strategic Financial Operational Compliance Strategic risks Risk tolerance: The industries and geographies in which we operate expose us to specific long-term High risks which are accepted by the Boards as a consequence of the Groups chosen strategy and operating footprint.
Key person responsible: While there have been no significant changes in our strategic risk exposures during Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer the year, we continue to monitor recent capacity announcements and demand developments, the developments in the process as the UK seeks to exit the European Union, the stability of the Eurozone and the increasing prevalence of trade tariffs and economic sanctions.
The executive committee and Boards monitor our exposure to these risks and evaluate investment decisions against our overall exposures so that our strategic capital investments and acquisitions take advantage of the opportunities arising from our deliberate exposure to such risks.
1 Industry productive capacity Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Plant utilisation levels are the main driver of profitability in paper mills.
New capacity additions are usually in large increments, which through their impact on the Our strategic focus on low cost production and innovation aims to achieve supply demand balance, influence market prices.
Unless market growth exceeds cost advantages and produce higher value added, responsibly produced capacity additions, excess capacity may lead to lower selling prices.
In our and sustainable products.
Combined with our focus on growing markets and converting operations, investments in newer technology may lower operating consistent investment in our existing asset base this secures our competitiveness.
costs and provide increased product functionality, increasing competition and We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity, utilisation impacting margins.
levels both short and long term, as well as market trends, and trade flows in our own product markets.
This helps us to establish target capacity utilisation levels in the short term and to evaluate capital investment projects in the long term.
We maintain strong relationships with machine suppliers to identify current market developments and technologies and we routinely review our asset portfolio and capacity utilisation levels to identify underperforming assets and take decisive action to drive performance.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Impact Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 41 2 Product substitution Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Global socio-economic and demographic trends and changing consumption patterns, including increased public awareness of sustainability and increasing Our ability to meet changes in consumer demand depends on our capacity customer purchasing power, are driving changes in customers needs and to correctly anticipate change and develop new products on a sustainable, attitudes, and could affect the demand for Mondi products.
The increased public competitive and cost-effective basis.
Opportunities also exist for us to take market and stakeholder focus on the impact of plastic-based packaging on ocean and share from substitutes produced by our competitors.
Our focus is on products land ecosystems has led to heightened environmental considerations, changes enjoying positive substitution dynamics and growing regional markets.
in legislation and a shift in consumer attitudes.
Substitution may be to different We regularly monitor trends, new developments and innovations in our product products not produced by Mondi or to different solutions meeting the same markets.
We conduct customer surveys to get a better insight into our customers customer requirement.
In our Consumer Packaging business, we have established a sustainability Factors that may positively or negatively impact the demand for our products task force to monitor the market and legislative developments around sustainability include reduced weight of packaging materials, increased use of recycled of our plastic-based packaging.
We are a member of the Ellen MacArthur materials, electronic substitution of paper products, substitution of plastic Foundations New Plastics Economy Initiative, where we collaborate with packaging, substitution of rigid plastic by flexible packaging, increased demand stakeholders across the plastic value chain.
for high-quality printed material, certified and responsibly produced goods, and Our research and development pipeline ensures that our products remain cuttingspecific material qualities such as recyclable biodegradable.
edge with added focus on sustainability properties e. g. recyclable, compostable or biodegradable products, sourced responsibly.
Our broad range of converting products provides some protection from the effects of substitution between paper and plastic-based packaging products.
3 Fluctuations and variability in selling prices or gross margins Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities The Group operates in cyclical markets and fluctuations in our key packaging and paper prices or converting margins can have material profit and cash flow Our strategic focus is on higher growth markets and products where we enjoy implications.
Our selling prices are determined by changes in capacity and demand a competitive advantage through innovation, proximity or production cost.
for our products, which are, in turn, influenced by macroeconomic conditions, We continue to invest in our high-quality, cost-advantaged asset base to ensure we competitive behaviour, consumer spending preferences, and inventory levels maintain our competitive cost position.
We continue to further develop businesses maintained by our customers.
in higher growth markets with better long term fundamentals.
Changes in prices differ between products and geographic regions and the timing Our high levels of vertical integration reduce our exposure to price volatility of our and magnitude of such changes have varied significantly over time.
Gross margins key input costs.
In our downstream operations the focus is on passing through our in our downstream converting operations are impacted by fluctuations in key input main material costs to sales prices.
Our financial policies and structures take the costs, which cannot be passed on to customers in all cases.
inherent price volatility of the markets in which we operate into consideration.
We regularly review and monitor the current market fundamentals, market demand trends and market prices to evaluate price expectations in the short term but also to understand the long term trends.
We monitor our order intake to identify changing trends and developments in our own product markets.
4 Country risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities The Group has operations across more than 30 countries with differing political, economic and legal systems.
In some countries, such systems are less predictable Our geographic diversity and decentralised management structure, utilising local than in countries with more developed institutional structures.
Political or economic resources in countries in which we operate, reduces our exposure to any specific upheaval, inflation, changes in laws, protectionism, nationalisation, or expropriation jurisdiction.
To mitigate the effect of country specific risks we structure our capital of assets may have a material effect on our operations in those countries.
and debt in each country based on assessed risks and exposures.
We regularly review our sales strategies to mitigate export risk in countries with less predictable The current macroeconomic environment is impacted by the uncertainties from environments and, where possible, we obtain credit insurance.
effects of increased protectionism, use of trade tariffs, economic sanctions, the stability of the Eurozone and the uncertainty over the outcome of the UKs decision The Boards have approved specific country risk premiums to be added to the to exit from the European Union.
required returns on investment projects in those countries where risks are deemed to be higher and new investments are subject to rigorous strategic and commercial In South Africa, the Group is subject to land claims and could face an adverse evaluation.
Where we have large operations in higher risk locations, we maintain a land claim ruling.
In February 2018 a motion was passed in the National permanent internal audit presence and operate asset protection units.
Assembly in South Africa for Section 25 of the South African Constitution to be reviewed and potentially amended to allow government to expropriate land During the year further analysis has been undertaken to better understand the without compensation.
A process may therefore start to have the South African possible consequences of the UKs exit from the European Union.
The Groups Constitution amended accordingly or there could be other changes in legislation exposure to the UK is limited.
The Group operates two Consumer Packaging governing land ownership in South Africa.
plants in the UK and exports containerboard and uncoated fine paper to the UK.
Revenues from customers in the UK represent around 3% of the Groups total.
The impact on trade flows between the UK and the European Union continues to be monitored closely.
Given our current knowledge of the Brexit process and the limited direct trading exposure of the Group to the UK, we do not expect Brexit to materially impact our ability to continue normal business operations.
In South Africa the Group has settled a number of land claims structured as sale and leaseback arrangements which provide a framework for settling future land claims and continues to work with other stakeholders to engage with government on land matters.
We actively monitor all countries and environments in which we operate.
Regular formal and informal interaction with government officials, local communities, and business partners assists us to remain abreast of changes and new developments.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 42 Principal risks Financial risks Risk tolerance: Our approach to financial risk management is set out in more detail in the Strategic Medium to Low performance and Financial performance sections.
We aim to maintain an appropriate capital structure and to conservatively manage our financial risk exposures in Key person responsible: compliance with all laws and regulations.
Andrew King Chief Financial Officer Despite ongoing short-term currency volatility and increased scrutiny of the tax affairs ofmultinational companies, our overall residual risk exposure remains similar to previous years, reflecting our conservative approach to financial risk management.
5 Capital structure Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities A strong and stable financial position increases our flexibility and provides us with the ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
We operate a central treasury function under a board-approved treasury policy.
We target investment grade credit ratings and we have access to diverse sources Our ability to raise debt and or equity financing is significantly influenced by general of funding with varying maturities.
The majority of our external debt is issued economic conditions, developments in credit markets, equity market volatility, and centrally.
We use a blend of floating and fixed rate debt contracts to mitigate the our credit rating.
Failure to obtain financing at reasonable rates could prevent us from realising our We report regularly to the Boards on our treasury management policies.
strategy and have a negative impact on our competitive position.
Our central treasury function monitors compliance with treasury policies at operating level and we engage external advisors to review the treasury function atregular intervals.
6 Currency risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities As a multinational Group, operating globally, we are exposed to the effect of changes in foreign currency rates.
The impact of currency fluctuations affects us Balance sheet exposures and material forecasted capital expenditures are hedged because of mismatches between the currencies in which our operating costs are upon identification.
We do not hedge our exposure to projected future sales or incurred and those in which revenues are received.
operating costs and our businesses respond to adverse currency fluctuations by increasing selling prices or increasing exports where competitiveness improves Key operating cost currencies that are not fully offset by local currency as operating currencies weaken.
Entities also borrow in their local currencies to denominated revenues include the South African rand, Polish zloty, Swedish krona minimise translation risk.
and Czech koruna: whilst the fluctuations in the US dollar, Russian rouble, UK pound sterling and Turkish lira can also have a material impact as our revenues in We continuously monitor exchange rate movements and sensitivities, and evaluate these currencies are greater than operating costs incurred.
the impact of exchange variances on our results.
We regularly review our prices and monitor the import and export trade flows.
Additionally, appreciation of the euro compared with the currencies of the other key paper producing regions or paper pricing currencies, notably the US dollar, reduces the competitiveness of Mondi products in Europe compared with imports from such key paper-producing regions which can result in lower revenues and earnings.
7 Tax risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities We operate in a number of countries all with different tax systems.
We aim to manage our affairs conservatively and our operations are structured In addition, the international tax environment is becoming more onerous, requiring tax efficiently to take advantage of available incentives and exemptions.
We have increasing transparency and reporting and in-depth scrutiny of the tax affairs of dedicated tax resources throughout the Group supported by a centralised Group multinational companies.
We make significant intragroup charges, the basis for which is subject to review Arms length principles are applied in the pricing of all intragroup transactions during tax audits.
in accordance with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines.
The Boards have approved the Group tax strategy, and perform a formal review of the Groups tax affairs at least annually.
We obtain external advisory opinions for all major tax projects, such as acquisitions and restructuring activities, and make use of external benchmarks where possible.
We regularly engage with external advisors to stay up-to-date with changes in tax legislation and tax practice.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 43 Operational risks Risk tolerance: A low residual risk tolerance is demonstrated through our focus on operational Low excellence, investment in our people and commitment to the responsible use of resources.
Key people responsible: Our investments to improve our energy efficiency, engineer out our most significant Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer safety risks, improve operating efficiencies, and renew our equipment continue to John Lindahl Group Technical reduce the likelihood of operational risk events.
However, the potential impact of any &Sustainability Director such event remains unchanged.
8 Cost and availability of raw materials Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Access to sustainable sources of raw materials is essential to our operations.
The raw materials used by the Group include significant amounts of wood, pulp, We are committed to acquiring our raw materials from sustainable, responsible paper for recycling, plastic resins and chemicals.
The prices for many of these raw sources and avoiding the use of any controversial or illegal supply.
We are involved materials generally fluctuate in correlation with global commodity cycles.
in multi-stakeholder processes to address challenges in meeting the global demand for sustainable, responsible fibre and we encourage legislation supporting Wood prices and availability may be adversely affected by reduced quantities of the local collection of recycled materials.
available wood supply that meet our standards for credibly certified or controlled wood, the impact of climate change through increased frequency of severe Sustainable management of our forestry operations is key in managing our overall weather events, changes in rainfall or increased instances of pest and disease social and environmental impact, helping to protect ecosystems, protect worker outbreaks and increasing use of wood as a biofuel.
and community rights, and to develop resilient landscapes.
We have access to our own sources of wood in Russia and South Africa and we We have multiple suppliers for each of our operations and our centralised purchase wood, paper for recycling, pulp, and polymers to meet our needs in the procurement teams work closely with our operations in actively pursuing longer balance of our operations.
Where we source our raw materials in areas of weaker term agreements with strategic suppliers.
In Europe, we source our wood from governance, we may face potential social and environmental risks related to waste, diverse regions and forest types to mitigate the potential impacts of climate change pollution, poor safety and labour practices and human rights issues.
We have developed an internal monitoring and risk assessment system, Responsible Procurement, to assess and evaluate the performance of our suppliers and their adherence to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers.
Supplier performance is evaluated through questionnaires and audits.
We have built strong forestry management resources in Russia and South Africa to actively monitor and manage our wood resources in those countries.
We continue to certify our forests with credible external certifications.
In South Africa, we have tree improvement programmes in place, which aim to produce stronger, more robust hybrids that are better able to resist disturbances such as drought, pests and diseases.
9 Energy security and related input costs Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Mondi is a significant consumer of electricity which is generated internally and purchased from external suppliers.
We focus on improving the energy efficiency of our operations by investing in improvements to our energy profile and increased electricity self-sufficiency, Where we do not generate electricity from biomass and by-products of our including the use of renewable energy sources, while reducing ongoing operating production processes, we are dependent on external suppliers for raw materials costs and carbon emission levels.
Fossil-based energy sources could pose a sustainability and regulatory risk to our energy security.
Where we generate electricity surplus to our own requirements, we may sell such surplus externally.
We also generate income from the sale of green energy credits Higher energy costs contribute significantly to increasing chemical, fuel and in certain of our operations at prices determined in the open market.
transportation costs which are often difficult to pass on to customers.
We focus on optimising the use of biomass-based fuels in order to reduce our use As an energy-intensive business, operating globally and relying on global supply of fossil-based energy sources, and to decrease carbon-intensive energy sources chains, we face potential physical and regulatory risks related to climate change.
Energy costs are closely monitored and benchmarked against external sources and we monitor our electricity usage, carbon emission levels and use of renewable energy.
Most of our larger operations have high levels of electricity self-sufficiency.
We actively monitor the renewable energy market fundamentals and changes in legislation and maintain contact with local energy regulators.
We have undertaken detailed compliance assessments regarding Industry Emissions and Energy Efficiency Directives to determine future investment requirements.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 44 Principal risks Operational risks 10 Technical integrity of our operating assets Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, Potential impact independentassurance activities We have five major mills which account for approximately 75% of our total pulp and paper production capacity, and a significant consumer packaging manufacturing Our capital investment programme supports the replacement of older equipment facility in Germany.
to improve both reliability and integrity, and our proactive repair and maintenance strategy is designed to improve production reliability and minimise breakdown If operations at any of these key facilities are interrupted for any significant risks.
We conduct detailed risk assessments of our high-priority equipment and length of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position have specific processes and procedures in place for the ongoing management and or performance.
Incidents such as fires, explosions, or large machinery breakdowns or the inability We continue to develop our asset management system to ensure best practices of our assets to perform the required function effectively and efficiently whilst for maintenance procedures and we have a maintenance training programme protecting people, business, the environment and stakeholders could result in for our employees.
Benchmarking activities enable us to optimise our production property damage, loss of production, reputational damage, and or safety and throughout the organisation by learning from our best performing operations and to environmental incidents.
identify any emerging issues early.
We actively monitor all incidents and have a formal process which allows us to share lessons learned across our operations, identify emerging issues, conduct benchmarking, and evaluate the effectiveness of our risk reduction activities.
We engage external experts to perform technical integrity assessments in our major sites.
Our Fire Protection programme is supported by independent loss prevention audits and we take out property insurance cover for key risks.
11 Employee and contractor safety Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities We operate large facilities, often in remote locations.
Accidents incidents cause injury to our employees or contractors, property damage, lost production time, To ensure the safety of our employees and contractors, we apply safety and or harm to our reputation.
management systems, including amongst others, risk assessments, safety procedures and controls.
We have a goal of zero harm and aim to continuously Risks include fatalities, serious injuries, occupational diseases, and substance and advance our 24-hour safety mind-set and safety culture.
We continue with the project to engineer out the most significant risks in our operations supported by robust controls and procedures for operating those assets and conducting related tasks.
During 2018 we rolled out the revised Permit to Work methodology across the Group to improve safety performance.
We provide extensive training to ensure that performance standards and practice notes are communicated and understood and our incentives are impacted by the non-achievement of safety milestones lag indicators as well as achievement of lead indicators.
We continually investigate and monitor incidents and major close calls and actively transfer learnings across our operations.
Our Task Risk Management Methodology provides a practical approach to conducting pre-task risk assessments, and our focus is on better understanding the high risk tasks in our operations.
We apply externally accredited safety management systems and conduct regular audits of our operations to ensure our facilities remain fit-for-purpose.
12 Attraction and retention of key skills and talent Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities Our success is driven by our people.
Key to our long-term success is attracting, retaining, recruiting and developing a skilled and committed workforce.
Our culture and values play a key role in empowering and inspiring our people.
These are highlighted by various Inspire Programmes and collaboration initiatives Access to the right skills, particularly management and technical skills, is critical throughout our operations.
We have a zero tolerance policy towards discrimination to support the performance and growth of our business.
Operations in remote and we provide equal opportunities for all employees.
locations make attracting and retaining skilled employees challenging.
To attract skills and talent we are investing in employer branding: we are engaged Losing skills or failing to attract new talent to our business has the potential to in fair and transparent recruitment practices: and have reviewed and updated our undermine our ability to drive performance and deliver on our strategic objectives.
diversity and inclusion, labour and human rights policies.
We ensure competitive compensation levels through benchmarking and continue to support and invest in group-wide as well as local training programmes.
We have implemented measures to monitor and manage succession planning, staff turnover, internal placements and training.
We perform 360 feedback at a management level and regularly conduct performance and development reviews at a local level.
We carry out a group-wide employee survey approximately every two years.
Through a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, employees can raise concerns about conduct that may be contrary to our values.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 45 13 Environmental impact Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation, and where relevant, independentassurance activities We operate in a sector where the environmental impact of our business can be high and we need to manage the associated risks.
We ensure that we are complying with all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements where we operate.
Our own policies and procedures, Our operations are water, carbon and energy intensive: consume materials such at or above local policy requirements, are embedded in all our operations as fibre, polymers, metals and chemicals: and generate emissions to air, water and are supported through the use of externally accredited environmental and land.
We are the custodian of more than two million hectares of forested land.
We consider potential negative impacts on constrained resources and loss of biodiversity and ecosystems from our forestry and manufacturing operations.
We focus on a clean production philosophy to address the impact from emissions, discharge, and waste.
We manage our water resources responsibly to address We are subject to a wide range of international, national and local environmental risks related to water scarcity in some of our operations, and to ensure equitable laws and regulations, as well as the requirements of our customers and use of water resources among local stakeholders wherever we operate.
expectations of our broader stakeholders.
Costs of continuing compliance, We emphasise the responsible management of forests and associated ecosystems potential restoration and clean-up activities, and increasing costs from the effects and protect high conservation value areas.
We ensure that we manage our forests of emissions could have an adverse impact on our profitability.
responsibly and implement measures to protect biodiversity.
The impacts of climate change such as rising frequency and intensity of water We collaborate with customers and supply chain stakeholders to better understand shortages, floods and storms worldwide and pests and diseases also have the the concerns related to the environmental impact of plastics in the environment, potential to impact our operations and forests.
and to work together on scaleable, meaningful solutions to address this.
Our product design and innovation focuses on reducing the environmental impact of our products throughout their life cycle.
We monitor our environmental performance indicators and report our progress against our 2020 commitments, with our GHG emissions independently assured to reasonable assurance level.
We monitor regulatory developments to ensure compliance with existing operating permits and perform SEAT Socio-economic Assessment Toolbox assessments and water impact assessments locally to better understand our local environmental footprint and stakeholder needs.
Reporting on climate-related risks and opportunities There is a growing demand from Potential financial implications include investor and regulatory communities a significant reduction in EU Emission for improved financial disclosures from Trading Scheme EU ETS allowances, companies in relation to climate-related which we estimate could have an risks and opportunities.
In meeting this impact of around 5 million per 1 need the Financial Stability Boards FSB annum and therefore not significant Task Force on Climate-related Financial in the context of the Group.
We have Disclosure TCFD published a report also identified potential opportunities in 2017 outlining recommendations such as improved energy efficiency for more effective climate-related and reduced water consumption disclosure standards.
Although Mondis and continue to make progress on online Sustainable development quantifying all of these and assessing report and CDP disclosure make impacts through scenario testing.
us largely compliant with the TCFD We are committed to improving the recommendations, this year we have integration of climate-related risks in focused on closing the gap by starting our overall business risk assessment to quantify the financial implications of process using our dedicated crossthese potential risks and opportunities.
functional team and will continue For Mondi, climate-related risks e. g. to consult with external experts extreme weather patterns, water and other corporates to improve shortages, floods, or other natural our understanding.
disasters could give rise to business interruptions in our operations or in Online Sustainable our supply chain and make our forests development report more vulnerable to pests and diseases.
Page 69-70 Moreover, as countries explore options to transition to low carbon economies in order to achieve international commitments to respond to the risk of climate change, laws and regulations are being implemented to enforce both mitigation and adaptation measures to deal with and reverse effects of climate change.
1 The regulation is expected to come into force in 2021.
Calculated assuming an average price of 35 t CO 2 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
