Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The table below summarises the Boards view of the material strategic, financial and operational conduct risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk area Description Risk Strategic Mitigating Developments Risk area Description Risk Strategic Mitigating Developments and trend type Priority activities in 2018 and trend type Priority activities in 2018 Business The Group must Strong management We have executive sponsorship of the Competitive The Group operates Continuous innovation of We have made good progress on oR A sR A transformation manage the structures which provide transformation programme which is environment in a dynamic and new services and ongoing our Reinvent strategy designed to implementation of the clear and straightforward supported by a transformation office and consumer highly competitive evolution of existing reaccelerate core growth and create sR B d new strategic priorities responsibilities and to oversee implementation.
demands marketplace with new propositions.
c competitors entering appropriately, without accountabilities in the delivery our focus being of our strategic priorities.
We have invested in our management the market.
We must Regular engagement with We have developed new propositions, d disrupted.
We must Effective governance development and mentoring continually innovate consumers to understand including a credit monitor app and bill retain and recruit arrangements to oversee programmes and introduced our to keep ahead of changes in how they use monitoring service and redeveloped colleagues with strong implementation of strategic Diversity and Inclusion project.
the customer journey for remortgages.
changing consumer industry, technology priorities.
Investment in our technology We acquired Decision Tech which has expertise.
Structured approach to platforms to improve customer one of the most advanced and scalable recruitment and retention experience and make B2B offerings in the UK.
of high quality talent comparing products easier.
We focused on the rapid optimisation combined with learning and development activities for of our customer journeys, making the existing colleagues.
Relevance to The Group relies on Working closely with partners We have worked closely with partners Brand strength The Group must Investment in marketing In 2018, we increased our Group NPS sR c sR A Partners its partners to access to ensure high quality and in launching exclusive deals and offers and reputation maintain consumer across a range of media to to 74.
In MoneySuperMarket, our competitive products appropriate products and to for our customers.
d awareness of and maintain the Groups brands marketing and pricing initiatives B and technological maximise the opportunities engagement with in consumers minds.
performed well and we were able to integration to provide for partners to acquire We have enhanced our customer its key brands.
optimise a number of our core journeys a seamless customer customers in a cost effective insights and data analysis for partners Arrangement of exclusive and during the year.
to help them understand how they can competitive deals to offer further improve their products.
consumers market-leading In 2018 MoneySavingExpert was the products and prices.
top ranked brand in UK Online Services Economic Weaknesses in the UK Maintaining a diversified The continued diversity of the Group sR A sector YouGov 2018 BrandIndex.
conditions economy including business across a range across a portfolio of brands and We had significant campaigning as a result of Brexit, of products.
channels offers the Group protection c successes for mortgage prisoners may lead to more from cyclical economic changes.
and within the energy sector.
challenging conditions Regular monitoring of market for the Group and conditions and environment.
We have assessed and continue to Data processing The Group must Understanding and We have completed our GDPR project.
oR B reduced financial consider the potential challenges and protection appropriately process assessment of the data we We have performed detailed data performance.
Focusing on maintaining associated with Brexit including the and control the data collect from our customers mapping activities across our c control of our cost base.
preparation of potential mitigation plans.
operations and have strengthened As a leading website our processes for the collection and Regulation The Group must We maintain regular and We have monitored and responded operator the Group Specialist data protection use of marketing consents.
sR A understand and ongoing dialogue with key to new and emerging regulatory may experience knowledge within our Data comply with existing regulatory bodies.
We have proactively operational issues Analytics, Technology and We have invested in quality assurance c and new regulatory engaged with regulators including FCA which result in Legal teams.
Annual data and testing within technology release requirements.
Our Risk & Compliance team in respect of the Insurance Distribution incorrect or protection training for all processes and strengthened controls works across the Group to Directive, Ofgem and CMA.
in respect of data mapping.
ensure it remains compliant being transferred to with new and existing or from partners.
Rigorous controls and We identified some minor incidents regulation.
monitoring of internal which impacted a small number of processes.
In response we took steps quality assurance procedures.
to minimise customer detriment and performed root cause analysis to improve our processes.
Risk type: Strategic Priority: Data security The Group must Rigorous monitoring and Our technology investments have oR B sR Strategic risk A Customer experience optimisation and cyber protect itself from testing of the Groups systems improved the robustness of our security breaches or and infrastructure.
We have c oR Operational conduct risk B Leading trusted brands successful cybercontinued to improve internal cyber attacks which could Robust access controls to education, working practices and c Leading provider offer impact our ability to our data and systems.
We have continued Risk trend: operate our websites to monitor developments in cyber d New market growth and services.
security threats, engaging third Stable Increasing Decreasing party specialists as appropriate.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 32 33
