Strategic Report Risk management Senior executives are responsible for the The appetite for risk in the areas of legal and Morgan has an established risk strategic management of the Groups principal regulatory compliance is extremely low and the management methodology risks, including related policy, guidelines and Group expects its businesses to comply with all which seeks to identify, prioritise process, subject to Board oversight.
laws and regulations in the countries where they and mitigate risks, underpinned operate.
The Group has a low appetite for Throughout 2018, the Board reviewed the status by a three lines of defence model financial risk.
Certain risks, such as pension of all principal risks with a significant potential funding, are likely to take a longer period of time comprising an internal control impact at Group level.
Additionally, the Audit to be mitigated.
During the year the Board framework, internal monitoring, Committee carried out focused risk reviews of monitored the Groups current risk exposure each Division GBU.
These reviews included an and independent assurance relative to the Boards appetite for different risks.
analysis of the principal risks, and the controls, processes.
There were no risks where the current risk monitoring and assurance processes established exposure exceeded the Boards risk appetite.
to mitigate those risks to acceptable levels.
As a The Board considers that risk management and result of these reviews, a number of actions were As in 2017, an indication of the Boards internal control are fundamental to achieving the identified to continue to improve internal assessment of the trend of each risk whether Group aim of delivering long-term sustainable controls and the management of risk.
the potential impact has increased, decreased growth in shareholder value.
or is broadly unchanged over the past year High-level guidance on the Boards appetite for is included.
The Board has also identified new Risks are identified both top down by the different risks is included again this year.
The risks to the delivery of the Groups strategy and Board and the Executive Committee, and Group is willing to take considered risks to these are indicated in the table below.
bottom up through the Groups global business develop new technologies, applications, units GBUs and Divisions, and are quantified partnerships and markets for its products, and to The following are the Groups principal risks and by assessing their inherent impact and mitigated meet customer needs.
The Group strives to uncertainties, representing those risks that the probability to ensure that residual risk exposures eliminate risks to product quality and health and Board feels could have the most significant impact are understood and prioritised for control safety, which are essential to the success of our on achieving the Groups strategy of building a throughout the Group.
products and the safety of our people sustainable business for the long-term and and contractors.
delivering strong returns to the Groups shareholders.
Risk description, assessment and trend from 2017 Mitigation The Group has a dedicated technology team within each Global 1.
Technical leadership Business Unit which monitors relevant technology and business The Groups strategic success depends on maintaining and developments using technology roadmaps linked to 20 major developing its technical leadership in materials science over technology families to ensure it remains at the leading edge of its competitors.
Three global Centres of Excellence were previously Unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the emergence established, with a fourth Centre opened at Penn State University, of competing technologies, the loss of control of proprietary Pennsylvania, US, in 2018.
These Centres focus Morgans expertise technology or the loss of intellectual property know-how would and research resources on core technologies.
They are supported by a impact the Groups business and its ability to deliver on its strategic Technical Advisory Board comprising some of the worlds leading goals.
academics in relevant fields, who provide continuing insight, advice and The advanced technological nature of the Group requires people challenge to inform the Groups technology plans.
Any inability to recruit, retain and The technology team proactively manages the Groups technology develop the right people would negatively impact the Groups ability pipeline and R&D investment in existing technologies, as well as to achieve its strategic goals.
actively managing the technology lifecycle.
The technology pipeline and key R&D projects are regularly reviewed by the Executive Trend Committee and the Board.
Unchanged Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in partnership with the customer in order to maintain leading-edge differentiation.
The Group seeks to secure intellectual property protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
The Group continued its global leadership programme adding an advanced programme to develop more high-potential commercial, functional and technical leaders.
The graduate leadership programme continued to run in 2018.
Further detail on our people can be found on pages 40 to 41.
Further detail on R&D can be found on page 13.
18 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Strategic and external risks Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk Key Increased Unchanged Decreased Risk description, assessment and trend from 2017 Mitigation Changes to operational processes are carefully considered by site, 2.
Operational execution organisational change GBU and Divisional management before implementation.
Operational sales effectiveness improvements and savings are monitored against budget by the As part of the Groups strategy to improve the efficiency of its Executive Committee to ensure that changes deliver the savings operations and organisation, various changes have been made to promised without disruption to business operations.
New capital operational processes at individual sites, to the Groups structure, investments are approved at appropriate levels of the Group and and the structure of and incentives for our sales force.
Further delivery of these overseen by GBU and Group management.
improvements and changes are planned for future years.
Failure to Organisational changes are assessed by the CEO, the Executive adequately manage these changes could result in interruption to Committee and sometimes the Board before being implemented in operations or customer service, or a failure to maximise the Groups line with local employment regulations.
Changes to our sales structures and incentives are reviewed at various levels of the organisation before being launched.
Further activities Trend Unchanged to improve sales effectiveness are being rolled out in 2019, including sales force training, more targeted incentives and pricing initiatives.
The Board performs regular reviews of the Groups portfolio.
Portfolio management 2018 the Group disposed of the Composites and Defence Systems The Group operates across a range of product and technology business and exited its Thermal Ceramics site in Brazil, and announced families.
These are subject to long-term market trends which may the closure of its China ceramics cores business and Venezuelan lead to either obsolescence or opportunities to further expand the Thermal Ceramics business.
Failure to proactively manage the Groups portfolio of Opportunities to acquire businesses are reviewed on a continuing basis.
businesses in line with this technology profile could lead to the value of the Groups businesses being eroded over time or to a failure to exploit opportunities to acquire businesses with the capability to add further value to the Group.
Trend Decreased The Groups broad market and geographic spread helps to mitigate 4.
Macro-economic and political environment the effects of political and economic changes.
The Group operates in a range of markets and geographies around Budgets and forecasts for Morgans different businesses are used to the world and could be affected by political, economic, social or monitor delivery against expectations and anticipate potential external regulatory developments or instability, for example an economic risks to performance.
These are subject to regular review by the slowdown or issues stemming from oil and natural resources Executive Committee and the Board.
The UKs exit from the EU may have an impact on the Group if The overall macro-economic environment has improved during the subsequent tariff changes, or border effects, negatively impact the course of the year as shown by the Groups strong organic sales profitability of the Groups products.
The current value of Group UK growth.
However some longer-term metrics are showing signs exports to the EU is approximately 25 million, and imports into the of potential weakness.
UK from the EU are approximately 15 million.
Global issues considered by the Board this year include the impact of the UKs exit from the EU and US China trade relations.
The impact Trend of the UKs exit from the EU could be mitigated in the medium term Increased by moving production to alternative sites where tariffs are not applied to products.
Managing its operations safely is the Groups number one priority.
Environment, health and safety EHS Group has a comprehensive EHS programme managed by the Group The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around EHS Director, with clear EHS standards and a refreshed programme the world.
A failure in the Groups EHS procedures could lead to of audits to assess compliance.
environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or third parties, with a consequential impact on operations and increased The Group EHS Director sets annual priorities for EHS which are risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
Any approved by the EHS Steering Group comprising the Executive such action could result in both financial damages and damage to Committee and global business unit leads These form the basis for reputation.
Given the long history of many of the operations of the individual sites own EHS priorities and plans, and complement the Group, there is also a risk that historical operating and environmental Groups thinkSAFE behavioural safety programme.
standards may not have met todays environmental regulations.
EHS performance is monitored by the EHS Steering Group In addition, the Group may have obligations relating to prior asset and the Board.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group was managing projects to remediate legacy contamination at a number of former Trend operational sites in conjunction with external specialists and Unchanged relevant authorities.
Further details of the EHS programme can be found on pages 36 to 39.
Further information on the Groups provisions and contingent liabilities can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 19 Operational risks Strategic and external risks Strategic Report Risk management continued Risk description, assessment and trend from 2017 Mitigation Many of the Groups products are designed to customer specifications.
Product quality, safety and liability Our businesses quality management systems and training help ensure Products used in applications for which they were not intended that all of Morgans products meet or exceed customer requirements or inadequate quality control over-commitment on customer and national international standards.
specifications could result in products not meeting customer The Group Legal Policy requires that contracts relating to products requirements, which could in turn lead to significant liabilities used in potential high-risk applications are subject to legal review to and reputational damage.
ensure that appropriate protections are in place for product Some of our products are used in potentially higher risk applications, quality risks.
for example in the aerospace, automotive, medical and power industries.
The Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Trend Unchanged The Group has an IT Policy and guidelines in place as well as Group 7.
IT and cyber security and business IT teams to manage the Groups infrastructure, IT Information security cyber risks are dynamic and ever-present in systems and information security risks.
A new Chief Information the external environment.
If the Group were to lose critical data or Officer was appointed in 2018 to further develop the Groups IT information, including proprietary technology information, through strategy.
inadequate data management or compromised information security, the business would be impacted and could suffer reputational damage.
In 2018 the Group was required to comply with the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST cybersecurity framework in the The effective management of the Groups Information Technology IT US and the EUs General Data Protection Regulations.
The Group has infrastructure is important in enabling our businesses to reliably deliver successfully implemented programmes to deliver compliance with customer requirements.
If a key business system were to fail or core these requirements.
systems implementation were to be ineffective, the ability of the business to deliver on its strategic goals might be impacted.
The Group continues to deploy and upgrade enhanced enterprise resource planning ERP systems in those businesses where a need for improvement is identified.
These deployments are managed in Trend Unchanged line with IT project management standards.
The Group has a diversified manufacturing, customer and geographic 8.
Supply chain business continuity base which provides a level of resilience against single-point exposures.
The Group has a number of potential single-point exposure risks, Were any site to be unavailable, production in many cases could be which include: switched to other sites.
Single-point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal Management of these risks also involves monitoring and reviewing or external supply could impact business continuity.
supply chains internal and external, dual multiple sourcing of materials Single-point customer the unmitigated loss of a major customer or strategic stock, site security and safety mechanisms, business could have an impact on Group profit.
The Groups largest continuity plans, maintenance of product quality and strong customer customer represents circa 2% of Group revenue.
Single-point site a key site exposed to a strike, a natural The Group insurance programme includes business interruption catastrophe or serious incident, such as fire, could impact cover and specific cover in relation to the impact of an earthquake business continuity.
One Group site, Hayward, is situated in the in California, US: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually California earthquake zone, US.
Certain of the Groups by the Board.
businesses are important for intercompany supply purposes.
Trend Unchanged The Groups treasury function operates on a risk-averse basis.
Treasury Required controls over selection of banks, cash management and The Groups global reach means that it is exposed to uncertainties in other treasury practices and payments globally are documented in the financial markets, the fiscal jurisdictions where it operates, and the Morgans Treasury Policy and related procedures.
These heighten the Groups funding, foreign exchange, treasury team manages the Groups funding, liquidity, cash tax, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk that a bank management, interest rate, foreign exchange, counterparty credit failure could impact the Groups cash.
Treasury matters are regularly reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee.
Trend Decreased In 2018 the Group successfully refinanced its 200 million Revolving Credit Facility for a five-year term.
Additionally the Group concluded a US Private Placement transaction, utilising shelf agreements already held with Private Placement lenders, raising $25 million and 25 million.
The initial 25 million was funded on 27 December 2018, with the funding of the $25 million completed in January 2019.
Further detail on our Treasury Policy is set out in the Group Financial Review, which can be found on page 29.
20 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Financial risks Operational risks Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk description, assessment and trend from 2017 Mitigation The Groups tax function, working in conjunction with external 10.
Tax specialists as required, closely monitors fiscal developments and The Group operates in many jurisdictions around the world and could changes such as BEPS, to ensure that the Groups tax arrangements be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations within the complex and practices continue to comply with the requirements of all relevant international tax environment.
jurisdictions whilst also enabling efficient management of the tax The OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS framework liability.
The Groups Head of Tax reports twice-yearly to the Audit provides additional obligations and filing requirements for the Group as Committee on key tax issues and initiatives.
countries implement the actions in the framework.
These could have The Group has published its tax strategy on its website in line with an impact on the tax paid by the Group.
Tax reform in the US could also impact the Groups tax rate.
Trend Unchanged Morgans primary means of mitigating pensions funding risk is proactive 11.
Pension funding management of the pension scheme assets and liabilities through an The Group sponsors several defined benefit pension arrangements, integrated pension strategy focusing on funding, investment and benefit the Schemes, whose liabilities are subject to fluctuating interest rates, risk.
This involves both internal management within the Group and investment values and inflation.
This coupled with the increased also externally through the Scheme Trustees, corporate actuaries and longevity of members will result in increased funding burdens on professional advisers.
In the UK, the Morgan Senior Executive Pension and Life Assurance The deficit in Morgans global defined benefit pension schemes Scheme closed to future accrual in April 2016 and the Morgan Pension calculated on the basis required for IAS 19 accounting disclosures Scheme closed to future accrual in April 2018.
In consultation with the decreased from 218 million at 31 December 2017 to 190.4 million Company, the Trustees have also adopted a pro-active approach to the as at December 2018. management of risk in the Schemes investment portfolios, significantly reducing their unhedged interest and inflation rate exposure.
Trend Unchanged In the US, in June 2016 one Defined Benefit Pension Plan completed a full legal termination, and for the other remaining Scheme, a formal offer of a , lump-sum cash payment was made to members.
In December 2017, the Company made an additional contribution of $36 million to this Scheme.
The Group has an in-house legal function supplemented by specialist 12.
As a global advanced materials business supplying components into critical applications, the Group may be exposed to liabilities arising from The Group Legal Policy requires in-house legal review of high-value or the use of its products.
Ineffective contract risk management could high-risk contracts to ensure they contain appropriate protections for result in significant liabilities for the Group and could damage customer the Group.
The Policy requires CEO approval before a business can relationships.
enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liability cap exceeds 5 million.
Trend To the extent that risk cannot be mitigated through contractual Unchanged arrangements, the Group has insurance cover in place, including product liability insurance.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and 13.
To support this, in 2018 the Group issued the The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national Morgan Code.
The Morgan Code defines the Groups approach to and international laws and regulations including those related to bribery doing business ethically and confirms Morgans commitments to high and corruption, human rights, trade export compliance and standards of ethical behaviour.
The Morgan Code is supported by competition anti-trust activities.
a range of policies, standards and guidance: training materials: the A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could result in provision of an ethics hotline for employees: and systems to support civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate fines and could effective screening of and due diligence on third parties.
also result in debarment from government-related contracts or Further improvements to the programme are planned in 2019, rejection by financial market counterparties and reputational damage.
including enhanced training, a refresh of the ethics hotline and further reviews of businesses operating in higher risk locations.
Trend Unchanged The Group also has an Export Compliance Director in the US whose role is dedicated to ensuring compliance with export controls.
In addition to Group-level compliance specialists, our businesses are required to establish compliance officer roles, which are responsible for supporting local training and monitoring.
Morgan also employs country-specific trade and export compliance specialists in higher risk businesses and jurisdictions.
Further details on ethics and compliance can be found on page 35.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 21 Legal and compliance risk Financial risks
