Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Risk management and internal Brexit Following the outcome of the UK referendum to leave the control framework EU, there are a number of uncertainties that continue to exist The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review regarding how the exit will be engineered.
Therefore, the extent of principal business risks, and oversees risk management.
to which our operations and financial performance are likely to This includes identifying key risks, determining control strategies be affected in the longer term will only become clear as more and considering how those risks may affect the achievement of details emerge.
We have considered the possible consequences business objectives, taking into account risk appetite.
that Brexit could have upon our business and during the year we established a Brexit Steering Committee, comprised of relevant Executive directors and operational management are senior managers.
The Brexit Steering Committee formally reports delegated the task of implementing processes to ensure that to the Group Finance Director.
On a day-to-day basis, the risk management process is managed and co-ordinated by the We have also performed a detailed risk assessment across all corporate compliance team.
Each business area is responsible business areas to ensure that we have a clear view of where the for preparing and maintaining operational risk registers which Brexit related risks and impact could occur.
Brexit does not raise involves identifying, evaluating, managing, measuring and a new principal risk for us, however it does have the potential to monitoring the risks in their respective areas.
Risk registers are impact a number of our existing risks at an individual risk level, prepared using consistent risk factors and incorporate business e. g. exchange rates, changes in tariffs and duties, regulatory impact and likelihood ratings, both before and after the effect changes and economic uncertainty.
of any mitigating factors or controls.
Progress and issues are We will monitor the risks and uncertainties arising from Brexit reported to the corporate compliance team on a regular basis, within the risk management and control process described and more formal annual reviews are also carried out to ensure above.
This provides a more effective and operationally focused robustness and consistency across the business.
In addition, mitigation of these risks on an ongoing and timely basis.
internal audit plans are agreed with the Audit Committee based on the risks and controls identified through this risk management process.
Assessment of principal risks and During the year the Board carried out a detailed evaluation of uncertainties the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust systems for all parts of the business.
This covered all material assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, Group, including those that would threaten its business model, and the Board is satisfied that they are operating effectively future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks for the financial year to January 2018 and up to and including are described below along with explanations of how they are the date of this report.
The evaluation incorporated a review of managed or mitigated.
The principal risks areas remain the same reports, discussion, challenge and assessment of the principal as reported last year.
Reputational risk is not in itself one of the business risks with relevant senior management.
During the year, principal risks detailed below, however, it does have the potential the directors also received presentations from management on to impact a number of our existing risks and is an important specific higher risk areas and agreed key action plans including consideration when we assess our risks and potential impacts.
further enhancement of mitigating controls.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the key risks are The work and findings of the corporate compliance team are also managed on an ongoing basis and operate within an acceptable reviewed, discussed and agreed by the Audit Committee on a level.
Whilst these risks all have the potential to affect future regular basis: any significant matters are communicated to the performance, work is undertaken to mitigate and manage these Board.
No significant failings of internal control were identified risks such that they should not threaten the overall viability of during these reviews.
Operational risk registers detail limited, the business over the three year assessment period refer to the though not significant, control weaknesses and clear action plans viability assessment on page 47. are in place to address these.
Following last years independent review undertaken by Ernst and Young EY in relation to the assessment of NEXTs cyber risk, EY completed a further progress review this year.
The output from this review was discussed in detail with relevant senior management and presented to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Cyber risk has been on the agenda for discussion at every Audit Committee meeting this year.
Good progress has been made during the year, such as the further development of security monitoring and alerting, and working to achieve the key requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR which takes effect from May 2018.
GDPR will have limited operational impact on our business.
The agreed cyber risk action plan continues to be prioritised and tracked and we support this important area with significant resources devoted to the development, maintenance and security of IT systems.
42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Link to Strategy Improving and developing our product ranges Focusing on customer experience and satisfaction Maximising the profitability of retail selling space Maintaining the Groups financial strength Increasing the number of profitable NEXT Generating and returning surplus cash to shareholders Online customers Managing margins Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Business strategy development and implementation The Board reviews business strategy on a regular basis to determine how sales and profit budgets can be achieved or bettered, and If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or business operations made more efficient.
Seasonal and annual does not implement its strategies effectively, the budgets together with longer term financial objectives and cash business may suffer.
The Board therefore needs flow forecasts are produced.
to understand and properly manage strategic risk, taking into account specific retail sector risk, in order The Board and senior management consider strategic risk factors, to deliver long term growth for the benefit of NEXTs wider economic and industry specific trends that affect the Groups stakeholders.
businesses, the competitive position of its product offer and the financial structure of the Group.
In common with other retailers we continue to experience a significant shift by customers from shopping in retail stores to shopping online.
Longer term financial forecasts for our Retail business have therefore been prepared and stress tested during the year see page 31.
These forecasts provide a mechanism for ensuring that business profitability is reviewed and managed and agreed actions are in place to take into account changing behaviours and trends.
The Audit Committee monitors strategic and operational risk regularly and any significant matters are reported to the Board.
Management team The Remuneration and Nomination Committees identify senior personnel, review remuneration at least annually and formulate The success of NEXT relies on the continued service packages to retain and motivate these employees, including long of its senior management and technical personnel, term incentive schemes.
and on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and The Board considers the development of senior managers to ensure retain highly qualified employees.
The retail sector is adequate career development opportunities for key personnel, very competitive and NEXTs staff may be targeted by with orderly succession and promotion to important management other companies.
43 Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Product design and selection Executive directors and senior management continually review the design, selection and performance of NEXTs own product ranges NEXTs success depends on designing and selecting and those of other brands sold by NEXT.
To some extent, product products that customers want to buy, at appropriate risk is also mitigated by the diversity of NEXTs ranges.
price points and in the right quantities.
In the short In addition, executive directors and senior management regularly term, a failure to properly manage this area may mean review product range trends to assess and correct any key selection that NEXT is faced with surplus stocks that cannot be or product issues.
Corrections to significant missed trends or poorer sold at full price and may have to be disposed of at a performing ranges are targeted for amendment, with alternative loss.
In the longer term, the reputation of the NEXT products being sourced within six months where deemed necessary.
Product design and selection is therefore at the heart of the business.
Key suppliers and supply chain management NEXT continually seeks ways to develop its supplier base so as to reduce over reliance on individual suppliers of products and NEXT relies on its supplier base to deliver products on services, and maintain the quality and competitiveness of its offer.
time and to the quality standards it specifies.
Failure The Groups risk assessment procedures for key suppliers identify to do so may result in an inability to service customer alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event of key demand or adversely affect NEXTs reputation.
Changes in global manufacturing capacity and costs Existing and new sources of product supply are developed in may impact on profit margins.
conjunction with NEXT Sourcing, external agents and or direct suppliers.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the NEXT Code of NEXT carries out regular inspections of its suppliers operations to Practice may increase reputational risk.
ensure compliance with the standards set out in this Code: covering production methods, employee working conditions, quality control and inspection processes.
Further details can be found on page 49.
NEXT monitors and reviews the financial, political and geographical aspects of its supplier base to identify any factors that may affect the continuity or quality of supply of its products.
NEXT also monitors and reviews stock availability on an ongoing basis to ensure that issues are identified and appropriate action is taken where any issues are impacting service delivery to customers.
Warehousing and distribution Planning processes are in place to ensure there is sufficient warehouse handling capacity for expected future business volumes NEXT regularly reviews the warehousing and over the short and longer terms.
distribution operations that support the business.
Service levels, warehouse handling, inbound logistics and delivery Risks include business interruption due to physical costs are monitored continuously to ensure goods are delivered to damage, access restrictions, breakdowns, capacity our warehouses, Retail stores and Online customers in a timely and shortages, IT systems failure see next page, inefficient cost efficient manner.
During the year we reviewed our warehousing and logistics operations to ensure that we proactively manage changes in our customer demand between Retail stores and Online customers.
Business continuity plans and insurance are in place to mitigate the impact of business interruption.
44 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Customer experience Market research and customer feedback is used to assess customer opinions and satisfaction levels to help to ensure that staff remain NEXTs performance depends on the recruitment focused on delivering excellent customer service.
and retention of customers, and on its ability to The Group continuously monitors website and call centre operations drive and service customer demand.
This includes that support the business to ensure that there is sufficient capacity having an attractive, functional and reliable website, to handle volumes.
effective call centres, operating successful marketing strategies, and providing both Retail and Online Call centre employees receive comprehensive and relevant training customers with service levels that meet or exceed on an ongoing basis, targeting our service to be at its highest their expectations.
The Company is continuing to invest in the development of our UK and overseas websites.
These developments are formally appraised and are designed to further improve the online customer experience.
Retail store network The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed by senior management, with openings, refits and closures based on NEXT Retails performance depends on profitably store profitability and cash payback criteria.
developing the trading space of the store network.
Regular reviews of lease expiry and break clauses are undertaken The successful development of new stores depends to identify opportunities for exit or renegotiation of commitments.
on a number of factors including the identification of Profiling of the Groups lease commitments is also regularly reviewed suitable properties, obtaining planning permissions and by the Board.
the negotiation of acceptable lease terms.
Prime retail sites will generally remain in demand, and increased NEXT will continue to invest in new space where its financial criteria competition for these can result in higher future rents.
are met, and will renew and refurbish its existing portfolio when appropriate.
Information security, business continuity and cyber risk Systems vulnerability and penetration testing is carried out regularly to ensure that data is protected from corruption or unauthorised NEXT is dependent upon the continued availability access or use.
and integrity of its IT systems, which must record and process substantial volumes of data and conduct Critical systems are reviewed and tested periodically to ensure they inventory management accurately and quickly.
have backup facilities and business continuity plans in place: these The Groups systems require continuous enhancement are updated on an ongoing basis to reflect business risk.
and investment to prevent obsolescence and maintain Major incident simulations and business continuity tests are carried responsiveness.
The threat of unauthorised or malicious out periodically.
attack is an ongoing risk, the nature of which is constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated.
IT risks are also managed through the application of internal policies and change management procedures, contractual service level agreements with third-party suppliers, and IT capacity management.
The Audit Committee and Board received updates and agreed appropriate actions relating to cyber risk and business continuity during the year see page 42.
As the nature of cyber attack risk is constantly changing and becoming ever more sophisticated, NEXT continually works towards improving mitigating controls and supports significant resource and investment in this area, including employee data security awareness training see page 42 regarding the independent cyber risk follow up review undertaken during the year.
45 Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Financial, treasury, liquidity and credit risks NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks.
The The main financial risks are the availability of funds to Groups treasury function operates under a Board approved policy.
meet business needs, default by counterparties to This includes approved counterparty and other limits which are financial transactions, the effect of fluctuations in foreign designed to mitigate NEXTs exposure to financial risk.
Further exchange rates and interest rates, and compliance details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 24 of with regulation.
NEXT has a longstanding policy of returning surplus NEXT has adequate medium and long term financing in place to cash to shareholders through share buybacks and support its business operations, and the Groups cash position and special dividends, whilst maintaining an appropriate forecasts are regularly monitored and reported to the Board.
Adequate financing facilities are therefore required to support the operational needs of the business.
NEXT is also exposed to credit risk, particularly in Rigorous procedures are in place with regard to the Groups credit respect of its Online customer receivables, which account customers, including the use of external credit reference at 1.1bn represents the largest item on the Group agencies and applying set risk criteria before acceptance.
procedures are regularly reviewed and updated.
The Audit Committee received a formal update regarding the customer credit business during the year.
46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Viability Assessment The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group by reference to its current financial position, its recent and historical financial performance and forecasts, and the principal risks and mitigating factors described above.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews the financing position of the Group and its projected funding position and requirements.
The Group is operationally and financially strong and has a track record of consistently generating profits and cash, which is expected to continue.
The directors review cash flow projections on a regular basis.
This included a recent review by the Audit Committee of three year cash projections which were stress tested to determine the extent to which trading cash flows would need to deteriorate before breaching the Groups facilities, both before and after anticipated shareholder distributions.
In addition, the likelihood and impact of severe but plausible scenarios in relation to the principal risks were assessed, as described on pages 42 to 46, both individually and collectively, taking into consideration mitigating actions that might be undertaken in particular situations.
Whilst the principal risks all have the potential to affect future performance, none of them are considered likely either individually or collectively to threaten the viability of the business over the three year assessment period.
The retail sector is inherently fast paced, competitive and dynamic, particularly in respect of the fashion product cycle.
However, as illustrated in the diagram below, a wide variety of other time horizons are also relevant in the management of the business: 1 year 2 years 3 years 5 years 7 years 10 years Weighted Long term Detailed Target payback Medium term Cash flow average investment and budgets period for financing forecasts remaining financing and forecasts new stores considerations lease life considerations New lease Logistics capacity planning commitments Retail space planning Pensions Share-based incentives Fashion lifecycle Currency hedging Management succession planning IT systems development The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, as they believe this strikes an appropriate balance between the different time horizons which are used in the business and is a reasonable period for a shareholder to expect a fashion retail business to be assessed upon.
Based on this review, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this period.
