Group Strategic Report Strategic Risk Management Risk management is an integral part of the success of our strategic journey The Board consider the identification and mitigation of material risks and uncertainties faced by the Group as a key issue to be monitored at all levels of the organisation.
Identification of risk of authorities and succession plans, General Risk Appetite Statement The Board has overall responsibility diversification in business and The Company will not accept any for the Groups risk management and revenue streams.
risks that would cause losses due to: internal control systems.
The Senior Management team ensure that Risk appetite malpractice, operational management consider As there are multiple risks associated significant decline in patient risk as part of their day to day activities.
with the healthcare and distribution satisfaction rate, sectors, the process of risk management brand damages, Whilst identification of risks and related is an essential mechanism to enable hospital acquired infections, controls and mitigations are important risk based decision making process.
decrease in the utilization rate elements for the stability of all The Board recognizes that complete risk for outpatient clinics, businesses, the Board consider these control avoidance is impossible, but that uncontrolled discharge for inpatients, areas to be particularly key for NMC risks can be reduced by putting the right downtime of life saving sustaining as a Group due to our growth strategy, controls and mitigations in place as well systems, the significant amount of transformation as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking inaccuracy of patients records, within the Group in recent years and risk appetite.
non-compliance with internal and or the fact that our businesses operate external controls and standards in regulated environments.
Risk appetite provides a structure within regulatory bodies, which opportunities can be pursued by sensitive information patient record As there are multiple risks evident across setting out which, why and how much confidentiality breach loss, our various business verticals, the risk risk the Group is willing to take.
The Senior loss of sole distribution partnership management processes operating Management Team has approved a set agreement, within the NMC Group are an essential of risk appetite statements covering loss of key staff key specialities, mechanism to enable a risk-based different views on the risk landscape acquisitions, which the Board expects decision making process.
NMC follows a surrounding NMCs business environment to be accretive and not dilutive.
conservative approach in risk taking and whilst addressing various risk classes.
has implemented controls and mitigation For each risk class, Key Risk Indicators NMC Board of Directors has approved strategies in order to reduce those risks.
KRIs were articulated to alert against a set of thresholds presented by unacceptable loss events.
management which relate to multiple The Group identifies risks in two ways.
business dimensions in the Healthcare Firstly, a bottom up business risk review The purpose of setting limits and triggers and Distribution divisions to protect and secondly a top-down strategic is to avoid concentrations of risk which shareholders value.
Any areas falling risk review also taking account of any would be out of line with internal or short of the agreed indicators will be material or systemic risk arising from the external expectations and to: highlighted by management for action.
The process undertaken in relation to both of these keep business activities aligned Strategic risks and uncertainties processes is set out in the Board to the strategic goals of the Group: In the table of strategic risks below, the Oversight of system of Internal Control ensure activities remain of an Board have set out the Groups strategic and risk section from pages 57 to 60 appropriate scale relative to the risks and the mitigating actions and of this annual report.
underlying risk and reward: and controls taken against those risks.
It ensure risk-taking is supported by should be noted that the order that these The Strategic Risk Register, which is appropriate expertise and capabilities.
risks are expressed in the table does not the Groups list of principal risks and reflect an order of magnitude as regards uncertainties, is set our below.
This their potential impact on the Group.
Register is reviewed and considered The System of Internal Control and Risk regularly.
The Board approved the section on pages 57 to 60 also sets out Strategic Risk Register in both August additional details of the governance 2018 and March 2019. framework and controls in place within the Groups businesses to monitor and Depending on the nature of the risk control risk.
involved, a variety of risk mitigation measures have been implemented There have been no significant changes including, for example, insurance, made to the Groups strategic risk register standardised processes, delegation in the last 12 months.
22 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 P y e t i o c i p r l t e n e E C n Investment Human Capital r a e b l m e o m t s e u n C t Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Key thematic risks The big picture 2018 1.
Bad decision and or delays in relation to either acquisition or organic 7.
Failure to develop growth investments or integrated IT systems an inability to appropriately may result in an inability to execute integration or new manage group information, facility ramp-up plans may accounting errors and result in: operational disruption.
Lower Return on A Data Security e. g. WIP Investment ROI : patient records breach Lower revenue NMC due to either intentional than expected: Strategy malicious cyber-attack Decreased margins and or unintentional data market share: or system loss resulting Potential for impairment in reputational damage, of assets: operational disruption Potential difficulty in or regulatory breach.
Failure to comply with multi regulatory and standards bodies requirements could result in financial fines, inability to renew licenses, as well as NMC reputation damage.
Failure to comply with internationally recognized 2.
Increased competition due increases in medical clinical care and quality to high private and public inflation and pricing standards, clinical investments in the UAE pressure and bargaining negligence, the healthcare sector and from key insurance misdiagnosis of 10.
Failure to retain acquire key associated investments providers in the Groups medical conditions or professionals or inability to coming from new key markets, would result pharmaceuticals and the acquire sufficient Medical entrants or existing player in reduced profitability.
supply of unfit products staff could potentially partnerships would lead 5.
Potential instability in across both divisions could lead to inability to deliver to market share loss and revenue impairing cash result in regulatory required healthcare potential reduction in flow, working capital health sanction, licence removal, services and executive access to future growth and greater exposure to significant reputational growth strategy.
credit risk as a result of damage, loss of patient 3.
Failure to focus on, and global and regional and customer confidence invest in, innovation and demographic, macroand potential criminal technological advances economic and geopolitical proceedings.
Disruption to the global new services or enhance global financial markets disruption model may lead patient experience.
may result in exposure to significant changes to Inexperience of operating to interest rate risk which distribution arrangements in new markets offerings would impact profitability with marquee suppliers leads to missed of the Group.
which would then impact opportunity or poor 6.
Failure to maximize the revenue and profitability service delivery.
opportunity of acquisitions of the trading division.
Potential adverse effect though successful NMCs revenue and integration strategies profitability as a result of or through ineffective unexpected regulatory or management structure cultural changes affecting or operating model.
the provision of healthcare, the basis of the healthcare insurance structure or NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 e c n F i e n l l a e c n x c i E Technology Compliance Product Financial Macro-eco Competition a l s H e c e i a v l r t e h S Group Strategic Report Strategic Risk Management continued Principal risks and mitigations Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Controls and Mitigations Bad decisions and or delays in relation to either Board oversight in approving and monitoring Investment acquisition or organic growth investments or strategic projects an inability to appropriately execute integration Project management controls or new facility ramp-up plans may result in: Detailed market and business appraisal and comprehensive due diligence processes Lower Return on Investment ROI : Focus on integration pathway to improve Group Lower revenue than expected: revenue generation from intra-group business Decreased margins and market share: referrals and multi-brand sharing of facilities and Potential for impairment of assets: centralized services Potential difficulty in raising future finance.
Strategy to acquire international know-how through acquisition plan Re-alignment of existing assets within the Groups hub and spoke model e. g. existing specialty hospitals feeding the regional NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City Increased competition due to high private and Integrated Hub-Spoke model Competition public investments in the UAE healthcare sector and Growing healthcare network associated investments coming from new entrants or Partnership with Government hospitals existing player partnerships would lead to market share The development of international partnerships and loss and potential reduction in access to future growth use of increased know-how gained through strategic in UAE healthcare spend.
growth plan Diversification of patient base Variety in service offerings Failure to focus on, and invest in, innovation and Frequent monitoring of both fixed and variable cost Financial technological advances and effectively deliver new Synergy tracking and reporting services or enhance patient experience.
Inexperience Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A of operating in new markets offerings leads to missed transactions opportunity or poor service delivery.
Continuous development of both front and back end IT related processes to enhance patient experience Strategy to target investment in innovation and future healthcare services development Potential adverse effect NMCs revenue and profitability Diversification of the revenue streams Financial as a result of unexpected regulatory or cultural changes Increased collaboration between different group affecting the provision of healthcare, the basis of the assets and businesses healthcare insurance structure or increases in medical Frequent monitoring of both fixed and variable cost inflation and pricing pressure and bargaining from key Good relationships with insurance providers insurance providers in the Groups key markets, would Strategy to increase patient volumes and focus result in reduced profitability.
on clinical specialisms Proactive approach relationships and dialogue with the Groups regulators M&A Strategy in new markets.
Potential instability in revenue impairing cash flow, UAE is a stable and booming market to operate in Macroworking capital health and greater exposure to credit Diverse business and revenue streams economic risk as a result of global and regional demographic, Long term debt facilities and unutilised working macro-economic and geopolitical factors.
capital limits Strong banking and supplier relationships.
Uncertainty in the global financial markets may result in exposure to interest rate risk which would impact profitability of the Group.
24 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Controls and Mitigations Failure to maximize the opportunity of acquisitions Implementation of a cluster structure to ensure that Financial though successful integration strategies or through synergies are attained while maintaining appropriate ineffective management structure or operating model autonomy at the facility level may result in: Full due diligence Development of standardised policies across the Increased market and regulatory legal obligations: Group and centralized support functions Increased culture resistance and complexity in Post-acquisition integration plan shifting the governance model from enterprise Rigorous analysis of value of the acquisition to corporate structure: Focus on the corporate cultures involved Increased operational exposure due to the Executive committee reporting and targets complexity of integrating higher number of spokes Synergy tracking and reporting to centralized hub of excellence: Acquiring the skills associated with the Increased investment risk due to weak due diligence M&A transactions and other mitigates.
Failure to develop integrated IT systems may result in ISO 27001 certified framework for IT policies Technology an inability to manage group information, accounting and controls.
Strict measures towards clients data and records Some of the Groups businesses are still progressing A Data Security e. g. VIP patient records breach due to through an integration phase, however manual either intentional malicious cyber-attack or unintentional processes, supported by legacy IT systems, data or system loss resulting in reputational damage, continues to provide a robust level of control operational disruption or regulatory breach.
Failure to comply with multi regulatory and standards Quality & Standards Department monitors Compliance bodies requirements could result in financial fines, regulatory changes & Regulation inability to renew licenses, as well as NMC Partnership with government reputation damage.
Good relationships with regulators and accrediting organizations Continuous focus on delivering high levels of service Product Failure to comply with internationally recognized clinical Regular clinical audits completed by Quality team care and quality standards, clinical negligence, the Doctors subject to rigorous licensing procedures and Service misdiagnosis of medical conditions or pharmaceuticals which operate in the UAE and the supply of unfit products across both divisions Healthcare division is a regulated business and five could result in regulatory sanction, licence removal, of the Groups principal hospitals have achieved, or significant reputational damage, loss of patient and are in the process of achieving, international quality customer confidence and potential criminal proceedings.
standards accreditation Many aspects of the operation of the Distribution division, including the sale of pharmaceuticals, is regulated in the UAE Board oversight and integrated governance structure Medical malpractice insurance to cover any awards of financial damages Continuous training and development programs Failure to retain acquire key professionals or inability Partnership with education institutes Human to acquire sufficient Medical staff could potentially lead Effective sourcing strategies & recruitment campaigns Capital to inability to deliver required healthcare services and Ongoing review of senior management resources execute growth strategy.
and succession plans in place for key positions Competitive salary packages, growth and good working conditions act as a good retention tool Clear career path for staff and continuous training and development programs Product Disruption to the global distribution model may lead to Continuous development of our service offering significant changes to the distribution arrangements and communication with key suppliers and Service with marquee suppliers which would then impact Investment in IT and logistics network to ensure revenue and profitability of the trading division.
a compelling proposition is provided by NMC to key suppliers.
As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal long-term assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group.
As part of this assessment, the Board considered the potential impact of three principal risk themes facing the Group.
The Boards viability statement is set out on page 86.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
