STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk management and internal control The Group has in place internal controls and risk management The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to risk systems in relation to its financial reporting process and management and internal controls is to review the effectiveness preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include of risk management systems and related internal controls to policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting ensure that any issues that have arisen are properly dealt with, records are maintained and transactions are recorded and that going forward the systems are fit for purpose.
The accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial Committee performs its duties by: statements in accordance with IFRS.
The internal control Reviewing annually the Groups system of internal control: systems include: and Reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues identified in the course of their work, including an internal control report on control weaknesses, and ensuring that there is an appropriate response from management.
Component Approach Basis for assurance Risk Risks are highlighted through a number of different Updated by the Executive team twice a year management reviews and culminate in a risk register.
The register and reviewed and approved by the Board identifies the risk area, the probability of the risk annually occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
Financial Consolidated Group management accounts are produced Results are reviewed each month by reporting monthly and provide relevant, reliable and up-to-date management, the Executive team and financial and non-financial information to management the Board.
Results are compared against and the Board including an income statement, balance expectations and significant variances are sheet and cash flow statement.
Budgeting and Reviews structure, size and composition of the Performed using a bottom-up approach with reforecasting Board and its Committees and makes appropriate reviews performed by the Executive team and recommendations to the Board.
Monitoring of There are policies and procedures in place to ensure the The Committee has performed a rigorous and controls integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and to robust review of internal controls during the safeguard the Groups assets.
year including: Review of risk registers The review by the audit committee highlighted that Assessment of compliance with corporate effective risk management and internal controls are in governance code place.
Delegated authority and approval limits Review of business continuity plan Basis and monitoring of capitalised website development costs 59 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Report of the Audit Committee The Committee, with the assistance of management and KPMG, identified areas of financial statement risk and judgement as described below: Description of focus area Audit Committee action Valuation of intangibles arising on the acquisition of The Committee have reviewed the acquisition accounting and Classic Collection Holidays Limited intangible and goodwill accounting and are satisfied with the The accounting for the acquisition of Classic Collection approach of management.
The Committee are satisfied with involves judgement to calculate the value and category of the accuracy of the completion accounts for the acquisition of intangible assets to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Classic Collection and the post-sale funds flow.
60 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
