STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk management & principal risks and uncertainties The Board believes that effective risk management is critical to ensure that the Group can deliver on its strategic objectives and to ensure long-term sustainable growth.
As such, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those which could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In this section of the strategic report, we explain our approach to risk management, set out the principal risks and uncertainties, together with an explanation of how those risks are managed and we outline how the risk profile has changed since the 2017 Annual Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT - RESPONSIBILITIES Area of the business Risk management role Board The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
It reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee has the responsibility to review the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
Executive The Executive management team are responsible for: management team identifying, monitoring and managing risk on a daily basis: promptly highlighting to the Board any major risks to the business of which the Board are not aware, together with their proposals for management of those risks: implementing action plans for management of risks as agreed with the Board: and maintaining risk registers and sharing these with the Board and Audit Committee as set out below.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES Identification and evaluation of risks Management of risks Monitoring Identify key risks, assess likelihood The Executive management Risk registers are reviewed and and quantify impact, identify current implement the risk management updated twice annually as a matter of management and mitigation, and plans agreed by the Board and course by the Executive management proposed action plan.
Record in risk monitor changes in risks or risk team, as well as on an ad hoc basis as registers which are reviewed and management plans on an ongoing required.
Risk registers are reviewed approved by the Board.
basis, reporting to the Board as part on an annual basis by the Board and of monthly Board meetings or on an the Audit Committee as part of their ad hoc basis as appropriate.
Where review of internal controls and risk management identifies a major new management procedures.
risk, or a significant increase to an existing risk, management arrange a planning session with each area of the business represented to agree a bespoke and detailed risk management plan, so that if the risk materialises, it can be managed in an orderly fashion.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 23 Risk management & principal risks and uncertainties CHANGE TO RISK PROFILE SINCE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT The nature of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group remain, on the whole, the same as last year, although the risk profile has changed in a number of areas.
Three key factors affecting the Groups risk profile are Brexit, regulatory changes and security of supply.
Factor Risks impacted Explanation The exit of the Consumer confidence The UK will leave the EU on 29 March 2019 at 11pm.
On the Beach United Kingdom Supply chain risk has carried out a thorough Brexit impact assessment and has from the European Competition risk considered the impact of various Brexit outcomes on the business Union Brexit People risk including its business model, future performance, solvency and Foreign exchange risk liquidity.
VAT complexity Regulatory risk Risks if deal agreed Provided that a binding agreement can be reached on the terms of the withdrawal, and political agreement can be reached on the future relationship, there will be a transition period until at least 31 December 2020 in which a binding agreement will be reached on the terms of the future relationship.
During the transition period, the UK remains within the single market and customs union so the rights of businesses and citizens remain largely untouched so the impact of the UK being outside the EU would be minimal in this period.
If there is a delay in agreeing a deal, this could affect consumer confidence and consumer demand, particularly in the peak season for bookings in January.
Risks if no deal agreed Flight disruption In the event that the UK exits the EU with no deal agreed, there could be disruption to flights for a short time while new aviation rights are agreed.
The government says that even in the event of no deal it is likely to be able to agree a bare bones aviation agreement to prevent disruption to flights.
If there was disruption to flights, On the Beach would incur costs in repatriating accommodating customers stranded overseas, would lose margin on the holidays cancelled as a result of the disruption, and consumer appetite to book holidays during the period of disruption may be reduced.
However, by virtue of its asset-light, flexible business model, where it does not carry flight or accommodation stock, the impact to On the Beach is inherently reduced when compared with airlines and tour operators.
Failure of suppliers or other travel companies The biggest risk for On the Beach in the event of flight disruption is the higher likelihood of airline failures and the costs On the Beach would incur as a result see supplier failure risk.
However, the failure of competing travel companies would have a positive effect on On the Beachs competitive proposition.
24 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHANGE TO RISK PROFILE SINCE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT CONT.
Factor Risks impacted Explanation The exit of the Currency United Kingdom A no deal scenario could have a destabilising effect on the from the European currency markets.
Our hedging policy removes transactional Union Brexit currency risk, but there is a risk that as the pound weakens, continued.
holidays are more expensive and this affects consumer demand, and makes On the Beach more expensive than tour operators who bulk-buy currency in advance.
Conversely, if the pound were to strengthen, holidays become cheaper, mitigating competition risk.
Consumer confidence Consumer confidence and appetite to book may be reduced in the event of a no deal scenario, especially if the UK falls into a recession.
People risk The Group employs many EU citizens, in key areas of the business, and restrictions on freedom of movement may restrict the Groups ability to attract and retain talent.
Regulatory Changes Consumer confidence There are a number of pieces of new legislation which came Reputation risk into force in 2018 which brought regulatory changes for the Regulatory risk business.
Any incorrect application of the new rules could lead to fines and or damage the Groups reputation.
By virtue of the PTRs, each booking taken by the Group after 1 July 2018 which comprises two or more services will be considered a package.
This means that, although On the Beach Sunshine remain as agent and the customers contracts are with the end suppliers, we will have statutory obligations to ensure the proper performance of the package by the suppliers and to compensate the customer where something goes wrong.
The Group is therefore exposed to claims from customers and although we have insurance in place, and we can often recover from the relevant supplier, the costs of putting in place the insurance and handling claims are higher than before.
GDPR came into force in May 2018.
Fines for noncompliance can be up to 20 million.
The Group planned and prepared carefully to ensure it was compliant with GDPR.
We continue to monitor GDPR compliance along with data security.
In January 2018 the Second Payment Services Directive came into force which means that it is prohibited to charge customers for credit card payments but the Group continues to incur costs.
Any unfavourable interpretation of existing laws could adversely affect the Groups business and financial performance, for example HMRC could challenge the VAT treatment the Group has applied which could result in additional unrecoverable VAT, plus interest and penalties.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 25 Risk management & principal risks and uncertainties CHANGE TO RISK PROFILE SINCE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT CONT.
Factor Risks impacted Explanation Security of Supply Consumer confidence The Group relies entirely on third parties for the supply Supply chain risk of flights, hotels and other holiday constituents and the Supplier failure challenging market backdrop increases the risk of supplier failure.
Recent supplier failures make customers nervous about booking holidays, however this is mitigated by the Groups ATOL and ABTA protection which gives consumers financial security.
The Group does not have relationship agreements in place with a number of low-cost airlines, some of whom have sought to block the Groups access to their websites using technological, legal, or other means and may do so in the future.
If successful the Groups offering may be less extensive which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
26 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
