STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks & uncertainties 1.
TRADING Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 1.1 Brexit, and particularly the possibility Innovative payment solutions to Consumer of a no deal Brexit, with disruption to mitigate reduction in discretionary confidence risk flights, affects consumer confidence.
This is likely to worsen the longer the Expansion of target audience to delay in agreeing a deal.
A recession or reduced economic Competitive pricing and value growth can lead to reduced job proposition as well as exclusive offers security and a reduction in consumer agreed with top hotels, secure leisure spending capacity.
A weak bookings even in a challenging pound makes holidays more market.
ATOL and ABTA bonding as well Failures of other OTAs and suppliers as trust protection give customers make customers nervous about confidence in booking with OTB.
Robust and agile business model.
Terrorist attacks, especially those in tourist resorts, undermine consumer confidence and cause consumer behaviour to shift: some may choose not to book a holiday, some will delay booking their holidays.
1 If the UK exits the EU with no deal, there This is considered extremely unlikely Supply chain risk could be a short period of disruption to because of the dire consequences for no deal Brexit flights while an aviation deal can be done.
disruption to flights This would cause financial loss for the Group as well as indirect consequences including potential supplier failure, and reduced consumer demand.
2 The Group does not have relationship The Group has a dedicated in-house Supply chain risk agreements in place with a number of team of IT experts whose purpose is security of supply airlines.
The Group is currently able to use to maintain and develop its proprietary technology to access flight data and place technology, and it invests significantly bookings on behalf of customers.
Certain in its technology and its people to airlines have sought to hinder or block the ensure that it can continue to operate Groups access to their websites using as it does currently.
technological, legal or other means and Any legal challenges will be vigorously may do so in the future.
Groups offering may be less extensive We are building strong relationships which could have a material adverse with certain airlines.
effect on the Groups business.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 27 Principal risks & uncertainties 1.
Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 1.2.
3 If a supplier were to collapse, this could The airlines that would cause the most Supply chain risk result in significant direct and indirect financial loss easyJet and Ryanair are supplier failure costs for the Group e. g. the cost of considered at extremely low risk of replacing flights or refunding customers, failure.
plus loss of margin on the accommodation The Group closely monitors supplier element of the holiday.
In the case of failure risk and puts in place risk the failure of a major low cost carrier, this management plans where could have catastrophic consequences for appropriate.
The failure of a bedbank or a hotel is of limited impact.
1.3 The Group relies on the strength of its The Group monitors customer Reputation risk brand to attract customers to its website satisfaction on a regular basis and acts and secure bookings.
Any events or on feedback received.
circumstances which give rise to adverse Measures are put in place to prevent publicity could cause brand reputation any reputational issues from occurring, damage and lead to a loss of goodwill.
and where any incidents do arise, these are handled by senior management with the assistance of our experienced public relations advisers where appropriate.
1.4 The Group operates in a very competitive The Group monitors competitor Competition risk market.
If competitors offer a more pricing constantly to ensure deals are compelling proposition, this could have priced competitively and offers unique a material adverse effect on the Groups payment options such as the low financial position and prospects.
pound is weak, tour operators have a The challenging market dynamics competitive advantage because they mean that smaller OTAs will be likely hedge currency in advance.
If demand is to fail, creating opportunities for OTB low in late summer, the tour operators will to take market share and to reduce heavily discount committed stock.
28 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 1.5 A significant business interruption The Group has a comprehensive System & technology could impact on the Groups ability to business continuity and disaster risk trade and or manage the business.
recovery plan, and robust back up and The Group is exposed to risks of failover facilities.
security breaches associated with The Group has stringent security online commerce security e. g. loss of in place which is regularly tested and customer data.
The Group is PCI DSS If the Groups technology cant keep compliant which involves regular up with growing demand, this could external audits.
affect our ability to deliver planned The Group regularly assesses capacity growth.
and utilisation of the system, and Changes in search engine algorithms carries out a full review every six or search engine relationships could months to ensure that the longer adversely affect the ability to drive term infrastructure plan is aligned with traffic to the website.
predicted growth and capacity needs.
1.6 The Groups ability to achieve its strategic The Group has a comprehensive People risk objectives is dependent on certain key succession plan in place at Executive personnel, plus its ability to attract and and senior management level.
The Groups location The Group will continue to monitor means that it is competing with many and benchmark salaries and packages other digital technology-focused including LTIPs and other share businesses for the best talent.
schemes to ensure it remains competitive and adequately A Brexit deal, or no deal, that restricts free incentivises key management.
movement of people restricts our ability to The Group has relocated its head attract and retain EU staff.
office to a new digital HQ in central Manchester to ensure it can attract and retain the best talent.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 29 Principal risks & uncertainties 2.
FINANCE Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 2.1 The Groups costs of sale are incurred The Group places forward contracts Foreign exchange in a different currency to that in which it based on forecasted orders and sets risk sells.
If the currency in which the Group is prices to reflect the blended FX rate buying changes unfavourably, this means achieved in those contracts.
Hedge the margin is uncertain volatile.
effectiveness and stability of euro rates is monitored regularly.
2.2 Given the seasonality of the business, The business maintains a working capital Working capital risk cash flow is volatile which could lead to a facility with Lloyds to cover seasonal lack of liquidity and an inability to trade.
requirements and the Group regularly monitors its liquidity position.
2.3 Due to the complexity of VAT rules in the The Group engages VAT specialists in Tax complexity travel industry, HMRC could disagree the travel industry to provide advice with the VAT treatment the Group has on current VAT treatment and VAT applied, which could result in additional developments.
This enables us to unrecoverable VAT, plus interest and budget appropriately and ensure our penalties, and the costs of litigation if we documentation and processes support chose to challenge the decision.
30 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
LEGAL Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 3.1.
1 Ryanair litigation: The Group is one of The Group has instructed an expert Litigation risk several online travel agents involved in legal team with particular expertise and airline litigation litigation with Ryanair in connection with experience in such cases to protect its Ryanairs efforts to prevent OTAs from legal position and maximise its chances of booking and selling its flights.
process is ongoing but remains at an early stage.
The position remains as disclosed in our previous annual report, which was that OTB issued a motion to compel delivery of full and proper particulars in May 2017 and in response to this motion, Ryanair is proposing to make amendments to its original statement of claim.
This has caused a delay to the anticipated timescales communicated in the Prospectus issued at the time of IPO.
Litigation is unpredictable and if Ryanair were to prevail, this could have a material impact on the Groups business.
2 Personal injury claims: OTB receives For bookings made before 1 July Litigation risk personal injury claims from customers 2018: OTB acts as a travel agent and consumer litigation e. g. holiday sickness, trips and falls, not as principal in relation to each swimming pool and balcony incidents.
holiday element, and it does not sell For bookings made prior to 1 July 2018, packages.
OTBs processes, OTB has no legal liability although practices and paperwork firmly claimant solicitors often argue otherwise support this and it is considered and if OTB were found by a court to to have the strongest agency package have sold a package then OTB could be defence in the industry.
liable for damages as well as reputational For bookings made after 1 July 2018, damage if liability is proved.
OTB has internal and external legal support to manage claims and For package bookings made after 1 July mitigate risk.
2018, On the Beach has liability as the OTB has insurance cover to mitigate package organiser for personal injury risk and also has indemnities from a claims and has to defend these claims number of its key suppliers.
on the basis of liability, and to recover OTB works with its suppliers to ensure costs from the relevant suppliers and or that customers health and safety is insurance.
monitored throughout the supply chain.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 31 Principal risks & uncertainties 3.
Operational risks Risk description and impact Mitigation & management Direction of change 3.2 The Groups business is highly regulated The Company has an internal legal team Regulatory risk and is subject to a complex regime of and external legal advisers to advise the laws, rules and regulations concerning Group on current and forthcoming legal travel, online commerce, financial services, requirements and to manage legal and consumer rights, and data protection.
A regulatory issues as they arise.
breach of these laws could have serious financial and reputational implications for The Group has been planning for the the Group.
implementation of new legislation in 2018 and has arrangements in place, including The Package Travel Regulation, General appropriate insurance cover, to mitigate Data Protection Regulation and the potential impacts.
Second Payment Services Directive all came into force during 2018 increasing The Group reviews closely the draft the responsibilities and potential liabilities proposals for law reform.
The Group of the Group and the costs of doing also participates in industry steering and business.
advisory groups, through which it is able to lobby on legislative change.
Unfavourable changes to our interpretation of existing laws could adversely affect the Groups business and financial performance.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Viability statement Going concern The directors have prepared cash flow forecasts that include In accordance with the provision of C. 2.2. of the 2016 key assumptions in respect of the trading subsidiaries revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, booking numbers, booking profiles, commission rates and the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the three year period to 30 September 2021, being the debtor collection periods.
The Directors have a reasonable period considered under the Groups three year strategic plan.
expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future on both base case and sensitised forecasts.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
In making this statement the Directors have considered the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, and the principal risks facing the Group as detailed on pages 23 to 32 and the potential impact of these on the business model, future performance and liquidity over the period.
The Directors have also taken account of the Groups ability to renew the credit facility at an appropriate level.
32 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 S STR TRA ATE TEGIC REP GIC REPOR ORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S OUR VALUES: DELIVERING A GREAT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Were here to ensure our customers enjoy their perfect beach holiday, and providing 24 7 support whilst theyre in resort means were only ever a quick phone call or email away.
Lauren Senior Operations Advisor ON ON THE BEA THE BEACH GR CH GROUP OUP PL PLC C | | ANNU ANNUAL AL REPOR REPORT T & & A AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2018 S 2018 33 33
