Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that could threaten its strategic objectives, business operating model, future financial performance and regulatory compliance commitments.
The principal risks and uncertainties are outlined in the table below: 1 Strategic and business risk Definition The risk to the Banks earnings and profitability arising from its strategic decisions, change in the business conditions, improper implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes.
Risk appetite statement The Groups strategic and business risk appetite states that the Group does not intend to undertake any medium to long-term strategic actions that would put at risk its vision of being a leading specialist lender, backed by a strong and dependable savings franchise.
The Group adopts a long-term sustainable business model which, while focused on niche sub-sectors, is capable of adapting to growth objectives and external developments.
Risk Mitigation Direction Performance against targets Regular monitoring by the Board and the Executive Increased Performance against strategic and business Committee of business and financial performance The Groups strategic and business operating targets does not meet stakeholder expectations.
against its strategic agenda and risk appetite.
The environments are subject to ongoing changes This has the potential to damage the Groups Balanced Business Scorecard is the primary primarily driven by market competition, economic franchise value and reputation.
mechanism to support the Board and assesses outlook and regulation.
management performance against key targets.
Use of stress testing to flex core business planning assumptions to assess potential performance under stressed operating conditions.
Regulatory and economic environment The Groups robust underwriting standards and Increased The regulatory and economic environment are its focus on professional landlords have helped The Groups strategic and business risk profile is important factors impacting the strategic and mitigate the impact of the regulatory changes impacted by the uncertainty surrounding Brexit business risk profile.
In particular, the new and enabled the Group to continue to grow its negotiations and potential future changes to regulatory underwriting standards and tax share of the sector.
changes impacting the Buy-to-Let sector have resulted in a general slowdown in the sector.
The Group has continued to utilise and enhance its stress testing capabilities to assess and minimise potential areas of macroeconomic vulnerability.
Regulatory requirements The Group continues to invest in its IT and data Increased The potential for emerging regulatory management capabilities to increase the ability The level and sophistication of emerging requirements to increase the demands on to respond to regulatory change.
regulatory requirements place increasing theGroups operational capacity and increase demands on the Groups operational capacity.
A structured approach to change management and fully leveraging internal and external expertise allow the Group to respond effectively to regulatory change.
2 Reputational risk Definition The potential risk of adverse effects that can arise from the Banks reputation being sullied due to factors such as unethical practices, adverse regulatory actions, customer dissatisfaction and complaints or negative adverse publicity.
Reputational risk can arise from a variety of sources and is a second order risk the crystallisation of a credit risk or operational risk can lead to a reputational risk impact.
Risk appetite statement The Group does not knowingly conduct business or organise its operations to put its reputation and franchise value at risk.
Risk Mitigation Direction Deterioration of reputation Culture and commitment to treating customers Unchanged Potential loss of trust and confidence that our fairly and being open and transparent in The Group has increased the size and capabilities stakeholders place in us as a responsible and fair communication with key stakeholders.
of its Risk and Compliance function to ensure provider of financial services.
Established processes to proactively identify and appropriate oversight and challenge to how manage potential sources of reputational risk.
the Group discharges its responsibilities to the various stakeholders.
42 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 3 Credit risk Definition Potential for loss due to the failure of a counterparty to meet its contractual obligation to repay a debt in accordance with the agreed terms.
Risk appetite statement The Group seeks to maintain a high quality lending portfolio that generates adequate returns, under normal and stressed periods.
The portfolio is actively managed to operate within set criteria and limits based on profit volatility, focusing on key sectors, recoverable values, and affordability and exposure levels.
The Group aims to continue to generate sufficient income and control credit losses to a level such that it remains profitable even when subjected to a credit portfolio stress of a 1 in 20 intensity scenario.
Risk Mitigation Direction Individual borrower defaults All loans are extended only after thorough Unchanged Borrowers may encounter idiosyncratic problems bespoke and expert underwriting to ensure ability The Group continues to observe strong and stable in repaying their loans, for example, loss of a job and propensity of borrowers to repay and credit profile performance.
or execution problems with a development sufficient security in case of default.
Should there be problems with a loan, the While in most cases the Banks lending is secured, Collections and Recoveries team works with some borrowers may fail to maintain the value of customers unable to meet their loan service the security.
obligations to reach a satisfactory conclusion while adhering to the principle of treating customers fairly.
Our strategic focus on lending to professional landlords means that properties are likely to be well managed, with income from a diversified portfolio mitigating the impact of rental voids or maintenance costs.
Lending to owner-occupiers is subject to a detailed affordability assessment, including the borrowers ability to continue payments if interest rates increase.
Lending on commercial property is more based on security, and is scrutinised by the Groups independent Real Estate team as well as by valuers.
Development lending is extended only after a deep investigation of the borrowers track record and stress testing the economics of the specific project.
The Groups Transactional Credit Committee actively reviews and approves larger or more complex mortgage applications.
Macroeconomic downturn The Group works within portfolio limits on LTV, Increased A broad deterioration in the economy would affordability, name, sector and geographic The economic outlook is uncertain with the final adversely impact both the ability of borrowers to concentration that are approved by the Risk terms of Brexit to be confirmed.
The likelihood of a repay loans and the value of the Groups security.
These are reviewed on no-deal Brexit has increased.
Credit losses would impact across the lending a semi-annual basis.
In addition, stress testing is portfolio, so even if individual impacts were to be performed to ensure that the Group maintains small, the aggregate impact on the Group could sufficient capital to absorb losses in an economic be significant.
downturn and continue to meet its regulatory requirements.
Wholesale credit risk The Group transacts only with high quality Unchanged The Bank has wholesale exposures both through wholesale counterparties.
Derivative exposures The Group continues to utilise a reserve account call accounts used for transactional and liquidity include collateral agreements to mitigate credit with the Bank of England, enabling it to minimise purposes and through derivative exposures used exposures.
credit risk on most of its liquidity portfolio.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 4 Market risk Definition Potential loss due to changes in market prices or values.
Risk appetite statement The Group actively manages market risk arising from structural interest rate positions.
The Group does not seek to take a significant interest rate position or a directional view on rates and it limits its mismatched and basis risk exposures.
Risk Mitigation Direction Interest rate risk The Groups Treasury department actively hedges Unchanged An adverse movement in the overall level of to match the timing of cash flows from assets The Group continues to assess interest rates on a interest rates could lead to a loss in value due to and liabilities.
monthly basis ensuring that the interest rate risk mismatches in the duration of assets and exposure is limited in the current economic liabilities.
Basis risk The Groups Basis Risk exposure is measured on a Unchanged A divergence in market rates could lead to a loss monthly basis against a range of stress scenarios.
Product design and balance sheet strategy has in value, as assets and liabilities are linked to enabled the Group to maintain the overall level of different rates.
Exposure is constrained by risk appetite with basis risk through the year.
balance sheet strategy and hedging used to minimise mismatches.
5 Liquidity and funding risk Definition The risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Risk appetite statement The Group actively maintains stable and efficient access to liquidity and funding to support its ongoing operations.
It also maintains an appropriate level and quality of liquid asset buffer so as to withstand market and idiosyncratic liquidity-related stresses.
Risk Mitigation Direction Retail funding stress The Groups funding strategy is focused on a Unchanged As the Group is primarily funded by retail highly stable retail deposit franchise.
The large The Groups funding mix remained stable deposits, a retail run could put it in a position number of depositors and mix of easy access, throughout the year.
where it could not meet its financial obligations.
one and two year term products, provides diversification, with a high proportion of balances Increased competition for retail savings driving covered by the FSCS and so at no material risk of up funding costs, adversely impacting retention a retail run.
levels and wider damage to the OSB franchise.
In addition, the Group performs in-depth liquidity stress testing and maintains a liquid asset portfolio sufficient to meet obligations under stress.
The Group holds prudential liquidity buffers to manage funding requirements under normal and stressed conditions.
The Group proactively manages its savings proposition through both the Liquidity Working Group and the Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO.
Finally, the Group has prepositioned mortgage collateral with the Bank of England which allows it to consider other alternative funding sources to ensure it is not solely reliant on retail savings.
44 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6 Solvency risk Definition The potential inability of the Bank to ensure that it maintains sufficient capital levels for its business strategy and risk profile under both the base and stress case financial forecasts.
Risk appetite statement OSB seeks to ensure that it is able to meet its Board level capital buffer requirements under a 1 in 20 stress scenario.
The Groups solvency risk appetite is constrained within leverage ratio related requirements.
We manage our capital resources in a manner which avoids excessive leverage and allows us flexibility in raising capital.
Risk Mitigation Direction Deterioration of capital ratios Currently the Bank operates from a strong capital Unchanged Key risks to solvency arise from balance sheet position and has a consistent record of strong The Group has maintained a prudent and stable growth and unexpected losses, which can result profitability.
CET1 capital and total capital position providing in the Banks capital requirements increasing or resilience against unexpected losses.
capital resources being depleted such that it no The Bank actively monitors its capital longer meets the solvency ratios as mandated by requirements and resources against financial the PRA and Board risk appetite.
forecasts and plans and undertakes stress testing analysis to subject its solvency ratios to extreme The regulatory capital regime is subject to change but plausible scenarios.
and could lead to increases in the level and quality of capital that the Group needs to hold to The Bank also holds prudent levels of capital meet regulatory requirements.
buffers based on CRD IV requirements and expected balance sheet growth.
The Group engages actively with regulators, industry bodies, and advisers to keep abreast of potential changes and provide feedback through the consultation process.
7 Operational risk Definition The risk of loss or negative impact to the Group resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems or from external events.
Risk appetite statement The Groups operational processes, systems and controls are designed to minimise disruption to customers, damage to the Banks reputation and any detrimental impact on financial performance.
The Bank actively promotes the continual evolution of its operating environment through the identification, evaluation and mitigation of risks, whilst recognising that the complete elimination of operational risk is not possible.
Risk Mitigation Direction Cyber data security risk A series of tools designed to identify and prevent Increased The risk of loss of customer or proprietary data network system intrusions are deployed across Whilst the Bank continues to make enhancements as a result of malicious activities or through the Group.
to its defences with respect to IT security threats, ineffective data management.
it recognises that the threats to the industry The effectiveness of the controls is overseen by continue to grow both in respect of volume and a dedicated IT Security Governance Committee, level of sophistication.
with specialist IT security staff employed by the Bank.
Data risk The Bank continues to invest in and enhance Increased The use of inaccurate, incomplete or outdated its data management architecture, systems, The increase in data risk has been primarily driven data may result in a range of risks impacting risk governance and controls.
by the increased scale of operations and the management and reporting services.
multiple sources from which data is derived.
Oversight is achieved via a Data Strategy programme, designed to ensure a consistency of approach and implementation.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 7 Operational risk continued Risk Mitigation Direction Operational and IT resilience The completion of all modules of the Operational Increased The inability of the Bank to maintain the provision Resilience programme has delivered a GroupThe increased risk is primarily driven by the of its high priority services in the event of a major wide approach in respect to planning and testing.
expanding scale of the Banks operations and the incident impacting its IT infrastructure, facilities, continued evolution of cyber-based threats.
people or the third parties on which it relies to The Bank has developed a thorough testing However the Bank has invested significantly in its provide those services.
schedule intended to validate its response to a operational resilience frameworks, capabilities and range of significant scenarios.
In addition, a series testing to better address the emerging risks.
of training and awareness activities are intended to increase the Banks readiness to respond to an incident.
A range of back-up technologies employed to provide real-time replication of various critical systems while disaster recovery capabilities are tested annually.
Real-time system performance monitoring established and a dedicated testing team in place.
Operational execution and scalability Whilst the Bank adopts a risk-based approach to Unchanged The inability of the Bank to automate current automation, it recognises that a number of The ongoing growth of the Bank has challenged operational processes at the speed the business manual processes remain, which have a its automation programmes and resulted in an requires in order to successfully meet future proportionate level of controls associated with increase in the number of manual processes.
Whilst key manual processes are well managed and there is continuing investment in automation, the challenges presented by the pace of growth remain a key area of management focus.
8 Conduct risk Definition The risk that the Groups behaviours or actions result in customer detriment or have a negative impact on the integrity of the market segments in which it operates.
Risk appetite statement The Bank considers its culture and behaviours in ensuring the fair treatment of customers and in maintaining the integrity of the market segments in which it operates, a fundamental part of its strategy and a key driver to sustainable profitability and growth.
OSB does not tolerate any systemic failure to deliver fair customer outcomes.
On an isolated basis incidents can result in detriment owing to human and or operational failures.
Where such incidents occur they are thoroughly investigated, and the appropriate remedial actions are taken to address any customer detriment and to prevent recurrence.
Risk Mitigation Direction Product suitability The Group has a strategic commitment to provide Unchanged Whilst the Group originates relatively simple simple, customer-focused products.
In addition, a Whilst this risk has remained low as a result of products, there remains a risk that primarily Product Governance framework is established to increased awareness and dedicated oversight: legacy products may be deemed to be unfit for oversee both the origination of new products and theBank remains aware of the changes to the their original purpose in line with the current to revisit the ongoing suitability of the existing regulatory environment and their possible regulatory definitions.
Data protection In addition to a series of network system Unchanged The risk that customer data is accessed controls, the Bank performs extensive root cause Despite a number of additional controls being inappropriately either as a consequence of analysis of any data leaks in order to ensure that introduced in 2018 the network system threats network system intrusion or through operational the appropriate mitigating actions are taken.
continue to increase in both volume and errors in the management of the data.
46 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 9 Compliance regulatory risk Definition The risk that a change in legislation or regulation or an interpretation that differs from the Groups will adversely impact the Group.
Risk appetite statement The Group views ongoing conformance with regulatory rules and standards across all the jurisdictions in which it operates as a critical facet of its risk culture.
The Group does not knowingly accept compliance risk, which could result in regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to its reputation.
The Group will not tolerate any systemic failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or codes of conduct relevant to its business operating model.
Risk Mitigation Direction Regulation changes The Bank has an effective horizon scanning Increased Key compliance and regulatory changes that process to identify regulatory change.
The Bank has historically responded effectively impacted the Bank include changes in the to regulatory changes, however, the level and standardised approach to capital rules, All significant regulatory initiatives are managed sophistication of emerging regulation continues implementation of an IRB floor and introduction by structured programmes overseen by the to increase.
of IFRS 9 accounting standard for computing Project and Change Management team and impairment allowance requirements.
The Bank has proactively sought external expert opinions to support interpretation of the requirements and validation of its response, where required.
Conduct regulation The Group has a programme of regulatory Increased Regulatory changes focused on the conduct horizon scanning linking into a formal regulatory The regulatory environment has tightened and of business could force changes in the way change management programme.
In addition, this is likely to continue, exposing the Group to the Group carries out business and impose the focus on simple products and customerincreased risk.
For example, oriented culture means that current practice may the Financial Conduct Authoritys Discussion not have to change significantly to meet new Paper on Price Discrimination in the Cash conduct regulations.
Savings Market or HM Treasurys consultation on Breathing Space and Statutory Debt Repayment Plan must be considered.
The Group proactively scans for emerging risks which may have an impact on its ongoing operations and strategy.
The Group considers its top emerging risk to be: Emerging risk Description Mitigation action Political and macroeconomic uncertainty.
As the outcome of Brexit remains unclear, The Group implemented robust monitoring there is an increased likelihood of a period processes and via various stress testing activity ofmacroeconomic uncertainty.
The Groups i. e. ad hoc, risk appetite and ICAAP lending activity is solely focused in the understands how the Group performs over a United Kingdom and, as such, will be variety of macroeconomic stress scenarios and impacted by any risks emerging from subsequently developed a suite of early warning changes in the macroeconomic environment indicators which are closely monitored to such as changes to house prices, interest identify changes in the economic environment.
The Group has no European operations outside of the UK and has minimal deposits from non-UK customers limiting its exposure to Brexit-related operational risks.
RISK PROFILE PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Strong Group originations performance was observed in 2018, Credit risk driven by performance across the Buy-to-Let SME segment.
Credit profile performance Importantly, this lending was underwritten at sensible LTV levels, The Groups credit profile performed strongly in 2018, driven by deep where tightened underwriting policy, following the UKs decision market knowledge of the specialist markets in which it operates, to leave the European Union, resulted in a greater clustering prudent lending policies and sound credit risk management.
ofLTV levels against the portfolio average.
During the year, the Groups loan portfolio composition continued to Post-2011 lending, incorporating enhanced lending criteria, evolve with pre-2011 lending prior to OneSavings Bank plc being continued to make up an increasing proportion of the Groups established continuing to run off.
Legacy problem loans reduced total loans and advances to customers.
From 48,500 loans which further in 2018 from 8.6m to 5.6m, following careful management were underwritten post 2011, 206 loans are greater than three by our experienced Collections team.
The Groups acquired portfolios months in arrears, totalling 53.5m with a weighted average also continued to perform in line with expectations in terms LTVof just 62%.
ofrun-off rates and credit profile performance.
Strong credit risk management and continuing favourable The Groups funding lines and development finance businesses economic conditions, supported the portfolio arrears rate of 1.5% delivered a strong performance in 2018, with no impairment as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 1.2%.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Segment Measure 31-Dec-2018 31-Dec-2017 Variance Commentary New origination average LTV New lending average LTV 70% 70% remained stable BTL SME Weighted average Interest Coverage Resulting from a higher proportion Ratio for new lending of five year products and a rising 171% 185% -14% base rate New origination average LTV Increase in new average LTV from 68% 65% 3% new product mix Residential lending Percentage of new residential lending with a loan to income LTI greater than 4.5 3.2% 3.2% Remained stable year on year Other key risk measures also performed strongly within the period: Capitalisation of interest: arrears are added to the loan Gross exposure to commercial lending grew to 547.8m balanceand are repaid over the remaining term of the facility through the year with a weighted average LTV of 66%.
or at maturity for interest only products.
A new payment is Gross exposure to residential development finance remains low calculated, which will be higher than the previous payment.
at 155.8m with a further 90.3m committed with a weighted Full or partial debt forgiveness: where considered appropriate, average LTV of 35.2%.
the Group will consider writing off part of the debt.
This may The Group has limited exposure to high LTV loans on properties occur where the borrower has an agreed sale and there will be a worth more than 2m.
In total only 6% of the Groups loan shortfall in the amount required to redeem the Groups charge, portfolio is secured on properties valued at greater than 2m in which case repayment of the shortfall may be agreed over with a LTV greater than 65%.
aperiod of time, subject to an affordability assessment or where possession has been taken by the Group, and on the Forbearance subsequent sale where there has been a shortfall loss.
Where borrowers experience financial difficulties which impacts their ability to service their financial commitments under the loan The Group aims to proactively identify and manage forborne agreement, forbearance may be used to achieve an outcome accounts, utilising external credit reference bureau information to which is mutually beneficial to both the borrower and the Bank.
analyse probability of default and customer indebtedness trends over time, feeding pre-arrears watch list reports.
Watch list cases By identifying borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties are in turn carefully monitored and managed as appropriate.
pre-arrears or in arrears, a consultative process is initiated to ascertain the underlying reasons and to establish the best course Further information regarding forbearance can be found in note 39 of action to enable the borrower to develop credible repayment to the financial statements.
plans and to see them through the period of financial stress.
Fair value of collateral methodology The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product The Group ensures that security valuations are reviewed on an and the customers status.
The various treatments considered for ongoing basis for accuracy and appropriateness.
Commercial customers are as follows: properties are subject to annual indexing, whereas residential Temporary switch to interest only: a temporary account properties are indexed against monthly house price index HPI change to assist customers through periods of financial data.
Where the Group identifies that an index is not representative, difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original a formal review is carried out by the Group Real Estate function to contractual payment.
Any arrears existing at the ensure that property valuations remain appropriate.
commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Interest rate reduction: the Group may, in certain The Group Real Estate function ensures that newly underwritten circumstances, where the borrower meets the required lending cases are written to appropriate valuations, where an eligibility criteria, transfer the mortgages to a lower independent assessment is carried out by an appointed, qualified contractual rate.
Where this is a formal contractual change surveyor accredited by RICS.
theborrower will be requested to obtain independent financial advice as part of the process.
Impairment performance Loan term extension: a permanent account change for Low arrears, sensible loan to values and growth in loans and customers in financial distress where the overall term of advances to customers resulted in the Group observing low themortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual impairment performance for the full year to 31 December 2018. monthly payment.
Payment holiday: a temporary account change to assist Since 1 January 2018, the Group has been calculating expected customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears credit loss provisions under an IFRS 9 approach, replacing the accrue at the original contractual payment.
Any arrears previous IAS 39 accounting standard.
existing at the commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Impairment losses totalled 8.1m during the full year to Voluntary assisted sale: a period of time is given to allow 31 December 2018 2017: 4.4m representing a loan loss ratio borrowers to sell the property and arrears accrue based on the of10bps 2017: 7bps.
During 2018, the Group made a number contractual payment.
ofenhancements to its IFRS 9 impairment approach, including Reduced monthly payments: a temporary arrangement for theimplementation of a new probability of default model, customers in financial distress.
For example, a short-term enhancements to the Groups definition of default, cure criteria arrangement to pay less than the contractual payment.
from stage 3 and the transfer criteria logic to move accounts Arrears continue to accrue based on the contractual payment.
48 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued At the point of adoption of the IFRS 9 accounting standard the problem loans.
As these loans move to write off, the provision Group utilised three macroeconomic scenarios upside, base and against the loans is released decreasing total book impairment.
downside within expected credit loss calculations.
Due to ongoing uncertainty relating to Brexit, the Board deemed it appropriate to Solvency risk implement a fourth disorderly no-deal Brexit scenario during The Bank has maintained an appropriate level and quality of capital December 2018, which increased the Groups provision to support its prudential requirements with sufficient contingency requirements.
to withstand a severe but plausible stress scenario.
The solvency risk appetite is based on a stacking approach, whereby the various Removing the impact of this additional Brexit scenario, the loan capital requirements Pillar 1, ICG, CRD IV buffers, Board and loss ratio would have been c. 6bps.
management buffers are incrementally aggregated as a percentage of available capital CET1 and total capital.
Loan losses across the Buy-to-Let SME segment increased during 2018, predominantly driven by the increased provision required Solvency risk is a function of balance sheet growth, profitability, post implementation of the Groups further downside disorderly access to capital markets and regulatory changes.
The Bank no-deal Brexit scenario.
In addition, individually assessed actively monitors all key drivers of solvency risk and takes prompt provisions raised against a small number of high exposure new action to maintain its solvency ratios at acceptable levels.
The arrears cases and legacy problem loans within the period prior Board and management also assess solvency when reviewing to resolution also contributed to the higher loan losses observed the Banks business plans and inorganic growth opportunities.
The Banks fully-loaded CET1 capital ratio under CRD IV remained Across the Residential segment the stable loan to value profile robust at 13.3% as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: and continued portfolio run down, predominantly driven by the 13.7%, demonstrating the strong organic capital generation run off of acquired and second charge originated mortgage capability of the business to support significant growth through portfolios, resulted in a lower loan loss ratio during the full year profitability.
The Bank had a total capital ratio of 15.8% and a to 31 December 2018, versus the full year 2017. leverage ratio of 5.9% as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 16.9% and 6.0% respectively.
The Group continues to closely monitor impairment coverage levels: Liquidity and funding risk Gross The Bank has a prudent approach to liquidity management carrying Incurred loss through maintaining sufficient liquidity resources to cover 1 At 31 December amount Provisions remaining Coverage cashflow imbalances and fluctuations in funding under both 2 2018 m m m ratio normal and stressed conditions arising from market-wide and Stage 1 8,286.8 4.3 0.05% Bank-specific events.
The Banks liquidity risk appetite has been Stage 2 436.8 5.6 1.28% calibrated to ensure that the Bank always operates above the Stage 3 POCI 281.6 11.8 7.2 6.75% minimum prudential requirements with sufficient contingency for Undrawn loan unexpected stresses, whilst actively minimising the risk of holding facilities 0.2 excessive liquidity which would adversely impact the financial efficiency of the business model.
Total 9,005.2 21.9 7.2 0.32% The Bank continues to attract new retail savers and retain existing At 1 January 2018 customers through loyalty-based product offerings.
post IFRS 9 transitional adjustment In 2018, the Bank actively managed its liquidity and funding profile within the confines of its risk appetite as set out in the Stage 1 6,782.5 7.8 0.12% Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
The Stage 2 292.4 2.3 0.79% Groups liquidity coverage ratio LCR at 224% remains well above Stage 3 POCI 252.7 15.1 7.9 9.10% risk appetite and regulatory minimums.
Undrawn loan facilities Market risk Total 7,327.6 25.2 7.9 0.45% The Bank proactively manages its risk profile in respect of adverse movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and At 1 January 2018 counterparty exposures.
The Bank accepts interest rate risk and IAS 39 basis risk as a consequence of structural mismatches between Total 7,327.6 21.6 7.9 0.40% fixed rate mortgage lending, sight and fixed term savings and the maintenance of a portfolio of high quality liquid assets.
Incurred loss is the expected loss of the portfolio at the point of acquisition and is rate exposure is mitigated on a continuous basis through portfolio offset against the modelled future cash flows to derive the effective interest rate diversification, reserve allocation and the use of financial for the book.
The incurred loss protection is therefore recognised over the life of the derivatives within limits set by ALCO and approved by the Board.
book against the unwind of any purchase discount or premium through interest income.
Incurred loss remaining is this protection reduced by the cumulative losses observed since acquisition.
Coverage ratio is the total provisions plus incurred losses remaining versus gross The PRA and FCA have continued to encourage banks to transition loans and advances.
away from using LIBOR as a benchmark in all operations before the end of 2021.
Throughout the UK banking sector LIBOR remains The total coverage ratio with respect to loans and advances to a key benchmark and for each market impacted, solutions to this customers reduced to 0.33% from 0.40% as at 31 December 2017 issue are progressing through various industry bodies.
0.45% post IFRS 9 transitional adjustment driven by the resolution of a number of significant individually assessed legacy Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 In 2018, OSB set up an internal working group comprised of all consistent manner.
Risk Champions are provided with appropriate ofthe key business lines that are involved with this change with support and training by the Operational Risk function.
strong oversight from the compliance and risk departments.
Riskassessments are currently underway to ensure this process Regulatory and compliance risk ismanaged in a measured and controlled manner.
The Bank is committed to the highest standards of regulatory conduct and aims to minimise breaches, financial costs and Interest rate risk reputational damage associated with non-compliance.
However, The Bank does not actively assume interest rate risk, does not given the growing scale and complexity of regulatory changes, execute client or speculative securities transactions for its own itis acknowledged that there may be isolated instances whereby account, and does not seek to take a significant directional the Banks interpretation and response to new regulatory interest rate position.
Limits have been set to allow management requirements reflects the Banks specific circumstances and to run occasional unhedged positions in response to balance itsdesire to get the best customer outcomes.
sheet dynamics and capital has been allocated for this.
Exposure The Bank has an established Compliance function which actively limits are calibrated in accordance with a  risk identifies, assesses and monitors adherence with current appetite, and are calibrated in proportion to available CET1 capital regulation and the impact of emerging regulation.
in order to accommodate balance sheet growth.
In order to minimise regulatory risk, OSB maintains a proactive The Group sets limits on the tenor and rate reset mismatches relationship with key regulators, engages with industry bodies between fixed rate assets and liabilities, including derivatives such as UK Finance, and seeks external advice from our auditors hedges, with exposure and risk appetite assessed with reference and or other third parties.
The Group also assesses the impact of to historic and potential stress scenarios cast atconsistent levels upstream regulation on OSB and the wider market in which we of modelled severity.
operate, and undertakes robust assurance assessments from Throughout 2018, the Bank managed its interest rate risk within the Risk and Compliance functions.
exposure within its risk appetite limits.
Conduct risk Basis risk The Bank considers its culture and behaviour in ensuring the fair Basis risk arises from assets and liabilities repricing with reference treatment of customers and in maintaining the integrity of the to different interest rate indices, including positions which market segments in which it operates to be a fundamental part reference variable market, policy and managed rates.
As with of its strategy and a key driver to sustainable profitability and structural interest rate risk, the Bank does not seek to take a growth.
OSB does not tolerate any systemic failure to deliver significant basis risk position, but maintains defined limits faircustomer outcomes.
On an isolated basis, incidents can result in detriment owing to As with structural interest rate risk, capital allocation has been human and or operational failures.
Where such incidents occur set in proportion to CET1 capital, with exposure assessed and they are thoroughly investigated, and the appropriate remedial monitored monthly across a range of business as usual and actions are taken to address any customer detriment and to stressed scenarios.
Throughout 2018, the Bank managed its basis risk exposure within OSB considers effective conduct risk management to be a product its risk appetite limits.
of the positive behaviour of all employees, influenced by the culture throughout the organisation and therefore continues Operational risk topromote a strong sense of awareness and accountability.
OSB continues to adopt a proactive approach to the management of operational risks.
The operational risk management framework Strategic and business risk has been designed to ensure a robust approach to the The Board has clearly articulated the Banks strategic vision and identification, measurement and mitigation of operational risks, business objectives supported by performance targets.
The Bank utilising a combination of both qualitative and quantitative does not intend to undertake any medium to long-term strategic evaluations in order to promote an environment of progressive actions, which would put at risk the Banks vision to become operational risk management.
The Groups operational processes, ourcustomers favourite bank: one that delivers its very best, systems and controls are designed to minimise disruption to challenges convention and opens doors that others cant.
customers, damage to the Banks reputation and any detrimental impact on financial performance.
The Bank actively promotes the To deliver against its strategic objectives and business plan, continual evolution of its operating environment through the the Bank has adopted a sustainable business model based on identification, evaluation and mitigation of risks, whilst recognising a focused approach to core niche market segments where its that the complete elimination of operational risk is not possible.
experience and capabilities give it a clear competitive advantage.
Where risks continue to exist, there are established processes The Bank remains highly focused on delivering against its core toprovide the appropriate levels of governance and oversight, strategic objectives and strengthening its position further through together with an alignment to the level of risk appetite stated strong and sustainable financial performance.
Reputational risk A strong culture of transparency and escalation has been Reputational risk can arise from a variety of sources and is a cultivated throughout the organisation, with the operational risk second order risk the crystallisation of a credit risk or operational function having a Group-wide remit, ensuring a risk management risk can lead to a reputational risk impact.
model that is well embedded and consistently applied.
In addition, a community of Risk Champions representing each The Bank monitors reputational risk through tracking media business line and location have been identified.
Operational Risk coverage, customer satisfaction scores, the share price and Champions ensure that the operational risk identification and netpromoter scores provided by brokers.
assessment processes are established across the Group in a 50 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OSBIndia a great place to work OSBIndia is an integral part of the Group.
The benefits of being a great place to We attract talented and dedicated workgo beyond providing a great service.
employees who provide leading service Another business benefit is that our both to the Banks customers and to the employee retention rates for 2018 are rest of the Group.
We were delighted to be class leading.
This has been confirmed certified as a Great place to work in 2018. andbenchmarked against the best in the We work hard to ensure our vision and industry.
Even against the biggest brands, values are embedded in everything we do we attract and retain great people, and this is reflected in the great culture makingus even more efficient.
