Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk Management In the intervening periods the risks ability of the business to deliver its Principal Risks associated with changes in either the short-term plans and medium and The Group recognises that the effective external environment or internal operations long-term strategy.
management of risk is key to achieving our are discussed as part of our ongoing The Executive Board and the Board objectives.
business reviews and are responded continue to focus on Strategic, People and to accordingly.
A Group-wide risk review process is in Financial risks.
For these, we disclose KPIs place which identifies the strategic and We also have well established compliance which we use to monitor the risk impact, operational risks that could impact teams: IT risks and security, who focus on and the rewards and incentives we apply to our business and determines the mitigating delivery of activity to mitigate our IT risks ensure effective management.
actions required to ensure that these risks and systems and data security: programme See strategic framework on page 8. are controlled to an acceptable level.
Our management office PMO who define agreed level of risk appetite, approved by the process and support management Our Operational risks are those that the the Board, guides the level of acceptable in delivering change activities, as well as Executive Board have agreed can be risk.
supporting the programmes governance managed by our people on a day-to-day process: and regional revenue recognition basis.
These are included within our risk Risk management is an integral part of compliance teams who ensure accurate registers and are reviewed by the Board on our business, forming part of our strategy reporting of our revenue worldwide.
review, our business plans and the delivery of our daily activity.
Our Internal Audit programme of activity The risks around cyber security and aligns the provision of assurance to the compliance with Data Protection legislation It is supported by risk registers that are controls that mitigate the principal risks are currently such exceptions which are maintained locally at country and process identified from this process.
reviewed at Board level on an ongoing level and consolidated twice a year.
then combined with a top-down review of Our risk management process categorises risks conducted with senior management.
our principal risks into Strategic, Financial, Our risk evaluation includes matters The summarised output is formally People and Operational.
relating to all our key stakeholders reviewed by the Executive Board and the and encompasses considerations of Within this process we assess all risks Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
governance, social, environmental and that could have a significant impact on the legal requirements.
Our Risk and Control Framework Risk and Control Framework Controls Functions Review Business Reviews Management Internal Control Checklists Policies and Procedures Executive Revenue Compliance Teams Board Risk Management Board Audit Committee IT Security Team and Group Financial Control Risk Registers Group Finance Audit Reports Internal Audit Quarterly Updates Group Governance Framework 29 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our growth model is organic, rolling out We maintain a strong sales driven, Risk appetite and the proven disciplines for brands to a meritocratic culture with a commitment net risk levels wide geographic spread.
We drive this to operating in an ethical, legal and by developing and promoting our people sustainable manner.
Recruitment is inherently cyclical and from within the business, ensuring provides limited forward visibility.
This We will always operate a conservative consistency of model and business makes it sensitive to the economic financial position with a strong culture across the Group.
environment and thus financially volatile, balance sheet, reflecting the degree creating a higher gross risk environment.
We continue to focus on the services of operational gearing inherent in we provide to our clients and candidates the business.
PageGroup operates in this environment ensuring quality engagements in a with a low risk appetite, seeking to This measured approach to taking manner that meets both their needs and mitigate its strategic risks, maintain risk ensures we are best placed for expectations and our targets for process a strong financial position and only success globally.
taking the operational risks it has the experience and capability to manage.
Shift in business model Transformation and change People, attraction, PageGroup brands Strategic People development and retention and reputation Risk Categories Information systems Cyber security Macro-economic Financial Operational Fiscal and legal compliance exposure Financial management and control Foreign exchange translation risk Data protection regulation Net risk level Intended improvements Unacceptable to take risk Higher willingness to take risk 2017 1.
Data protection regulation 18 Further planned improvements Risk appetite range PageGroup actual net risk assessment Strategic Report | 30
