Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Risks Actions to mitigate risk We actively monitor developments in new Our revenue attribution model built Shift in Business Model technologies and their use in the recruitment using Google Analytics and AI provides The emergence of new platforms sector.
data-driven ROI information addressing technology and providers offering HR online and offline conversions and spend solutions and consulting may lead to As well as our ongoing day-to-day allocations.
increased competition and pressure on interaction with clients and candidates, margins, which may adversely affect the we conduct formal surveys through Our highly trained and often specialist Groups results if it is unable to respond our Exact Target programme which we consultants maintain an extensive qualified effectively.
have standardised across the Group to candidate database which we use to understand how candidate and client needs resource candidates for our clients at an are developing.
overall cost that they cannot match.
We continue to develop Page Outsourcing We have established an innovation in response to Recruitment Process infrastructure with Executive Board Outsourcing RPOs and the expansion of governance and regional innovations groups internal recruitment functions.
These teams continually generate ideas that are evaluated and We partner with the large media providers, those that pass our criteria are developed such as LinkedIn and Facebook, to ensure and piloted using an externally managed that we use this form of media effectively to innovation lab.
enhance our value to clients.
All consultants are trained in utilising the benefits of social Our IT strategy and transformation initiative media in their day-to-day activity.
recognises the need for us to be able to act rapidly in rolling out enabling technologies.
We have established and resourced We have selected best-in-class software Transformation and change business change programmes for each of that has a global capability and can be The Group continues to invest in new our major initiatives.
Each has a dedicated rolled out to all our operating units.
These support management team working across all areas our capabilities to continue to deliver We have a Group Programme Management of the business to ensure effective planning appropriate services to our clients and Office PMO that supports our programme implementation and decision making.
candidates in a cost effective flexible management teams with policies and manner.
This change process brings We have a COO function that ensures processes to deliver programme change inherent risks of quality, cost and time.
effective governance of our programmes activities.
which are reviewed by our Executive Board Key programmes in the current process on a regular basis to ensure delivery to plan.
are our new Global Finance System, successfully delivered in the UK, US, We support our programmes with third party Middle East and Africa and Asia Pacific systems implementation expertise.
regions and our new Global Operating System which will be rolled out, starting in 2019.
We have programmes that gain feedback We have a programme of activity which PageGroup brands and services actively from our clients and candidates.
ensures that we communicate effectively The quality and relevance of service we We utilise Exact Target, an event-based the Page brands, keeping awareness high provide to both clients and candidates, survey, and have developed an event-based among current and potential clients and could have a significant impact on how approach of feedback gathering through the candidates.
We train our consultants to use new media As the way clients and candidates source We actively monitor media online through effectively, making the channels available to information changes, the awareness of Brandwatch to identify where there are them as part of their day-to-day activity.
the PageGroup brand and services of unusual references to the PageGroup, We have a comprehensive brand clients and candidates could deteriorate.
Michael Page, Page Personnel, Page management policy which includes key In the short-term, any event that could Executive and Page Outsourcing areas such as social media, data protection cause reputational damage is a risk to trademarks.
the Group, such as a failure to comply Our marketing strategy recognises the need We have in place a tested incident response with legislation, or other regulatory to engage with candidates and clients using process with clear escalation and activity requirements, or confidential data lost the latest media available in a way that guidelines to ensure any incidents are or stolen.
Use of new social media reflects changing behaviours.
network sites has increased the speed of ongoing surveys of clients and candidates communication and reach, increasing the We are supported by external advisers who to ensure that we understand their impact of an incident.
provide ongoing advice on the protection requirements and can adapt our processes and management of our brand.
31 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 People Actions to mitigate risk We continue to make significant training application rolled out across the People attraction, development investment in HR resources, adding Group.
and retention a Group Talent Director and business We have a talent, succession and PageGroup needs to hire, train and retain partners in each Region.
These all support development process that ensures a a large number of appropriately skilled our HR programmes, which are focused strong talent pipeline and addresses any people across the Group to achieve on addressing issues around attraction, gaps at senior management level.
We have Group-wide initiatives that The factors that motivate, encourage and We are also addressing issues such look to address the issues around enable individuals to perform to their best as work-life balance, flexible working, achieving diversity.
These are part of our have and will continue to evolve with an benefits schemes and equality that wider PageGroup programmes which emphasis on work-life balance, flexibility are seen to have a positive impact on combined ensure we have an open and the working environment.
Our programmes covering environment where working practices suit Diversity is a key enabler to any these areas have been rolled out across and encourage diversity in all its aspects.
A lack of diversity the Group.
We conduct exit interviews We conduct employee surveys.
This in our people will impact on the to ensure that we are aware of any helps us to see how our people view achievement of our objectives.
underlying issues that need to working at PageGroup and provides be addressed.
Our biggest challenge is to address feedback to address and focus on attrition levels during the first year of We have invested more in online learning improving.
capabilities, with BOOST!, our Global Financial Risks Actions to mitigate risk Macro-economic exposure We continue to diversify our business represents around a quarter of the Group, to mitigate this risk.
Firstly in terms of and we are seeing new temporary markets Recruitment activity is driven largely by geography, we have diversified away from start to emerge in places such as Asia economic cycles and levels of business our historical reliance on the UK.
We now and Latin America, where historically one confidence.
Businesses are less likely to operate in 36 countries and with 83% didnt exist due to cultural reasons.
The need new hires and employees are less of Group gross profit being generated temporary business tends to be more likely to move jobs when they do not have outside of the UK.
In the fourth quarter, resilient in times of economic downturn.
confidence in the market, thus leading to France also overtook the UK to become reduced recruitment activity.
We have also diversified by focusing on the largest single market in the Group.
the local, domestic markets in which we The majority of the Groups revenue arises We also look for opportunities to diversify operate.
When we first enter a market, from fees that are contingent upon the through the brands and disciplines in our brand awareness is stronger with successful placement of a candidate.
We have increased multinational clients.
We have particularly client cancels the assignment at any stage the number of disciplines we support, grown our domestic businesses in in the process, the Group receives and continue to roll these out through markets such as Mainland China and no remuneration.
Overall we Japan, giving us a more balanced The geopolitical tensions around trade have also reduced our dependence on portfolio, less sensitive to global macro tariffs between the US and China and Accounting and Financial Services, with economic trends.
the Wests relationships with North Korea 65.3% of Group gross profit now being We continue to focus on our costs continue to drive uncertainty into the generated from disciplines outside of structure, ensuring that is variable to global economy.
As well as our variable In the UK, as Brexit nears, the level of have established four brands to address operational staffing costs, principally uncertainty of the economic impact has the different levels of the recruitment bonus payments, our move to an IT increased.
market: the clerical professional sector: service based model, as well as our the qualified professional market: and the transition in to the Cloud, enhances this executive search sector.
Our regional Shared Service We have also diversified our offering Centre approach to support activities through the mix of permanent and gives us greater flexibility in resource temporary recruitment that we offer to reallocations.
Temporary recruitment now Foreign exchange translation We do not hedge our exposure to foreign We have a negligible amount of cross exchange translation risk, instead focusing border trading activity so the impact on The majority of the Groups operating on ensuring the market correctly adjusts transactions is limited.
profit is derived from operations outside for any impact.
of the UK, so material changes in the strength of Sterling against the Groups We repatriate profits and convert them to main functional currencies could have an Sterling to fund returns to shareholders.
adverse effect on the Groups reported Our Group Treasury function takes a Sterling profits in the financial statements.
proactive role in the management of our The main functional currencies in addition cash resources.
to Sterling are the Euro, Australian Dollar, Swiss Franc, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar and US Dollar.
Strategic Report | 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operational Risks Actions to mitigate risk Our core operating systems standards have We have invested in resource to support Information Systems been defined globally and under tight global vendor and asset management.
We have in Our systems are an integral part of our governance are delivered regionally.
We place service delivery contracts with our key operations.
A major loss of systems have standard platforms, procedures and vendors which include levels of resilience capability would have a high impact processes, which gives us a greater degree appropriate to the nature of our business.
on our performance, impacting the of resilience.
Our Global Service Delivery model enables quality of service we provide to clients We have a standard disaster recovery plan fast rollout of our piloted new services, and candidates and our financial appropriate for all regions with the option which is possible as we have standardised performance.
of transferring to a Cloud service for each our infrastructure and applications across Failure of our IT systems to adapt to of our services in the event of a disaster the Group.
Our Global Service Delivery levels of business activity could result with our core systems.
Our core finance model ensures these services operate in lost opportunities during periods of systems are in the process of migrating effectively and achieve the benefits planned rapid expansion or excessive costs onto a Cloud service.
Our IT transformation before they are deployed.
programme includes the migration of core IT The move to the delivery of IT as a services to third party providers on a SAAS flexible service increases our reliance on basis.
Activity can quickly and economically third party vendors for service delivery.
be scaled up or down with business Should one of these vendors fail we are requirements.
at risk of a service disruption.
We select vendors through a robust vendor Our systems must be able to adapt to selection process that ensures those chosen the evolving technologies around the have the ongoing capability to support Cloud to allow faster implementation of our business requirements effectively.
This innovation or we could miss business is reviewed and managed on an ongoing opportunities.
basis through our Service Delivery Team.
Our Central Procurement Team, in addition to supporting management in commercial negotiations, ensures that relationships with third party suppliers are appropriately defined and operationalised.
We have information security policies in Supplier contracts are negotiated and Cyber Security place for the management of confidential, reviewed to ensure data protection and Confidential, sensitive and personal sensitive and personal data.
Security IT security obligations are included as a data is held across the Group.
Failure risks are identified through a structured standard requirement.
to secure and handle this data properly process of assessment and a programme could expose the Group to loss of New IT projects and initiatives are reviewed of remediation activities is executed, business, financial penalties and or for security risk, to ensure new technologies with activities prioritised according to the reputational damage.
associated level of business risk.
Our flexible services IT model Security vulnerabilities are assessed We have a dedicated Global Information increases our reliance on third parties.
regularly and the remediation of identified Security team that ensures our information As a consequence, we also have an risks and alerts is tracked to conclusion.
This includes ensuring increased reliance on the third parties Regular security assurance checks take appropriate multi-layered protection at IT security to secure our confidential place across all regions and penetration network and system levels, and regular and sensitive data.
testing is undertaken by specialist third monitoring and third party testing of our parties.
We operate in an external environment capabilities.
The Information Security team The Board and Audit Committee reviews that is seeing an increase in, and comprises Security Operations, Security data security on a regular basis and receives sophistication of, cyber-attacks from Architecture and Information Security updates on the status of our security organised crime and nation states.
The team deals with IT programme.
addition, the increased use of social security matters, and works directly with media and digital communications We run an employee security awareness suppliers and key business stakeholders channels, as well as reliance on third programme which includes training and to ensure everyone across the business parties, Cloud computing and mobile security simulations.
protects the data of our Group, clients and data facilities, increase our exposure.
We have technical security protections in place that mitigate the risks posed by the use of modern communications media, Cloud services and mobile devices.
The threat landscape is under constant review to ensure our technology provides the right level of protection.
33 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational Risks Actions to mitigate risk The General Counsel & Company actions are being taken and appropriate Fiscal and legal compliance Secretary and local legal and compliance documentation is being maintained to The Group operates in a large number teams are advised by leading external meet local reporting and compliance of legal jurisdictions that have varying advisers, as required, with regard to requirements.
legal, tax and compliance requirements.
changes in legislation that affect the Any non-compliance with client contract The Group holds all normal business Groups business, including employment, requirements and legislation or regulatory insurance cover including employers legislation, tax and corporate governance.
requirements could have an adverse liability, public liability and professional effect on the Groups brands or financial Our staff receive induction training and indemnity insurance.
regular updates regarding the Groups Sales and procurement contracts include policies and procedures and compliance clauses to ensure the Groups rights are with relevant legislation covering for protected.
All non-standard contracts are example, discrimination legislation, antilegally reviewed and where appropriate bribery and corruption, sanctions and approved by senior management.
The Group continues to invest in systems The Group has central tax and treasury and processes to enable compliance functions, which manage the Groups with requirements as they evolve.
For cash and tax compliance.
example we have established processes The Group tax function regularly monitors to effectively manage the health and transfer pricing requirements and safety requirements in the placement of developments to ensure that appropriate temporary workers in Australia.
The Group has financial policies and efficiencies, enable more effective control Financial management procedures which are reviewed on a of activities through common processes and control regular basis.
Changes are approved by and segregation of control activities.
Failure to maintain adequate financial the Audit Committee.
The Finance structure mirrors and and management processes and Regional and local finance teams ensure supports local, regional and Group controls could lead to poor quality that Group reporting requirements adhere management structures.
management decisions, resulting in the to these policies as well as ensuring local Group not achieving its financial targets There are compliance teams located statutory requirements are met.
The Group or in errors in the Groups financial in each region that support the local, Finance function reviews submissions to reporting.
regional and Group management in ensure policies are adhered to.
ensuring revenues are appropriately Monthly management information is recognised.
produced that supports effective financial Internal Audit regularly review local and management.
regional financial controls and report on The Group operates regional shared the results to the Executive Board and the service centres which, as well as driving Audit Committee.
A GDPR Steering Committee was Regional Steering Teams have Data Protection Regulations created with responsibility for ensuring been established to ensure ongoing New European data protection the business has in place appropriate compliance as legislation in different legislation came into force in May 2018. processes to ensure compliance regions evolves.
Our other policies and This increased data governance and with the requirements of GDPR.
This processes, such as crisis management, management requirements significantly, Committee will continue to monitor change management, contracts, third as well as increasing the potential events and further developments in party service providers and HR and penalties for non-compliance or practice to ensure we effectively maintain payroll policies have all been updated to data breaches.
reflect the additional requirements from Legislation was also introduced in data protection legislation.
A Data Protection Office has been June 2017 in the Peoples Republic of created with resources at Group and China, which requires data of Chinese regional levels to ensure that processes citizens to be held and processed in continue to deliver compliance.
Similar to prior year Lower than prior year Increased since prior year The Boards view of direction of travel of gross risk: Strategic Report | 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties typically three years.
Our Strategic Vision profit is partially mitigated.
Going Concern provides a clear vision for the Group, aligns The scenarios were designed to be In adopting the going concern basis for the Group to one clear culture, provides severe, but plausible and were modelled preparing the financial statements for clarity on investment priorities, branding, individually and in combination.
In accounting purposes under International belief in achievable goals, and clarity on the each case, the Group remained viable Accounting Standard 1 Presentation goals for our financial vision.
However, it is considered of Financial Statements, the Directors extremely unlikely that this combination of The period over which we confirm have considered the business activities events would ever occur.
Controls are also longer-term viability of the Group as well as the principal risks in place, where possible, to mitigate and uncertainties as set out on pages Within the context of the above, in the impact of these scenarios and these 31 to 34.
Based on the Groups level accordance with provision C. 2.2 of are described on pages 31 to 34. of cash, the level of borrowing facilities the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Various events may also alert the Main and available, the geographical and discipline Governance Code, the Board has Executive Boards to a potential threat to diversification, the limited concentration assessed the viability of the Group.
viability for example, a drop in GDP in a risk, as well as the ability to manage the Given the inherent uncertainty involved, the particular country may lead to a reduction cost base, the Directors are satisfied that period over which the Directors consider it in gross profit growth rates.
the Group has adequate resources to possible to form a reasonable expectation continue in operational existence for the We consider that this stress testing based as to the Groups longer term viability is foreseeable future, being a period of at assessment of the Groups prospects is the three year period to 31 December least 12 months from the date of approval reasonable in the circumstances given the 2021.
This period has been selected as it of these accounts.
As a result, the going inherent uncertainty involved.
is short enough to present the Board and, concern basis continues to be appropriate therefore, users of the Annual Report with Confirmation of longer-term viability in preparing the financial statements.
a reasonable degree of confidence, while The Directors confirm that their assessment still providing an appropriate longer-term of the principal risks and uncertainties Viability Statement outlook.
While the Board has no reason to facing the Group was robust.
believe the Group will not be viable over Assessing the prospects of the a longer period, the Board has taken into Based upon the robust assessment of the Company account the short-term visibility inherent in principal risks and uncertainties facing the Our strategy and the key risks we face a recruitment business with a permanent Company and the stress testing based are described on pages 7 to 14 and 31 recruitment bias.
assessment of the Companys prospects, to 34.
A full business forecasting process all of which are described above, the Stress testing is performed on a quarterly basis, with a Directors have a reasonable expectation full budget for the following year created The forecasting and budgeting process that the Company will be able to continue during October and November, being is also supported by scenarios that in operation and meet its liabilities as they presented to the Board in December.
encompass a broad range of potential fall due over the period to 31 December The Board reviews the Groups strategy outcomes.
However, we operate in an and approves an annual Group budget.
to explore the resilience of the Group environment of limited visibility, dependent Performance is then monitored by the to the potential impact of the significant upon confidence in the global marketplace.
Board through the review of monthly risks as set out on pages 31 to 34, or a Further weakness in the macro-economic reports showing comparisons of results combination of those risks.
We considered outlook may cause us to adapt our strategy against budget, quarterly forecasts and the cyber incidents, disintermediation by way during the three-year period in response, prior year, with explanations provided for of innovation, changes in technology, leading to a re-evaluation of additional risks significant variances.
Discussion around movements in foreign exchange rates, involved which might impact the business strategy is undertaken by the Board in its and a global downturn.
normal course of business, as well as at an that, as in the past, as downside risks annual dedicated strategy day.
materialise our headcount will flex through natural attrition in line with the drop in gross We also prepare longer-term projections profit, such that the impact on operating which drive our Strategic Vision.
