Pantheon International Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Company is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
The Board, through delegation to the Audit Committee, has undertaken a robust assessment and review of the principal risks facing PIP, together with a review of any new risks that may have arisen during the year to 31 May 2018, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
A summary of the risk management and internal control processes can be found in the Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 72 and 73.
Risk Mitigation Funding of investment commitments and default risk In the normal course of its business, the Company typically has outstanding The Company has a mature portfolio that is naturally cash generative and commitments to private equity funds which are substantial relative to the does not ordinarily gear its balance sheet for the purpose of enhancing Companys assets and may be drawn down at any time.
The Board intends to manage the Company so that undrawn ability to meet these commitments is dependent upon it receiving cash commitments remain at an acceptable level relative to its assets and distributions the timing and amount of which can be unpredictable from available financing.
The total available financing as at 31 May 2018 stood 1 its private equity investments and, to the extent these are insufficient, at 309m, comprising 146m in available cash balances and 163m in on the availability of financing facilities.
As a result, the available financing along with the private equity portfolio exceeded the outstanding commitments by a factor of 3.6 times.
The Company ordinarily expects to finance the majority of calls from undrawn commitments out of distributions.
In the event that the levels of cash distributions and cash balances are insufficient to cover capital calls, the Company has the ability to draw funds from a credit facility see Gearing section on the following page for details of the credit facility.
Risks relating to investment opportunities There is no guarantee that the Company will find a sufficient number of In line with the Investment Policy shown on page 19, the Manager has put suitable investment opportunities, or that the private equity funds in which in place a dedicated investment management process that is designed to it invests will find suitable investment opportunities, in order to achieve the help maximise the chances of the Boards intended investment strategy level of diversification which the Company seeks to achieve in relation to its being achieved.
The Board regularly reviews investment and financial investment portfolio.
reports from the Manager to monitor the effectiveness of the Managers investment management process.
Financial risk of private equity The Company invests in private equity funds and unquoted companies, The Managers investment management process is designed to produce which are less readily marketable than quoted securities.
In addition, the best possible risk-adjusted returns from private equity investments.
such investments may carry a higher degree of risk than investments in Where the Company commits to private equity funds, such funds are quoted securities.
structured as limited life funds where the manager is incentivised to realise investments and return proceeds to investors within the funds limited life span.
As part of the investment process for secondaries and co-investments, an assessment is made to understand the possible impact of the underlying assets illiquidity on projected exit outcomes.
As part of the investment process for primaries, an assessment is made to understand a managers approach to underlying company illiquidity.
Longterm nature of private equity investments Private equity investments are long term in nature and it may take some The Company pursues a flexible investment strategy, combining years before they reach a level of maturity at which they can be realised.
secondary investments, which will typically have shorter exit horizons on Accordingly, it is possible that the Company may not receive a return on average, with co-investment and primary commitments.
Therefore, this its investments for a number of years.
flexible investment strategy results in a range of likely exit horizons for underlying investments, mitigating this risk.
1 Available cash calculated as cash and net current assets liabilities less undistributed net cash flows associated with the Asset Linked Note.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21 Risk Mitigation Valuation uncertainty When valuing its investments in private equity funds and unquoted companies In the case of the Companys investment in private equity funds, and publishing its NAV, the Company relies to a significant extent on the and direct investments managed by private equity managers, the valuation accuracy of financial and other information provided by these funds and of investments is based on the periodically audited valuations that companies to the Manager.
There is the potential for inconsistency in the are provided by the private equity managers.
Pantheon carries out a valuation methods adopted by the managers of these funds and companies.
formal valuation process involving a monthly review of these valuations, In addition, the information provided is typically more than 60 days old at the verification of the latest audited reports coverage, as well as a review of time the Companys NAV per share is reported.
any potential adjustments that are required to ensure reasonable valuation of the underlying investments and in accordance with the fair market value principles required under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
Gearing The use of gearing could cause the magnification of both gains and losses in While debt is commonly used within the capital structure of private equity the asset value of the Company.
The Company may also invest in private equity funds portfolio investments, it is not commonly used at the fund level funds or unquoted companies which are geared by loan facilities that rank other than for working capital purposes.
Thus, leverage risk is typically ahead of the Companys investment both for payment of interest and capital.
non-recourse between portfolio companies operating independently As a consequence, the Company may be exposed from time to time to gearing within the same portfolio.
through the borrowings of such private equity funds and companies, thereby The Company renewed its revolving credit facility after the year-end.
The new 175m facility is due to expire in June 2022, and is comprised of facilities of $163.0m and 59.8m which remained completely undrawn at the time of writing.
The principal covenant that applies to the loan facility ensures that the Company is limited to a maximum gearing of 34% of adjusted gross asset value.
Foreign currency risk The Company makes investments in US dollars, euros and other currencies The Manager monitors the Companys underlying foreign exchange as well as sterling.
Accordingly, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in exposure and seeks to balance the risks associated with holding currency exchange rates.
different currencies through diversification and cost-averaging effects.
Furthermore, as part of the investment management process, the Manager will assess the risk return of a specific investment, taking into consideration the currency denomination of the investment and the opportunity to mitigate currency risk.
However, foreign currency risk tends to be a less significant factor over longer investment horizons.
Unregulated nature of underlying investments The private equity funds and underlying unquoted investments that form the The Managers investment management process for primary and basis of the majority of the Companys portfolio are not necessarily subject secondary investments requires verification of the regulatory jurisdiction to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA or an equivalent of underlying funds.
In addition, the managers of the underlying funds are regulatory body.
Funds and unquoted companies in which the Company mostly regulated by the FCA, US Securities and Exchange Commission invests directly or indirectly may be domiciled in jurisdictions which do SEC, or an equivalent body in the managers respective jurisdictions.
not have a regulatory regime that provides an equivalent level of investor protection to that provided under the laws of the United Kingdom.
Pantheon International Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Counterparty risk PIPs investments in private equity funds typically include a portion of undrawn This is a rare occurrence given the damaging economic and reputational commitments.
Investors in such funds are contractually obliged to fund consequences for a defaulting investor, and given the typically high undrawn commitments as they are called.
It is possible that another investor in credit ratings for institutional private equity investors, which comprise a the target fund is unable or unwilling to meet future capital calls.
In this considerable proportion of the capital being invested in the private scenario the defaulting investor would have the option of selling its position in equity fund market.
In addition, the secondary market has become the secondary market, or suffering various penalties prescribed under the increasingly liquid and an investor has the option to sell its position funds constitutional documentation.
During a funds investment period, a before it might default on its future undrawn commitments.
The majority default could have a potential impact on the shape of the remaining investors of PIPs investments are funded positions, where an investors forfeit of investment including, for example, an increase in portfolio concentration, existing NAV would mitigate the potential impact on the shape of the which is different to the concentration that the manager had initially envisaged remaining portfolio.
To the extent that a defaulting investor does not sell its position, and the default occurs after the funds investment period, the manager may have to limit the amount invested in follow-on investments for existing companies or potentially leave the fund unable to meet a contractual liability such that the manager has to sell existing portfolio companies.
Taxation Any change in the Companys tax status, or in taxation legislation or practice, The Managers investment management process incorporates an could affect the value of the investments and the Companys performance.
assessment of the tax impact of each primary or secondary fund investment, In addition, the Companys income and gains from its investments may suffer or co-investment that is purchased.
For every investment, the Manager withholding tax, which may not be reclaimable in the countries where such also reviews the appropriateness of an investments legal structure and income and gains arise.
any action required, including the establishment of special purpose, and or blocker vehicles, to tailor an investments structure to minimise the potential tax impact on the Company.
The Manager and other third party advisers Like most investment trust companies, the Company has no employees The Board keeps the performance of the Manager under continual review.
and the Directors are all non-executive.
The Company is dependent upon the In addition, the Management Agreement is subject to a notice period of services of Pantheon as its Manager and may be adversely affected if the two years that is designed to provide the Board with adequate time to put services of Pantheon cease to be available to the Company.
in place alternative arrangements in the event the services of Pantheon cease to be available.
Brexit The UK has voted to leave the EU and, depending on what arrangements might Following the UKs decision to leave the EU, the Manager, through a be negotiated, there are likely to be consequences for the Company, and for the dedicated working group, has been monitoring policy developments wider Pantheon organisation as a whole.
Uncertainty about the Brexit process and reviewing aspects of the Companys business that rely on pan-EU may result in some market and currency volatility, which may adversely impact arrangements.
Pantheon will open an office in Dublin, ensuring that returns.
In addition, given a significant proportion of UK financial services Brexit will have a minimal impact on Pantheon Groups ability to operate legislation, such as the AIFMD, the Prospectus Directive and Regulation and in Europe.
MiFIDII MiFIR, is derived from EU law, assuming the UK does not accede to the EEA Agreement or negotiate an equivalent arrangement, the Companys continued ability to market its shares to European investors may be at risk.
Cybersecurity The Company is dependent on effective information technology systems.
Pantheon has a robust information and cybersecurity programme in place, These systems support key business functions and are an important means aligned with SANS20 controls and the NIST cybersecurity framework.
Any significant disruption to these This includes a comprehensive set of policies, standards, procedures IT systems, including breaches of data confidentiality or cybersecurity, and technology related to information security.
Third-party cybersecurity could result in, among other things, financial losses, the inability to oversight is administered by means of a comprehensive cybersecurity perform business critical functions, regulatory censure, legal liability and questionnaire which must be completed by vendors and then reviewed reputational damage.
and approved by the Chief Information Security Officer prior to any engagement.
Validation of Pantheons own information and cybersecurity solutions is tested annually by means of a full penetration test, including phishing expeditions by accredited third party cybersecurity specialists.
The findings of these tests are reported to both the Pantheon Operational Risk Committee and Pantheon Operating Committee.
In addition, a company-wide cybersecurity awareness training programme has been put into place for all staff.
Over the past 12 months the Company has not experienced any material breaches in respect of information or cybersecurity.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 Commitments to new funds are restricted Retail investors advised relative to the Companys assets and its by IFAs available liquid financial resources so as to maintain a reasonable expectation of being The Company currently conducts its affairs able to finance the calls, which arise from so that its shares can be recommended such commitments, out of cash flow that by independent financial advisers to retail is generated internally.
In addition, the private investors in accordance with the Company has put in place a revolving credit FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream facility to ensure that it is in a position to investment products.
finance such calls in the event that The shares are excluded from the FCAs distributions received from investments in restrictions which apply to non-mainstream the period are insufficient to finance calls.
investment products because they are The Board reviews the Companys financing shares in a UK-listed investment trust.
arrangements at least quarterly to ensure that the Company is in a strong position to finance all outstanding commitments on Viability statement existing investments as well as being able Pursuant to provision C. 2.2 of the UK to finance new investments.
Corporate Governance Code 2016, the In reviewing the Companys viability, the Board has assessed the viability of the Board has considered the Companys Company over a three year period from position with reference to its business 31 May 2018.
It has chosen this period as model, its business objectives, the principal it falls within the Boards strategic planning risks and uncertainties as detailed on pages horizon.
The Company invests in an 20 to 22 of this report and of its present and internationally diversified portfolio of expected financial position.
In addition, the private equity assets, both through funds Board has also considered the Companys and by co-investing directly into conservative approach to balance sheet companies alongside selected private management, which allows it to take equity managers.
The Company advantage of significant investment invests significantly in the private opportunities, and the appropriateness equity secondaries market as this of the Companys current investment allows the Company to maintain a more objectives in the prevailing investment mature portfolio profile that is naturally market and environment.
The Board cash-generative in any particular year.
regularly reviews the prospects for the Companys portfolio and the opportunities for new investment under a range of potential scenarios to ensure it can expect to be able to continue to finance its activities for the medium-term future.
Based on its review, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period.
On behalf of the Board Sir Laurie Magnus 7 August 2018
