B6 RISK MANAGEMENT B6.1 Risk and Compliance Committ ee Chairmans Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to write to you again as Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee to explain how we Finlay Williamson as a committee have discharged our responsibilities in the last year.
Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Following the major corporate restructuring in 2017, the decision was taken to combine the meetings of Committee the previously separate Bank and Group Risk and Compliance Committees for practical reasons and all required changes arising from this were fully embedded early in the year.
I am pleased to report that this has resulted in a simpler and more effective governance structure.
As a Committee, our primary responsibility has continued to be the maintenance of oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with its statutory and regulatory obligations.
The Committee also oversees the risk culture within the Group to ensure that this is adequately embedded and is supportive of the overall risk appetite set by the Board.
The Committee has maintained an agenda that has balanced standing review items with coverage of new or materially heightened risks and deeper dives into areas considered worthy of greater focus.
Standing items covered in each meeting have included: Reviews of the principal risks facing the Group Consideration of new or emerging risks Consideration of the potential impact of key regulatory developments Consideration and challenge of managements rating of the various risk categories to which the Group is exposed Consideration of the root causes and impact of material risk events and the adequacy of actions undertaken by management to address them PAGE 112 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts In addition, during the last year, the Committee: Reviewed the Groups risk appetite to ensure it remained consistent with the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, proposing any required changes to the Board Considered regular focussed reviews of key risk areas including credit risk, capital risk, liquidity and market risk and conduct risk Considered reviews on specific areas of focus including cyber security and operational resilience Reviewed, challenged and approved the Management Responsibilities Map Monitored the management of any residual transition risk following the Groups corporate reorganisation Reviewed, challenged and approved the terms of reference of each of the executive risk committees Monitored developments in the buy-to-let market in light of the implementation of regulatory changes in 2017 Reviewed challenged and approved the Compliance Monitoring Plan the Compliance Plan and subsequent updates to the Compliance Plan Reviewed challenged and approved the Money Laundering Reporting Officers annual report Considered and challenged reports in relation to ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP recommending approval to the Board Monitored and reviewed progress in the development of policies and procedures to enable the Group to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation Monitored and reviewed the potential impacts on the Group of the UKs decision to withdraw from the EU Monitored progress with regard to the Groups strategic decision to seek regulatory approval to enhance credit risk management by implementing an IRB approach Challenged and approved various key risk policies During the coming year, the Committees priorities will include: Reviewing the Groups risk appetite to ensure it remains consistent with delivery of the Groups strategic objectives and proposing any required changes in risk appetites to the Board Continuing to review the potential impacts on the Group of the UKs decision to withdraw from the EU as details of the terms of exit and the basis of the future relationship become clearer Reviewing the management of any residual transition risk following the Groups acquisition of the Titlestone development finance business Reviewing and challenging the Groups submissions to the PRA, ahead of approval by the Board, in relation to its strategic decision to seek regulatory approval to implement an IRB approach for credit risk Reviewing and challenging reports in relation to ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP ahead of approval by the Board Monitoring the Groups adherence to the FCA and PRA requirements in relation to the Senior Managers and Certification Regimes as they are expanded across the financial services sector Monitoring the impact on the Group of proposals to replace LIBOR as the primary sterling interest rate benchmark Undertaking deep dives in relation to specific risk categories and business areas on both a rolling and ad hoc basis Overall, I am pleased to confirm that in the last year the Committee has again, in my view, met its key objectives and carried out its role effectively.
As I look to the year ahead, it is clear that the economic, political and regulatory environment within which the Group operates will remain challenging.
In particular, the level of uncertainty surrounding the basis of the UKs departure from the EU in March 2019 and the status of its future trading relationships remains extremely unclear.
Whilst I remain confident that the Group has the skills and experience to manage the risks it is likely to encounter in the year ahead, we remain vigilant to the need to reinforce these should circumstances change materially.
Finlay Williamson Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee 21 November 2018 PAGE 113 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B6.2 Risk governance The Risk and Compliance Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for risk management and comprises the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference, which were reviewed and approved by the Board in October 2018, include all matters indicated by the Code.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing: The effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the extent to which risks inherent in the Groups business activities are controlled within the risk appetite established by the Board The effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations, as well as its obligations under significant contracts The oversight of the timely completion of any remedial actions found to be necessary The appropriateness of the Groups risk culture, to ensure it supports the Groups stated risk appetite The effectiveness of the Group in addressing issues requiring remedial attention to ensure actions are completed in a timely manner and minimise the potential for risk appetite thresholds to be exceeded The Risk and Compliance Committee provides oversight and challenge to the Groups enterprise-wide risk management arrangements.
The Committee is supported by an executive level Asset and Liability Committee, Conduct and Compliance Committee, Credit Committee, Model Risk Committee and Operational Risk Committee.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and normally invites the executive directors, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chief Operating Officer and Internal Audit Director to attend its meetings.
However, it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw or to request the attendance of any other Group employee.
The Committee meets with the CRO at least once a year, without the presence of executive management, to discuss his remit and any issues arising from it.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet with the Internal Audit Director and or the external auditor without the presence of executive management to discuss any matters that any of these parties believe should be discussed privately.
Agenda items for regular meetings of the Committee include: Reviewing the Groups principal risks Receiving and considering reports relating to the Groups consolidated risk profile Receiving and considering reports relating to the Groups performance against the Boards risk appetite and the progress of any resulting management actions to restore performance within approved target ranges Reviewing any proposed material changes to the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board Reviewing and approving the Compliance Plan and the proposed management actions to address any adverse reports Receiving reports relating to key regulatory developments affecting the Group Reviewing the Groups conduct strategy and receiving reports from management on conduct risk Receiving reports from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on compliance with Anti Money Laundering requirements Reviewing material operational risk events to assess the effectiveness of the Group risk and control assessment framework Reviewing the timeliness, effectiveness and progress of any executive management actions required to remediate issues identified Reviewing the Groups capital and liquidity adequacy assessments and stress testing analysis Considering the minutes of its executive sub-committees PAGE 114 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The structure of the executive committees reporting to the Committee and their reporting lines is illustrated below: Risk and Compliance Committee RCC Asset and Conduct and Liability Compliance Credit Model Risk Operational Risk Committee ALCO Committee CCC Committee Committee MRC Committee ORC Each of the executive committees operates within terms of reference formally approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The primary functions of each of these committees are described below.
Asset and Liability Committee ALCO ALCO comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the CFO.
The principal purpose of ALCO is to monitor and review the financial risk management of the Groups balance sheet.
As such, it is responsible for overseeing all aspects of market risk, liquidity risk and capital management as well as the treasury control framework.
ALCO operates within clearly delegated authorities, monitoring exposures and providing recommendations on actions required.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to risk appetites to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Conduct and Compliance Committee CCC The CCC comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the Deputy CRO.
The CCC is responsible for overseeing the Groups conduct risk and compliance arrangements.
The Committee considers conduct risk information such as details of conduct breaches: systems and procedure for delivering fair outcomes to customers: the product governance framework: monitoring reports: and employee incentive schemes.
It also considers product reviews from a customer perspective.
With respect to compliance, the CCC is responsible for overseeing the maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet conduct related regulatory obligations.
It is also responsible for reviewing the quality, adequacy, resources, scope and nature of the work of the Compliance function, including the annual Compliance Plan.
Credit Committee The Credit Committee comprises senior managers from the risk, finance and collections functions and is chaired by the CRO.
The Credit Committee approves credit risk policies and defines risk grading and underwriting criteria for the Group.
It also provides guidance and makes recommendations in order to implement the Groups strategic plans for credit.
The committee oversees the management of the credit portfolios, the post origination risk management processes and the management of past due or impaired credit accounts.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to the credit risk appetites to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Committee also operates the Groups most senior lending mandate.
Model Risk Committee MRC The MRC comprises senior managers from risk, finance and the main business areas and is chaired by the CRO.
The role of the MRC is to review and make recommendations on all material aspects of the rating and estimation processes in relation to key credit and finance models.
Operational Risk Committee ORC The ORC comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the CRO.
The ORC is responsible for overseeing the Groups operational risk and business risk management arrangements, including those systems and controls intended to counter the risk that the Group might be used to further financial crime.
The Committee considers key operational risk information such as key risk indicators, themes within risk registers, emerging risks, loss events, control failures, and operational resilience measures.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
PAGE 115 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B6.3 Risk management culture The Board is committed to maintaining an effective risk management framework that is consistent and commensurate with the nature, complexity and risk profile of the business and is responsive to both internal and external events.
The Groups inherently risk-averse approach to its business is expressed through the culture promoted by the Board and senior management.
This has resulted in historically low levels of credit and operational losses and the absence of any material conduct issues affecting customers.
The Group aims to help its customers by offering financial options which meet individual needs and achieve fair customer outcomes in a well-controlled environment.
The following risk principles are designed to support and protect the Groups strategic goals: Risk management is used to protect the Groups customers, shareholders, creditors and its reputation The fair treatment of customers and the delivery of fair outcomes, particularly for those customers considered to be vulnerable, is central to the Groups risk management approach The Group encourages a risk culture that has robust risk management at the heart of all decision-making within an open and transparent environment The Group only carries out business where the potential risk to itself and its customers has been considered together with the potential reward and where the residual risk exposure is within its defined risk appetite The Group utilises appropriate risk management processes to ensure that risks are identified, assessed, prioritised and managed in a consistent way Appropriate, timely and accurate risk management information is maintained and developed to support business decisions and to ensure the Group operates within its agreed risk appetite An independent Risk and Compliance function provides an effective second line oversight capability together with a source of specialist support and advice for business areas in relation to the management of risk.
B6.4 Risk management framework Introduction The Groups risk management framework is designed to enable management to identify and focus attention on the risks most significant to its objectives and to provide an early warning of events that put those objectives at risk.
The framework includes: The Risk and Compliance Committee and its sub-committees as described in B6.2 A suite of risk policies, which include policies addressing: o Conduct risk including dealing with vulnerable customers and handling complaints o Credit risk o Treasury risk o Operational risk o Data protection o Information security o Health and safety o Business continuity o Anti-money laundering o Anti-bribery and corruption o Market abuse o Whistleblowing o Conflicts of interest PAGE 116 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Dedicated teams within the Risk and Compliance function covering particular risk areas, as described below Risk Champions appointed within all business areas to support the embedding of an effective risk culture across the Group A well-established and experienced Internal Audit function, supported by ongoing co-source arrangements with external providers when specific specialist skills are required Three lines of defence model The committee structures outlined above form the cornerstone for the governance of risk in a management framework organised within a three lines of defence model as follows: The first line of defence, comprising executive directors, managers and employees, holds primary responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control processes The second line of defence is provided by the Risk and Compliance function which is responsible for providing risk oversight and guidance to the first line.
The function is overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee and its supporting executive committees The third line of defence is provided by the Internal Audit function which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the first and second lines of defence.
This function is overseen by the Audit Committee In addition, there are further external levels of control that complement the three internal layers, provided by the external audit process and the monitoring activities of regulatory bodies.
The way in which the three lines of defence model aligns with the wider governance framework is illustrated below: BOARD Risk and Compliance Committee Executive Audit Committee Committee Operational Asset and Credit Risk Liability Committee Committee Committee Conduct and Compliance Model Risk Committee Committee st nd rd 1 Line 2 Line 3 Line Business Risk Management Risk Function Oversight Internal Audit Independent Assurance The risk management framework is intended to provide a structured and disciplined approach to the management of risk within agreed appetites thereby supporting the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The key objectives of the risk management framework are to: Establish standards for the consistent identification, measurement, monitoring, management and reporting of risk exposure and loss experience Outline the approach that will be taken in respect of setting and defining risk appetite and risk tolerances Promote risk management and the proactive reduction of the frequency and severity of risk events Facilitate adherence to regulatory requirements, including threshold conditions, capital standards and to support the regulatory requirements associated with the ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP Provide senior management and relevant committees with risk reporting that will be relevant and appropriate, enabling timely action to be taken in response to the information included within these reports Promote an appropriate risk culture across the Group The Group publishes further information on its risk management system and risk profile in its Pillar III report, which can be found on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
PAGE 117 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Risk management function The Groups Risk and Compliance function is headed by the CRO, who reports directly to the CEO.
The key responsibilities of the CRO are to: Develop and maintain the risk management framework covering all areas of the Group Develop and maintain risk policies within that framework, ensuring these are consistent with the Boards risk appetite Ensure that risks generated by the business are measured, monitored, controlled and reported on a timely basis Ensure compliance with all new and existing regulatory requirements Maintain open and constructive engagement with the regulatory authorities The CRO is also responsible for the effective day-to-day running of the Risk and Compliance function and its relationship with the Board, its committees and senior management as well as for championing the Groups risk culture, providing support and advice to employees in the discharge of their risk responsibilities.
Following the major corporate restructuring in the previous year, the consolidation of the previously separate Group and Bank functions has been completed to good effect.
During the course of the year additional focus and resource has been given to ensuring the structure and resources within the Risk and Compliance function are sufficient to meet the requirements of the restructured Group.
The current function includes the following dedicated specialist second line areas which ultimately report to the CRO: Credit Risk Liquidity and Market Risk Compliance Operational Risk IT and Cyber Security Risk Data Protection Property Risk Financial Crime IRB Development PAGE 118 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B6.5 Principal risks and mitigation The Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties that arise from the operation of its business model and strategy.
A summary of those risks and uncertainties which could prevent the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives, how the Group seeks to mitigate those risks and the change in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are described below.
These risks are discussed in more granular detail in the Groups Pillar III report, published on the Group website.
This analysis represents the Groups gross risk position as presented to, and discussed by, the Risk and Compliance Committee as part of its ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk profile.
This summary should not be regarded as a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties faced by the Group but rather those which the Group believes have the potential to have a significant impact on its financial performance and future prospects.
To identify and control the risks to which it is exposed, the Group employs a risk management framework.
As part of this framework, principal risks are identified and assessed within the key categories of Business Risk, Credit Risk, Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Liquidity and Capital Risk, Market Risk, and Pension Obligation Risk.
The changes in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are indicated using the symbols shown below: Risk Increasing Risk Decreasing Risk Stable BUSINESS RISK Economic risk Description Mitigation The potential for a deterioration in the UKs The Group closely monitors economic developments in the UK and overseas, with economic conditions is harder to forecast given support from leading independent macro-economic advisors.
This information the continuing material uncertainties as to the supports the senior managements review of objectives each year and helps inform terms on which the UK will leave the EU in business plans for each of the Groups principal trading operations.
As a lender and acquirer of credit portfolios, exposure to any material deterioration Given that its income is wholly derived from in economic conditions is inevitable.
The Boards defined strategy is to limit this risk activities within the UK, the Group could be by operating as a specialist lender in carefully chosen markets where its employees materially affected by a severe downturn in the have significant levels of experience and expertise.
UK economy, which could reduce demand for the The Group also uses stress testing to assess its expected performance under Groups loan products, increase the number of a range of operating conditions.
This provides the Board with an informed customers that default on their loans and cause understanding and appreciation of the Groups capacity to withstand shocks of security asset values to fall.
In addition to considering the credit implications of such economic stress, the board also considers the operational and liquidity implications of such scenarios, which would include the potential to increase liquidity coverage ratios, access contingent liquidity and further strengthen key risk and servicing functions as and when required.
Change Whilst UK economic performance has again been broadly stable in the last financial year, the near-term outlook has continued to remain uncertain given a lack of clarity as to the basis of the UKs withdrawal from and future relationship with the EU.
This continuing uncertainty has led to the overall risk assessment being considered to have increased further in the last year.
PAGE 119 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS RISK Concentration risk Description Mitigation Lending to customers investing in the UK private The Group has a very deep understanding of the private rented sector built up over rented sector forms a substantial part of the many years of successful operations in the buy-to-let market.
This includes a long Groups advances and assets.
history of performance data through several economic cycles together with regular independently conducted research commissioned over many years.
It is therefore exposed to any systemic deterioration in performance of the sector, which The Group seeks to use this expertise constructively by playing an active role in will be influenced by underlying factors such shaping the development of policy for the private rented sector.
as house prices, supply of rental property, and Given its specialist knowledge of the sector and its historically prudent approach to demographic changes.
underwriting, the Group has been well placed to respond effectively to the various The buy-to-let sector has been subject to a high regulatory changes introduced in recent years in relation to buy-to-let lending.
level of fiscal and regulatory intervention in recent The Group also continues to exploit opportunities to diversify the range of its years, where such changes make buy-to-let less activities and income streams, such as the acquisitions of the Iceberg and Titlestone attractive or viable to customers businesses, the businesses in the year.
This is consistent with its strategic objective of operating as a Group is exposed to adverse consequences.
prudent, risk focussed specialist lender that delivers fair outcomes for its customers.
Change The Group continues to have significant exposure to buy-to-let lending but, due to its specialist knowledge of the sector, it has been able to respond positively to recent regulatory changes.
In the longer term, changes to the UK taxation regime and greater regulatory intervention in the sector may reduce demand and availability of buy-to-let lending products.
However, the Group continues to be confident in its ability to operate successfully in this evolving environment.
Transition risk Description Mitigation Any failure to manage effectively the transition The Boards M&A strategy is that the Group will only consider acquisitions in areas of and implementation risks resulting from material business that it understands, and which are complementary to its existing activities.
corporate acquisitions such as those of Iceberg Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence is always undertaken with support from and Titlestone in the last financial year could respected, high quality advisors.
Formal governance arrangements are applied to any impact adversely on the Groups financial proposed acquisition and to subsequent integration projects, with regular progress performance and its reputation.
reporting to the executive team and the Board.
Where necessary, enhancements are made to the risk and control frameworks of acquired businesses to ensure these are aligned to those within the wider Group.
Change Whilst acquisition of new businesses inevitably creates the potential for greater transition risk, the integration of the Iceberg and Titlestone businesses has progressed entirely satisfactorily.
The Group remains confident that any residual risks in this area can be managed effectively.
PAGE 120 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts CREDIT RISK Customer risk Description Mitigation Failure to screen potential borrowers, underwrite The Group has comprehensive policies in place that set out detailed criteria which and manage repayments effectively could expose must be met before loans are approved.
the Group to the risk of unexpected material Credit policies incorporate limits for concentration risks arising from factors such as losses.
large exposures to counterparties, geographical areas or types of lending.
Recoverable amounts on loans may also be The Group uses a range of sources to inform expectations of key external factors affected by adverse movements in security values such as interest rate movements, house price inflation, property rental inflation and such as house and commercial asset prices.
asset depreciation which are in turn used to guide policy and underwriting.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are further described in note 9 to the Group Accounts.
Change The Groups impairment rate has remained very low, reflecting the maintenance of robust, proven credit disciplines, generally stable economic conditions and the credit quality of its borrowers.
The potential for any credit deterioration due to changing economic conditions, particularly given current uncertainties regarding the UKs future relationship with the EU, is being monitored closely across all Group portfolios.
Counterparty risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the failure of The Group has a strictly controlled number of approved treasury counterparties.
To counterparties with which it places deposits or be approved, counterparties must meet specific credit rating criteria.
which provide hedging agreements to mitigate Exposure to approved counterparties is monitored intra-day by senior management interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
within the Groups Treasury function with all trading performed within approved limits.
The credit quality of all treasury counterparties and the Groups exposure to them is reported monthly to ALCO.
Treasury counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, they must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a counterparty to the Groups cross-currency basis swaps fails to meet the required credit criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
Change The credit quality of the treasury counterparties, with whom the Group transacts has been maintained during the year and this risk is therefore considered to have remained stable.
PAGE 121 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts CONDUCT RISK Customer fair outcomes Description Mitigation The Group provides a broad range of financial The Group has a formal Conduct Risk Management framework which includes services products across a number of brands to a number of detailed policies and standards addressing the fair treatment of consumers and small business customers.
At the centre of these is the Conduct Risk Policy, underpinned by additional policies and standards.
This sets out the Groups overarching approach As a result, the Group is exposed to potential to the management of conduct risk as part of a framework within which business conduct risk should it fail to deliver fair outcomes areas are required to develop systems and processes to identify, measure, manage, for its customers.
monitor and report risks in accordance with stated risk appetites.
Systemic poor customer treatment may lead to The management of conduct risk within the Group is tailored to the specific product regulatory censure, reputational damage and and customer type concerned.
Business areas dealing with consumers have resulting reductions in profitability.
dedicated quality and control teams which validate process adherence and the delivery of fair treatment for customers.
This may also include a dedicated customer support team to manage customers deemed to be vulnerable.
During the last financial year, the Group has further strengthened its governance in relation to conduct risk by the introduction of a dedicated Conduct and Compliance Committee CCC.
The CCC has a remit which includes overseeing the fair treatment of customers.
The CCC also receives items for review and or approval, such as product governance submissions, conduct risk related policies and standards, business area incentive schemes, compliance monitoring outputs and regulatory communications.
The Compliance function has a formal monitoring plan which is focussed on conduct risk and the fair treatment of customers, particularly those that are defined as vulnerable, or in financial difficulty.
The plan is reviewed and approved on at least an annual basis by the RCC.
Management actions to address any adverse compliance monitoring or Internal Audit reports are overseen at the CCC, ORC and RCC.
The Groups approach to employee remuneration means that very few staff are included in financial incentive schemes.
All schemes are required to be approved by the CCC before implementation and then reviewed by the CCC at least annually.
Change The Group operates in areas which are highly regulated and where continuing changes to the regulatory conduct landscape heighten the potential risk of financial losses or censure.
In response to this, the Group has continued to develop and embed its conduct risk management framework during the year.
PAGE 122 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONAL RISK People risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that it is unable The Group manages and controls its key person dependency risk through effective to recruit and retain skilled senior management succession planning, recruitment, development and retention strategies.
and key personnel at all levels.
External remuneration and reward structures are monitored to ensure the Group Failure to maintain the necessary skill base within remains competitive and is able to recruit and retain key personnel.
its workforce could have a material impact on A range of employee benefits are offered in addition to base salaries including a the Groups ability to deliver its business plan and defined contribution pension scheme, Sharesave Plan and an annual profit related strategic objectives.
pay scheme for most employees.
This is a particular risk in respect of key specialist Manager and Team Leader Academies have been created to develop pools of strong, and executive positions, where the institutional capable individuals with the potential to fill future managerial and specialist roles knowledge of the incumbents would be very within the business.
difficult to replicate in the short term.
The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved Champion status in May 2014.
This accreditation is awarded to a very small proportion of organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership.
Change A strong employment market and particularly buoyant demand for skilled financial services staff has again been a feature of the last financial year.
This has led to continued strong competition to recruit and retain employees.
Despite the increasingly competitive external environment, the Group remains confident in its ability to manage this risk.
PAGE 123 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONAL RISK Systems risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its IT The Group has continued to strengthen its capabilities in relation to operational infrastructure and systems are unable to support resilience and in particular its information technology infrastructure management its operational needs and fail to offer adequate and security.
protection against the threat of cyber-crime.
The Group has a formally agreed IT strategy which ensures that priority is given Failure in these systems, either in terms of to those areas which are most critical to the delivery of the Groups strategy and capacity or security, could result in detriment to business plan.
It maintains an ongoing programme of investment in IT infrastructure customers, regulatory censure and reputational and systems.
This includes increased investment in security solutions to counteract damage, all of which could materially impact cyber security threats and the recruitment of specialist resource.
A formal Cyber Incident Response Plan is in place and reviewed with the RCC to This risk also includes the potential that the ensure the Group is well placed to deal with any issues or events.
Groups key outsourcing arrangements with There is ongoing focus on the information security management system ISO 27001 third parties could expose it to material loss or to which the Group is certified, to ensure that controls, testing and user awareness reputational damage.
Change programmes are closely managed with robust control and testing processes to ensure that system developments meet operational requirements and are effectively implemented.
Change The Group has continued to invest significantly in order to further enhance its operational resilience.
This has included ensuring that it maintains a robust and secure IT infrastructure that supports its operational needs.
However, the level and sophistication of cybercrime continues to increase, heightening the risk that this may impact on the Groups operations and strategic objectives.
Regulatory risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its The Group has Risk and Compliance and Legal teams who review key regulatory financial performance and reputation could and legal developments to assess the impact on the Groups operations.
These suffer significantly if it fails to identify, interpret teams then work with business areas to provide advice on the implementation of and comply with relevant regulatory and legal appropriate measures to meet identified requirements.
Expert external advice is also obligations.
Major regulatory or legal change initiatives are subject to formal change governance with progress reporting to the RCC.
The customers and market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and the capital All employees are required to undertake regulatory training and testing to ensure markets from which it obtains some of its funding, appropriate levels of competence are maintained.
Those in relevant specialist roles have been subject to increasing legislative and are also required to adhere to formal regulatory training and competence regimes.
regulatory intervention over recent years.
The Compliance and Financial Crime functions maintain formal second line monitoring plans.
Progress against the plan and the issues identified within individual reviews are reported to the CCC and the RCC to ensure that regulatory requirements have been satisfactorily embedded, and any lessons learnt are applied across all relevant areas of the Group.
In order to ensure the Group responded effectively to the requirements of the Data Protection Act 2018, which covered the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, a formal programme was initiated under the sponsorship of the CRO.
This included the delivery of comprehensive training and communications to all staff, the establishment of a Data Protection Office within the second line with appropriate supporting resource and a programme of oversight reviews.
Change The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations heightens the potential risk arising from any failure to comply with current regulations or to respond effectively to new and emerging regulations.
The Group therefore continues to ensure it has robust arrangements in place to enable it to respond effectively to new and emerging regulatory developments.
PAGE 124 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RISK Funding risk Description Mitigation The Group relies on its access to various sources The Group maintains a diversified range of both retail and wholesale medium and of funding to finance the origination of new long-term funding sources to cover future business requirements and liquidity to business, portfolio acquisitions and working cover shorter term funding needs.
Comprehensive treasury policies are in place to capital.
If access to funding became restricted, ensure sufficient liquid assets are maintained and that all financial obligations can be either through market movements or regulatory met as they fall due.
intervention, this might result in the scaling back Paragon Bank is authorised to accept retail deposits.
As such, it is subject to or cessation of some business lines.
regulation by the PRA, which aims to ensure that sufficient liquid assets are held, at Retail deposit taking is central to the Groups all times, to mitigate the liquidity risk inherent in deposit taking.
funding plans and therefore changes in market During the financial year, further prudent use was made of the Bank of Englands TFS conditions could impact the ability of the business to support ongoing lending activities.
The drawings made under the Scheme were to maintain the level of liquidity required to sustain well phased to minimise the risks to the Group as they fall due over the coming years.
In April 2018, the Companys credit rating from Fitch was increased from BBBto BBB.
This investment grade credit rating helps to support maintenance of access to funding markets.
Change Following last years corporate reorganisation, the Group is better placed to access funding from a wide range of sources to meet its future funding requirements.
However, despite this, there has been continued strong competition for retail deposits amongst an increasing number of challenger banks during the year.
Capital risk Description Mitigation Proposals made by the BCBS regarding potential In order to further enhance its existing robust credit management capabilities and changes to minimum capital requirements from to mitigate the risks of the proposed BCBS changes, the Group took a strategic 2021 could impact on the Group.
decision in 2016 to seek the necessary regulatory approval to implement an IRB approach for credit risk.
The BCBS final proposals include increases in risk weights for residential real estate exposures In support of this, the Group appointed an experienced director of IRB to lead this where repayment is materially dependant on initiative.
A formal IRB project has since been initiated with support from respected cash flows generated by the property, which external specialist advisors to enable the Group to commence its application process may include certain categories of buy-to-let with the relevant regulatory authorities during the first half of the new financial year.
The Groups capital requirements would, In June 2017, the PRA published an updated approach to IRB applications.
The therefore, be increased to some extent.
process is now modular, with each element covering a different aspect of a firms plan for IRB implementation.
This new application process is now embedded in the Groups IRB project plan.
Change In December 2017, the BCBS published its Basel III: Finalising PostCrisis Reforms document.
This has clarified the proposed increase to the capital risk weights for buy-to-let lending under the revised standardised approach and the introduction of a capital output floor based on the revised standardised approach.
The proposed changes had been anticipated within the Groups IRB project.
Further information on the Groups management of capital risk is given in note 7 to the Group Accounts.
PAGE 125 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts MARKET RISK Interest rate risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that changes in This risk is managed through Board approved risk appetite limits with comprehensive interest rates may adversely affect its net income treasury polices in place to ensure that the risk posed by changes and mismatches in and profitability.
interest rates are effectively managed.
In particular, the Groups profitability is determined The Boards risk management framework for Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book by the difference between the interest rates at IRRBB continues to evolve in line with updates in regulatory guidance on methods which it lends and those at which it borrows.
expected to be used by banks for controlling such risks.
Changes in market interest rates could therefore Day-to-day management of interest rate risk within Board approved limits is the materially impact the Groups profits as a result responsibility of Treasury with control and oversight provided by ALCO which reports of significant mismatches between its assets to the RCC.
The Group seeks to match the structure of assets and liabilities by using appropriate financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps or cap agreements and fixed rate retail liabilities.
Change The Groups interest risk exposure profile, relative to its balance sheet has remained broadly similar and therefore associated risk levels remain generally stable compared to previous periods.
The approach to managing the risks has, however, been enhanced to reflect the BCBS principles.
Further information regarding the Groups management of interest rate risk is given in note 11 to the Group Accounts.
PENSION OBLIGATION RISK Pension obligation risk Description Mitigation The Group operates a defined benefit pension The Groups defined benefit scheme the Plan was closed to new members with scheme and defined contribution pension effect from February 2002.
Since that time, new employees have been invited to join schemes in the UK.
the Groups defined contribution pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for the Group.
There is a risk that the Groups commitments under its defined benefit scheme expose it to To mitigate the risks inherent in its exposure to the Plan, the Group conducts regular the risk that the assets of the scheme may be asset-liability reviews in conjunction with the Trustee.
These reviews are used to insufficient to meet its liabilities, either due to assist the Trustee and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation adverse investment performance or inaccurate with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan.
assumptions, including future inflation levels, The results of the reviews also assist the Trustee in managing the volatility in the members salaries or mortality rates.
underlying investment performance and the risk of a significant increase in the scheme deficit by providing information used in investment strategy decisions.
The Plan is subject to triennial formal valuation by the Plan actuary.
The most recent valuation process, as at 31 March 2016 included the agreement of a recovery plan which aims to clear the deficit in the Plan by January 2023.
Change During the last year, changes in bond yields, equity prices, interest rates, mortality assumptions and inflation rates have all impacted favourably on the Groups exposure in relation to its pension obligations.
Further details of the Groups exposure to the Plan are given in note 56 to the Group Accounts.
PAGE 126 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
