Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 62 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board of Directors confirms Principal risks: status and 2018 change that throughout 2018 they undertook a robust assessment Key of the principal risks facing Pearson, 0 in accordance with provision 10 Net risk 11 C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Probability and impact Governance Code.
are based on residual risk, i. e. after taking 13 5 1 4 into account controls 3 6 8 Our principal risks 2 7 already in place and assumed to be as of 31 December 2018 14 operating effectively.
9 Listed in the table and shown on the 12 adjacent risk map are the most significant risks that may affect Pearsons future.
Indicates A longer list of business area and companychange in 2018 wide risks is monitored and reviewed internally throughout the year.
The most For more information material risks are those which have a see principal risks and higher probability and significant impact uncertainties tables p63-75.
on strategy, reputation or operations, or a financial impact greater than 50m, and are classed as our principal risks.
Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Due to internal mitigation efforts, treasury Probability risk reduced in 2018 to the extent that it now falls below our threshold to be included as a principal risk.
Risks are categorised into four main areas: Executive responsibility At the time of publication, the UK remains Business transformation Chief Executive Officer 1 Strategy and change and change due to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
Given Relating to the goals that are the scheduled exit date and significant risk aligned with and support our Products and services President, Global Product 2 strategy.
This category is the of no deal, we have advanced mitigation most likely to contain opportunity Talent Chief Human 3 plans underway.
These do not involve risks which are likely to have a Resources Officer material cost and we will be able to unwind higher risk appetite Political and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 4 those plans without significant disruption regulatory risk or cost if it later becomes appropriate.
Work continued throughout 2018 led by a Testing failure President, Assessments: 5 Operational Steering Committee chaired by the CFO President, UK and Core Markets Involving people, systems to identify and mitigate any potential impact Safety and security Chief Human and processes 6 on our principal risks below, such as Resources Officer supply chain and operations covered in Customer experience President, Global Product: 7 the customer experience risk, tax and Chief Technology and Operations Officer data privacy, as well as other areas such as treasury and workforce mobility, particularly Business resilience Chief Financial Officer 8 in the event of a no deal scenario.
By virtue Data President, Global Product: 9 of that analysis and mitigation planning, we Chief Technology and continue to believe that Brexit will not have Operations Officer a material adverse impact on Pearson as a Tax Chief Financial Officer whole: in particular we believe we have 10 Financial plans in place that will largely mitigate Involving financial planning, investments, against the impact of a no deal scenario.
budgeting, potential losses of and exposures to Pearsons assets The following principal risks also relate Information security Chief Technology and 11 to the material issues considered in the Legal and compliance and data privacy Operations Officer: 2018 Sustainability Report: products Relating to the adherence to General Counsel applicable laws and regulations.
and services, testing failure, political and Risks in this category typically Intellectual property General Counsel 12 regulatory, information security and data have a very low risk appetite.
privacy, customer experience, and safety Compliance General Counsel 13 and security.
You can read more in the Competition law General Counsel 14 Sustainability section on p3240.
Impact Financial, Reputational, Operational Insignificant Minor Moderate Major Severe Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 63 63 Strategy and change Reason for risk rating 2019 outlook and plans Business 1 This risk has reduced due to the ongoing Business transformation and change initiatives will transformation implementation of The Enabling Programme continue to support our strategic goals to accelerate TEP in North America in the first half of 2018. our digital transition in higher education, to manage the and change This has reduced our financial risk impact.
print decline, and to reshape our portfolio, as outlined by our Chief Executive on p10-12 and covered in more The accelerated pace and However, the scale, volume and accelerated detail under our strategy in action on p18-32.
scope of our transformation pace of change, combined with the execution initiatives increase our risk interdependencies, keep this as a high risk going In 2019, we will continue to roll out TEP to other to execution timelines and into 2019. geographies worldwide.
All key programmes to business adoption of will continue to be closely monitored by the Audit The 2017-2019 simplification programme is performing change.
The risk is that Committee at each meeting you can read more about ahead of plan and now expects to deliver increased benefits may not be fully their oversight of TEP and the GLP on p97-98.
annualised cost savings in excess of 330m by the realised, costs may increase, end of 2019, ahead of our original plan of 300m.
We will continue to use our change and transformation or that our business as office to drive plans to completion in 2019.
Change usual activities are Existing controls management expertise and dedicated support have adversely impacted.
Change and Transformation office been put in place across North America, Finance and The Global Learning Platform GLP and The Enabling Human Resources teams.
Decrease in impact Programme TEP are standing Audit Committee and probability agenda items Strategic priorities: Independent assurance regularly undertaken on the key programmes.
Grow market share 1 through digital Outcome of 2018 activities transformation In 2018, we continued to invest in the digital Become a simpler, 3 transformation and simplification of the company: more efficient and more sustainable We continued to develop the GLP described in business more detail under risk 2 Products and Services We implemented the next phase of TEP primarily in North America to progress the simplification of our business.
The 2017-2019 simplification programme moved into its implementation phase in 2018, with many initiatives now complete.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 64 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy and change Product and investment portfolio Reason for risk rating Products and 2 Progress was made during 2018 in consolidating our We have made significant progress in managing risks key product portfolios.
Portfolio investment allocation services around our competition and the product and decisions were made using an agreed data-driven investment portfolio in 2018 due to the ongoing Failure to successfully invest framework and the investment governance criteria progress we have made in improving our processes in, develop and deliver to and process were revised, spanning partnerships, and strategic investment recommendations.
time and quality innovative, portfolio strategy and geographies.
However, due to the importance of product innovation market leading global Competition such as the ongoing development of the Global products and services that In 2018, we scaled the rental access model initiative Learning Platform GLP and our investment in will have the biggest impact from c. 50c.
150 titles in total by the end of AI research to achieving Pearsons strategic priority on learners and drive the year.
of digital transformation, the impact if this risk growth, ensuring Pearson: materialises remains high.
We also continued initiatives e. g. pricing, format, Responds to market policies, marketing, channel to incentivise customers Competition needs, as well as threats to move from print to digital products to help mitigate We have made significant progress understanding from both traditional risks arising from the secondhand market and achieve the competitive and structural threats, especially to competitors as well as our digital business transformation goals.
our US Higher Education Courseware business, disruptive innovation and made progress mitigating these.
2018 saw the launch of additional anti-piracy initiatives Offers products to market see risk 12, Intellectual Property, which includes We operate in competitive markets with many in line with our strategy, piracy, for more on this risk.
As the consumption at the right price and with of educational products and services shifts to digital a deal structure that 2019 outlook and plans and subscription models, this has the potential to lead remains competitive.
Turning this risk into an opportunity successfully to changes in the competitive structure of the markets accelerating our shift to digital as well as investing in This risk was revised and in which we operate.
and delivering the right products and services is as expanded in 2018 following critical to successful business performance in 2019 a risk review against the Existing controls as we have flagged in previous years.
As our Chief strategic priorities, as well Global product lifecycle process Executive highlights on p10, over time our aim is as a thorough analysis Portfolio governance and management to transition to a digital first model for our learners, of underlying risk drivers.
Audit Committee oversight of the GLP.
with print resources available as an add on service.
The definition has been Outcome of 2018 activities changed as a result.
Product Innovation Product Innovation We will continue to invest in our development of the Further investment was made in 2018 in development GLP focusing on an enhanced Revel platform and No overall change of the GLP our single, cloud-based platform to expect to launch in the second half of the year.
The GLP support our learners and enable us to innovate faster will also enable us to better deploy AI and machine Strategic priorities: in the future.
learning to drive advances in educational technology.
Grow market share 1 The first of our pilots Rio went live in September through digital Investment in the development of AI will also continue, transformation 2018: Pearson used the software to run a number of such as using it to build on existing automated scoring focus groups and targeted interactions with different capabilities using natural language processing.
Investing in structural 2 schools and instructors during the latter half of 2018. growth opportunities Product and investment portfolio In addition, we are investing in other innovations, such 2019 priorities include improving decision making as Artificial Intelligence AI, to ensure that our products effectiveness, for example by implementing a decision provide leading personalised learning experiences and playbook to support how we make decisions for our better outcomes.
In 2018, we appointed an industry products plus identify gaps in the decision making expert to lead on the development of our AI products process and how to close them.
Competition Our aims in 2019 are to significantly increase the number of US Higher Education Courseware products in the access first or Subscription business model, as well as continuing our pricing simplification efforts in order to clarify and simplify our pricing structure for both sales representatives and customers.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 6 65 5 Strategy and change Put greater focus on diversity and inclusion D&I : Reason for risk rating Talent 3 we designed our future state diversity framework, This risk has reduced due to: governance and measurement model.
We received Failure to maximise Impact of improved financials: Stabilising financial awards for our localised D&I efforts and increased our talent Risk that we are performance has driven an improving outlook for marketplace recognition.
You can read more about unable to attract the talent employee incentivisation helping raise morale: also our diversity, equality and inclusion activities under we need and to create the positive sentiment of strategy approved by the Board Sustainability on p38 conditions in which our Compensation toolkit enabling managers to Released the organisational health index survey for all people can perform to address specific retention risks as needed Pearson employees, the results of which will influence the best of their ability.
with Executive approval : primary retention the priority order of the 2019 action planning.
managed through total reward Decrease in impact 2019 outlook and plans Better data enabling improved decision making and probability Leadership development programmes.
HR will continue to work with Pearson leaders to increase engagement and organisational health, Strategic priorities: Existing controls acting on the findings from the organisational health Grow market share 1 Detailed monthly reporting of HR data and insights survey taken in late 2018.
Our aims in 2019 are to: through digital to proactively identify and manage risks, including transformation Develop sustainable total reward programmes turnover voluntary and involuntary data as well aligned to the business strategy Investing in structural as gender diversity at all career grades, with regular 2 growth opportunities Develop awards and recognition for the workforce Executive review to identify areas for improvement and marketplace Consistent performance, talent and succession Deliver organisational design and change Become a simpler, management processes 3 management to support business deliverables more efficient and Employee policies including the Code of Conduct Upskill the workforce on digital customer channels more sustainable Employee engagement forums and action plans business B2B, while continuing to acquire new digital talent Exit interviews conducted and monitored globally and expertise to identify any trends and concerns Drive sales performance through embedding Pearson U learning platform best practice sales incentive design External careers website and talent acquisition Empower managers with greater flexibility to approach to improve attraction of digital skills make reward decisions for their teams, underpinned Wide range of employee benefits.
by greater transparency of our pay practices to Outcome of 2018 activities our employees Refresh leadership skills, competencies and To support our digital transformation, acquisition of behaviours and continue leadership digital talent is a high priority.
Challenges continue with development programmes digital hiring but we are seeing some improvement, Refresh approach to performance management, driven by clarity of skillset needed and a targeted adapting more contemporary practices to drive compensation guide enabling Pearson to be more high performance competitive.
As a result, year over year percentage of Utilise new approach to talent review, assessing all digital hires is up by 37%.
We also: VPs against required capabilities and culture needed Focused Leadership development programmes Drive internal mobility through increased visibility to for senior leaders with specific mentoring talent and cross-business development opportunities programmes for high potential employee HiPO Promote enterprise-wide talent management mindset, women in these roles owned by leadership across all areas.
Develop a Continued targeted learning throughout the mindset for analytical, digital and innovation skills organisation with Pearson U learning platform Deliver refreshed global diversity and inclusion enhancements, career development workshops, approach, operational plan and measurement model: manager fundamentals training and emphasis on increase gender diversity, especially in senior all employees having development goals leadership roles.
Launched the Alumni programme Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 66 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy and change Submitted responses to enquiries and consultations Reason for risk rating Political and 4 regarding technical vocational education and Despite a slight reduction in our risk exposure in the US related issues regulatory risk from an educational standpoint, this risk remains high Continued to position Pearson in the UK as a leader, at the time of publication due to the potential for Changes in policy and or expert and innovator in T Levels.
We were awarded political instability in the UK arising from the potential regulations have the the contract to develop, deliver and award two of the for Brexit no deal plus wider uncertainty and instability potential to impact business first three T Levels.
models and or decisions Internationally, we continued our ongoing efforts to across all markets.
Existing controls position Pearson for PTE Academic accreditation in Board and Executive oversight China, Canada and the UK, well as pursuing BTEC Government relationship teams No overall change opportunities in Southeast Asia.
Steering Committee monitoring the UKs departure 2019 outlook and plans from the EU.
Pearson will continue to position itself as a leader in the Outcome of 2018 activities education space, an innovator in higher education and In 2018, we continued to build global political and establish the company as a key engine in workforce regulatory relationships in the US and the UK, development and economic growth.
We are also driving as well as an international political profile in order opportunities to engage directly with other businesses.
to understand future international risks and In the US, we are likely to see a push to increase proactively mitigate them.
higher education funding from new Democratic In the US, we worked hard to highlight Pearsons Governors and State Legislators, as well as a focus on credentials as an innovator in education and workforce connecting education to jobs.
Pearson will continue readiness, specifically referencing Accelerated to work with Governors and educate officials at the Pathways, Inclusive Access and workforce credentialing: Federal and State level on Pearsons expertise in we maintained fair market access through national and education and workforce.
state partnerships and direct lobbying: and we worked Brexit may cause political instability in the UK arising with the National Governors Association Chair to shape from the potential for no deal plus wider uncertainty his Initiative on developing workforce skills.
and instability in the rest of the world.
Pearson will In the UK, we continued to monitor actions associated continue to implement its mitigation and contingency with the UKs departure from the EU, working with plans in case of a no deal See customer experience government to mitigate business risk associated with risk for supply chain specific Brexit mitigation actions.
We also implemented our own Internally, trade tensions and political uncertainty with internal mitigation and contingency plans in the rising populism and nationalism could lead to further event of a no deal.
We will continue to position We also: Pearson with government officials and influencers in key markets for PTE Academic accreditation and Responded to the governments post-18 funding BTEC opportunities, as well as widening participation in review, creating a commission to oversee research international forums and with national government into vocational education and lifelong learning contacts to mitigate regulatory risks.
Continued executing thought leadership work to establish the role of BTECs in supporting We will continue to monitor legislation around the learners into work and higher education as an world for major shifts in education policy.
alternative pathway Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 67 67 Operational In June 2018, a GCE A Level Maths C4 paper taken by Reason for risk rating Testing failure 5 50,000 pupils in England was offered for sale online the As Pearson is an educational content, assessment and night before the exam.
This was the same paper that Failure to deliver tests and related services company, successfully managing this was leaked the year before.
A police investigation was assessments and other risk remains a priority.
opened, however, the incident was far more limited in related contractual This risk decreased in 2018 due to the continued scope than it was the prior year, due to the additional requirements because of migration of all student testing in North America security measures put in place as a result of the operational or technology to a secure cloud computing environment Amazon previous incident.
Ultimately, the paper-based nature issues, resulting in negative Web Services AWS.
This has resulted in improved of examinations and the scale of the system means publicity impacting our availability and stability.
that security is heavily reliant on schools to maintain brand and reputation.
the security of the material.
The investigation was We successfully delivered exams and testing in 2018 to able to make good progress in identifying the source Decrease in impact a high standard of quality.
We experienced minimal of the leak.
and probability disruption of the ePEN online marking system.
However, the impact should we experience issues in The IBM security tool implemented by Pearson VUE Strategic priorities: our testing platforms or processes keeps this as a risk.
started to yield benefits in terms of client adoption and Become a simpler, positive feedback of the web monitoring.
Alongside 3 Existing controls more efficient and this, a new third party governance and assurance more sustainable We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our process was developed which will continue to be business student marking systems with the use of: rolled out in 2019.
Robust quality assurance procedures and controls 2019 outlook and plans Oversight of contract performance The drive to continue improvements to availability Investment in technology, project management and and stability of testing systems, migrating and retiring skills development of our people, including software legacy systems will continue in 2019, for example, security controls, system monitoring, pre-deployment migrating PTE Academic to AWS and further automating testing, change controls and the use of root cause test publishing processes to reduce the risk of human analysis procedures to learn from incidents and manual error.
prevent recurrence Use of AWS in Clinical and Schools In UK qualifications, the potential impact should IBM counter-fraud tool Pearson VUE.
this risk materialise is potentially higher due to the fact that: Outcome of 2018 activities 1 2 019 will see the main implementation of the In North America, SchoolNet plus all Clinical products ePEN upgrade.
We will take into account the have now been successfully migrated to AWS.
The next complexity of our systems, as well as external iteration of ePEN UK and Australia is also now AWS marking contract requirements hosted.
Pearson VUE also began the process of moving systems to more stable platforms.
2 We still have a number of reformed qualifications being delivered in 2019 which includes GCE Maths.
Our Functional Skills qualifications were the first to go live on the new version of ePEN in the UK in July Given the high stakes nature of the UK testing business, followed by General Qualifications in November.
PTE the risk of security breaches remains, either malicious Academic was also upgraded to stabilise the system.
in nature or as a result of error.
We are launching a malpractice review as part of the Joint Council for Qualifications.
This will include question paper breaches but also cheating allegations more broadly.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 68 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational The corporate security team led reviews in 16 countries Reason for risk rating Safety and 6 in 2018, identifying areas for improvement or further Corporate security risk probability increased, reflecting adoption of security policy standards.
security an increase in incidents in 2018 compared to 2017.
The variety and global range of risks threats we face Health & Safety H&S Risk to the safety and are undiminished.
The impact of an event occurring Due to ongoing implementation of H&S risk mitigation security of our people and and not just externally could be significant.
actions, we have seen a slight reduction in risk in 2018. learners arising from either Completed activities include: There has been no change in terms of the overall risk the risk of injury and illness: status for both Health & Safety and Safeguarding.
our failure to adequately A significant revision of our Global H&S policy and Serious safeguarding incidents may not be frequent protect children and standards with animation but their impact remains high, both to the individual learners: or due to A global round of International IOSH Managing affected as well as to Pearsons reputation there increasing local and Safely course continues to be a focus on these issues worldwide, global threats.
The implementation of a business focused and both in the government and in the media.
risk-based health and safety assurance programme: This risk has been expanded in our 48 priority locations, implementation of the to incorporate all risks that Existing controls global H&S Standards continues to improve.
could impact the safety Global policies and minimum standards in place and security of our people 2019 outlook and plans for Health & Safety, Security and Safeguarding and learners into one risk.
Global audit and assurance programme In 2019, we will continue to promote the message of As a result, it now includes: Training and communication e. g. global animation, prevention as well as reaction.
new internal Health & Safety intranet site, Corporate security Safeguarding IOSH Managing Safety Course We will continue to develop our practice and policy in Travel safety Staff Code of Conduct regards to online Safeguarding: we have appointed an Third party risk management policy Safeguarding external consultant, who is a recognised expert in Local Safeguarding coordinators and protection.
online Safeguarding, to assist us with our plans.
Everbridge mass notification system Our plans include: External travel management and intelligence.
Increase in probability Key Performance Indicators in place see p37-38 Hosting a seminar which looks at best practice in online in Sustainability.
Safeguarding for internal staff and external partners Ongoing work on the Safeguarding action plan for the Outcome of 2018 activities Pearson Institute of Higher Education in South Africa Safeguarding Publication and implementation of a sexual We continue to view Safeguarding as a fundamental harassment policy in Pearson College London obligation to our learners and a high priority for Ensure that our Safeguarding practice fully reflects Pearson and as such it also forms part of our the companys commitment to diversity.
sustainability strategy see p37 in Sustainability.
Corporate security and travel safety We agreed a new Safeguarding strategy for 2018-2020, In 2019, we are forming a combined security and which includes a focus on Safeguarding in online and resilience governance group which will oversee digital environments.
Physical and travel security In addition, we implemented a new set of Safeguarding reviews of higher risk locations will be ongoing and metrics, which enable a better analysis of how robust we will continue to refine data specific to our each business Safeguarding is: and we completed a gap Everbridge notification system.
analysis on the Safeguarding assurance processes for Health & Safety each business.
This identified eight areas where we will Our aims in 2019 are to: strengthen and deepen our assurance processes.
Deliver a real-time, global solution to report, In April 2018, we co-hosted a seminar with the Lucy escalate, investigate and action H&S Incidents Faithfull Foundation: Creating child safe, child friendly Continue our robust business-focused and risk-based organisations.
It explored the use of Situational global assurance programme for 2019, which includes Prevention in addressing abuse in schools.
It was well third party vendors where Pearson has outsourced attended with 97% saying they would apply the theory risk activities to their current role.
Further develop the analysis of Occupational Health Corporate security and travel safety data in partnership with HR to ensure proactive and Travel security continues to grow in support of new reactive intervention strategies are aligned.
areas, not limited solely to higher risk locations.
Our Everbridge tool is now live in 21 countries and we released mandatory training and awareness for people travelling to high risk locations.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 69 69 Operational Customer experience Reason for risk rating Customer 7 The customer experience is recognised as a key enabler This risk is crucial to Pearson a delivering a good and license to operate in terms of Pearsons future experience service to our customers and b enabling our digital strategy.
In 2018, we realigned our priorities and plans transformation.
As a result, we expanded and Failure of either our current across the business, in readiness to refocus on redefined the risk to include the end-to-end customer operations, supply chain or the learner experience in 2019. journey, whether for print or digital products and customer support to deliver services or a blend of the two.
Customer services an acceptable service level Customer services have made a lot of progress in This redefined risk remains rated high due to our at any point in the terms of reducing this risk in 2018 and managing the ongoing transformation efforts which have the end-to-end journey: or to challenges of the TEP deployments in North America potential to impact on the customer experience.
accelerate Pearsons lifelong and the UK.
learner strategy We continued to make further improvements to our and transformation.
Operational stability product platform stability and execution in 2018 and We continued to focus in 2018 on performance and had good stability throughout both North America Previously customer digital stability across all of our product platforms with Back to School periods.
This was our best year to experience, this risk has been roadmaps underway for stability, the user date in terms of up time.
redefined and expanded experience UX and competitive features across following a review of the In the UK, we began the implementation of mitigation all product platforms.
global strategy implications, and contingency plans to manage a potential no deal as well as a thorough analysis 2019 outlook and plans scenario regarding the UKs exit from the EU, given the of the underlying risk drivers possibility of a no deal at the time of publication.
Operations and supply chain undertaken as part of the In the US, our primary focus is to ensure that we are H2 2018 risk update process.
Existing controls prepared for the Back to School periods, the first of As a result, we have expanded Real-time monitoring of systems for service which is in the spring of 2019. the customer experience disruptions and reporting of operational In the UK, a team has been established that is taking and learner experience performance used to identify issues end to end responsibility for our Learning Services component of the risk and Release readiness reviews for our major operational delivery.
We will continue to implement added operations including product platforms our mitigation and contingency plans to prepare for supply chain to better reflect Programme governance and hypercare the possibility of a no deal Brexit whilst we monitor the risks to delivering Board oversight of Brexit risk the outcome.
an optimal end-to-end In the UK, the Audit and Quality team have a secure customer journey.
supplier annual audit programme for suppliers dealing Customer experience with Pearson confidential material e. g. exam papers In 2019, we will focus on learners and modernising Slight increase in New structure put in place to prevent fraud and our customer experience for clinical assessments, impact incorrect orders to be placed by customers.
expanding our efforts to instructors and educators in 2020 and beyond.
Outcome of 2018 activities Increase in probability Customer services Operations and supply chain The focus in North America is preparing for and Strategic priorities: Our efforts in 2018 were focused primarily on the supporting further TEP implementations in order to UK and North America.
The Enabling Programme Grow market share 1 minimise customer impacts as we move to new TEP went live for the first time in North America in through digital business processes and adopt new technology.
transformation May 2018, with ongoing hypercare put in place as a contingency plan to support supply chain stabilisation Operational stability Become a simpler, 3 during implementation.
Our 2019 roadmap for North America Higher Education more efficient and continues to be increasingly focused on security and more sustainable In the UK, as well as a TEP retrofit deployment, business performance of non functional requirements as well we also completed our move from the UK warehouse as well as third party interoperability.
This was phased from the end of 2017 and completed in spring 2018.
In parallel, we also undertook an in depth analysis into the impact on our supply chain and operations in the event of a no deal Brexit, commencing work on implementing our mitigation and contingency plans to address these.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 70 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational Pearson Qualification Services recertified to Reason for risk rating Business 8 ISO 22301, Business Continuity Management The business resilience programme continues Developing the approach to digital resilience, resilience to mature, although Pearsons global footprint including for the GLP and future digital product.
means there remains a possibility of single Failure to plan for, recover, Worked with Health & Safety, Facilities Management events with major impact.
test or prevent incidents and Global Property towards embedding Work to improve incident management continues at any of our businesses improvements across North America, although to see positive improvements.
delivery is primarily in 2019 High Impact Event HIE awareness and education Incident management Existing controls took place across 13 Pearson locations in the second and technology disaster Policy in place half of the year.
This was well received and more are recovery DR plans may Incident management process, including global planned for 2019. not be comprehensive notification and incident reporting tools across the enterprise.
2019 outlook and plans Resilience Governance Board meetings Incident management and recovery teams In 2019, we will continue to focus on prevention rather Risk definition has been ISO 22301 independent accreditation.
than reaction and refine our resilience approach to be changed to focus on responsive to both current and emerging risks.
resilience, DR and incident Outcome of 2018 activities management.
Corporate A combined Security and Resilience Governance A new Pearson wide resilience policy and incident security and travel safety now Group will form in 2019. management framework was delivered in 2018 forms part of the expanded and work continued to improve business resilience Specific focus areas will be to: Safety and security risk.
and incident management capability across the Better understand and mitigate risks to supply chain organisation, including: and vendor management No overall change Annual reviews and further refinement of the Continue support to the GLP and TEP programmes Top 40 and other locations involved in planning, Continue to refine DR planning for legacy systems testing and response to actual incidents Continue to support Data Centre resilience.
Work is continuing on customer data harmonisation, Reason for risk rating Harnessing 9 definitions and data representation which will also help This is a new principal risk for 2018 and reflects the support the ongoing promotion of data governance.
the power of importance of data analytics in education as outlined by our Chair on p8 such as driving improvements in We began user capability work in the second our data learning, improving classroom productivity and making half of 2018 which will allow us to begin to retire learning more affordable and more accessible.
New risk: Failure to: 1 Maximise our use of data We continue to evolve our business model so we are Data privacy guidelines concerning GDPR were issued to enhance the quality and able to use our data in ways in which we can better and are being taken into account in our data activities scope of current products and service the needs of our customers.
see risk 11 which covers our data privacy risk and services in order to improve GDPR readiness in more detail.
Existing controls learning outcomes while managing associated risks.
2019 outlook and plans TEP with Master Data Management MDM now live in 2 Maintain data quality, both the UK and North America We will start work to expand MDM and ERP user accuracy and integrity to Data governance in place.
capabilities to enable decommissioning of legacy enable informed decisionproduct data systems target retirements to start Outcome of 2018 activities making and reduce the risk Q4 2019.
This is expected to highlight issues in of non-compliance with One of the outcomes of the work undertaken across data harmonisation that will need to be resolved.
legal and regulatory Pearson in 2018 is that the concept and approach Expanded customer data harmonisation and quality requirements.
to data governance across customer and product is activities are also being planned for early 2019. maturing.
Our MDM footprint was expanded as part We have previously included of TEP going live in North America in May 2018 this We will continue to develop the concept of data the second component consolidated North American customer and product governance through defining ownership, policies, under risk 1, business data from three existing ERPs with what was already and funding for transactional and reference transformation and change.
The product data footprint was also data governance.
Strategic priorities: expanded in 2018 to meet the needs of our new rights Future mitigation plans for this risk will focus on how we and royalties system.
Grow market share 1 collect data, how we use it and the structures we have through digital in place to manage associated risks, both regulatory transformation and reputational.
Become a simpler, 3 more efficient and more sustainable business Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 71 71 Financial Reason for risk rating Outcome of 2018 activities Tax 10 The risk impact increased in 2018 due to the ongoing In 2018, the Audit Committee reviewed our updated Legislative change caused potential financial cash impact of the announcement tax strategy and approved our second tax report which by the OECD Base Erosion in November 2017 of the European Commission was published in the second half of the year.
and Profit Shifting BEPS opening decision on the UK Controlled Foreign During 2018 we worked through the implications of initiative, the UK exit from Companies exemption see note 34, contingent the State Aid opening decision, with the support of the EU, or other domestic liabilities, on p206.
We continue to await a external advisors.
government initiatives, final decision from the investigation.
including in response to the We took appropriate action in response to US tax We have recorded a significant one off tax benefit European Commission State reform at the end of 2017. in 2018 please see our CFOs commentary on p44 Aid investigation into the for more on this, however we do not anticipate a 2019 outlook and plans UK CFC exemption, results significant change in the ongoing effective tax in a significant change to Our focus in 2019 will be the monitoring of and to react rate of 21%.
the effective tax rate, cash accordingly to : tax payments, double Existing controls EU State Aid decisions taxation and or negative Our tax strategy reflects our business strategy and reputational impact.
The implications of the UKs exit from the EU.
The the locations and financing needs of our operations.
ongoing uncertainty does not allow us to confirm the In common with many companies, we seek to manage tax implications, although we continue to expect that Increase in impact our tax affairs to protect value for our shareholders, there should not be material incremental taxes in line with our broader fiduciary duties.
We do not seek payable in either a deal or no deal scenario.
Decrease in to avoid tax by the use of tax havens or by transactions probability that we would not fully disclose to a tax authority.
We will continue to assess US tax legislation changes, We are guided by our taxation principles, which include including guidance issued in December 2018, as well complying with all relevant laws, including claiming as monitoring potential tax law changes globally, and available tax incentives and exemptions that are implement mitigation plans if required.
In addition, available to all market participants.
we will monitor the most recent initiatives in the BEPS Project.
The CFO is responsible for the tax strategy: the conduct of our tax affairs and the management of tax risk Media and public scrutiny on tax issues will continue to are delegated to a global team of tax professionals.
be actively monitored by both the Tax and Corporate The Audit Committee oversees the tax strategy and Affairs teams.
receives a report, including a risk deep dive, on this topic at least once a year see p97.
Our published tax report provides our position on tax.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 72 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal and compliance In addition to the work undertaken to prepare for Reason for risk rating Information 11 GDPR, we continued to work to improve the security Risks concerning cyber-security and data privacy of our critical products, implementing a joint privacy security and remain high due to complex external factors.
and security process for new vendors.
data privacy Data privacy risk has reduced slightly due to the work The information security team worked proactively to undertaken to remediate risks under the EUs General identify and remediate security threats to Pearson.
Risk of a data privacy Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
However, this The improvement programme continued, ensuring incident or other failure to mitigation is offset by risks associated with the that infrastructure, core platform and product comply with data privacy proliferation of data privacy laws outside of the deliveries across Technology including Cloud and regulations and standards, EU and North America.
network transformation, the GLP, Enterprise Core and or a weakness in Existing controls platforms include security controls and protection information security, as fundamental components.
including a failure to Information Security and Data Privacy Offices prevent or detect a ISO 27001 controls including strong encryption, The programme to review our top vendor contracts malicious attack on our patching, monitoring, and access controls from an information security standpoint was systems, could result in a Privacy impact assessment process implemented in 2018, gaining good traction with major data privacy or Regular audits different business areas.
confidentiality breach Automated tools causing damage to the 2019 outlook and plans Published policies, processes and guidelines, customer experience and global training and awareness including annual With an evolving regulatory landscape, in addition to our reputational damage, awareness week ongoing GDPR compliance, the Data Privacy Office a breach of regulations Risk management framework will assess new laws and regulations coming into and financial loss.
Vendor oversight force in a number of jurisdictions and prepare for Audit Committee risk deep dive.
No overall change Outcome of 2018 activities The information security team will continue to drive security maturity with the expansion of Vendor Risk GDPR regulations came into force across the EU Assessments, Multi-Factor Authentication, and on 25 May 2018.
This introduced more onerous pervasive data encryption and also thus security privacy obligations and more stringent penalties compliance to regulatory requirements such as for non-compliance.
As Pearson operates across GDPR, PCI, HIPAA and FERPA.
several EU Member States, Pearson will still need to comply with GDPR even when the UK leaves the EU.
A key focus of our data privacy efforts in 2018 has been putting plans in place to ensure that we were appropriately prepared for GDPR.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 73 73 Legal and compliance Piracy Reason for risk rating Intellectual 12 We increased our focus and awareness around digital The probability of digital piracy risk has increased and print counterfeit, and digital piracy, across property as online copying and security circumvention have Pearsons ecosystem, via policies, best practices, and become increasingly sophisticated and resistant to including piracy channel partner reviews effectively coordinated via available countermeasures.
Failure to adequately Notably, 2018 introduced more sophisticatedPrint counterfeit via authorised partners was greatly manage, procure, register appearing digital counterfeit websites now selling reduced in 2018 following successful enforcement or protect intellectual unprotected PDF files of certain Pearsons titles, against overseas distributors.
property rights including using modern and sophisticated ecommerce trademarks, patents, trade methods.
This is a nascent challenge that we are 2019 outlook and plans secrets and copyright in now addressing and flat PDFs are a small portion We will continue to streamline our portfolios: procure our brands, content and of our portfolio and revenues.
and register expanded rights in our high value IP technology, may 1 prevent From an IP perspective, increasing our digital business globally, including expanding our patent portfolio: us from enforcing our exposes us to more trademark, copyright and patent monitor activities and regulations: and proactively rights, and 2 enable bad infringement risks.
enforce our rights, taking necessary legal action.
actors to illegally access and duplicate our content print We are in the process of drafting the broader IP policy Existing controls and digital counterfeit, for launch in 2019.
This will be accompanied by Robust set of policies, copyright clearance standards, digital piracy, which will additional IP training modules.
procedures and systems in place reduce our sales and or Global trademark monitoring platform In 2019, we will continue to: erode our revenues.
Cooperation with trade associations and other Undertake ongoing monthly test buys Rights, permissions and educational publishers Closely monitor and enforce against marketplace royalties have been removed Monitoring of technology and legal advances piracy and digital counterfeit sites from this risk as it has Patent programme in place Explore watermarking to detect sources of reduced to the extent it no IP protection programme in place digital piracy longer meets our threshold Legal department provides ongoing monitoring and Investigate use of vendors to gain better visibility for a principal risk and we enforcement of print counterfeit and digital piracy and enforcement tools against marketplace piracy expect this to remain the Employee awareness and training, including a site both print and digital case going forward.
to improve best practice around patents Review product requirements to make Single rights management system in place for Pearson products and infrastructure more UK, US and Canada.
Increase in probability resistant to piracy.
Close cooperation with US higher education channel partners e. g. Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Follett to prevent print counterfeit.
Outcome of 2018 activities A very active patent filing took place to ensure protection of our rapidly evolving next gen technology for the GLP this is expected to continue.
We also recorded key Pearson trademarks with U. S. Customs and Border Protection CBP to enable CBPs seizure of suspected counterfeit textbooks.
This recordation has already resulted in several seizures by CBP.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 74 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal and compliance In addition to the two key areas of activity above, Reason for risk rating Compliance 13 we also: As a result of the due diligence programme we are including anticurrently undertaking, it is likely we will uncover Conducted fieldwork for ABC assessments as well more risks.
as revising the risk assessment process itself to bribery and make it more efficient and in line with FCPA and Conversely, as a result of the more robust due diligence, corruption ABC UKBA specifications training and awareness currently being undertaken, Undertook gifts and hospitality and travel and we are less likely to see future risks with a severe and sanctions expenses training for North America Higher Education impact and, where risks appear, we are more likely Sales, other key North America businesses, plus Failure to effectively to see effective mitigation strategies and follow up face-to-face training on ABC in all our geographies manage risks associated that reduce potential exposure.
Rolled out a gifts and hospitality monitoring tool in with compliance global and Existing controls all of our Growth geographies in 2018 local legislation, including Remediated all items in riskiest markets from Internal policies, procedures and controls including failure to vet third parties, 2017 risk assessments.
employee ABC policy certification resulting in reputational Employee and business partner codes of conduct harm, ABC liability, or Ethics whistleblowing hotline reports using a third see also Respect for human rights under sanctions violations.
party platform have remained steady, with overall Sustainability on p36 numbers in line with the reports of previous years.
Local Compliance Officers LCOs in place Our time to close cases has remained consistent Increase in probability Corporate Compliance and Ethics awareness week with 2017 numbers.
In addition, we have increased Audit Committee risk deep dive.
collaborative reporting with other investigations Decrease in impact teams within Pearson.
Outcome of 2018 activities We also rolled out revised policies for the following Internal procedures, controls and training continue in 2018: to mature, which are designed to prevent corruption.
Pearsons Code of Conduct was 100% completed in Sanctions 2018.
The Code of Conduct includes references to Global Conflicts of Interest ABC policy and requirements.
Pearsons ABC policy ABC policy and training course, including due diligence, establishes a consistent set of expectations and that is mandatory for high-risk populations requirements regarding ABC for all our personnel Raising concerns and anti-retaliation policy, and business partners to adhere to.
plus launched Speak Up campaign.
In 2018, we took lessons learned from our pilot project 2019 outlook and plans in 2017 and revamped a global approach to our In 2019, we will continue to expand our third party due third party ABC due diligence process.
We improved diligence programme, implementing the process for all contractual provisions, outlined a flow chart as to when new third parties across the UK, USA, Western Europe certain terms should be used, and implemented the and Canada.
due diligence process in all of Growth and most of Core markets.
We conducted due diligence on over 2,800 The Code of Conduct is being revised for 2019 with third party suppliers last year, and have conducted due updates and revisions due to be launched in the spring.
diligence on thousands of third party test centres.
2019 will also see further promotion of the Conflict of Interest policy: additional checks around sanctions: additional ABC risk assessments: further consideration of pan-Pearson fraud issues plus strengthened investigations processes and reporting with other teams.
Additionally, we will continue work started in 2018 rolling out our gifts and hospitality tool as well as exploring the possibility of an automated tool appropriate for the US market.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 75 75 Legal and compliance Reason for risk rating Outcome of 2018 activities Competition law 14 The likelihood increased from 2017 due to recent In 2018, we significantly increased our employee Failure to comply with increased activity by regulators looking into historical training to include videos, with the target of getting antitrust and competition issues e. g. two recent investigations into Industry every relevant employee certified.
The lawyer network legislation could result in Association practices commenced in South Africa, supported this with one to one communications with costly legal proceedings following the similar investigation in Spain.
every employee attending Industry Association and or adversely impact Investigations in South Africa are still ongoing and meetings to ensure that they were risk aware.
the authority has yet to evidence that Pearson has Development of e-learning modules and gamified committed significant wrongdoing.
A final decision learning continued in Spain is still pending.
Increase in probability Plans were developed to track engagement, However, the impact of the risk has generally gone for example in terms of the number of employees down.
Risks uncovered to date do not carry exposure trained, those undertaking e-learning tests, etc.
Decrease in impact that is material for Pearson at a group worldwide level.
2019 outlook and plans While the risk of material issues remains, we believe In 2019, we will continue to conduct ongoing training we have mitigated this risk as a result of our better and release e-learning modules.
Pearsons lawyer network actively reviews our Existing controls engagement with trade associations and other Global policy in place organisations, to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Training and guidance, including live and video training Regular internal communications Lawyer network Additional individual training to employees representing Pearson in Industry Association meetings.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 76 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk assessment of prospects and viability Online Program Management grows, At the time of publication, the UK remains driven by global enrolment in due to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
This section should be read together undergraduate and postgraduate Given the scheduled exit date and with the full viability statement on p127.
online courses significant risk of no deal, we have advanced Pearsons principal risks and our ability to mitigation plans underway.
These do not US Assessment revenues stabilise manage them as outlined above are linked involve material cost and we will be able to to our viability as a company.
These risks unwind those plans without significant Other strategic priorities, including have therefore been taken into account disruption or cost if it later becomes Virtual Schools and Professional when preparing the viability statement.
As stated in the principal risks Certification show good growth section above on p62-75, we continue to The Board assessed the prospects of the In assessing the companys viability for the believe that Brexit will not have a material company over a three-year period, longer three years to December 2021, the Board impact on Pearson as a whole and is not a than the minimum 12 months of the annual analysed a variety of downside scenarios principal risk, therefore the Board did going concern review.
The three-year period including a scenario where the company is not specifically factor it into viability corresponds with Pearsons strategic impacted by all principal risks.
planning process and represents the time modelling overlaid a severe but plausible over which the company can reasonably The Board also stress-tested the impact downside scenario onto the base case predict market dynamics and the likely on our liquidity of all the principal risks strategic plan for Pearson, focusing on the impact of additions to the product portfolio.
Although this is not impact of the following assumptions and regarded as a plausible scenario, the test key risks: The Board discusses the companys showed that the company would still have strategic plan on an annual basis taking Failure to materialise anticipated liquid resources subject to a limited number account of a range of factors including benefits of our 2017-2019 cost of management actions.
market conditions, the principal risks to efficiency programme the group above, product and capital The Boards confirmation of Pearsons Further declines in enrolments and investment levels as well as available viability for the three years to 2021, based further channel disruption in funding.
Pearsons strategy and business on this assessment, is included alongside US Higher Education Courseware model are discussed in more detail the going concern statement on p127.
Failure to accelerate our shift to digital while successfully investing and The key assumptions which underpin delivering market leading global our three year strategic plan to December products and services 2021 are as follows: Online Program Management fails to Implementation of our 2017-2019 cost generate expected revenue growth efficiency programme reducing our annualised cost base exiting 2019 US Assessment revenues fail to stabilise by c. 330m Other strategic priorities, including Increased investment in the product Virtual Schools and Professional technology platform to accelerate the Certification do not achieve modest shift to digital and enhance courseware growth amid global economic uncertainty service capabilities and local market pressures Further declines in enrolments and other A negative ruling by the European downwards pressures in the US Higher Commission on the controlled foreign Education Courseware market company group financing partial exemption tax legislation US Higher Education Courseware returns rates continue to improve as sales become more direct to consumer
