Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 60 Enterprise risk management Ensuring effective identification and management of risk.
Our approach to risk management is Our enterprise risk management ERM summarised in the framework below.
framework aligns to international Our goal is to support Pearson in meeting standards e. g. COSO and ISO 31000 and its strategic and operational objectives, aids our continued compliance with the as described earlier in the Annual Report.
Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code guidance on risk management, as well as enabling us to adapt to any required or desired changes in approach.
Foundations Managing risk All the elements that make up this framework Our approach to managing risk come together to provide the foundations for has remained consistent with successful ERM, and risk management more prior years.
Governance and oversight Appetite and tolerance Context The Audit Committee assists the Board Pearsons leadership team sets the target Risk context sets the criteria against which in overseeing our ERM framework.
risk appetite for each risk they own validated risks are identified and assessed, defining They validate target risk appetite, risk by the Audit Committee and Board.
Clarity the external and internal parameters to be status and mitigation plans, as well as on the degree of risk the Board is willing to taken into account.
verifying the viability statement process.
accept determines the most appropriate The risk management policy, framework and risk treatment to manage an individual risk.
Roles and responsibilities supporting guidance set out how to manage For example, a legal or compliance risk risks, such as how to determine probability The ERM framework covers the day-to-day has a low target risk appetite.
We try to and impact as well as instructions on how work on principal and business-level risks.
eliminate the risk as much as we can.
to translate these into an overall risk rating.
For a list of responsibilities of key risk Customer experience represents a strategic Adaptations of these matrices, tailored for a stakeholders, see p104 in Governance.
opportunity and is therefore likely to have a specific business area, are in use and align higher risk appetite, thus we would take Policy, framework, processes with the policy.
well-informed and well-managed risks and tools to achieve our goals in some areas.
Assessment Our policy, framework and supporting At least annually, we facilitate a risk Working with third parties guidance set out why risk management assessment process through discussions is important and the minimum standards.
The use of third parties, such as suppliers with leadership, senior management and key These can be tailored by a business area or partnerships, can create risk.
For example, stakeholders from each business area.
as long as they align with the policy.
an interruption to our business operations as For each risk identified, the probability of it The process is assessed during the a result of the actions of an external provider materialising and its potential impact is rated.
annual effectiveness review, covered in may prevent us from meeting our strategic The adequacy of action plans to address any more detail on p104 in Governance.
goals or could impact our reputation.
In 2018, remaining control gaps is then assessed.
we built on the third party risk management policy and activities initiated in previous We do this for both new risks identified years with continued roll-out of procurement as well as those already being monitored.
processes that help us flag third parties Horizon scanning also takes place requiring further due diligence.
We also throughout the year to aid in the increased our due diligence on third parties identification of new risks.
in certain areas see data privacy and compliance risks on p72 and p74 respectively for more on this.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 61 61 Continuous improvement At the end of 2014, we reviewed our risk interim, we made use of existing internal Embedding emerging risk processes in line with management maturity against the risk framework, collaboration tools to streamline processes.
the FRCs 2018 revisions to the UK Corporate setting out and monitoring maturity targets.
Governance Code guidance that comes into One area where we have made good progress At the start of 2018, we expanded this into a three effect for 2019 reporting in 2018 is implementing a more robust analysis year ERM vision, strategy and goals to further of emerging or new risks, undertaking a Deploying a risk tool which will support not just improve risk management across Pearson.
documented gap analysis of Pearsons risks our risk monitoring across the business, but against our strategy as well as external risk Progress and challenges in 2018 also improve our ability to undertake more data and reports plus competitor analysis.
thorough risk analysis such as risk trends As we began to implement our strategy, our over time.
We have built into the tools design reliance on manual processes quickly became a Priorities for 2019 the criteria we need to further develop our key challenge we needed to overcome.
We In 2019, we will continue to implement integrated assurance approach, by bringing began to design and test an online risk tool in our three-year risk plan, including: together different sources of assurance 2018 in order to overcome this challenge.
In the information into one place for the first time.
Culture The ERM framework is also Context used to promote a risk aware culture across the organisation, with the aim of integrating risk management into day-to-day decision making.
Assessment Monitoring Reporting identify, analyse, and review evaluate Communication, training, education and awareness Our Code of Conduct certification was revised and implemented in 2018, supporting our commitment to ethical behaviours across Treatment the organisation.
We are committed to raising awareness among employees on the importance of better managing day-to-day risks.
In 2018, we regularly attended leadership and team meetings process and key risks.
The reports cover Treatment to highlight best practice and conducted current risk status as well as an update on risk specific risk workshops, including targeted Once assessed, the most appropriate course mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
efforts on the risks involving programme of action for each risk is decided, taking Discussions focus on where there is either interdependencies.
into account the size of the gap between its a the greatest change in rating or b the current risk status against its risk appetite biggest gap between current rating and the Embedding risk in decision making target.
This can include avoid i. e. not doing target risk appetite, with the emphasis on All Pearson business functions continued something : implementing mitigation or the strength of mitigation plans in place.
to maintain their own risk map, with the contingency plans to change the probability Risk maps for each business area are also spotlight in 2018 on the further improvement or reduce the impact of a risk: accepting included in these reports.
Business functions increased risk in order to pursue an follow the same framework for identifying, Risk deep dives also take place at the Audit opportunity, or sharing the risk with assessing, treating and monitoring risk.
In 2018, another party or parties.
Each identified risk is also assigned a risk some of the areas covered include business Monitoring and review appetite target.
transformation, anti-bribery and corruption The Board and Audit Committee review including third party due diligence and data ERM risk update reports twice per year at a privacy including GDPR readiness.
This gives them the opportunity read the details in the Chair of the Audit to review, challenge and validate the ERM Committees letter on p97-98.
