PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk report A consistent Group-wide methodology is applied to the Risk management and internal identification, evaluation and management of the Groups principal risks which considers both the likelihood of the controlframework risk occurring over a five-year period and the potential The Group faces a variety of risks which, should they arise, impact from a stakeholder and customer, financial, could materially impact its ability to achieve its strategic management effort and reputational perspective.
The effective management of these existing and Principaland other risks are captured in risk registers emerging risks is, therefore, essential to the long-term which are regularly reviewed and challenged.
The Group seeks to reduce its risk exposure, in line with Pennon has a mature Group-wide integrated risk the desired risk appetite and tolerance levels, through the management framework see diagram below which is operation of a robust internal control environment which embedded into the existing governance structures and isaligned to the three lines of defence model.
The Board, culture, and helps us to live up to our values of trusted and via the Audit Committee, obtains comfort over the responsible in the way we carry out our business.
Our risk effectiveness of the internal control environment through management approach incorporates both top down and the reporting of outcomes from a variety of internal and bottom up processes, ensuring a common understanding external assurance providers, including an independent of the risks and opportunities that the Group is exposed internal audit function.
toand how they may impact on the achievement of the strategic priorities.
Risk management framework Board Audit Committee Pennon Executive Subsidiary internal control Group Risk Forum Subsidiary risk management Risk and compliance Internal Audit Responsible for the identification of principal risks, setting of risk appetite, and ensuring an effective risk management process Responsible for the management of risk in accordance with appetite Responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the internal control environment 52 Third line of defence Second line of defence First line of defence Internal audit Risk management Management policies, procedures and controls PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The key elements of the Groups risk management process include: Key risk management responsibilities Key assurance activities Sets the Groups strategic objectives Quarterly reviews of the Groups principal risks against Board thedetermined risk appetite.
Establishes the Groups risk appetite Determines the Groups principal risks Ensures an effective internal control framework.
Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk Perform quarterly deep dive reviews on principal risks Audit Committee managementframework Approves the Group Internal Audit Plan Reviews the adequacy of the internal control framework.
Receive reports on the outcomes of key assuranceactivities.
Day-to-day management of the Groups principal and Perform a thorough appraisal of the Groups risk Pennon Executive operational risks profilequarterly Establishes the relevant Group-wide risk management Monitoring of the Groups performance against KPIs processes and procedures andfinancial performance Maintaining the internal control framework.
Establishes and reviews policies, procedures and delegated authorities.
Provides review and challenge over subsidiary functional Quarterly review of Group and subsidiary principal risks Group Risk Forum principal risks and mitigation strategies ona quarterly basis Alignment of the top down and bottom up risk Deep dive reviews of specific risks.
Topics include: management process cybersecurity, renationalisation, health and safety andfinancial markets and liquidity.
Horizon scanning on emerging risks and opportunities.
The identification and assessment of subsidiary level risks Review of subsidiary functional principal risks on Individuals aquarterly basis by executive management teams Implementation and execution of appropriate risk subsidiaries mitigation strategies, aligned with the agreed risk appetite Risk and Compliance functions undertake compliance functions activities over ISO standards and other key Monitor compliance with internal control framework.
businessprocesses Self-certification of compliance with internal controlframework.
Provide independent, risk based assurance on the Regular reporting to Audit Committee and Pennon Group Internal Audit effectiveness of the internal control framework Executive on the effectiveness of internal controls and theoutcomes from other third line assurance activity.
Coordination of independent assurance activities.
Continuous improvement to risk management andinternalcontrol The Group has continued to align key corporate policies The Group seeks to continually improve its approach to risk and procedures across all subsidiaries and functions management and internal control.
During the year there have been a number of developments which have further Risks relating to Group corporate functions established enhanced these processes, including: during theyear have been subject to review and challenge by the Group RiskForum A director of Risk and Assurance has been appointed Viridor has successfully migrated to a Group shared withresponsibility for the Group Internal Audit and Risk services platform, providing greater consistency and Management functions and the coordination of assurance control over key financialprocesses activities across the Group A new programme of legal and compliance awareness A Group-wide health and safety programme, HomeSafe, training for staffhas been implemented.
has been implemented across a number of sites and is being rolled out across the remainder of the Group The Group Health, Safety, Security and Assurance HSSA function willprovide second line assurance over the application of HSSA processes and controls across theGroup 53 Third line Second line of defence First line of defence ofdefence FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk report continued Risk appetite Britains exit from the EU The UK Corporate Governance Code requires companies The Group continues to regularly monitor the potential to determine their risk appetite with respect to the level of risks and implications arising from Britains decision to risk it is considered appropriate to accept in achieving the trigger Article 50 and exit the EU.
While a significant Groups strategic priorities.
Striking an appropriate balance amount of uncertainty remains, the following issues have between risk and reward is key to the success of the been identified which impact the Groups principal risks Groups strategy.
The Board has established its risk and may be influenced by any agreement between Britain appetite for each of the principal risks which allows the and the EU: business to pursue value enhancing opportunities, while Changes in environmental legislation, such as maintaining an overall level of risk exposure that the Board drinking and bathing water quality.
At present the considers to be appropriate.
The Boards evaluation of the Group does not anticipate any significant deviation in effectiveness of internal control is considered in the existing environmental legislation or regulations when context of the stated risk appetite.
existing EU legislation is transferred to domestic UK law Ofwats principles for holding companies principal riskC Board leadership, transparency and governance Exposure to exchange rate and interest rate Ofwat requires that holding companies manage their risks fluctuations.
There is limited exposure to exchange in such a way that the regulated company is protected from ratefluctuations which is further mitigated through the risk elsewhere in the Group.
The Groups principal risks and forward contracts providing certainty over future foreign uncertainties include those Group-level risks which could currency risk.
Interest rate risks are mitigated through materially impact on South West Water.
the Groups long-term maturity of debt and finance leases with a significant proportion of interest-bearing Pennons risk management and internal control frameworks liabilities at fixed rates principal risk D ensure that it does not take any action that would cause Inability to access the same levels of funding from South West Water to breach its licence obligations.
While the Group has the Groups governance and management structures mean avariety of funding opportunities available to it, it that there is full understanding and consideration of South continues to calls for an appropriate UK replacement West Waters duties and obligations under its licence, as principal risk D well as an appropriate level of information sharing and Impact on the domestic economy and the ability disclosure to give South West Water assurance that it is not ofour customers to pay their bills.
The Group has exposed as a result of activities elsewhere within the Group.
mature processes to proactively monitor debt levels and operate a number of initiatives to support customers Principal risks and who are unable to pay their bills principal risk H uncertainties The ability to attract and employ EU nationals with The Groups business model exposes the business to a the necessary skills and experience.
The Group faces variety of external and internal risks.
The assessment of the continued challenges in attracting EU nationals as a Groups principal risks is informed by the potential impact result of the continued uncertainty over the movement of macro political, economic and environmental factors.
of labour principal risk M While the ability of the Group to influence these macro level The Directors confirm that during 2017 18 they have risks is limited, they continue to be regularly monitored and carriedout a robust assessment of risks facing the Group, the potential implications on the Group areconsidered as including assessing the impacts on its business model, part of the ongoing risk assessment process.
This includes future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These principal undertaking scenario planning andanalysis to understand risks have been considered in preparing the viability the risk exposure of one, or a number, of these events statement on page 61. occurring and taking appropriate steps to reduce the potential impact.
Over the past year there has been a significant increase inthe level of uncertainty within the water sector as a resultof evolving political views on the future of the water industry and changes in the priorities and focus of Ofwat.
Specific risks have been included within the statement of principal risks, on the following pages, which reflects this uncertainty and the potential risk exposure to the Group.
Additionally, the Groups tax related risk has evolved from uncertainly arising from open tax computations where liabilities remain to be agreed in the 2016 Annual Report toTax compliance and contribution.
This reflects boththefinalisation of tax returns for older periods withHMRCand the increased external focus on the taxcontribution ofcompanies in the sector and other largecorporate organisations.
54 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Reporting an overview of the principal risk profile Strategic impact Law, regulation Business systems and and finance capital investments Leadership in UK Leadership in cost Driving 1 water and waste 2 base efficiency 3 sustainable growth F D Long-term priorities affected.
A ii Risk level B C O A i E N High Medium Low Increasing Stable Decreasing M The low, medium and high risk level is our estimate ofthe net risk to the I Groupafter mitigation.
It is important to note that risk is difficult to estimate L withaccuracy and therefore may be more or less than indicated.
K Current assessment of direction of travel of risk level.
H J Market and Operating economic conditions performance Net Principal risks Ref Strategic priorities Risk description Trend level risk Changes in Government policy: Law and regulation A 1, 2 and finance i Renationalisation ii Use of single-use plastics Regulatory reform B 1, 2 Compliance with laws and regulations C 1, 2 Maintaining sufficient finance and funding to meet ongoing commitments D 1, 3 Non-compliance or occurrence of avoidable health and safety incident E 1, 2, 3 Tax compliance and contribution F 2 Increase in defined benefit pension scheme deficit G 2 Non-recovery of customer debt Market and H 1, 2 economic conditions Macro-economic risks impacting commodity and power I 3 Poor operating performance due to extreme weather or climate change Operating J 1 performance Poor service and or increased competition leading to loss of customers K 1, 3 Business interruption or significant operational failures incidents L 1, 3 Difficulty in recruitment, retention and development of skills M 1, 2, 3 Failure or increased cost of capital projects exposure to contract failures Business systems N 1, 3 and capital Failure of IT system, management and protection including cyber risks investments O 1 55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk report continued Law, regulation and finance Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: i The renationalisation of the water We recognise that Changes in industry continues to be a central policy Government policy Government policy ofthe Opposition and remains a possibility evolves and seek to 1, 2 in the event of a change of Government.
minimising potential Changes in Government policy Werecognise, however the existing riskand maximising mayfundamentally impact our Government is supportive of the existing opportunities through abilitytodeliver the Groups regulatory model.
We engage regularly regular communication strategicpriorities, impacting withall political parties as well as customers and robust scenario shareholder value.
and stakeholders demonstrating the value planning.
they receive based on our operational performance and continued investment inthe network infrastructure.
ii The Government is considering legislating on the use of specific single-use plastics to reduce the environmental impact and improve recycling rates.
Viridor is well positioned to leverage this opportunity inthe event that legislation is introduced and continue to invest in its sorting and reprocessing technology.
Viridor is also a founding signatory to the UK Plastic Pact.
Long-term priorities affected: During the year Ofwat finalised their price We accept that regulatory Regulatory reform review methodology for 2020-25.
There has reform occurs and also been a focus by the Government and seektoleverage the 1, 2 Ofwat on the governance of companies in opportunities this Reform of the regulatory framework the water sector.
createswhile mitigating may result in changes to the Groups the associated risk.
We are well positioned for the new priorities and the service we provide regulatory period with a dedicated, to our customers.
It may have experienced PR19 project team, supported asignificant impact on our by external consultants, which is monitored performance which can impact through a robust governance framework.
Weare broadly supportive of Ofwats proposed reforms and engage fully with the regulator duringeach consultation.
South West Water already carries out its business in line with the improvements set out.
Long-term priorities affected: Our robust regulatory framework ensures The Group has the Compliance with compliance with Ofwat, Environment highest standards of laws and regulations Agency and other relevant requirements.
compliance and has 1, 2 noappetite for legal The Group is required to comply Employees, contractors and partners orregulatory breaches.
with an ever increasing range of receivea rolling programme of training regulated and non-regulated laws andguidance.
Additionally, during the We aim to minimise the and regulation across our water and yearwehave launched our Speak Up impact of regulatory waste businesses.
reform by targeting with one or a number of these may changes which are We have been proactive in reviewing our result in financial penalties, a NPVneutral over the policies and processes in preparation forthe negative impact on our ability to longer term to protect introduction of the General Data Protection operate effectively and reputational customer affordability Regulation and have appointed adedicated damage which could affect andshareholder value.
56 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Law, regulation and finance continued Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: The Group have mature treasury, We operate a prudent Maintaining fundingand cash flow policies in place.
approach to our financing sufficient finance Weregularly consider how political, strategy in order to ensure 1, 3 and funding, within economic and regulatory risks may impact our funding requirements Failure to maintain funding our debt covenants, on the Groups financing commitments are fully met.
requirements could lead to andcashflow.
to meet ongoing additional finance costs and put commitments The Group operates with strong liquidity ourgrowth agenda at risk.
Breach position and diversified funding mix.
South ofcovenants could result in the West Wateris funded to March 2020 while requirement to repay certain debt.
theViridor committed energy recovery facility ERF programme isalso fully funded.
The successful refinancing of the 300millionhybrid in September 2017 hasalsostrengthened our investment capacityand covenant position.
Long-term priorities affected: The effective management of health and The Group has no Non-compliance safety related risks continue to be a priority appetite for health and oroccurrence of for the Board and Pennon Executive.
safety related incidents 1, 2, 3 avoidable health and has the highest The HomeSafe programme was A breach of health and safety law andsafety incident standards of compliance successfully piloted in Viridors materials could lead to financial penalties, within the Group and recycling facility site in Plymouth, nationwide significant legal costs and damage thirdparties.
This is to the Groups reputation.
supported by a programme ofcapital investment for existing assets.
The Group has also invested in people, processes and systems within its HSSA function during the year which will assist indriving consistency and monitoring compliance with the Groups health and safety standards.
57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk report continued Market and economic conditions Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Mature and embedded debt collection While seeking to minimise Non-recovery of strategies are in place for the recovery of non-recoverable debt, customer debt South West Water domestic customer debt.
werecognise customer 1, 2 This is supplemented by affordability tariffs affordability challenges Potential impact on revenue such as Restart, WaterCare and Freshstart and the inability to asaresult of reduced customer to help reduce our bad debt exposure for disconnect domestic debtcollection, particularly with those customers who are struggling to pay.
customers, some risk regards to vulnerable customers Within the non-household market there has ofuncollectable andaffordability.
been renewed focus on the collection of debtremains.
older debt which has proved effective.
Due to high proportion of public sector contracts, Viridors debt collection risk is lower, however, customer debt is regularly reviewed and proactively managed.
Long-term priorities affected: We work closely in partnership with our We seek to take Macroeconomic localauthority customers in the delivery well-judged and risksarising from ofour services, while Viridor remains well informeddecisions while 3 adownturn in the positioned across the waste hierarchy, ensuring plans are in Challenges such as continued local global and UK withlong term contracts supporting the place to mitigate the authority, reduced global demand ERFsegment.
potential impact of economy and forour recycled commodities and macroeconomic risks.
commodity and decreases in power prices have We have secured new markets for our paper power prices adirect impact on the revenues and plastic recyclate in response to changes generated by our recycling business.
in quality requirements announced by China.
We continue to invest in our assets and are working with our supply chain to improve the quality of paper recycling, we are also implementing self-help measures todrive operational efficiencies.
Energy risk management at a Group level acts as a natural hedge between South West Water and Viridor, offsetting any dropin power prices.
Existing investments that qualified for Renewable Obligation Certificates are protected by the grandfathering principle.
58 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Operating performance Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Contingency plans, emergency resources We seek to reduce Poor operating and investment through a planned capital boththe likelihood and performance due to programme assist in mitigating this risk.
impact through long-term 1 extreme weather or Extreme weather conditions, such as those planning to ensure Failure of our assets to cope with climate change experienced in March 2018, are expected sufficient measures extreme weather conditions may totest the resilience of South West Waters areinplace.
lead to an inability to meet our assets, while the expectations of both customers needs, environmental customers and Ofwat with regards to damage, additional costs being operational performance during such incurred and reputational damage.
We also prepare drought plans every three years which are reviewed annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The recently published Water Resources Management Plan has not identified an overall significant increase inthe risk to water resources, however ongoing climate change will continue tochallenge this.
Viridor has in place a regional adverse weather management strategy, aimed atreducing disruption to site operations andtransport logistics.
Long-term priorities affected: Targeted improvements have been made We continually seek Poor customer tocontinually improve customer service toincrease customer service increased within South West Water has contributed satisfaction and 1, 3 competition leading tothe achievement of the ServiceMark maximisecustomer Poor customer service has a direct to loss of customer accreditation during the year and we retention while taking impact on South West Waters base continue to secure high service incentive well-informed risk to delivery of the PR14 business plan mechanism SIM scores.
and the ability of both Viridor and There has been a significant focus within Pennon Water Services to retain Viridor on our customer experience during andgrow market share.
the year and the reorganisation of the marketing and sales, service delivery and customer service functions has improved this further, alongside the launch of an annual customer survey.
Both Viridor and Pennon Water Services have a large and diverse customer base and are not materially exposed to the loss of any onecustomer.
Long-term priorities affected: A continued reduction in the number of We operate a low Business pollution events in wastewater has been tolerance for significant Interruption identified as a priority and a programme operational failure or 1, 3 orsignificant oftargeted action is currently underway incidents and seek to Operational failure in our water operational failure toaddress these risks.
mitigate these risks business could mean that we are incidents wherepossible.
Both South West Water and Viridor maintain notable to supply clean water to detailed contingency plans and incident ourcustomers or provide safe management procedures which are wastewater services.
Equipment failure direct impact on the successful ismanaged through a programme of delivery of the PR14 business plan.
sophisticated planned and preventive Additionally, business interruption maintenance regime and effective caused by defects, outage or fire management of stores.
The focus on the could impact the availability and effective optimisation of ERFs in particular optimisation of our ERFs and has resulted in availability exceeding the recycling facilities.
The Group also maintains comprehensive insurance across its asset base in the event of an incident occurring.
59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk report continued Operating performance continued Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: The people strategy, underpinned by six While turnover does occur, Difficulty in threads, has been rolled out across the we ensure the appropriate recruitment, Group and is designed to ensure we have skills and experience is 1, 2, 3 retention and the workforce necessary to deliver our inplace withsuccession Failure to have a workforce of development of strategic priorities.
This has included our plans toprovide resilience skilledand motivated individuals refreshed Vision, increased workforce in mitigating the impact appropriate skills willdetrimentally impact all of our engagement, continued commitment to ofthis.
which are required strategic priorities.
We need the training and development and the todeliver the rightpeople in the right places to introduction of a Pennon Code of Conduct.
share best practice, deliver synergies Groupsstrategy Succession plans remain in place for senior and move the Group forward in the and other key positions.
Challenges remain, new shared services structure.
however, in sourcing skills and expertise externally for specific senior and operational roles with the implications of Brexit continuing to add additional uncertainty.
Business systems and capital investment Principal risk Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: All capital projects are subject to a Pennons investment Failure or increased robustbusiness case process and skilled activities are taken on cost of capital project management resource and senior aninformed basis with 1, 3 projects exposure oversight is utilised to provide additional risks weighed against Inability to successfully deliver our tocontract failures rigour in the delivery of major projects.
capital programme may result in Robust due diligence is undertaken increased costs and delays and onkeysuppliers, technologies and detrimentally impacts our ability to acquisitions.
Back to back agreements provide top class customer service andsupplier guarantees also provide and achieve our growth agenda.
Commissioning at Beddington, Dunbar and Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Facility GRREC continued through the year, with financial contributions from Dunbar ERF protected by contractual mechanisms.
Expenditure at GRREC is above initial expectations.
Viridor is contractually entitled to recover incremental costs under certain circumstances.
Avonmouth ERF and Mayflower water treatment works remain on schedule andonbudget.
Long-term priorities affected: The Group operates a mature and We seek to minimise the Failure of information embedded governance framework over risk of informational technology systems, thebusiness as usual IT environment and technology failure and 1 management and major project implementations.
This is cyber security threats to Failure of our information technology protection including aligned to ISO27001 standards and regular the lowest level without systems, due to inadequate internal cyber risks internal and external assessments are detrimentally impacting processes or external cyber threats undertaken to maintain this accreditation.
on business operations could result in the business being Disaster recovery plans are in place for unable to operate effectively and the corporate and operational technology and corruption or loss of data.
This would these are regularly reviewed and tested.
have a detrimental impact on our Cyber risks are mitigated by a strong customers and result in financial information security framework.
penalties and reputational damage Thisisaligned with guidance issued for the Group.
bytheNational Cyber Security Centre NCSC.
Awareness campaigns have beenundertaken during the year alignedwith preparations for GDPR.
Avariety of internal and external assessments are also undertaken, includingannual penetration testing, totestthe robustness of our controls.
60 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Increase in the level of bad debt 20% Viability statement The Board has assessed the Groups financial viability and confirms that New debt financed at 2% above forward projections it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Financial penalty equivalent to 3% of turnover operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a five-year period.
Any relevant inter-company financing scenarios.
The assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current These scenarios were considered in isolation and in the position and prospects, its longer-term strategy, the Boards risk followingcombination appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, asdetailed on pages 56 to 60 of the risk report.
The Groups principal 10% totex underperformance in each of the five years operating subsidiaries of South West Water and Viridor are long term ODI penalty of 1.5% in each of the five years business characterised by multi-year investment programmes, with A one-off financial penalty of 1% of revenue.
associated revenue streams The Directors concluded these scenarios in isolation and the The Groups strategic business plan and associated principal risks are a combination noted above did not compromise the viability of South foundation of the scenario testing.
This assessment has considered the West Water or the Group over the five-year assessment period.
potential impact of these and other risks arising on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period in question.
In making the assessment, the Directors have taken account of Inmaking their assessment, the Directors reviewed the principal theGroups robust capital solvency position, its ability to raise risksand considered which risks might threaten the Groups viability.
newfinance and a key potential mitigating action of restricting Over the course of the year the Audit Committee has considered a anynon-contractual payments.
deep-dive review of the following principal risks to enable a thorough In assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors note that, assessment of the impact of these risks on ongoing viability.
astheGroup operates in a regulatory industry which potentially can Principal risk Matters considered by the Audit Committee besubject to non-market influences, such assessment is subject to uncertainty, the level of which depends on the proximity of the time Cyber security Review of the cyber security framework in place horizon.
Accordingly the future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or Financial resilience Ability to manage external shocks or potential predicted with certainty.
market dislocations that could impact on financing strategy As set out in the Audit Committees report on page 75, the Directors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management, Group recruitment Review of people risks including the ability to andretention attract and retain the right skills to deliver the andalso reviewed the results of the stress testing performed.
Group strategy Forward-looking statements Water resources and Consider the impact of climate change and This strategic report, consisting of pages 1 to 61, contains forwardresilience drought risks on water resources and ongoing looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: flood-related resilience cash flows: dividends: financing plans: business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive positions: In stress testing the Groups business plan it was determined that growth opportunities: plans and objectives of management: and other noneof the individual principal risks would in isolation, or in aggregate, matters.
These forward-looking statements including, without limitation, compromise the Groups viability.
In performing this stress testing all those relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working risks have been monetised with reference to risk weighting, factoring capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to inthe likelihood of occurrence and financial impact.
In addition, further Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this strategic factors were considered to reverse engineer a scenario that could report, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of possibly compromise the Groups viability, these included: Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
All the principal risks occurring in all of the five years They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual Lower RPI projections in each of the five years results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking Significant one-off costs statements.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be A deterioration in the credit quality of amounts owed to the Group.
considered in the light of relevant factors, including those set out in thissection on principal risks and uncertainties.
The three factors above, which are in addition to the principal risks, havebeen monetised as absolute financial costs and are not risk The strategic report consisting of pages 1 to 61 was approved by the weighted on likelihood of occurrence.
The Board considered the monetary impact of these factors on the By Order of the Board Groups viability over a five-year period, concluding the reversed engineered scenario remote.
The five-year period was chosen given thelonger-term nature of the Groups businesses.
As part of the Boards considerations, additional scenarios concerning South West Water Limiteds viability were reviewed.
This additional assessment considered South West Waters regulatory financial ring Helen Barrett-Hague fence through the following scenarios that are recommended to be Group General Counsel and Company Secretary tested by Ofwat: 24 May 2018 Totex underperformance 15% of totex ODI penalty 3% of RoRE in one year Inflation sensitivities -3% 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We are committed to thehighest standards ofcorporate governance 62 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 64 Chairmans letter to shareholders GOVERNANCE AND 66 Board of Directors REMUNERATION 73 Board Committees reports 84 Directors remuneration report 102 D irectors report other statutory disclosures 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
