Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 45 OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS IDENTIFYING WHAT MAY AFFECT OUR PERFORMANCE Persimmons principal risks are those with the potential to have a significant impact on the Group if they materialise or are managed ineffectively.
The principal risks identified map to our strategic objectives.
Group Principal Risks UKs exit from the EU National and regional economic conditions Government policy Mortgage availability Health and safety Labour and resources: Skilled workforce, retention and succession Labour and resources: Materials and land availability Strategy Climate change Reputation Low Medium High Mitigated residual risk impact Regulatory compliance UKs exit from the EU Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High The UKs exit from the European Union may We continue to monitor the political situation, the UK economy and lead to increased economic uncertainty the housing market through the review of external information and Change in 2018 adversely impacting: consumer confidence, changes in the behaviour of our customer base.
We closely manage Increased demand and pricing for new homes, revenues, and control our work in progress and land investment and our stringent profits and cash flows and may result in the investment appraisals will continue, ensuring exposure to market Strategic Objective impairment of asset values.
Potential legislative changes on customs We maintain close contact with our key suppliers and will continue to arrangements and increases in trade tariffs employ robust tendering processes to ensure risks around material could create bottlenecks at ports and impact availability and cost are mitigated as far as possible.
The vertical on the availability and cost of imported materials integration afforded by use of our own Brickworks, Space4 and and components within our supply chain.
goingforwards Tileworks production mitigates this risk further.
Possible restrictions on freedom of movement We will remain focused on our training initiatives to improve the supply may impact on the availability of skilled of the necessary management and construction skills the Group requires.
Also see mitigation and review of Government policy and Labour and Resources Strategic Objectives Key: Building quality Supporting Maintaining a Securing a Securing quality Optimising homes for our sustainable diverse, skilled sustainable and availability working customers communities workforce supplyof high of materials capital quality land Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Mitigated risk likelihood Less likely More likely 46 OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS continued National and regional economic conditions Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High The housebuilding industry is sensitive to changes We continually monitor lead indicators on the future direction of the UK in the economic environment, including unemployment, housing market so as to manage our exposure to any future market Change in 2018 interest rates and consumer confidence.
Our diversity of geographical market presence and our No change deterioration in economic conditions may have an continual monitoring of our geographical spread helps us mitigate the adverse impact on demand and pricing for new effects of local economic fluctuations.
Strategic Objective homes, which could have a material effect on our We control the level of build on site by closely monitoring our work in revenues, margins, profits and cash flows and progress levels.
We carry out extensive due diligence prior to our land result in the impairment of asset values.
investment decisions having regard to local market conditions and the Economic conditions in the land market may Groups existing strategic and on-market land holdings.
Significant adversely affect the availability of a sustainable land additions are reviewed by the Board.
supply of land at appropriate levels of returns.
Government policy Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High Changes to Government policy have the potential We monitor Government policy in relation to the housing market to impact on several aspects of our strategy and veryclosely.
Consistency of policy formulation and application is very Change in 2018 operational performance.
For example, changes to supportive of the housebuilding industry, encouraging continued No change the planning system, changes in the tax regime, or substantial investment in land, work in progress and skills to support further amendment of the Help to Buy scheme output growth.
We actively manage our land investment decisions and Strategic Objective could have an adverse effect on revenues, margins levels of work in progress to mitigate exposure to external influences.
Changes to the planning system Both major political parties in the UK continue to support the may also adversely impact the Groups ability to Help to Buy scheme, which was recently extended to remain source suitable land to deliver appropriate levels inplace until2023.
Mortgage availability Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High Any restrictions in the availability or affordability We monitor Bank of England commentary on credit conditions including of mortgages for customers could reduce the monthly approvals for house purchases and UK Finances monthly Change in 2018 demand for new homes and affect revenues, reports and lenders announcements for trends in lending.
We monitor No change profits and cash flows.
customer access to mortgages through our sales processes.
We ensure that our investment in land and work in progress is appropriate for our level Strategic Objective of sales and our expectations for market conditions.
The Governments Help to Buy scheme, which is anticipated to remain in place until 2023, supports customers to gain access to the housing market across the UK with competitive mortgage rates.
Health and safety Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High The health and safety of our employees, The Board has a strong commitment to health and safety and managing subcontractors, customers and visitors to our the risks in this area effectively.
This is implemented by comprehensive Change in 2018 construction sites is of paramount importance management systems and controls, managed by our Group Health No change to us.
Accidents on our sites could lead to and Safety Department, which includes detailed training and inspection reputational damage and financial penalties.
programmes to minimise the likelihood and impact of accidents on our sites.
Strategic Objective While all reasonable steps are taken to reduce the likelihood of an incident, the potential impacts of any such incident are considered to be high.
Strategic Objectives Key: Building quality Supporting Maintaining a Securing a Securing quality Optimising homes for our sustainable diverse, skilled sustainable and availability working customers communities workforce supplyof high of materials capital quality land Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 47 Labour and resources: Skilled workforce, retention and succession Residual Risk Impact Mitigation High Access to an appropriately skilled workforce is a We closely monitor our build programmes to enable us to manage our key requirement for the Group.
Increasing UK labour requirements effectively.
We operate in-house apprentice and Change in 2018 house building activity in recent years has training programmes, including our Combat to Construction C2C Increased increased demand for skilled labour, which has programme, to provide adequate supply of skilled labour.
Strategic Objective We are committed to playing a full and active role in external initiatives to A skilled management team is essential in address the skills shortage such as the Home Building Skills Partnership, maintaining operational performance and the a joint initiative of the Construction Industry Training Board and the implementation of the Groups strategy.
Where appropriate, we also use the Groups Space4 modern method of construction which helps diversify resource requirements on site.
The Group focuses on retaining its key staff through a range of measures, including career management and performance incentives.
At the most senior level, the Nomination Committee oversees these processes and promotes effective succession planning.
Labour and resources: Materials and land availability Residual Risk Impact Mitigation Medium Materials Materials Change in 2018 Recent growth in UK housebuilding has led to Our build programmes and our supply chain are closely monitored to allow us an increased demand for materials which is to manage and react to any supply chain issues.
We build strong relationships No change placing greater pressure on the supply chain.
with key suppliers over the long term to ensure consistency of supply and Strategic Objective This may continue to cause availability constraints cost efficiency.
We have invested in expanding our off-site manufacturing hub at Harworth, Land purchasing near Doncaster, to strengthen security of supply.
Our brick plant is providing a significant proportion of the bricks we use and our roof tile manufacturing Land may be purchased at too high a price, in facility will commence operations in 2019.
This complements our existing the wrong place and at the wrong time in the off-site manufacturing capability at Space4, which produces timber frames, housing cycle.
highly insulated wall panels and roof cassettes as a modern method of constructing new homes.
Land purchasing All land purchases undergo stringent viability assessments performed by our dedicated land and planning teams and must meet specific levels of projected returns.
The Board review and determine the appropriate timing of land purchases having regard to current market conditions and sales rates.
Strategy Residual Risk Impact Mitigation Low The Groups strategy has been developed by the The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board at an annual strategy Board as the most appropriate approach to meeting and thereafter regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
The Board Change in 2018 successfully deliver the optimal sustainable value engages with management and employees to ensure the strategy is No change for shareholders and other stakeholders.
communicated and understood and that all employees have a clear understanding of the potential benefits and risks of the strategy.
Strategic Objective As political, economic and other conditions evolve, it is possible that the strategy currently being pursued may cease to be the most appropriate approach.
Strategic Objectives Key: Building quality Supporting Maintaining a Securing a Securing quality Optimising homes for our sustainable diverse, skilled sustainable and availability working customers communities workforce supplyof high of materials capital quality land Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 48 OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Climate change Residual Risk Impact Mitigation Medium Should the effects of climate change and the We monitor our operational efficiency and direct environmental impact in UKs transition to a lower carbon economy lead a number of ways including measuring our own CO emissions and the 2 Change in 2018 to increasing national regulation this could cause amount of waste we generate for each home we sell.
New additional planning delays, increase the cost and We systematically consider the potential impacts of climate change accessibility of materials required within our Strategic Objective throughout the land acquisition, planning and build processes and work construction process and potentially limit their closely with planning authorities and other statutory bodies to manage supply or require additional features which could and mitigate risks.
For example, we conduct full environmental significantly increase our costs.
assessments for each parcel of land we acquire for development to Changes in weather patterns and the frequency of ensure our activities fulfil all obligations, respecting the natural extreme weather events, particularly storms and environment and the communities for which we are delivering newly built flooding, may increase the likelihood of disruption homes.
We are keen to adopt Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems and to the construction process.
The availability of other technology on all our new sites, subject to local planning mortgages and property insurance may reduce requirements, to address the risk of flooding.
should financial institutions take account of We continually seek to strengthen our supply chain.
Our off-site impacts relating to climate change.
Changes in manufacturing facilities provide us with greater assurance of quality and weather patterns may increase build costs and or supply, and use modern methods of construction and technology to assist development timeframes.
the mitigation of climate change related risks see pages 41 and 42.
Reputation Residual Risk Impact Mitigation Medium Access to housing is a significant social issue The Group has a strong commitment to high quality of operations.
and housebuilding is a high profile industry Oversight from the Board seeks to ensure key processes are robust and Change in 2018 which attracts a great deal of media and political any matters are addressed.
In cases where customer experiences, We engage actively with stakeholders to minimise the risks of reputational operational performance, management of health Strategic Objective damage and we aim to comply with best practice in corporate governance.
and safety, remuneration matters or local planning We actively support local communities in addressing housing needs, concerns fall short of our usual high standards, this in creating attractive neighbourhoods and employing local people, both may attract media attention.
This may impinge on on our sites and in the supply chain.
the reputation of the business which may have an Significant contributions are made to local infrastructure and good adverse impact on the Groups operations.
causes within the communities in which the Group operates.
Regulatory compliance Residual Risk Impact Mitigation Low The housebuilding industry is subject to extensive We operate comprehensive management systems to ensure regulatory and complex laws and regulations, particularly in and legal compliance, including a suite of policies and procedures Change in 2018 areas such as land acquisition, planning and the covering key areas of legislation and regulation.
Ensuring compliance in these areas We engage extensively with planning authorities and other stakeholders can result in delays in securing the land required Strategic Objective to reduce the likelihood and impact of any delays or disruption.
We also for development and in construction.
hold a land bank sufficient to provide security of supply for medium term Any failure to comply with regulations could result land requirements.
in damage to the Groups reputation and potential imposition of financial penalties.
Strategic Objectives Key: Building quality Supporting Maintaining a Securing a Securing quality Optimising homes for our sustainable diverse, skilled sustainable and availability working customers communities workforce supplyof high of materials capital quality land Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
