NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued E5.
Borrowings continued E5.2 Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing continued New Movement borrowings, Changes in in foreign Other 1 2 net of costs Repayments fairvalue exchange movements At Jan At 31 Dec Cash movements Non-cash movements 2017 2017 m m m m m m m Limited recourse bonds 2022 7.59% 65 12 3 56 Property Reversions loan 183 24 28 131 Retrocession contracts 87 41 5 51 200 million 7.25% unsecured subordinated loan 167 10 177 300 million senior unsecured bond 298 178 1 121 900 million unsecured revolving creditfacility 843 850 7 428 million subordinated notes 393 32 1 426 450 million Tier 3 subordinated notes 447 1 448 US $500 million Tier 2 bonds 383 15 368 2,036 862 1,105 23 15 23 1,778 1 Repayment of shareholder borrowings in the statement of consolidated cash flows includes a premium of 25 million in excess of the principal amount on repayment of the 300 million senior unsecured bond.
2 Primarily comprises amortisation under the effective interest method applied to borrowings held at amortised cost.
Risk Management financial risk This note forms one part of the risk management disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups management of insurance risk is detailed in note F4.
E6.1 Financial risk and the Asset Liability Management ALM framework The use of financial instruments naturally exposes the Group to the risks associated with them, chiefly market risk, credit risk and financial soundness risk.
Responsibility for agreeing the financial risk profile rests with the board of each life company, as advised by investment managers, internal committees and the Actuarial function.
In setting the risk profile, the board of each life company will receive advice from the appointed investment managers, the relevant with-profit actuary and the relevant Actuarial function holder as to the potential implications of that risk profile with regard to the probability of both realistic insolvency and of failing to meet the regulatory Minimum Capital Requirement.
The Chief Actuary will also advise the extent to which the investment risk taken is consistent with the Groups commitment to treat customers fairly.
Derivatives are used in many of the Groups funds, within policy guidelines agreed by the board of each life company and overseen by investment committees of the boards of each life company supported by management oversight committees.
Derivatives are primarily used for risk hedging purposes or for efficient portfolio management, including the activities of the Groups Treasury function.
More detail on the Groups exposure to financial risk is provided in note E6.2 below.
The Group is also exposed to insurance risk arising from its Life business.
Life insurance risk in the Group arises through its exposure to longevity, persistency, mortality and to other variances between assumed and actual experience.
These variances can be in factors such as persistency levels and management, administrative expenses and new business pricing.
More detail on the Groups exposure to insurance risk is provided in note F4.
The Groups overall exposure to market and credit risk is monitored by appropriate committees, which agree policies for managing each type of risk on an ongoing basis, in line with the investment strategy developed to achieve investment returns in excess of amounts due in respect of insurance contracts.
The effectiveness of the Groups ALM framework relies on the matching of assets and liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts, taking into account the types of benefits payable to policyholders under each type of contract.
Separate portfolios of assets are maintained for with-profit business funds which include all of the Groups participating business, non-linked non-profit funds and unit-linked funds.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 158 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued E6.2 Financial risk analysis Transactions in financial instruments result in the Group assuming financial risks.
These include credit risk, market riskand financial soundness risk.
Each of these are describedbelow, together with a summary of how theGroupmanages the risk, alongwith sensitivity analysis where appropriate.
The sensitivity analysis does not take into account second order impacts ofmarket movements, for example, where a market movement may give rise to potential indicators of impairment for the Groups intangible balances.
1 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge anobligation.
These obligations can relate to both on and off balance sheet assets and liabilities.
There are two principal sources of credit risk for the Group: credit risk which results from direct investment activities, including investments in fixed and variable rate income securities, derivatives counterparties, collective investment schemes and the placing of cash deposits: and credit risk which results indirectly from activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
Such activities include premium payments, outsourcing contracts, reinsurance, exposure from material suppliers and the lending of securities.
The amount disclosed in the statement of consolidated financial position in respect of all financial assets, together with rights secured under off balance sheet collateral arrangements, and excluding the minority interest in consolidated collective investment schemes and those assetsthat back policyholder liabilities, represents the Groupsmaximum exposure to credit risk.
The impact of non-government fixed and variable rate income securities and, inter alia, the change in market credit spreads during the year is fully reflected in the values shown in these consolidated financial statements.
Credit spreads are the excess ofcorporate bond yields over gilt yields to reflect the higher level of risk.
Similarly, the value of derivatives that the Group holds takes into account fully the changes in swap rates.
There is an exposure to spread changes affecting the prices ofcorporate bonds and derivatives.
This exposure applies to with-profit funds where risks and rewards fall wholly to shareholders, non-profit funds and shareholders funds.
The Group holds 9,917 million 2017: 5,640 million of corporate bonds which are used to back annuity liabilities in non-profit funds.
These annuity liabilities include an aggregate credit default provision of 496 million 2017: 225 million to fund against the risk of default.
A 100bps widening of credit spreads, with all other variables held constant and no change in assumed expected defaults, would result in a decrease in the profit after tax in respect ofafull financial year, and in equity, of 108 million 2017: 55 million.
A 100bps narrowing of credit spreads, with all other variables held constant and no change in assumed expected defaults, would result in an increase in the profit after tax in respect ofafull financial year, and in equity, of 100 million 2017: 53 million.
Credit risk is managed by the monitoring of aggregate Group exposures to individual counterparties and by appropriate credit riskdiversification.
The Group manages the level of credit risk it accepts through credit risk tolerances.
Credit risk on derivatives and securities lending is mitigated through the use of collateral.
The credit risk borne by the shareholder on with-profit policies isdependent on the extent to which the underlying insurance fund is relying on shareholder support.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 159 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued Quality of credit assets An indication of the Groups exposure to credit risk is the quality of the investments and counterparties with which it transacts.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregate credit exposure split by credit rating.
For financial assets that do not have credit ratings assigned by external rating agencies but where the Group has assigned an internal rating for use in managing and monitoring credit risk, the assets are classified as internally rated.
If a financial asset is neither rated by an external agency nor internally rated, it is classified as not rated: BB and Non- 3 AAA AA A BBB below rated Unit-linked Total 2018 m m m m m m m m 1 Loans and deposits 341 457 31 2,783 3,612 Derivatives 5 2,092 1,032 659 10 3,798 2 Fixed and variable rate income securities 9,709 31,043 13,242 10,793 1,992 954 199 67,932 Reinsurers share of insurance contractliabilities 6,227 1,292 45 7,564 Reinsurers share of investment contractliabilities 5,417 5,417 Cash and cash equivalents 327 947 1,836 1,265 450 101 4,926 10,036 38,563 18,919 13,121 1,992 4,891 5,727 93,249 1 For financial assets that do not have credit ratings assigned by external ratings the Group assigns internal ratings for use in management and monitoring credit risk.
280 millionofAA, 198 million of A, and 65 million of BBB loans and deposits are internally rated.
2 39 million of AAA, 146 million of AA, 418 million of A, and 123 million of BBB fixed and variable rate income securities are internally rated.
3 Non-rated loans and deposits of 2,783 million 2017: 1,271 million Includes equity release mortgages with a value of 2,020 million 2017: 1,255 million.
Further details are set out in note E2.3.
BB and AAA AA A BBB below Non-rated Unit-linked Total 2017 m m m m m m m m 1 Loans and deposits 53 366 20 1,371 2 1,812 Derivatives 41 1,942 557 210 10 2,760 Fixed and variable rate incomesecurities 3,867 12,853 5,571 3,586 360 546 215 26,998 Reinsurers share of insurance contractliabilities 1,406 1,849 65 3,320 Reinsurers share of investment contractliabilities 6,085 6,085 Cash and cash equivalents 694 1,400 114 37 2,245 3,867 15,047 11,128 4,277 360 2,192 6,349 43,220 1 As noted above for financial assets that do not have credit ratings assigned by external ratings the Group assigns internal ratings for use in management and monitoring credit risk.
33 million of AAA, 218 million of AA, 103 million of A, 5 million of BBB and 1 million of BB and below of fixed and variable rate income securities are internally rated.
Credit ratings have not been disclosed in the above tables for holdings in unconsolidated collective investment schemes and investments in associates.
The credit quality of the underlying debt securities within these vehicles is managed by the safeguards built into the investment mandates for these vehicles.
The Group maintains accurate and consistent risk ratings across its asset portfolio.
This enables management to focus on the applicable risks and to compare credit exposures across all lines of business, geographical regions and products.
The rating system is supported by a variety of financial analytics combined with market information to provide the main inputs for the measurement ofcounterparty risk.
All risk ratings are tailored to the various categories of assets and are assessed and updated regularly.
The Group operates an Internal Credit Rating Committee to perform oversight and monitoring of internal credit ratings for internally rated assets.
Internally rated assets are those that do not have a public rating from an external credit assessment institution.
The internal credit ratings used by the Group are provided by fund managers or for certain assets in particular, equityrelease mortgages determined by the Life Companies.
A variety of methods are used to validate the appropriateness ofthe internal credit ratings.
The Internal Credit Rating Committee reviews the policies, processes and practices to ensure theappropriateness of the internal ratings assigned to asset classes.
The Group has increased exposure to illiquid credit assets eg equity release mortgages and commercial real estate loans withthe aim of achieving greater diversification and investment returns.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 160 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued E6.2.
2 Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued ofa financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes A further indicator of the quality of the Groups financial assets inmarket influences.
Market risk comprises interest rate risk, is the extent to which they are neither past due nor impaired.
currency risk and other price risk comprising equity risk, All of the amounts in the table above for the current and prior property risk, inflation risk and alternative asset class risk.
year are neither past due nor impaired.
The Group is mainly exposed to market risk as a result of: Please refer to page 222 for additional life company asset disclosures which include the life companies exposure to the mismatch between liability profiles and the related peripheral Eurozone debt securities.
Peripheral Eurozone assetinvestment portfolios: isdefined as Portugal, Spain, Italy, Ireland and Greece.
The Groups exposure to peripheral Eurozone debt the investment of surplus assets including shareholder continuesto be relatively small compared to total assets.
reserves yet to be distributed, surplus assets within the with-profit funds and assets held to meet regulatory Concentration of credit risk capitaland solvency requirements: and Concentration of credit risk might exist where the Group has the income flow of management charges derived from significant exposure to an individual counterparty or a group thevalue of invested assets of the business.
ofcounterparties with similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations The Group manages the levels of market risk that it accepts tobesimilarly affected by changes in economic and other through the operation of a market risk policy and an approach conditions.
The Group has most of its counterparty risk within to investment management that determines: its life business and this is monitored by the counterparty limits contained within the investment guidelines and the constituents of market risk for the Group: investment management agreements, overlaid by regulatory the basis used to fair value financial assets and liabilities: requirements and the monitoring of aggregate counterparty exposures across the Group against additional Group the asset allocation and portfolio limit structure: counterparty limits.
Counterparty risk in respect of OTC diversification from and within benchmarks by type of derivative counterparties is monitored using a Potential instrument and geographical area: FutureExposure PFE value metric.
the net exposure limits by each counterparty or group ofcounterparties, geographical and industry segments: The Group is also exposed to concentration risk with control over hedging activities: outsource partners.
This is due to the nature of the outsourced services market.
The Group operates a policy to manage reporting of market risk exposures and activities: and outsourcer service counterparty exposures and the impact monitoring of compliance with market risk policy and from default is reviewed regularly by executive committees reviewof market risk policy for pertinence to the and measured through stress and scenario testing.
Reinsurance All operations comply with regulatory requirements relating The Group is exposed to credit risk as a result of insurance tothe taking of market risk.
This also gives rise toconcentration of risk with individual reinsurers, due to the Interest rate risk nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ofreinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The Group flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate relative to the manages its exposure to reinsurance credit risk through the respective liability due to the impact of changes in market operation of a credit policy, collateralisation where appropriate, interest rates on the value of interest-bearing assets and and regular monitoring of exposures at the Reinsurance onthe value of future guarantees provided under certain Management Committee.
Collateral Interest rate risk is managed by matching assets and liabilities The credit risk of the Group is mitigated, in certain where practicable and by entering into derivative arrangements circumstances, by entering into collateral agreements.
for hedging purposes where appropriate.
This is particularly Theamount and type of collateral required depends the case for the non-participating funds and supported onanassessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
For unsupported participating business, Guidelines are implemented regarding the acceptability some element of investment mismatching is permitted where oftypes of collateral and the valuation parameters.
Collateral it is consistent with the principles of treating customers fairly.
ismainly in respect of stock lending, certain reinsurance The with-profit funds of the Group provide capital to allow arrangements to provide security against the daily mark to such mismatching to be effected.
In practice, the life model value of derivative financial instruments and as part of companies of the Group maintain an appropriate mix of fixed securities lending activity.
Management monitors the market and variable rate instruments according to the underlying value of the collateral received, requests additional collateral insurance or investment contracts and will review this at when needed, and performs an impairment valuation when regular intervals to ensure that overall exposure is kept within impairment indicators exist and the asset is not fully secured the risk profile agreed for each particular fund.
This also and is not carried at fair value.
See note E4.1 for further requires the maturity profile of these assets to be managed information on collateral arrangements.
inline with the liabilities to policyholders.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 161 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued The portfolio of marketable equity securities and property investments which is carried in the statement of consolidated E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued financial position at fair value, has exposure to price risk.
E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued The Groups objective in holding these assets is to earn higher The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk indicates how long-term returns by investing in a diverse portfolio of equities changes in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial and properties.
Portfolio characteristics are analysed regularly instrument arising from changes in market interest rates at and price risks are actively managed in line with investment thereporting date result in a change in profit after tax and mandates.
The Groups holdings are diversified across inequity.
It takes into account the effect of such changes industries and concentrations in any one company or inmarket interest rates on all assets and liabilities that industryare limited.
contribute to the Groups reported profit after tax and in equity.
Changes in the value of the Groups holdings in Equity and property price risk is primarily borne in respect swaptions as the result of time decay or changes to interest ofassets held in with-profit funds, unit-linked funds or equity rate volatility are not captured in the sensitivity analysis.
release mortgages in the non-profit funds.
For unit-linked funds this risk is borne by policyholders and asset movements With-profit business and non-participating business within directly impact unit prices and hence policy values.
For thewith-profit funds are exposed to interest rate risk as with-profit funds policyholders future bonuses will be guaranteed liabilities are valued relative to market interest impacted by the investment returns achieved and hence the rates and investments include fixed interest securities and price risk, whilst the Group also has exposure to the value of derivatives.
For unsupported with-profit business the profit guarantees provided to with-profit policyholders.
In addition orloss arising from mismatches between such assets and some equity investments are held in respect of shareholders liabilities is largely offset by increased or reduced discretionary funds.
The Group as a whole is exposed to price risk policyholder benefits dependent on the existence of fluctuations impacting the income flow of management policyholder guarantees.
The contribution of unsupported charges from the invested assets of all funds.
For the participating business to the Group result is largely limited non-profit fund property price risk from equity release tothe shareholders share of the declared annual bonus.
mortgages is borne by the Group with the aim of achieving The contribution of the supported participating business to greater diversification and investment returns, consistent theGroup result is determined by the shareholders interest withthe Strategic Asset Allocation approved by the Board.
inany change in value in the capital advanced to the withprofit funds.
Equity and property price risk is managed through the agreement and monitoring of financial risk profiles that are In the non-participating funds, policy liabilities sensitivity to appropriate for each of the Groups life funds in respect interest rates are matched primarily with fixed and variable ofmaintaining adequate regulatory capital and treating rate income securities and hedging if necessary to match customers fairly.
This is largely achieved through asset class duration, with the result that sensitivity to changes in interest diversification and within the Groups ALM framework through rates is very low.
The Groups exposure to interest rates the holding of derivatives or physical positions in relevant principally arises from the Groups hedging strategy to protect assets where appropriate.
the regulatory capital position, which results in an adverse impact on profit on an increase in interest rates.
The sensitivity analysis for equity and property price risk illustrates how a change in the fair value of equities and An increase of 1% in interest rates, with all other variables properties affects the Group result.
It takes into account the held constant would result in a decrease in profits after tax effect of such changes in equity and property prices on all inrespect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 141 million assets and liabilities that contribute to the Groups reported 2017: 110 million.
profit after tax and in equity but excludes the impact on the Groups pension schemes.
A decrease of 1% in interest rates, with all other variables heldconstant, would result in an increase in profits after tax A 10% decrease in equity prices, with all other variables held inrespect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 211 million constant, would result in an increase in profits after tax in 2017: 196 million.
respect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 202 million 2017: 73 million.
Equity, property and inflation risk The Group has exposure to financial assets and liabilities A 10% increase in equity prices, with all other variables held whose values will fluctuate as a result of changes in market constant, would result in a decrease in profits after tax in prices other than from interest rate and currency fluctuations.
respect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 197 million This is due to factors specific to individual instruments, their 2017: 71 million.
issuers or factors affecting all instruments traded in the market.
Accordingly, the Group limits its exposure to any one A 10% decrease in property prices, with all other variables counterparty in its investment portfolios and to any one held constant, would result in a decrease in profits after tax foreign market.
inrespect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 15 million 2017: 11 million.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 162 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued Capital management risk is defined as the failure of the Group, or one of its separately regulated subsidiaries, to E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued maintain sufficient capital to provide appropriate security for A 10% increase in property prices, with all other variables policyholders and meet all regulatory capital requirements heldconstant, would result in an increase in profits after tax whilst not retaining unnecessary capital.
The Group has inrespect of a full financial year, and in equity, of 7 million exposure to capital management risk through the 2017: 5 million.
requirements of the Solvency II capital regime, as implemented by the PRA, to calculate regulatory capital The sensitivity to changes in equity prices is primarily driven adequacy at a Group level.
The Groups UK life subsidiaries by the Groups equity hedging arrangements over the value have exposure to capital management risk through the offuture management charges that are linked to asset values.
Solvency II regulatory capital requirements mandated by the PRA at the solo level.
The Groups approach to managing The Group is exposed to inflation risk through certain capital management risk is described in detail in note I3.
contracts, such as annuities, which may provide for future benefits to be paid taking account of changes in the level of Tax risk is defined as the risk of financial or reputational loss experienced and implied inflation, and also through the arising from a lack of liquidity, funding or capital due to an Groups cost base.
The Group seeks to manage inflation risk unforeseen tax cost, or by the inappropriate reporting and within the ALM framework through the holding of derivatives, disclosure of information in relation to taxation.
Tax risk is such as inflation swaps, or physical positions in relevant managed by maintaining an  tax team assets, such as index-linked gilts, where appropriate.
who have the qualifications and experience to make judgements on tax issues, augmented by advice from Currency risk externalspecialists where required.
With the exception of Standard Life business sold in Germany and the Republic of Ireland, and some historic business The Group has a formal tax risk policy, which sets out its risk written in the latter, the Groups principal transactions are appetite in relation to specific aspects of tax risk, and which carried out in sterling.
The assets for these books of business details the controls the Group has in place to manage those are generally held in the same currency denomination as their risks.
These controls are subject to a regular review process.
liabilities, therefore, any foreign currency mismatch is largely The Groups subsidiaries have exposure to tax risk through mitigated.
Consequently, the foreign currency risk relating to theannual statutory and regulatory reporting and through the this business mainly arises when the assets and liabilities are processing of policyholder tax requirements.
Liquidity and funding risk is defined as the failure of the The Groups financial assets are primarily denominated in the Groupto maintain adequate levels of financial resources to same currencies as its insurance and investment liabilities.
enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group Thus, the main foreign exchange risk arises from recognised has exposure to liquidity risk as a result of servicing its assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than external debt and equity investors, and from the operating those in which insurance and investment liabilities are requirements of its subsidiaries.
The Groups subsidiaries expected to be settled and, indirectly, from the earnings haveexposure to liquidity risk as a result of normal business ofUKcompanies arising abroad.
activities, specifically the risk arising from an inability to meet short-term cash flow requirements.
Some of the Groups with-profit funds have an exposure to overseas assets which is not driven by liability considerations.
The Board of Phoenix Group Holdings plc has defined a The purpose of this exposure is to reduce overall risk whilst number of governance objectives and principles and the maximising returns by diversification.
This exposure is limited liquidity risk frameworks of each subsidiary are designed and managed through investment mandates which are subject toensure that: to the oversight of the investment committees of the boards of each life company.
Fluctuations in exchange rates from liquidity risk is managed in a manner consistent with the certain holdings in overseas assets are hedged against subsidiary company boards strategic objectives, risk currency risks.
appetite and Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM : The Group has hedged the currency risk on its foreign currency hybrid debt $500 million Tier 2 bonds and cash flows are appropriately managed and the reputation 500 million Tier 2 bonds as set out in note E5 through ofthe Group is safeguarded: and crosscurrency interest rate swaps.
appropriate information on liquidity risk is available to those making decisions.
Sensitivity of profit after tax and equity to fluctuations in currency exchange rates is not considered significant at The Groups policy is to maintain sufficient liquid assets of 31 December 2018, since unhedged exposure to foreign suitable credit quality at all times including, where appropriate, currency was relatively low 2017: not considered significant.
by having access to borrowings so as to be able to meet all foreseeable current liabilities as they fall due in a cost-effective E6.2.
Forecasts are prepared regularly to predict required Financial soundness risk is a broad risk category liquidity levels over both the short and medium-term allowing encompassing capital management risk, tax risk and liquidity management to respond appropriately to changes and funding risk.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 163 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued The vast majority of the Groups derivative contracts are traded OTC and have a two day collateral settlement period.
The Groups derivative contracts are monitored daily, via an end-of-day valuation process, to assess the need for additional fundsto cover margin or collateral calls.
Some of the Groups commercial property investments are held through collective investment schemes.
The collective investment schemes have the power to restrict and or suspend withdrawals, which would, in turn, affect liquidity.
This was invoked as a result of the market volatility experienced following the result of the referendum on membership of the European Union in 2016 in line with other firms across the industry.
In 2017 and 2018, all unit trusts processed investments and realisations in a normal manner and have not imposed any restrictions or delays.
Some of the Groups cash and cash equivalents are held through collective investment schemes.
The collective investment schemes have the power, in an extreme stress, torestrict and or suspend withdrawals, which would, in turn, affect liquidity.
To date, the collective investment schemes have continued to process both investments and realisations in a normal manner andhave not imposed any restrictions ordelays.
The following table provides a maturity analysis showing the remaining contractual maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities and associated interest.
Liabilities under insurance contract contractual maturities are included based on theestimated timing of the amounts recognised in the statement of consolidated financial position in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: 1 year or Greater less or on than No fixed demand 15 years 5 years term Total 2018 m m m m m Liabilities under insurance contracts 15,511 22,049 53,651 91,211 Investment contracts 114,463 114,463 1 Borrowings 105 1,189 1,500 114 2,908 1 Deposits received from reinsurers 361 1,371 2,767 4,499 1 Derivatives 156 147 1,092 1,395 Net asset value attributable tounitholders 2,659 2,659 Obligations for repayment ofcollateralreceived 2,645 2,645 Reinsurance payables 30 30 Payables related to direct insurancecontracts 902 902 Accruals and deferred income 329 5 3 337 Other payables 777 22 74 873 1 year or Greater lessor on than No fixed demand 15 years 5 years term Total 2017 m m m m m Liabilities under insurance contracts 4,739 12,169 27,527 44,435 Investment contracts 26,733 26,733 1 Borrowings 144 1,161 972 131 2,408 1 Deposits received from reinsurers 28 99 302 429 1 Derivatives 72 153 1,283 1,508 Net asset value attributable tounitholders 840 840 Obligations for repayment ofcollateralreceived 1,961 1,961 Reinsurance payables 23 23 Payables related to direct insurancecontracts 522 522 Accruals and deferred income 179 179 Other payables 144 144 1 These financial liabilities are disclosed at their undiscounted value and therefore differ to amounts included in the statement of consolidated financial position which discloses the discounted value.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 164 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E6.
Risk Management financial risk continued E6.2 Financial risk analysis continued Investment contract policyholders have the option to terminate or transfer their contracts at any time and to receive the surrender or transfer value of their policies.
Although these liabilities are payable on demand, and are therefore included in the contractual maturity analysis as due within one year, the Group does not expect all these amounts to be paid out within one year of the reporting date.
A significant proportion of the Groups financial assets are held in gilts, cash, supranationals and investment grade securities which the Group considers sufficient to meet the liabilities asthey fall due.
The vast majority of these investments are readily realisable immediately since most of them are quoted in an active market.
E6.3 Unit-linked contracts For unit-linked contracts the Group matches all the liabilities with assets in the portfolio on which the unit prices are based.
There is therefore no interest, price, currency or credit risk for the Group on these contracts.
In extreme circumstances, the Group could be exposed to liquidity risk in its unit-linked funds.
This could occur where ahigh volume of surrenders coincides with a tightening of liquidity in a unit-linked fund to the point where assets of that fund have to be sold to meet those withdrawals.
Where the fund affected consists of property, it can take several months to complete a sale and this would impede the proper operation of the fund.
In these situations, the Group considers its risk to be low since there are steps that can be taken first within the funds themselves both to ensure the fair treatment of all investors in those funds and to protect the Groups own risk exposure.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 165
