Risk management Effective risk management Our risk management framework Like all businesses, we face risks and uncertainties that could We have an effective risk IDENTIFY impact the delivery of the management framework that Groups long term strategy.
helps us identify, appropriately These range from operational monitor and manage risks to risks in our day-to-day within appetite, whilst taking operations: strategic risks due advantage of opportunities as REPORTING to execution of our strategy: they are presented.
This allows and external risks emerging us to deliver our strategy from our sector, the competitive effectively and protect value Risk management and the ASSESS market environment, and any for our stakeholders.
system of internal control change in political or regulatory are the responsibility of the Board.
The Board is informs our strategic and responsible for the level and operational planning.
type of the principal risks that MONITORING we are willing to take and has carried out a robust assessment of those risks, including those MANAGE that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity please see page 67.
The key roles Executive Audit and Risk Committee Internal Audit Management Team Assists the Board fulfil its Gives objective assurance and delegated Collectively responsible corporate governance and to the Board and Audit oversees responsibilities in and Risk Committee on the for managing risk.
responsibilities: relation to financial reporting, effectiveness of the risk The Executive Management internal controls and the risk management framework.
Team is responsible for management framework.
closely managing the most Holds meetings with risk owners Provides oversight and across the business four times significant risks.
challenge to the assessment per year.
Key risks are allocated to a of principal risks.
Executive Management Team Updates the individual risk member for oversight Reviews internal financial registers, including actions controls and the risk management and progress made, assesses and ultimate ownership.
framework and assesses their risk ratings and documents Receives regular risk updates and effectiveness in mitigating the controls in place that help reports from assurance teams.
Group level risks and advises mitigate each risk.
the Executive Management Shares risk management Team on risk appetite.
information and best practice Reviews and oversees the Group across the Group.
risk register reviews detailed Recommends improvements risk reports at each sitting with and corrective actions.
supplementary reporting from the management team on specific key risks.
Conducts regular deep dives into key risk areas with relevant Directors to understand the nature of the risks and adequacy of the mitigations and controls that are in place.
Pets at Home Group Plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance An effective risk management framework is in place to help the Group achieve its strategic objectives and enjoy long term success.
Principal risk rating matrix IDENTIFY MONITORING Key risks are identified in Assurance gathered from each business.
across the three lines of Strategic risks are reviewed defence to assess the by the Board.
5 Annual horizon scanning Internal Audit inform exercise with senior the Board, the Executive management.
Management Team and the Audit and Risk Committee ASSESS on how effectively risks are Risk appetite set by the Board being managed.
2 3 Standardised scoring REPORTING 1 10 methodology used across Audit and Risk Committee 4 8 the Group to aid escalation and the Executive and consolidation of risks.
Management Team review risks four times per year.
MANAGE The Groups principal risks Each principal risk is owned are reviewed and agreed by a member of the Executive 6 by the Board.
9 7 Controls and mitigation plans are in place to manage risk to within appetite.
Low Impact High Pets Before Profit and Health Colleagues 1.
Supply chain and sourcing and Safety Committees Manage our day-to-day risks.
L iquidity and credit Assist the Executive Identify and assess day-to-day 3.
Treasury and finance Management Team in risks in their area of responsibility.
expansion managing the risks of pet 9.
R egulatory and compliance welfare, health, safety and Ensure procedures are 4.
Extreme weather implemented and complied with.
management procedures 5. Business systems and Communicate significant risks information security in their area of responsibility via reporting processes to the are implemented and senior management team.
Assess the measurement Brexit of risk and compliance with For further details about key The Board has reviewed the Group policies and applicable roles and responsibilities risks and opportunities that regulations.
within our governance may arise as a result of Brexit.
structure, please see the Recommend appropriate policies Whilst the longer term effects Governance report on and procedures to the Executive remain unclear, we continue page 48.
We are starting to Ensure that appropriate see an impact in the following insurance is in place over areas and have mitigation property and other assets.
plans in place: Hold meetings quarterly Our people with stakeholders from across Supply chain and sourcing the Group.
Treasury and finance Update the Executive Please see the risk management Management Team on key section on pages 34 to 37 for performance indicators across further detail.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Rare Probability Almost certain
