Risks and uncertainties Strategic priorities Grow like-for-like Grow margins The table below summarises the Corporate Social Grow retail and services space Responsibility Strategy assessment of our principal risks and how we seek to mitigate them.
Brand and reputation Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook The Groups number one value is Pet welfare across the Group is overseen by the Pets Before Profit Committee.
As we continue to increase our size Pets Before Profit, and pet welfare This meets regularly to review pet welfare and check that appropriate and scale, we must ensure that pet is its highest priority.
processes are in place to ensure we maintain our high welfare standards.
welfare standards continue to be maintained at a high level across The Group also recognises the As a retailer of small pets the highest possible welfare standards must be the Group.
We will continue to need to protect its brand and maintained at all times.
We have rigorous processes in place to ensure this across monitor welfare standards closely reputation.
Failure to do so all our stores, including in-store adoption centres, and with our pet suppliers.
All are and take appropriate steps where could result in loss of trust and assessed regularly against a comprehensive set of welfare standards by vets, third required to maintain them.
confidence by both customers party assessors and an animal welfare organisation.
We also have a highly visible and colleagues.
field operations team in respect of in-store pets and grooming, where trained colleagues are focused on maintaining the highest pet welfare standards.
Risk appetite Examples of where we prioritise pet welfare include our decision to suspend the sale and adoption of rabbits over Easter and instead provide workshops to Low High educate about the responsibilities of pet ownership.
Also, at Christmas we encourage customers to buy the relevant housing, accessories and food but to Change on prior year take gift vouchers rather than pets.
This allows new owners the chance to visit one of our stores after Christmas to learn about the welfare needs of their pet before taking it home.
High Risk profile We operate a confidential Pet Promise Line where colleagues are able to raise concerns about pet care directly with our Head of Pets.
Any calls to this line result in appropriate action to address the concerns raised.
The Group also deals with customers pets on a daily basis through its veterinary practices.
The veterinary practices have a clear set of operational protocols, which are subject to the professional standards mandated by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
To support the practices we have a clinical development team who are all veterinary surgeons.
They conduct clinical excellence audits focusing on the quality of care to ensure a high standard of clinical practice is maintained.
Competition Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook The Group competes with a wide In response to a change in shopping habits of our customers we initiated There has been some increase variety of retailers and vet practices, targeted pricing changes at the start of 2017 beginning with private label in the number of pure play online including other pet specialists, Advanced Nutrition foods.
We have followed this with price reductions in competitors but this is not expected supermarkets, discounters and vet branded food lines and pet essentials.
Overall, we have seen good initial results, to have a significant impact on groups.
Online competition is also particularly in Food and Advanced Nutrition, where increased sales volumes our business.
We have seen an a risk, as large well-known internet offset the price reductions, leading to overall revenue growth in those expansion of the pet offer among businesses expand into pet categories.
Our plan remains to target price investment into product areas that discounters.
products and established pet we believe drive shopper frequency and loyalty, not simply reducing prices Risk appetite product sites improve and expand across the entire range.
Failure to keep abreast Low High Market research is carried out to review the pet market both at home and of, and respond to, developments abroad to understand what our competitors are doing worldwide.
This helps by our competition in the areas identify further changes or initiatives that need to be implemented to help keep of price, range, quality and service Change on prior year Pets at Home ahead of the competition and remain a leader in the UK market.
could have an adverse impact on We continue to evolve our proposition through the addition of vets and the Groups financial performance groomers into our existing store estate whilst continuing to innovate with and impact opportunities Med Risk profile the regular introduction of new and exclusive products into our food and for growth.
As a specialist retailer, the delivery of friendly expertise through our highly engaged trained store colleagues is a key element of our proposition and we continue to invest to ensure our service standards are continually improved.
We have invested in two major initiatives.
Order-In-Store allows colleagues in every store to advise and sell from our extended online range, while Subscription services deliver flea treatments in convenient individual pipettes to customers at the right time to administer a single preventative dose to their pet dog or cat.
In the medium term we intend to extend our Subscription initiative in further product areas.
As part of our investment in the digital shopping experience we have redesigned our mobile checkout process to make it more convenient and deliver a better experience for customers shopping with Pets at Home while on the move.
Further investment is planned in our digital engagement with customers.
The VIP Very Important Pet club was launched in November 2012 and has been very successful attracting 3.9m active members at financial year-end.
This customer and pet database enables more targeted marketing, which helps drive up basket values and enables us to build a stronger sense of engagement with our customers and their pets.
Pets at Home Group Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Services and Stores expansion Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook A key part of the Groups growth The business maintains a pipeline of Joint Venture partner opportunities to Our strategy is to cautiously grow strategy is to increase the growth deliver its plans for new First Opinion vet practices.
We have a plan to expand our estate in priority locations and in its in-store and standalone our specialist vet division to achieve national coverage of Specialist Referral to optimise the existing store estate veterinary practices, Groom Room Centres.
We also maintain a regular review of our store portfolio to maximise with services.
Store space vacancy salons and to increase the number the potential from our retail estate.
This enables the Board to monitor progress levels are starting to increase of stores, whilst maintaining our in delivering our growth strategy.
Our store rollout is mostly complete so our with retailer administrations and existing estate.
If we are unable attention will be more focused upon how we can ensure our full services offer consolidation of existing retail space, to deliver the number of sites is accommodated amongst the existing estate.
Our store estate is entirely providing further opportunities for necessary to fulfil the services leased which gives us great flexibility.
As leases come up for expiry or contain our future store rollout.
and stores expansion laid out a break, we will assess our portfolio on a case by case basis before deciding Risk appetite in our strategy our expected whether to renew the lease, or to close or relocate a unit.
We have the ability, financial performance could with smaller footprint stores, to utilise mezzanine space to deploy vet and Low High be adversely impacted.
Groom Room services, maximising the opportunity to offer a full range of service in our retail stores.
Any proposed new veterinary practice, grooming salon or store investment has to deliver an appropriate financial return after Change on prior year taking into account any financial impact on the existing store portfolio.
Before we are able to open a new First Opinion veterinary practice we need to recruit a Joint Venture partner with the ability to both fund their investment Med Risk profile into the Joint Venture and to provide the personal guarantee to the bank providing the third party financing to the Joint Venture practice.
We continue to investigate opportunities for new store formats, including the trial of a convenience store within a Tesco superstore.
Our people Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook As a specialist retailer and services Our colleagues are the foundations on which we have built our success.
We The ongoing Brexit negotiations group, retaining highly trained and recognise that their knowledge and passion are at the heart of the relationships may impact our employment of engaged colleagues is fundamental we build with our customers and their pets.
We continue to ensure that we EU nationals.
We need to ensure to delivering outstanding customer are attracting diverse talent by updating our recruitment process, including that the Group continues to be an service, which is a key element of our recruitment website, policies and procedures, with the aim of being able attractive place to work, particularly our proposition and drives our to attract diverse candidates with the requisite skillset.
By driving continued if employment levels continue to continued success and the delivery investment in progressive training and learning programmes across the increase nationally and there is of our future growth.
Our growth business we ensure that we are developing and retaining our talent.
more competition in the job market.
plans and future success are also at Our Remuneration Policy, as set out on pages 85 to 94, is designed to ensure Risk appetite risk if we do not recruit and retain executives of the necessary calibre are attracted and retained and that high calibre, talented senior High through our Restricted Share Plan, colleagues across the business can share Low management.
A significant number in our success.
Similarly, we continually review the remuneration and benefits of colleagues in certain areas of packages for our colleagues to make sure they are appropriately rewarded our business are EU nationals.
Change on prior year for the substantial contribution they make to our growth and success.
We Brexit may result in changes to UK continue to communicate these benefits and the value they bring to colleagues immigration policy which increases to ensure they are taking advantage of them.
We also closely monitor colleague the risk around the availability, engagement and retention rates.
Med Risk profile recruitment and retention of these Listening to our colleagues is critical to our business so we are launching a individuals.
new listening survey, which will help to identify issues, and further embed our culture and values, whilst providing benchmarking data with other companies in our sector.
Succession plans are in place for key roles which are regularly reviewed by the Board and senior management.
We continue to review the impact of Brexit and the possible change to UK immigration policy which may impact the availability, recruitment and retention of colleagues in both our Vet Group and distribution centres.
We have employed long term strategies to mitigate the expected impact, including operating flexible recruitment and retention initiatives across the Group, launching international experienced and graduate recruitment programmes for veterinary surgeons, whilst reviewing opportunities in non-EU vet recruitment markets.
We are working closely with professional bodies including the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons and the British Veterinary Association and support them in their calls on Government to formally recognise the shortages of veterinary surgeons across all disciplines, particularly in light of restrictions on free movement for EU nationals following Brexit.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic priorities Risks and uncertainties continued Grow like-for-like Grow margins Corporate Social Grow retail and services space Responsibility Strategy Business systems and information security Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook The need to maintain core business To ensure the stability of our IT systems whilst supporting sustained business Systems stability continues to systems and mitigate against growth, we are developing operational monitoring capabilities to assess improve with the move to cloud security risk whilst supporting the performance and capacity of the live systems.
This will enable a proactive based solutions and managed Groups growth plans and stance to be taken regarding the visibility and management of issues prior to service provision.
delivering cost efficiency remains their manifesting at customer touch points.
In addition we are working with Greater focus on operational paramount again this year.
our suppliers where appropriate, looking at opportunities to move to managed stability and performance over the services and cloud based solutions.
A recent example of this includes the With the arrival of GDPR, there coming year will enable a more migration of the Retail platform into a hosted environment as part of a comes a significant increase in the proactive stance in the mitigation managed service, simplifying our hosting and support arrangements.
This level of scrutiny organisations are of performance, capacity and also aligns with our Disaster Recovery strategy to exit our Stoke backup site being placed under regarding the stability issues with the creation by 2020, moving disaster recovery DR capability into the cloud, and further management and use of personal of teams focused on these aspects.
increasing the already distributed nature of our architecture.
With this comes additional Disaster Recovery testing will be conducted network and web infrastructure DR tests, with Retail platform cost linked to the evaluation and conducted at the point of change, testing to follow once the move to the hosted environment is complete.
remediation of associated risks ensuring ongoing coverage.
Big data, people and infrastructure.
The Information Security programme has already delivered Group wide data will enable greater insight into Our ability to balance these training and awareness campaigns, educating colleagues to the risks customer behaviour and retail challenging demands is key to associated with data and physical security.
In addition, IT Security policies opportunity in an environment ensuring that the business is able have been revised for re-issue to the wider Group.
A significant programme which ensures GDPR compliance.
to maintain target growth levels of work remains ongoing to deliver a range of security enhancements, Risk appetite and be secure from data security to include secure email and device encryption, revised IT standards and breach and legal challenge.
procedures, enhanced asset management, user authentication and Low High vulnerability scanning amongst others.
GDPR drives the requirement to ensure that personal data is protected at all times, and this has formed the key principle in the design of our data centric strategy bringing customer Change on prior year and other data together across the Group.
The selection of a cloud based platform enables us to anonymise certain data to allow full analysis whilst reducing the risk of customer data being exposed.
The solution also allows High Risk profile us to link customer information more easily, enabling full trace back to core operational systems that the customer has been identified in so that we can better update information and remove archive where appropriate.
Supply chain and sourcing Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook During the financial year, Having Pets at Home colleagues on the ground in the Far East working We continue to develop our quality approximately US$65m of the collaboratively with suppliers enables us to monitor closely compliance assurance processes and to ensure Groups merchandise cost of goods with the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy, and our the effectiveness of our Far East was globally sourced, and therefore Supplier Quality Manual.
In addition, an independent third party undertakes sourcing office in mitigating our we are exposed to the risks unannounced visits to further monitor compliance with Group policies.
sourcing risks in the region.
associated with international trade, We have made significant investments in both our sourcing strategy and our Risk appetite such as inflation, changing quality and food technical function, in terms of people, processes, testing and regulatory frameworks and Low High reporting, to ensure we have the capability to meet the future ambitions of the currency exposure.
Business continuity plans are in place for the distribution centres national distribution centres which have been tested.
They help us mitigate the impact of a disaster by covering the north and south of the Change on prior year enabling us to service all stores and orders for a priority range of SKUs from UK respectively.
A disaster at one of a single distribution centre whilst we source a second facility and recover these may result in a significant full product supply.
We will continue to monitor Brexit developments closely interruption to the supply of stock Low and respond to any impact on our supply chain proportionately.
Exposure to Risk profile for a large number of stores and in foreign currency movements is mitigated through our hedging strategy: see the fulfilment of internet orders.
the Treasury and financial risk.
The impact of Brexit on our overseas supply chain remains unknown but may be significant, particularly in view of probable changes to the UKs trading terms with the rest of the world.
We are also exposed to the risks associated with the quality and safety of products produced globally on behalf of the Group, many of which are own branded or exclusive private labels.
A failure to manage this risk adequately could lead to reputational damage, reflected in a lack of confidence by customers and colleagues in the Group brands.
Pets at Home Group Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Liquidity and credit Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook The business requires adequate The Groups finances are continually monitored in the context of its growth plans.
We will continue to monitor our cash resources to enable it to fund The Groups current financing facilities are in place until April 2020, As a result, the finances and build relationships its growth plans through its capital Group is confident that it has adequate revolving facilities in place, with a broad with our finance providers.
We projects and or an expansion of syndicate of ten banks.
The Groups growth plans in respect of Joint Venture do not anticipate any significant the Groups working capital veterinary practices is predicated on the availability of finance for new Joint Venture macro-economic changes in the requirement.
Without adequate veterinary partners to fund both the capital cost and working capital requirement short to medium term that may cash resources, the Group may be for each new practice opening.
The Group also provides additional financial affect this risk area although the unable to deliver its growth plans, support to First Opinion practices to support their working capital requirements outcome of the evolving relationship with a consequent impact on future and growth in clinical capacity.
This investment is a particular feature of the Joint that the United Kingdom has with financial performance.
Venture operating model and in making this investment the Group considers its the EU may have some bearing.
total returns across all practices on a portfolio basis.
We have established a provision Risk appetite to reflect the assessment of extended investments being repaid over different lengths of time, with different risks of return, to provide for any potential shortfall.
Low High The Group has facilities in place with major high street lenders that give us confidence that our medium term growth plans are financed adequately.
Change on prior year The Group ensures that all cash surpluses are invested with banks that have credit ratings and investment criteria that meet the requirements set out in the Group Treasury policy, which has been approved by the Board.
The Groups Risk rating before key suppliers are exposed to credit risk and as part of the Groups overall risk Low mitigation management programme, the business has identified alternative suppliers where appropriate and developed contingency plans in respect of own label and private label food products.
Treasury and finance Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook The Group has an exposure to This exposure to FX fluctuation is managed via forward foreign currency Ongoing currency movements exchange rate risk in respect of contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group has borrowings between the US dollar and GBP the US dollar that is the principal with floating interest rates linked to LIBOR, thereby exposing the Group to may result in further exchange risk, purchase currency for goods fluctuations in LIBOR and the consequent impact on interest cost.
To manage particularly in light of the ongoing sourced from the Far East.
The this risk the Group has interest rate swaps in place that fix the interest rate on a Brexit process.
We will continue to political and macro-economic significant proportion of the Group borrowings.
Further details can be found monitor this and adjust our approach environment has increased currency on page 142.
All hedging activity is undertaken by the Group Treasury function to hedging where necessary.
pressures and we may see this in accordance with the Group Treasury policy that sets out the criteria for Risk appetite continue for some time.
The Group counterparties with whom the Group can transact and clearly states that all also faces risks from changes to hedging activities are undertaken in the context of known and forecast cash Low High interest rates and compliance with flows, with speculative transactions specifically prohibited.
If we do not resource is in place and specialist tax advisors are retained to assist in this area.
adequately manage this exposure Change on prior year there could be an impact on the Groups financial performance with a consequential impact on Med Risk profile operational and growth plans.
Regulatory and compliance Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Many of the Groups activities We actively monitor both regulatory developments in the UK and Europe and We welcome the Governments are regulated by legislation and compliance with our existing obligations where we have internal policies and recent proposals around animal standards including, but not limited standards to ensure compliance where appropriate.
We also provide training for establishments licensing which to, trading, advertising, product colleagues where required and operate a confidential hotline for colleagues to comes into force in October 2018. quality, health and safety, pet shop raise concerns in confidence.
Our suppliers commit to and are audited against We continue to monitor these and licensing, national minimum wage, adhering to relevant regulations, such as Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Bribery other regulatory developments national living wage, modern Act 2010, the Data Protection Act 1998, and from 25 May 2018, the General Data across the UK and Europe and will slavery, bribery, data protection, Protection Regulation GDPR, along with our mandatory standards as outlined plan accordingly.
carbon emission and gender pay in our Quality Manual.
In response to GDPR we have a steering committee with Risk appetite gap information reporting, Failure executive sponsorship which is supported by defined working groups to ensure to comply with these obligations our GDPR compliance plan is actioned.
The Animal Welfare Licensing of Activities High Low may result in financial or Involving Animals England Regulations 2018 were laid before Parliament in reputational damage.
Feb 2018 and come into force in Oct 2018.
This updated legislation follows an extensive consultation which began in December 2015.
We supported the Change on prior year changes proposed to improve pet welfare and engaged proactively in the consultation and with ministers and officials directly.
Having demonstrated our expertise and commitment to high welfare standards, we were able to play a Low Risk profile leading role in the development of the detailed guidelines that underpin the new regulations and form the basis of future licensing inspections by local authorities.
Extreme weather Strategic priorities Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Prolonged extreme or unseasonal We actively monitor and forecast demand and, should this risk occur, we Further improvements to our weather conditions may reduce would review planned and tactical promotional activity to determine whether omnichannel offering will continue footfall in our stores, resulting in strengthening this would drive sales.
to improve our resilience to reduced weak sales, leading to adverse store footfall during periods of impacts on profit and inventory.
Risk appetite Low High Change on prior year Low Risk profile Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
