STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION F3.
Risk Management Insurance risk F3.2 Collateral arrangements This note forms one part of the Risk Management disclosures It is the Groups practice to obtain collateral to mitigate the inthe consolidated financial statements.
Financial risk is counterparty risk related to reinsurance transactions usually included innote E6.
inthe form of cash or marketable financial instruments.
Insurance risk refers to the risk that the frequency or severity Where the Group receives collateral in the form of marketable of insured events may be worse than expected and includes financial instruments which it is not permitted to sell or expense risk.
The contracts for the Life businesses include the re-pledge except in the case of default, it is not recognised following sources of insurance risk: inthe statement of consolidated financial position.
The fair Mortality higher than expected number of death claims value of financial assets accepted as collateral for reinsurance onassurance products and occurrence of one transactions but not recognised in the statement of ormore large claims: consolidated financial position amounts to 3,253 million 2017: 3,640 million.
Longevity faster than expected improvements in life expectancy on immediate and deferred annuityproducts: Where the Group receives collateral on reinsurance transactions in the form of cash it is recognised in the Morbidity higher than expected number of serious illness statement of consolidated financial position along with a claims or more sickness claims which last longer on income protection policies: corresponding liability to repay the amount of collateral received, disclosed as Deposits received from reinsurers.
Expenses policies cost more to administer than expected: Where there is interest payable on such collateral, it is Lapses the numbers of policies terminating early is recognised within Net income under arrangements with different to that expected in a way which increases reinsurers seeF3.3.
The amounts recognised as financial expected claims costs or expenses or reduces assets and liabilities from cash collateral received at future profits: 31 December 2018 are set out below.
Options unanticipated changes in policyholder option exercise rates giving rise to increased claims Reinsurance transactions costs:and 2018 2017 Pricing inadequate or inappropriate pricing of m m newbusiness.
Financial assets 373 368 Financial liabilities 373 368 Objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Group uses several methods to assess and monitor F3.3 Net income under arrangements withreinsurers insurance risk exposures both for individual types of risks The Group has reinsured the longevity and investment risk insured and overall risks.
These methods include internal risk related to a portfolio of annuity contracts held within the measurement models, experience analyses, external data HWPF.
At inception of the reinsurance contract the reinsurer comparisons, sensitivity analyses, scenario analyses and was required to deposit an amount equal to the reinsurance stress testing.
In addition to this, mortality, longevity and premium with the Group.
Interest is payable to the reinsurer morbidity risks may in certain circumstances be mitigated on the deposit ata floating rate.
The Group maintains a bythe use of reinsurance.
ringfenced pool of assets to back this deposit liability.
Annuity payments under the reinsured contracts are made by The profitability of the run-off of the closed long-term the Group from the ring fenced assets and the deposit liability insurance businesses within the Group depends, to a is reduced by the amount of these payments.
Periodically the significant extent, on the values of claims paid in the future Group is required to pay to the reinsurer or receive from the relative to the assets accumulated to the date of claim.
reinsurer Premium Adjustments defined as the difference Typically, over the lifetime of a contract, premiums and between the fair value of the ring fenced assets and the investment returns exceed claim costs in the early years deposit amount, such that the deposit amount equals the anditis necessary to set aside these amounts to meet future fairvalue of the ring fenced assets.
This has the effect of obligations.
The amount of such future obligations is assessed ensuring that the investment riskon the ring fenced pool on actuarial principles by reference to assumptions about the ofassets falls on the reinsurer.
The investment return on development of financial and insurance risks.
thering fenced assets included in investment return in the consolidated income statement is equal to an equivalent It is therefore necessary for the Directors of each life company amount recognised in expenses under arrangements to make decisions, based on actuarial advice, which ensure with reinsurers.
anappropriate accumulation of assets relative to liabilities.
These decisions include investment policy, bonus policy 2018 2017 and, where discretion exists, the level of payments on m m early termination.
Interest payable on deposits from reinsurers 11 The Groups longevity risk exposures have increased as a result of the Bulk Purchase Annuity deals it has successfully Premium adjustments 13 acquired, however the vast majority of these exposures are Net income under arrangements reinsured to third parties.
with reinsurers 2 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 169 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED F. INSURANCE CONTRACTS, INVESTMENT The assumptions used to determine the liabilities, under CONTRACTS WITHDPFAND REINSURANCE continued thesevaluation methods are updated at each reporting date toreflect recent experience.
Risk Management Insurance risk continued incalculating these liabilities and, in particular, in the choice Sensitivities ofassumptions about which there is uncertainty over future Insurance liabilities are sensitive to changes in risk variables, experience.
The principal assumptions are as follows: such as prevailing market interest rates, currency rates and equity prices, since these variations alter the value of the Discount rates financial assets held to meet obligations arising from insurance The Group discounts participating and non-participating contracts and changes in investment conditions also have an insurance contract liabilities at a risk-free rate derived from impact on the value of insurance liabilities themselves.
theswap yield curve, plus an illiquidity premium of 10bps.
Additionally, insurance liabilities are sensitive to the assumptions which have been applied in their calculation, For certain non-participating insurance contract liabilities such as mortality and lapse rates.
Sometimes allowance must egannuities, the Group makes a further explicit adjustment also be made for the effect on future assumptions of to the risk-free rate to reflect illiquidity in respect of the assets management or policyholder actions in certain economic backing those liabilities.
This could lead to changes in assumed asset mix or future bonus rates.
The most significant non economic Expense inflation sensitivities arise from mortality, longevity and lapse risk.
Expenses for the Phoenix Life companies are assumed toincrease at the rate of increase in the Retail Price Index A decrease of 5% in assurance mortality, with all other RPI plus fixed margins in accordance with the various variables held constant, would result in an increase in the management service agreements MSAs the Group has profit after tax in respect of a full year, and an increase in inplace with outsource partners.
For with-profit business equity of 54 million 2017: 34 million.
therate of RPI inflation is determined within each stochastic scenario.
For other business it is based on the Bank of An increase of 5% in assurance mortality, with all other England inflation spot curve.
For MSAs with contractual variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the profit increases set by reference to national average earnings after tax in respect of a full year, and a decrease in equity of inflation, this is approximated as RPI inflation plus 1%.
In instances in which inflation risk is not mitigated, a further margin for adverse deviations may then be added to the rate A decrease of 5% in annuitant longevity, with all other of expense inflation.
variables held constant, would result in an increase in the profit after tax in respect of a full year, and an increase in For the Standard Life Assurance businesses, the assumptions equity of 265 million 2017: 137 million.
for future policy expense levels are determined from the most recent expense analyses.
No allowance is made for potential An increase of 5% in annuitant longevity, with all other future expense improvement.
The assumed expense level variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the profit incorporates an annual inflation allowance determined after tax in respect of a full year, and a decrease in equity of byreference to RPI.
Mortality and longevity rates A decrease of 10% in lapse rates, with all other variables held Mortality rates are based on company experience and constant, would result in a decrease in the profit after tax in published tables, adjusted appropriately to take account respect of a full year, and a decrease in equity of 27 million 1 ofchanges in the underlying population mortality since the 2017: 40 million.
table was published, company experience and forecast changes in future mortality.
Where appropriate, a margin is An increase of 10% in lapse rates, with all other variables held added to assurance mortality rates to allow for adverse future constant, would result in an increase in the profit after tax in deviations.
Annuitant mortality rates are adjusted to make respect of a full year, and an increase in equity of 26 million 1 allowance for future improvements in pensioner longevity.
1 The 2017 comparative has been restated as the Group now applies a 10% sensitivity Lapse and surrender rates persistency for calculating lapse rate sensitivities for consistency with the stress and scenario The assumed rates for surrender and voluntary premium testing monitored by the Group on an ongoing basis 2017: 25%.
discontinuance depend on the length of time a policy has beenin force and the relevant company.
Surrender or F4.1 Assumptions voluntary premium discontinuances are only assumed for For participating business which is with-profit business realistic basis companies.
Withdrawal rates used in the insurance and investment contracts, the insurance contract valuation of with-profit policies are based on observed liability is calculated on a realistic basis, adjusted to exclude experience and adjusted when it is considered that future the shareholders share of future bonuses and the associated policyholder behaviour will be influenced by different tax liability.
This is a market consistent valuation, which considerations than in the past.
In particular, it is assumed involved placing a value on liabilities similar to the market thatwithdrawal rates for unitised with-profit contracts will valueof assets with similar cash flow patterns.
behigher on policy anniversaries on which Market Value Adjustments do not apply.
The non-participating insurance contract liabilities are determined using either a net premium or gross premium valuation method.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 170 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION F4.
Risk Management Insurance risk continued Demographic prudence margin For non-participating insurance contract liabilities, the F4.1 Assumptions continued Groupsets assumptions at managements best estimates Discretionary participating bonus rate andrecognises an explicit margin for demographic risks.
For realistic basis companies, the regular bonus rates For participating business in realistic basis companies, the assumed in each scenario are determined in accordance with assumptions about future demographic trends represent each companys PPFM.
Final bonuses are assumed at a level best estimates.
such that maturity payments will equal asset shares subject tosmoothing rules set out in the PPFM.
Assumption changes During the year a number of changes were made to Policyholder options and guarantees assumptions to reflect changes in expected experience Some of the Groups products give potentially valuable ortoharmonise the approach across the Enlarged Group.
guarantees, or give options to change policy benefits The impact of material changes during the year was whichcan be exercised at the policyholders discretion.
as follows: These products are described below.
Decrease Decrease Most with-profit contracts give a guaranteed minimum increase in increase payment on a specified date or range of dates or on death insurance in insurance ifbefore that date or dates.
For pensions contracts, the liabilities liabilities 2018 2017 specified date is the policyholders chosen retirement date or m m a range of dates around that date.
For endowment contracts, it is the maturity date of the contract.
For with-profit bonds it Change in longevity assumptions 168 148 is often a specified anniversary of commencement, in some Change in persistency assumptions 12 120 cases with further dates thereafter.
Annual bonuses when Change in mortality assumptions 16 15 added to with-profit contracts usually increase the Change in expenses assumptions 28 79 guaranteed amount.
There are guaranteed surrender values on a small number 2018: ofolder contracts.
The 168 million positive impact of changes in longevity assumptions reflects updates to base and improvement Some pensions contracts include guaranteed annuity options assumptions to reflect latest experience analyses and where see deferred annuities in note F4.2 for details.
The total applicable the most recent Continuous Mortality Investigation amount provided in the with-profit and non-profit funds in 2017 projection tables.
respect of the future costs of guaranteed annuity options are1,865 million 2017: 1,965 million and 93 million The 12 million and 16 million positive impact of changes in 2017: 131 million respectively.
persistency and mortality assumptions respectively reflects the results of the latest experience investigations.
In common with other life companies in the UK which have written pension transfer and opt-out business, the Group has The 28 million positive impact of changes in expense set up provisions for the review and possible redress relating assumptions principally reflects updated investment expenses to personal pension policies.
These provisions, which have in light of updates made to the asset mix and to reflect been calculated from data derived from detailed file reviews changes to agreements with the Groups external ofspecific cases and using a certainty equivalent approach, funds managers.
which give a result very similar to a market consistent valuation, are included in liabilities arising under insurance 2017: contracts.
The total amount provided in the with-profit funds The 148 million positive impact of changes in longevity and non-profit funds in respect of the review and possible assumptions reflects updates to base and improvement redress relating to pension policies, including associated assumptions to reflect latest experience analyses and the costs, are 298 million 2017: 334 million and 7 million most recent Continuous Mortality Investigation 2016 2017: 48 million respectively.
With-profit deferred annuities participate in profits only up to The 120 million adverse impact of changes in persistency the date of retirement.
At retirement, a guaranteed cash option assumptions is principally driven by the strengthening of allows the policyholder to commute the annuity benefit into actuarial assumptions to reflect the impact of the continued cash on guaranteed terms.
low interest rate environment on the Groups expectations ofpersistency for products with variable guarantees.
The 79m million positive impact of changes in expense assumptions includes the impact of expense synergies arising from integration of the acquired Abbey Life business, together with the impact of revisions to the life expense agreements between the life and management services companies.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 171 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED F. INSURANCE CONTRACTS, INVESTMENT CONTRACTS WITHDPFAND REINSURANCE continued F4.
Risk Management Insurance risk continued F4.2 Managing product risk The following sections give an assessment of the risks associated with the Groups main life assurance products and the ways inwhich the Group manages those risks.
1 Gross Reinsurance Investment Investment Insurance contracts Insurance contracts contracts withDPF contracts withDPF 2018 m m m m With-profit funds: Pensions: Deferred annuities with guarantees 8,329 69 807 Deferred annuities without guarantees 1,111 Immediate annuities 7,583 4,808 Unitised with-profit 11,717 22,449 3 Total pensions 28,740 22,518 5,612 Life: Immediate annuities 171 4 Unitised with-profit 6,145 791 79 Life with-profit 2,391 3 Total life 8,707 791 72 Other 1,237 208 Non-profit funds: Deferred annuities without guarantees 844 Immediate annuities 17,600 1,776 Protection 488 80 Unit-linked 9,440 1,021 44 Other 184 9 84 66,872 24,339 7,564 1 4,605 million 2017: 3,770 million of liabilities are subject to longevity swap arrangements.
Gross Reinsurance Investment Investment Insurance contracts Insurance contracts contracts withDPF contracts withDPF 2017 m m m m With-profit funds: Pensions: Deferred annuities with guarantees 7,458 78 665 Deferred annuities without guarantees 1,234 Immediate annuities 1,029 699 Unitised with-profit 4,244 8,936 Total pensions 13,965 9,014 1,364 Life: Immediate annuities 8 4 Unitised with-profit 761 804 2 1 Life with-profit 2,509 18 Total life 3,278 804 24 1 Other 1,344 77 Non-profit funds: Deferred annuities without guarantees 121 Immediate annuities 11,303 1,854 Protection 289 61 Unit-linked 3,420 1,136 66 Other 239 127 33,481 10,954 3,319 1 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 172 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION F4.
Risk Management Insurance risk continued During the last decade, interest rates and inflation have fallen and life expectancy has increased more rapidly than originally F4.2 Managing product risk continued anticipated.
The guaranteed terms on GAR policies are more With-profit fund unitised and traditional favourable than the annuity rates currently available in the The Group operates a number of with-profit funds in which market available for cash benefits.
The guaranteed terms on the with-profit policyholders benefit from a discretionary GCO policies are currently not valuable.
Deferred annuity annual bonus guaranteed once added in most cases and policies which are written to provide annuity benefits are adiscretionary final bonus.
Non-participating business is managed in a similar manner to immediate annuities and alsowritten in some of the with-profit funds andsome of areexposed to the same risks.
thefunds may include immediate annuities and deferred annuities with Guaranteed Annuity Rates GAR.
The option provisions on GAR policies are particularly sensitive to downward movements in interest rates, increasing life The investment strategy of each fund differs, but is broadly expectancy and the proportion of customers exercising their toinvest in a mixture of fixed interest investments and option.
Adverse movements in these factors could lead to equities and or property and other asset classes in such arequirement to increase reserves which could adversely proportions as is appropriate to the investment risk impact profit and potentially require additional capital.
In order exposureof the fund and its capital resources.
to address the interest rate risk but not the risk of increasing life expectancy or changing customer behaviour with regard The Group has significant discretion regarding investment toexercise of the option, insurance subsidiaries within the policy, bonus policy and early termination values.
The process Group have purchased derivatives that provide protection for exercising discretion in the management of the with-profit against an increase in liabilities and have thus reduced the funds is set out in the PPFM for each with-profit fund and sensitivity of profit to movements in interest rates see isoverseen by with-profit committees.
2. from the with-profit actuary of each with-profit fund.
Compliance with the PPFM is reviewed annually and The Group seeks to manage this risk in accordance with reportedto the PRA, Financial Conduct Authority FCA boththe terms of the issued policies and the interests andpolicyholders.
ofcustomers, and has obtained external advice supporting themanner in which it operates the long-term funds in The bonuses are designed to distribute to policyholders a this respect.
fairshare of the return on the assets in the with-profit funds together with other elements of the experience of the fund.
Immediate annuities The shareholders of the Group are entitled to receive This type of annuity is purchased with a single premium at one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for some funds theoutset, and is paid to the policyholder for the remainder andnil for others.
For the HWPF, under the Scheme, oftheir lifetime.
Payments may also continue for the benefit shareholders are entitled to receive certain defined cash ofa surviving spouse or partner after the annuitants death.
flowsarising on specified blocks of UK and Irish business.
Annuities may be level, or escalate at a fixed rate, or may escalate in line with a price index and may be payable for Unitised and traditional with-profit policies are exposed to aminimum period irrespective of whether the policyholder equivalent risks, the main difference being that unitised remains alive.
with-profit policies purchase notional units in a with-profit fundwhereas traditional with-profit policies do not.
The main risks associated with this product are longevity and Benefit payments for unitised policies are then dependent investment risks.
Longevity risk arises where the annuities onunit prices at the time of a claim, although charges arepaid for the lifetime of the policyholder, and is managed maybeapplied.
A unitised with-profit fund price is typically through the initial pricing of the annuity and through guaranteed not to fall and increases in line with any reinsurance appropriately collateralised or transfer of existing discretionary bonus payments over the course of one year.
Annuities may also be a partial natural hedge against losses incurred in protection business in the event Deferred annuities ofincreased mortality and vice versa although the extent Deferred annuity policies are written to provide either a cash towhich this occurs will depend on the similarity of the benefit at retirement, which the policyholder can use to buy demographic profile of each book of business.
In addition, anannuity on the terms then applicable, or an annuity payable theGroup has in place longevity swaps that provide from retirement.
The policies contain an element of guarantee downsideprotection over longevity risk.
expressed in the form that the contract is written in, i. e. to provide cash or an annuity.
Deferred annuity policies written to provide a cash benefit may also contain an option to convert the cash benefit to an annuity benefit on guaranteed terms: these are known as GAR policies.
Deferred annuity policies written to provide an annuity benefit may also contain an option to convert the annuity benefit into cash benefits on guaranteed terms: these are known as Guaranteed Cash Option GCO policies.
In addition, certain unit prices in theHWPF are guaranteed not to decrease.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 173 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED F. INSURANCE CONTRACTS, INVESTMENT CONTRACTS WITHDPFAND REINSURANCE continued F4.
Risk Management Insurance risk continued F4.2 Managing product risk continued The pricing assumption for mortality risk is based on both historic internal information and externally-generated information on mortality experience, including allowances forfuture mortality improvements.
Pricing will also include acontingency margin for adverse deviations in assumptions.
Market and credit risk is influenced by the extent to which thecash flows under the contracts have been matched by suitable assets which is managed under the ALM framework.
Asset liability modelling is used to monitor this position on aregular basis.
Protection These contracts are typically secured by the payment of aregular premium payable for a period of years providing benefits payable on certain events occurring within the period.
The benefits may be a single lump sum or a series ofpayments and may be payable on death, serious illness or sickness.
The main risk associated with this product is the claims experience and this risk is managed through the initial pricingof the policy based on actuarial principles, the use ofreinsurance and a clear process for administering claims.
Asset liability modelling is used to monitor this position on a regular basis.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 174 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
