STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT THE GROUPS RISK There remains great uncertainty At its core are the Groups values MANAGEMENTFRAMEWORK aboutthe timing and terms of the andbehaviours, clarity of accountability UKswithdrawal from the EU.
anda healthy tension between the The Groups Risk Management The Group continues to closely firstand second lines of defence.
Framework RMF embeds proactive monitordevelopments to understand and effective risk management across any potential financial or operational Collectively this means our people the Group.
It seeks to ensure that all risks implications.
The Group identified understand the Groups approach are identified and managed effectively contingency actions to ensure it torisk, take personal responsibility and that the Group is appropriately couldservice EU-based customers tomanage risk in everything they rewarded for the risks it takes.
inthe event of a Hard Brexit and doand encourage others to follow hascontinued to progress these.
Further detail on the ten components ofour RMF and the principal risks Announcement of Diligenta as the Risk culture has been one of the five facingthe Group are provided below.
Groups preferred outsource partner elements ofthe ERM framework for This includes consideration of how the willinvolve a major system and data Standard Life Assurance.
Enterprise Risk Management ERM migration to transfer c. 2 million of Framework operated by the acquired legacy Phoenix Life policies to a During 2018, Group Risk conducted its Standard Life Assurance businesses digitally enhanced customer platform.
The results aligns with the Phoenix RMF.
of this survey enable us to assess The regulatory actions in respect of andmeasure the Groups Risk Culture Work is well advanced to finalise theacquired Abbey Life business were overtime as well as being able to implementation plans for the addressed through the implementation tailortraining programmes to ensure harmonised RMF for the Enlarged of Phoenixs robust control environment, thecontinued engagement and Group which combines the best of both product governance and oversight model development of our employees.
OWN RISK AND SOLVENCY BUSINESS AND RISK RISK CULTURE ASSESSMENT ORSA ENVIRONMENT The Group seeks to embed a culture The Group carries out an ORSA The acquisition of Standard Life that is forward-looking and competent processto assess its risk profile wascompleted on 31 August and in its assessment and management onanongoing basis.
The ORSA istransformational for the Group.
ofrisk, a culture where everyone in considers risk, capital and return Whilst significant progress has been theGroup is aligned in their goals to withinthe context of the business made with the transition activity the deliver better risk-based decisions.
Group must continue to ensure that itoperates a robust risk and control To support this goal, the Group The ORSA is a fundamental part environment in the delivery of all defineda Risk Culture Statement ofthestrategic risk and capital objectives across the Heritage, whichsets out the Groups management processes of the Openand European businesses.
aspirationsfor Risk Management: businessto prompt consideration ofmanagement actions and help After announcing its intention to shapestrategic decision-making.
enterthe bulk annuity market, the Groupsuccessfully executed three deals over2018 totalling 0.8 billion.
Risk strategy The Group generates value through theuse of reinsurance and its Risk illiquidasset sourcing capabilities.
appetite Risk universe External communication and stakeholder management Governance, organisation RISK MANAGEMENT and policies FRAMEWORK THE GROUP HAS A BALANCED Business performance RISK CULTURE, SUPPORTIVE and capital management OFCOMMERCIAL RISKTAKING COUPLED WITH STRONG Risk and capital EXECUTION IN LINE WITH assessment ITSRISKAPPETITE.
including internal models People and Management Technology and reward information infrastructure PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 39 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK STRATEGY RISK APPETITE The risk appetite and control framework supports the Group in operating within The Groups risk strategy provides The Groups risk appetite is the level the boundaries of these statements by anoverarching view of how risk ofrisk the Group is willing to accept limiting the volatility of key parameters management is incorporated inpursuit of its strategic objectives.
Risk appetite consistently across all levels of the The statements below encapsulate limits are chosen which specify business, from decision-making ourrisk appetite for policyholder themaximum acceptable likelihood tostrategy implementation.
security and conduct, earnings volatility, forbreaching the agreed limits.
liquidity and our control environment: Assessment against these limits is It assists the business achieve undertaken through extensive scenario itsstrategic objectives by supporting Capital The Group and each Life and reverse stress testing.
amore stable, well managed Company will hold sufficient capital businesswith improved customer tomeet regulatory requirements Standard Life Assurance has operated andshareholder outcomes.
inanumber of asset and liability its own framework of quantitative stressscenarios.
andqualitative risk appetite metrics This is achieved not by risk avoidance, supported by stress and scenario but through the identification and Cash flow The Group will seek to testing.
Work is underway to align management of an acceptable ensure that it has sufficient cash flow theseto the Group statements.
levelofrisk its risk appetite tomeet its financial obligations and andbyensuring that the Group willcontinue to do this in a volatile RISK UNIVERSE  for business environment.
A key element of effective risk therisksit takes.
management is ensuring that the Shareholder Value The Group business has a complete understanding To ensure that all risks are managed willtake action to protect its of the risks it faces.
These risks are effectively the Group is committed to: shareholder value.
defined in the Groups risk universe.
embedding a risk aware culture: Regulation The Group and each Life The risk universe allows the Group Company will, at all times, operate a maintaining a strong system todeploy a common risk language, strong control environment to ensure ofinternal controls: allowing for meaningful comparisons to compliance with all internal policies enhancing and protecting customer be made across the business.
There are andapplicable laws and regulations, and shareholder value by continuous three levels of risk universe categories.
and proactive risk management: The highest risk universe category maintaining an efficient capital isLevel 1 and includes: Conduct Phoenix has no appetite for structure: and deliberate acts of misconduct or strategic risk: omissions that result in poor customer ensuring that risk management outcomes, reputational damage and or isembedded into day-to-day customer risk: pose a risk to the Financial Conduct management and decisionfinancial soundness risk: Authority FCA statutory objectives.
market risk: Strategic risk management is one of the credit risk: five components oftheERM framework insurance risk: and in Standard Life Assurance.
THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK HAS SUPPORTED THE ACQUISITION OF STANDARD LIFE AND WILL EVOLVE TO MANAGE THE RISKS THATTHE ENLARGED GROUP WILL FACE.
JONATHAN PEARS GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 40 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Embedded within these categories, GOVERNANCE, ORGANISATION Second line: Risk Oversight andCustomer risk in particular, are AND POLICIES Risk oversight is provided by the theconduct risks faced by the Group GroupRisk function and the Board Risk Governance and its customers.
The Board Risk Committee Overall responsibility for approving, separately monitored and reported comprises four independent Nonestablishing and embedding the onacross the organisation to ensure Executive Directors.
It is supported by RMFrests with the Board.
The Board that conduct risk receives appropriate the Group Chief Risk Officer and met recognises the critical importance emphasis and oversight.
During 2018, ofhaving an efficient and effective theRisk Committee of the Phoenix RMFand appropriate oversight of The risk universe operated within LifeBoard met five times and provided itsoperation.
There is a clear Standard Life Assurance is very additional Board Committee focus organisational structure in place with closelyaligned to this which enables onrisk matters at Phoenix Life.
documented, delegated authorities and anefficient adoption of the Groups The existing Standard Life Assurance responsibilities from the Group Board risk universe.
Risk Committee has been brought tothe Life Company Boards and the alongsidethat of Phoenix Life to enable Executive Committee.
EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION consideration of common matters.
AND STAKEHOLDER The RMF is underpinned by the MANAGEMENT Third line: Independent Assurance operation of a three lines of defence Independent verification of the The Group has a number of internal model with clearly defined roles and adequacy and effectiveness of the andexternal stakeholders, each of responsibilities for statutory boards internal controls and risk management whom has an active interest in the andtheir committees, management isprovided by the Group Internal Audit Groups performance, including how oversight committees, Group Risk function, which is supported by the risks are managed.
Significant effort is andGroup Internal Audit.
made to ensure that our stakeholders have appropriate, timely and accurate First line: Management The governance framework in operation information to support them in Management of risk is delegated from throughout the Group can be found in formingviews of the Group.
the Board to the Group Chief Executive the chart below.
Officer, Executive Committee members and through to business managers.
Organisation A series of business unit management The Group Chief Risk Officer manages oversight committees operate within the Group Risk function and has the Group.
They are responsible for responsibility for the implementation implementation of the RMF, ensuring and oversight of the Groups RMF.
the risks associated with the business The Group Risk function has activities are identified, assessed, responsibility for oversight over controlled, monitored and reported.
financial, operational and regulatory risk.
The PRA FCA relationship team manages the relationship and interactions with our primary regulatorsand reports to the GroupChief Risk Officer.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK PGH Board BOARD PGH Board Nomination Committee PGH Board Remuneration Committee PGH Board Risk Committee PGH Board Audit Committee FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE Group Chief Executive officer Chief Risk officer EXECUTIVES PGH Board Nomination Committee Group Functions Group Risk and Compliance Group Internal Audit MANAGEMENT Life Companies PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 41 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Policies The Group operates a Capital The Board Risk Committee receives a Management Policy where capital consolidated risk report on a quarterly The Group policy framework comprises isallocated across risks where basis, detailing the risks facing the a set of policies that supports the capitalisheld as a mitigant and Group and the overall position against delivery of the Groups strategy by theamount ofrisk capital required risk appetite limits.
The Board Risk establishing operating principles and isreviewed regularly.
Committee is also provided with expectations for managing the key risks regularreports on the activities of to our business.
The policy set contains RISK AND CAPITAL ASSESSMENT theGroup Risk function.
the minimum control standards to which The Group operates a standardised each business unit must adhere to and PEOPLE AND REWARD assessment framework for the against which they report compliance.
identification and assessment of Effective risk management is central therisks to which it may be exposed tothe Groups culture and its values.
The policies define: and how much capital should be Processes are operated that seek to heldinrelation to those exposures.
measure both individual and collective the individual risks the policy is This framework is applicable across the performance and discourage incentive intended to manage: Group and establishes a basis, not only mechanisms which could lead to undue the degree of risk the Group is willing for the approach to risk assessment, risk taking.
Training and development to accept, which is set out in the management and reporting but also programmes are in place to support policy risk appetite statements: fordetermining and embedding capital employees in their understanding of the minimum controls required management at all levels of the Group the RMF.
inorder to manage the risk to inline with Solvency II requirements.
anacceptable level: and TECHNOLOGY AND the frequency of the Risk assessment activity is a INFRASTRUCTURE controls operation.
continuousprocess and is performed The Group employs a number of onthe basis of identifying and managing risksystems to support the assessment Each policy is the responsibility of a the significant risks to the achievement and reporting of the risks it faces.
member of the Executive Committee of the Groups objectives.
This enables management to document who is charged with overseeing key risks and controls and evidence compliance throughout the Group.
Stress and scenario tests are used theassessment of them at a frequency extensively to support the assessment appropriate to the operation of Standard Life Assurance has operated of risk and provide analysis of their the control.
aset of risk policies and the scope financial impact.
ofthese is very closely aligned RISK MANAGEMENT toPhoenixs.
Activity is underway to Independent reviews conducted by EFFECTIVENESS finalise and implement a harmonised set Group Risk provide further assurance The provisions of the UK Corporate of policies across the combined Group.
tomanagement and the Board Governance Code require an annual thatindividual risk exposures and review of the effectiveness of BUSINESS PERFORMANCE changestoour risk profile are being Risk Management.
The Annual Operating Plan is assessed This assessment provides assurance to ensure that the Group operates MANAGEMENT INFORMATION tomanagement and the Boards that within our stated risk appetite.
Overall monitoring and reporting against theRMF has been implemented Business performance is routinely the risk universe takes place in business consistently and is operating monitored with consolidated reporting unit management committees and effectivelyacross the Group.
This is then reported to the Executive Committee and the Group Board via regular risk reporting.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 42 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE GROUP PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk The Groups principal risks and have reviewed our principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the table consolidated the Concentration in the Strategic below, together with their potential policy administration outsource industry Customer impact, mitigating actions which are risk into a broader operational resilience Operational inplace, links to the Groups strategic risk.
Further details of the Groups Market objectives and changes in the risk exposure to financial and insurance profilefrom last year.
risksand how theseare managed Insurance areprovided in note E6 of the IFRS Credit The number of principal risks has consolidated financial statements.
Movement since HY 2018 increasedfrom six to ten as a result ofthe transformational Standard Life The current assessment of the acquisition which introduces new residualriskin respect of each of strategic risks given oursubstantial theGroups principal risk categories newbusiness capabilities.
As economic isillustrated in the chart opposite.
changes occur and the industry and regulatory environment evolves, the The residual risk is the remaining risk Group will continue to monitor their aftercontrols and mitigating actions D potential impact.
During the year we havebeen taken into account.
A C F A C E KEY B B Strategic objectives icons Change in risk from last year Improve Customer outcomes Risk Improving Drive Value No Change Manage Capital Risk Heightened Likelihood Engage People New Principal Risk Almost Certain Unlikely Strategic Risk Impact Mitigation priorities Change from last year Strategic risk The Group fails We are exposed to the risk of failing The Group applies a clear set of assessment Heightened to make further todeliver against our primary strategic criteria to assess opportunities.
The heightened trend reflects value adding focusof continuing to achieve inorganic Acquisition strategy supported by the thetransformational nature of acquisitions growth through acquisitions.
Groups financial strength and flexibility, theacquisition of Standard Life oreffectively Transition of acquired businesses into itsstrong regulatory relationships and Assurance.
transition theGroup could introduce structural itstrack record of managing conduct Significant progress has been made acquired oroperational challenges that result issues and generating value.
with the transition and 500 million businesses inPhoenix failing to deliver the The financial and operational risks of of capital synergies delivered.
expectedoutcomes for policyholders targetbusinesses are assessed in the The integration of Standard Life orvalue for shareholders.
Assurance into Phoenix will include Integration plans are developed and a consolidation oftwo Solvency II resourced with appropriately skilled staff internal modelswhich is amongst toensure target operating models are the firstinthe industry.
delivered in line with expectations.
The Groups The ongoing Strategic Partnership with The Joint Operating Forum between New Principal Risk Strategic Standard Life Assurance plc SLA plc will SLAplc and Phoenix will develop the Partnership provide additional growth opportunities partnership in existing areas, and identify with Standard and is an enabler for deliveryof the areas for futuregrowth and partnership, Life Aberdeen Groups strategy.
There isarisk forthe benefit of customers and fails to deliver thatthepartnership does not deliver shareholders ofeach Group.
Through the Client Service and Proposition benefits Key areas include implementation and Agreement Phoenix andSLAplc will oversight of the Client Service and actively collaborate acrossanumber of Proposition Agreement and Transitional areas, including  Service Agreements.
The Group fails If our propositions fail to meet the Our propositions are designed with our New Principal Risk to ensure that needsof customers and clientsit could customers and clients at the heart.
its propositions adversely impact the Groups ability We regularly seek customer feedback continue to todeliver growth assumed in our onour propositions: this helps prioritise meet the business plans.
evolving needs The risk could materialise through We actively review and invest in our of customers increased outflows or reduced propositions to ensure they remain and clients newbusiness levels.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 43 Impact High Low RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED KEY Strategic objectives icons Change in risk from last year Improve Customer outcomes Risk Improving Drive Value No Change Manage Capital Risk Heightened Engage People New Principal Risk Strategic Risk Impact Mitigation priorities Change from last year Customer risk The Group fails Phoenix is exposed to the risk that it Our Customer policies help to ensure New Principal Risk to deliver fair failsto deliver fair outcomes for its thatthe standards and outcomes we outcomes for customers, leading to adverse customer setare implemented consistently its customers experience and or potential detriment.
This could also lead toreputational We maintain a strong and open damage for the group and or relationshipwith the FCA and financiallosses.
Operational risk The Group is The conduct-focused regulator has a The Group puts considerable effort into Heightened impacted by greater focus on customer outcomes.
managing relationships with its regulators The FCA closed its enforcement significant This may continue to challenge existing so that it is able to maintain a forward investigation into the acquired changes in the approaches and or may result in viewregarding potential changes in the Abbey Life business.
regulatory, remediation exercises where the life regulatory landscape.
legislative or companies cannot demonstrate that it Investigations are ongoing in The Group assesses the risks of regulatory political metthe expected customer outcomes Standard Life following the thematic and legislative change and the impact on environment inthe eyes of the regulator.
review of non-advised annuity sales.
our operations and lobbies where Changes in legislation such as the appropriate.
Contingency plans continue to implications of Brexit can also impact the beprogressed to enable EU The Group has contingency plans in Groups operations or financial position.
policyholders to be serviced in placeto ensure we can continue to theevent of a Hard Brexit.
Political uncertainty or changes in the serviceour non-UK policyholders after government could see changes in policy theUK leaves the EU.
PRA issued a consultation on that could impact the industry in which potential changes to the valuation we operate.
and capital treatment of equity release mortgages.
Implementation was subsequently deferred until YE19 or later.
The Group or its We are exposed to the risk of being The Group has a set of risk policies New Principal Risk outsourcers are unable to maintain provision of services thatmap to its risk universe and set not sufficiently inthe event of major operational outanappetite level for each risk and operationally disruption, either within our own minimumcontrols standards.
resilient organisation or those of our outsourcers.
We work with specialist external cyber Our Enlarged Group now relies on a riskexperts to identify new risks and widerange of IT systems and also develop our responses.
greateruse of online functionality to The Group has a business continuity meetcustomer preferences.
This management framework that is subject exposes us to the risk of failure of toannual refresh and regular testing.
The Group operates an oversight The Group also now provides IT framework to ensure that our outsource servicesto SLA plc through the terms partners and critical suppliers adhere to ofthe sale of Standard Life Assurance.
Regulators expectations of the speed andeffectiveness of firms responses tobusiness resilience incidents areincreasing.
The Group fails The Group places great reliance on Timely communications to our people New Principal Risk to retain or itspeople to help deliver its strategy.
aimto provide clarity around any attract a diverse uncertainty brought by the purchase Delivery of our strategy could be workforce with ofStandard Life, along with key impacted by the uncertainty caused the skills milestones required to deliver bythe integration of Phoenix and needed to thetransition.
Standard Life, which couldresult in deliver its lossof critical corporate knowledge We regularly benchmark terms strategy orunplanned departures of andconditions against the market.
We maintain and review succession plansfor key individuals.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 44 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Strategic Risk Impact Mitigation priorities Change from last year Market risk In times of The emerging cash flows of the The Group undertakes regular monitoring No change severe market Groupmay be impacted during periods activities in relation to market risk The majority of equity markets fell volatility, the ofsevere market turbulence by the exposure, including limits in each asset over 2018 after a volatileyear.
A Group maynot needto maintain appropriate levels class, cash flow forecasting and stress further increase in the UK base rate havesufficient ofregulatory capital.
Theimpact of and scenario testing.
In response to this, was deferred in Q1 but happened capital or liquid marketturbulence may alsoresult the Group has implemented fide-risking in Q3 after economic data returned assets to meet inamaterial adverse impact onthe strategies to mitigate against unwanted to expected levels.
its cash flow Groupscapital position, on fees customer and shareholder outcomes from targets or earnedon assets held and on certain market movements such as The Group hedged the majority of maysuffer a customersand client sentiment.
The Group also market risk exposures associated lossin value maintains cash buffers in its holding with the Standard Life acquisition companies and has access to a credit and benefited from capital synergies facility to reduce reliance on emerging from these after completion.
The Group continues to monitor The Groups excess capital position andreview existing market risk continues to be closely monitored and exposures in light of political managed, particularly in the low interest developments, particularly those environment and any potential impact on that may arise from the terms and financial markets as a result of Brexit.
timing of the UKs exit from the EU.
Insurance risk The Group The Group has guaranteed liabilities, The Group undertakes regular reviews No change maybe annuities and other policies that ofexperience and annuitant survival The continuing trend of reductions exposed to aresensitive to future longevity, checks to identify any trends or in future mortality improvements adverse persistencyand mortality rates.
again saw the Group amending demographic example, if our annuity policyholders The Group continues to actively manage assumptions accordingly in 2018. experience livefor longer than expected, then its longevity risk exposures, which Policyholder mortality assumptions which is out theirbenefits will be paid for longer.
includes the use of reinsurance contracts were strengthened slightly where ofline with Theamount of additional capital to maintain this risk within appetite.
expectations requiredto meet additional liabilities The Group actively monitors persistency couldhave a material adverse impact The Group completed its first three risk metrics and exposures across the onthe Groups ability to meet its bulk annuity transactions totalling open and heritage businesses.
0.8bn in 2018 and reinsured the vast majority of the longevity risk.
Credit risk The Group is The life companies are exposed to The Group regularly monitors its No change exposed to deterioration in the actual or perceived counterparty exposure and has specific Counterparty exposures continue thefailure of creditworthiness or default of limits relating to individual exposures, tobe managed and monitored asignificant counterparties we hold money, bonds counterparty credit rating, sector across the Group.
counterparty orcommercial real estate loans with.
Thiscan cause immediate financial loss Phoenix continues to increase Where possible, exposures are ora reduction in future profits.
exposure to illiquid credit assets, diversifiedthrough the use of a range suchas equity release mortgages, An increase in credit spreads particularly if ofcounterparty providers.
All material commercial real estate and fund accompanied by a higher level of actual or reinsurance and derivative positions financing.
This is accompanied by expected issuer defaults could adversely areappropriately collateralised.
corresponding enhancements to impact the value of the Groups assets.
ourcontrol framework and is in The Group is also exposed to trading linewith industry trends.
counterparties, such as reinsurers orservice providers failing to meet allorpartof their obligations.
EMERGING RISKS Risk Title Description Risk Universe Category The Groups senior management and Market The impact of alternative providers in the market or Strategic Boardalso take emerging risks into Disruptors thosewith more comprehensive digital propositions.
accountwhen considering potentially adverse outcomes and appropriate Solvency II Changes to the solvency regime as a result of Financial Soundness Changes governmentreview and the UKs exit from the EU.
management actions prior to the risk crystallising.
Climate Although the physical risks are not currently seen as a All Change principal risk for the Group, there are a range of financial Some of the current emerging risks Transition and operational risks associated with the transition to a low theGroup considers are listed in the carbon economy, e. g. the impacts of climate risks on the prospects of current and future investment holdings.
is considered further in Our Environment on page 56.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 45 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED no change in stated dividend policy: 2.
Longevity stress longevity and VIABILITY yieldstress broadly equivalent to a that corporate acquisitions are not 1in10-year event, which implies a relevant, as any acquisition would only STATEMENT 1.2year increase in life expectancy beprogressed on the basis it meets fora 65 year old male and 1.0 year theGroups stated criteria: In accordance with the provision increase for a 65 year old female, that whilst the actual impacts of Brexit on ofsection C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision alongside a fall in yields.
the Group are still unknown, the Group ofthe UK Corporate Governance It completed reverse stress testing has plans in place to ensure it isable to Code, the Board has completed an forthe pre-acquisition Group and the service all policyholders in theevent of a assessment of the prospects and Standard Life Assurance businesses hard Brexit.
These management actions viability of the Group over a five-year byreference to the Groups current are reflected in theAOP: and period to December 2023. andexpected levels of solvency the stresses calculated occur on 1 January and liquidity: ASSESSMENT PROCESS 2019 with no allowance for any recovery It performed Brexit stress testing &KEYASSUMPTIONS orcontingent actions available, but do take including additional analysis under into account the impact ofany appropriate The Groups prospects are assessed anodeal Brexit and considered Solvency II transitionals recalculation.
primarily through its strategic and financial theimplications of arange of Brexit planning process, which included a detailed outcomes as regularly monitored ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY annual review of the Groups strategy andpresented to the Board and following the acquisition of the Standard Life In making the viability assessment, the Board riskcommittees: Assurance businesses.
This strategy is has undertaken the following process: It considered the principal medium outlined within the Strategic Report of this It considered Group prospects, taking into tolong term risks facing the Group Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board account current position and the principal which have the potential to impact fully participates in the annual strategic risks and uncertainties that it is facing as onviability as discussed in the Risk planning process by means of a Board outlined above: report above: and meeting to review and approve the It defined that viability is maintaining the annualoperating plan AOP.
It completed a qualitative assessment capability to satisfy mandatory liabilities ofall strategic risks to the Group and The output of the AOP is a set of Group and meet external targets and confirmed contingent actions available that could be objectives, detailed financial forecasts, this was still appropriate following the implemented should any risk materialise andrisks and contingent actions to be acquisition of the Standard Life that threatens the Groups resilience.
considered when agreeing the plan.
Assurance businesses: The latest AOP was approved by the Board The results of the stress testing, including It reviewed the AOP which considers in November 2018.
This considered the acombination of individual scenarios, as profits, liquidity, solvency and Groups current position and its prospects disclosed in the Business Review Section, strategicobjectives and the impacts over a medium-term horizon, reflecting demonstrated that due to the significant ofmanagement actions on the Group.
excess capital in the life companies, the The AOP was finalised in November 2018 Groups high cash generation and access Progress against the financial plan is and reaffirmed the Groups strategy: toadditional funding, the Group is able to reviewed monthly by both the Groups It completed stress testing to assess withstand the impact in each case with executive committee and the Board.
viability under severe but plausible regards to meeting all mandatory liabilities scenarios, including two adverse stresses, The Board has determined that the five-year as they fall due, and continue to track with no recovery or contingent actions, period to December 2023 is an appropriate towards meeting external targets which are deemed to be representative period for the assessment, this being the assuminga partial recovery from the stress.
ofthe key financial risks to the Group period over which the Directors have as follows: reasonable confidence and set internal STATEMENT OF VIABILITY andexternal targets, and the periodcovered 1.
Market stress a combined market Based on the results of the by the Groups Board-approved AOP.
stress broadly equivalent to a 1 in proceduresoutlined above, the Board has 10-year event, calibrated to the Phoenix a reasonable expectation that the Group The Board has also made certain internal model, incorporating a fall in will be able to continue in operation and assumptions when making the equity, property values and yields, meet its liabilities as they fall due over assessment and these include witha widening of credit spreads.
the five-year period of assessment.
thefollowing: PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 46 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
