68 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The risks outlined below are those principal risks and How these risks are identified is described in the Change in Risk uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They Corporate Governance section on pages [63 and Increase do not include all the risks associated with Group 64].
Achieving Playtechs strategic objectives while No change activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
minimising the key risks the business faces will Decrease deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
Risk Description Mitigation Risk Description Mitigation Regulation Licensing Playtech holds several licences for its activities Playtech has a fully resourced Compliance team, Regulatory Data Protection The requirements of the new EU General Data The Group-wide project initiated in 2017 was Requirements from regulators.
The review and or loss of all or which advises and supports the Board and Protection Regulations GDPR came into force completed successfully, ensuring that all personal both Gambling and Financial any of these licences may adversely impact on the executive management to ensure implementation in May 2018.
The regulation is mandatory and all data handling obligations were met within the both Gambling and Financial operations, revenues and or reputation of the Group.
of the policies, procedures and controls in place to organisations that hold or process personal data required time frame.
Data Protection is now an protect its licence to operate.
The Compliance team Likelihood: Medium must comply with these regulations.
inherent part of BAU tasks and there is dedicated Likelihood: Low advises, approves and monitors Group activities data protection training in place, as part of the Impact: High to ensure that the organisation is compliant with Compliance Training Programme completed by Impact: High regulatory and licensing requirements.
all Playtech employees on annual basis.
GDPR continues being a priority for the Playtech Board In 2018, Playtech acquired Snaitech, which and its executive management.
increased the Groups presence in regulated markets and its vertically integrated operations.
The Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery Regulatory Preventing Policymakers in the EU and at national levels have The compliance functions of Playtech and Financial Crime taken steps to strengthen financial crime legislation and corruption.
Playtechs Ethics Policy Snaitech are working to align compliance sets out the overarching standards around both Gambling and Financial covering Anti-Money Laundering AML, prevention and regulatory processes.
of facilitation of tax evasion and Anti-Bribery and business conduct, corporate governance, commitments to employees and corporate citizenship.
Non-compliance could result Regulation Local Technical Local regulators have their own specific requirements, Playtech works closely with regulators to understand Likelihood: Medium in investigations, prosecutions, loss of licences In 2018, this policy was updated specific local requirements along Regulatory Requirements which often vary on a country-to-country basis.
In along with Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Anti-Money and or an adverse reputational impact.
Impact: Medium addition, new requirements may be imposed.
For with any new requirements when operating both Gambling and Financial Laundering policies to include changes and or entering into a market.
The Compliance team example, a requirement to locate significant technical in legislation, regulations and industry good practice.
infrastructure within the relevant territory or to advises the business on these local requirements to In addition, the Company approved Likelihood: Low ensure Playtech is compliant establish and maintain real-time data interfaces with a new Anti-Facilitation of Tax Evasion policy.
Such conditions present operational with existing requirements, whilst anticipating Impact: Medium risk assessments and operational procedures are new requirements and engaging with local regulators challenges and may prohibit the ability of licensees refreshed to ensure alignment to offer the full range of the Groups products.
The Board and Risk Committee have oversight of AML, ABC and Taxation Given the dynamic nature of tax rules, guidance The Group aims to comply with all tax regulations tax risk.
and tax authority practice, the business is exposed in all countries in which it operates and monitors and both Gambling and Financial The Compliance team has day-to-day oversight to continuously evolving rules and practices governing responds to developments in tax law and practice.
of AML and ABC policy and implementation, the taxation of e-commerce activity in various The Head of Tax keeps the Board and executive including training.
Such taxes may include corporate management fully informed of developments income tax, withholding taxes and indirect taxes.
in domestic and international tax laws within Impact: Medium Regulatory Responsible Playtech reviews its operational policies and As such, it is imperative to ensure compliance jurisdictions where the Group has a local presence.
Regulators, industry, charities and the public at large with all relevant tax regulations and requirements Gambling continue to challenge the gaming and betting sector procedures on safer gambling to align with changes During the year, the Board reviewed and to the regulatory landscape, changes in business in each jurisdiction that Playtech operates.
Gambling only to make gambling and gaming products safer, fairer adopted the Groups UK Tax strategy statement and crime free.
In addition, licensing requirements model, evolving industry standards and best practices available at https: www.
com responsibilityas well as technological developments.
Playtech has are regularly updated to ensure that companies in regulation tax-strategy and Likelihood: High the sector provide a safe environment for consumers.
been investing in a range of safer gambling initiatives a new Anti-Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy that cover data analytics as well as game design, Impact: Medium in line with the changing tax environment.
customer interaction and cross-sector collaboration, including the acquisition of BetBuddy in 2017.
Regulatory Capital Adequacy The requirement to maintain adequate regulatory Our proprietary automated reporting system Playtechs long-term strategic objective is to develop capital may affect the Groups ability to conduct is used to monitor capital adequacy 24 hours a Financial only and offer best-in-class tools and data that can help its business and may reduce profitability.
This is considered within raise standards in operations and across the industry.
pre-determined limits, set by the risk management Likelihood: Low committee, which include an approved level of buffer to ensure that levels determined by our regulators Impact: Medium are not breached.
Where the capital adequacy levels approach the pre-determined limits, necessary steps are taken to ensure that exposures are managed so as to not fall foul of regulatory requirements.
70 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES cont.
Change in Risk Increase No change Decrease Risk Description Mitigation Risk Description Mitigation Mergers and Acquisitions Playtech has made a number of acquisitions The Company has made a number of very Market Exposure The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities Market exposure is monitored 24 hours a day on in the past.
Such acquisitions may not deliver successful, value creating acquisitions and has could adversely fluctuate due to movements in market a real-time basis, using our proprietary automated both Gambling and Financial Financial only the expected synergies and or benefits and may an established process in place and experienced prices of foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, reporting systems to measure client exposure on NEW RISK diminish shareholder value if not integrated staff to conduct thorough due diligence before equity and index prices.
Likelihood: Low effectively or the opportunity executed successfully.
There is an integration Likelihood: Medium Where exposure levels and client behaviour, team in place that works to integrate each Impact: Medium Impact: Medium whether in total or on specific instruments, acquisition as smoothly as possible.
reaches certain levels, our risk management policy requires that mitigating actions, such as reducing exposure through hedging or liquidity Key Employees The Groups future success depends in large part The Group provides a stimulating professional arrangements, are considered.
environment and has a comprehensive performance both Gambling and Financial on the continued service of a broad leadership team including Executive Directors, senior managers and evaluation system to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are appropriately rewarded and key personnel.
The development and retention Global Diversification As Playtech plc continues to operate across multiple Playtech utilises many of its existing operational Likelihood: Medium of these employees, along with the attraction and incentivised through a mixture of salary, annual functions and external advisers to ensure that its both Gambling and Financial locations, servicing our clients in many markets bonuses and long-term incentives linked to the integration of new talent, cannot be guaranteed.
across the globe, these operations bring with them Board and executive management fully understand Impact: Medium NEW RISK attainment of business objectives and revenue the changing global market.
Global diversification significant opportunities for growth: however, as is growth.
Likelihood: High well understood, globally diverse operations carry also presents significant opportunities to the Group, particularly the potential in the USA.
risk particularly as markets change.
Impact: High Cyber Crime and IT Security System downtime or a security breach, whether The Group adopts industry standard protections to detect any intrusion or other security breaches, both Gambling and Financial through cyber and distributed denial of service DDoS attacks or technology failure, could significantly affect together with preventative measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
the services offered to our licensees.
Likelihood: Medium The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information Impact: High technology systems.
As well as working with a range of specialist cyber security companies to enhance, review and test our defences against these threats, we have also continued to invest in our in-house capabilities.
Business Continuity Planning Loss of revenue, reputational damage or breach Business continuity plans are now in place for all key both Gambling and Financial of regulatory requirements may occur as a result Playtech sites, covering the significant majority of of a business or location disruptive event.
The remaining sites will be provided with a fully functioning business continuity plan in line Likelihood: Low with the project roadmap on a risk-based approach.
Completed plans will be tested to Impact: Medium ensure effectiveness and training will be provided to key staff members as part of the business continuity programme.
