PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGING RISK External risks include economic conditions, considered by the Board when developing Severe the weather, Government action, policies the Groups Viability Statement.
The Board The Board is responsible for ensuring and regulations, raw material prices and does recognise, however, that it will not that the Group maintains an effective risk information systems disruption.
Internal always be possible to eliminate these risks management system.
It determines the risks include reliance on key customers, and entirely.
In addition, the principal risks listed Groups approach to risk, its policies and the recruitment and retention of key personnel.
below do not comprise all of the risks that procedures that are implemented to mitigate the Group may face and they are not listed exposure to risk.
The Board seeks to mitigate the businesses in order of priority, probability or magnitude exposure to strategic, financial and PROCESS of potential impact.
operational risk, both external and internal.
The Board continually assesses and monitors RISK APPETITE The effectiveness of key mitigating controls the key risks in the business and Polypipe has is continually monitored and subjected to The Board determines the appropriate developed a risk management framework to periodic testing by the Groups internal level of risk for operating the business and identify, report, and manage its principal risks audit function.
This includes the recording of the Board is minimising exposure to of all principal risks and uncertainties on The heat map and table that follows financial, operational, human, legislative and a Group Risk Register, which is updated highlight the principal risks and uncertainties reputational risks.
at least every six months.
Risks are fully that could have a material impact on the analysed, allocated owners, scored for both Groups performance and prospects and impact and probability, prioritised, and the mitigating activities which are aimed at assessed for what mitigation is required.
reducing the impact or likelihood of a major risk materialising.
These risks have all been Minor Process THE BOARD Top down: The Board continually assesses and monitors the key risks in the business and Polypipe has developed a risk management framework to identify, report, and manage its Identifying, assessing and principal risks and uncertainties.
mitigating risk at Group level This includes: } The recording of all principal risks and uncertainties on a Group Risk Register which is updated at least every six months. }
Analysing risks and allocating owners. }
Scoring risks for impact and probability to determine the exposure to the business. }
Outlining which risks should be prioritised and what mitigation is required.
INTERNAL AUDIT The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and subjected to periodic testing by the Groups internal audit function.
Bottom up: Identifying, assessing and OPERATIONAL LEVEL mitigating risk at business The risk management processes are embedded into the different operational areas operational level within the Group.
Failure to manage the availability of raw materials Severe 8 supply and pricing Brexit 2. Business disruption 2 3.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel 15 18 5.
Change in Government actions and policies relating to public and private investment 16 14 1 1 5 5 7.
Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters 8.
Product failures in the marketplace could harm our 10 reputation and our results of operation 9 7 19 20 17 9.
Acquisitions do not perform as expected 4 4 11.
Foreign currency risk 12. Credit risk 13.
Interest rate risk Low High Probability 15.
Failure to manage health and safety resulting in fatality or serious injury Existing risk 16.
Agreement of unfavourable commercial terms New risk since 2017 17.
Fraud including misreporting of periodic financial information by business units to the Group 18.
Breach of Group policies regarding Competition Law, the Bribery Act and Sanctions Compliance 19.
Political unrest in the Middle East 20.
Labour availability and wage inflation Brexit Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 1.
Failure to manage the availability of raw materials supply and pricing Brexit The Group is exposed to volatile raw Any increase in the market price of The Group seeks to pass on raw material Increased material prices, particularly polymers, crude oil or other petroleum feedstocks, price increases to its customers wherever due to fluctuations in the market foreign currency exchange rate possible.
There is usually at least a threeprice of crude oil and other petroleum movements, or changes to suppliers month time lag from notification of the feedstocks, foreign currency exchange manufacturing capacity could have a raw material price increase before selling rate movements, and changes to direct impact on the prices the Group prices can be adjusted in the market.
pays for raw materials which could Competitors of the Group are likely to adversely affect its financial results.
experience the same pressures of any This impact is potentially exacerbated sustained raw material price increases.
Brexit the Group is planning a temporary, proportionate increase in working capital in the first half of 2019 to secure supply of raw materials against short-term disruption at ports.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 43 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC Impact PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 2. Business disruption The Groups manufacturing and Such incidents could result in the The Group has developed business No change distribution operations could be temporary cessation in activity, or continuity, crisis response, and disaster subjected to disruption due to incidents disruption, at one of the Groups recovery plans.
including, but not limited to, fire, production facilities impeding the ability The Group performs regular maintenance failure of equipment, power outages, to deliver its products to its customers, to minimise the risk of equipment failure.
workforce strikes, or unexpected or thereby adversely affecting the Groups prolonged periods of severe weather.
Finished goods holdings across the operations act as a limited buffer in the In addition, prolonged periods of severe event of operational failure.
weather could result in a slowdown in site construction activity reducing The Group has the ability to transfer some the demand for the Groups products, of its production to alternative sites and thereby adversely affecting its could also subcontract some of its tooling financial results.
to reduce any potential loss in production capacity.
The Group maintains a significant amount of insurance to cover business interruption and damage to property from such incidents.
Independent insurer inspections take place across all sites to identify and assess potential hazards and business interruption risks.
Reliance on key customers Some of the Groups businesses are Failure to manage relationships with The Groups strategic objective is to No change dependent on key customers in highly key customers, while continuing to broaden its customer base wherever competitive markets.
provide high-quality products delivered possible.
on time in full, and developing new The Group focuses on delivering innovative products, could lead to a loss exceptional customer service and maintains of business, thereby adversely affecting strong relationships with major customers the Groups financial results.
through direct engagement at all levels.
The Group maintains customer service matrices which are continually tracked and monitored with intervention made where required.
The Group closely manages its pricing, rebates, and commercial terms with its customers to ensure that they remain competitive.
The Group continually seeks to innovate and develop its product lines to ensure its products are to the standard our customers expect.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel The Group is dependent on the Loss of any key personnel without The Group has a formal succession plan Reduced continued employment and adequate and timely replacement could in place facilitating staff retention and performance of our senior management disrupt business operations and the progression through the Group.
This team and other key skilled personnel.
Groups ability to implement and deliver succession plan has been augmented its growth strategy.
The Group aims to provide competitive remuneration packages and incentive schemes to retain and motivate key personnel.
44 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 5.
Economic conditions Brexit The Group is dependent on the level of Lower levels of activity within the The Group closely monitors trends in the Increased activity in the construction industry and construction industry could reduce industry, invests in market research and is therefore susceptible to any changes sales and production volumes, is an active member of the Construction in its cyclical economic conditions.
thereby adversely affecting the Products Association.
The Group uses Groups financial results.
Construction Products Association and Euroconstruct forecasts in its budgeting process.
The Group closely manages its demand forecasts and costs through weekly operational review meetings.
Change in Government actions and policies relating to public and private investment The Group is in part dependent on Significant downward trends in The Groups strategy is to have its No change Government action and policies relating Government spending on public operations structured so that it has a to public and private investment and and private investment arising from balanced exposure to the residential, is therefore susceptible to changes in economic uncertainty and ongoing commercial and infrastructure construction Government spending priorities.
austerity policies could have an adverse sectors so as to reduce the impact of any impact on the construction industry adverse Government action or policy on which could impact on sales and any one of the construction sectors.
production volumes, thereby adversely The Group closely monitors trends in the affecting the Groups financial results.
industry, invests in market research and is an active member of the Construction Products Association.
Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters The Group is subject to the requirements Failure of the Group to comply with The Group has a formal Health, Safety No change of UK and European environmental and changes to environmental regulations and Environmental policy, and procedures occupational safety and health laws and and other obligations relating to are in place to monitor compliance with regulations, including obligations to environmental matters could result in the policy.
investigate and clean up environmental the Group being liable for fines, require The Group performs internal environmental contamination on or from properties.
modification to operations, increase audits and is subjected to external manufacturing and delivery costs, environmental audits on a periodic basis.
and could result in the suspension or termination of necessary operational The Group performs weekly and monthly permits, thereby adversely affecting the reporting on key health, safety and Groups financial results.
environmental matters which require the attention of the Board.
Product failures in the marketplace could harm our reputation and our results of operation The Group manufactures products that A product failure or recall could result The Group operates comprehensive No change are potentially vital to the safe operation in a liability claim for personal injury or quality assurance systems and procedures of its customers products or processes.
other damage leading to substantial at each site.
These products are often incorporated financial settlements, damage to Wherever required, the Group obtains into the fabric of a building or dwelling the Groups brand reputation, costs certifications over its products to the or buried in the ground as part of an and expenses and diversion of key relevant national and European standards infrastructure system and in each case, managements attention from the including Kitemarks, BBAs, WRCs it would be difficult to access, repair, operation of the Group, which could and WRACs.
recall or replace such products.
all adversely affect the Groups financial results.
The Group maintains product liability insurance to cover third party claims arising from potential product failures or recalls.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 45 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 9.
Failure of information systems The Group is dependent on the Disruption or failure of the information The Group contracts with several thirdNo change continued efficient operation of its systems could affect the Groups ability party providers to supply off-site, business information systems and is therefore to conduct its ongoing operations continuity arrangements for wholesale vulnerable to potential failures due which could adversely affect the Groups or partial recovery of the key servers and to power losses, telecommunication financial results.
applications which are used within the failures, or from an external security various business units of the Group.
breach due to the increasing levels These continuity arrangements are subject of sophisticated cybercrime now to periodic validation and testing.
Some business units of the Group also take advantage of their multi-site operations to provision server and applications recovery between those sites.
There are a range of local, business unit-specific, back-up processes which are performed on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.
Firewalls are in place to protect the perimeter of the Groups networks and any off-site access to the Groups servers and applications is through secure Virtual Private Network connections.
In addition, email and Internet traffic filtering is in place to protect against potential viruses or malware entering the Groups networks.
User and server computing devices have anti-virus software installed to protect from potential infection.
The Group continually invests in the maintenance and upgrade of IT infrastructure and information systems.
All upgrades are carefully planned and actively managed by senior personnel to minimise potential business disruption.
Acquisitions do not perform as expected The management of acquisitions activity Ineffective management of acquisitions Full due diligence is performed before any No change and their integration play a part in could lead to management distraction, acquisition is made.
delivering the Groups growth strategy a drain on financial resources, and The Group seeks contractual assurances and there is a risk that any acquisitions impact on the Groups ability to from the sellers to mitigate against any may not perform as expected.
successfully implement and deliver identified issues or risks.
Formal Board level approvals are required in accordance with the Groups delegation of authority structure for any acquisition activity.
Where appropriate, the Group will pay deferred consideration linked to the ongoing performance of the acquisition.
The progress of any integration is closely monitored at Board and senior management team level.
46 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 11.
Foreign currency risk The risk that the fair value of a financial Foreign currency exchange rate The Group enters into forward foreign Reduced instrument or future cash flows will fluctuations could adversely affect the currency exchange rate contracts for the fluctuate because of changes in foreign Groups financial results.
purchase and sale of foreign currencies currency exchange rates.
The Groups to manage its exposure to fluctuations in risk relates primarily to its operating foreign currency exchange rates primarily activities where the revenue or expense in respect of US Dollars and Euros relative is denominated in a currency other than to Pounds Sterling.
It is not possible for the functional currency of the entity the Group to mitigate foreign currency undertaking the transaction.
exchange rate movements which impact the translation of its overseas subsidiaries results and net assets as all the Groups long-term borrowings are Pounds Sterling denominated.
However, with the disposal of the French business, foreign currency risk has been reduced.
12. Credit risk The risk that a counterparty of the The failure of a counterparty to meet Customer credit risk is managed by each No change Group will not be able to meet its their financial obligations could lead to business unit subject to the Groups obligations under a financial instrument a financial loss for the Group.
established policy, procedures and or customer contract.
The Group controls relating to customer credit is exposed to credit risk from its risk management.
Credit quality of the trading activities primarily from trade customer is assessed based on an extensive receivables and from its financing credit rating scorecard and individual credit activities, including deposits with banks.
limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major export customers are generally covered by letters of credit or credit insurance.
Where the Group perceives there to be a significant credit exposure it will take out credit insurance or obtain an irrevocable letter of credit prior to any transaction.
Credit risk arising from cash deposits with banks is managed in accordance with the Groups established treasury policy, procedures and controls.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with banks that have as a minimum a single A-credit rating.
Liquidity risk The risk that the Group will not be able Insufficient funds could result in the The Groups approach to managing Reduced to meets its financial obligations as they Group not being able to fund its liquidity is to ensure that it will always have fall due.
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The successful completion of the refinancing of the RCF has reduced this risk.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 47 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 14.
Interest rate risk The risk that interest rates could rise Increases to interest rates could result To reduce the Groups exposure to future No change impacting on the Groups borrowings.
in significant additional interest rate increases in interest rates, the Group has cash payments being required on any entered into interest rate swaps from borrowings.
variable to fixed interest rates.
These will be progressively renewed when necessary to ensure appropriate levels of cover for utilisation of Group lending.
Failure to manage health and safety resulting in fatality or serious injury The risk that management fail to take Lack of management focus and There is a Group Health and Safety Director No change the correct measures to prevent fatalities a poor cultural attitude towards health with a team throughout the Group with or serious injury.
and safety could result in increased clear accountability for health and safety incidences and serious or indeed H&S.
H&S performance is tracked fatal accidents.
weekly by all levels of management and investigations performed to uncover cause and key learnings as quickly as possible.
If employees have failed to adhere to H&S policies, then they may be subject to disciplinary action.
Key messages are constantly reinforced throughout the organisation.
Agreement of unfavourable commercial terms The risk that new contracts Lack of experience in negotiating The Group employs experienced No change or renewed contracts with commercial terms and insufficient procurement specialists to ensure key suppliers and merchants may contain oversight of such negotiations may supplies are secured on the best possible unfavourable commercial terms.
result in unfavourable commercial terms terms e. g. polymers.
In other areas of being contracted.
the business, larger contracts are only negotiated by more senior managers.
Significant contracts are also reviewed by Group legal counsel.
Fraud including misreporting of periodic financial information by business units to the Group The risk that actuals reporting and Lack of experience or oversight as well Results are subject to regular analytical No change forecasting may be misreported to the as possible excessive pressure placed on review by senior management at Group Group by the business units.
managers may result in the misreporting level and appropriate enquiries are made if of results both actuals as well as anomalous results are seen.
reviews will be introduced throughout the Group to help uphold the integrity of financial reporting.
Financial results are also subject to one external review interims as well as a full external audit by Ernst & Young LLP each year.
Internal auditing also conducts reasonable procedures to help prevent material misstatements.
48 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability 18.
Breach of Group policies regarding Competition Law, the Bribery Act and Sanctions Compliance Fines may be levied on the Group and or Alongside the financial impact of fines, Training is provided to all new relevant No change individuals if legislation is breached.
This breaches could result in damage to the employees on Competition Law including legislation includes, but is not limited to, Groups reputation and adversely impact those changing roles.
Competition Law, the Bribery Act and potential current and future business.
Annual declarations of compliance are Sanctions Compliance.
undertaken in respect of Competition Law and the Bribery Act.
A Sanctions Compliance Policy is in place and all business in higher risk countries requires approval by the Company Secretary.
An external agency Reuters is used to check Sanctions against companies and or individuals.
Political unrest in the Middle East Political unrest in the Middle East could A negative impact to the Groups Middle Financial performance, including future No change adversely impact the Groups Middle East operations could adversely impact expectations, is discussed weekly while East operations and or create a threat the Groups financial results and its cash is remitted to the Group treasury team to the safety of Group employees.
ability to deliver its growth strategy.
frequently to minimise the impact to the Group of any changes in the Middle East If the safety of employees is situation.
compromised this could result in serious injuries or fatalities.
The Group retains and encourages an open communication policy with all employees including discussions regarding their welfare and wellbeing.
Labour availability and wage inflation Brexit Post-Brexit the UK may focus on With UK unemployment at historically The Group continues to recruit and train New risk enabling higher-skilled migration into low levels, any reductions in labour staff across all levels of the business, the UK and potentially introducing availability may adversely impact being an employer of choice aiding a more restrictive policy on lower-skilled operations.
competitors face the same pressures Further, increased demand for a limited not putting the Group at a competitive labour pool may increase salary inflation disadvantage.
and adversely impact the Groups financial results.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 49 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
