STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued When entering in a new joint arrangement, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the parties that have joint control over the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement joint operation or rights to the net assets of the arrangement joint venture, using the guidance provided in the standard.
When a joint arrangement has been structured through a Non-current assets held for sale separate vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement and, when Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less relevant, other facts and circumstances.
Equity method of accounting Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the investee.
When the is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Groups share of the losses of an associate or a joint venture exceeds the Groups interest in that entity, the Group ceases to recognise its share of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year made payments on behalf of the investee.
from the date of classification.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are of an investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Any classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, in its former subsidiary after the sale.
after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill and goodwill impairment The requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill loss with respect to the Groups investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and with an indefinite useful life, the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the IAS 36 as a single cash-generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount the higher of value in use and fair value less identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36.
If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are recognised in the if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or the joint venture that are not related to the Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated Functional and presentation currency to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be operates.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The functional currency of the Groups entities impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first located and operating in Kazakhstan Varvarinskoye JSC, Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLC, Inter Gold Capital LLC, Komarovskoye Mining to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the Company LLC is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located and operating in Armenia Kapan MPC carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
CJSC is the Armenian Dram AMD.
The functional currency of the parent company Polymetal International plc and its intermediate holding companies is US Dollar.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in US Dollars $, as management believes it is a more convenient Acquisition of mining licences presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as it is a common presentation currency The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent a in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional currencies to the presentation business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination and, accordingly, the transaction is currency is performed as follows: accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
Where asset acquisition is achieved in stages net assets acquired are accounted for sum of cost of the original interest acquired and the cost of additional interest acquired.
all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions Investments in associates and joint ventures that are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented as movements relating to the effect arrangement.
Significant influence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but of translation to the Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve in equity: and does not extend to a control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
translated using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash flows in the period are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss parties sharing control.
of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation, all of A joint operation is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the to profit or loss.
output, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a joint operation, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the output by the joint operation: and its share of expenses.
proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are reattributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest in associates or jointly A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement and is controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the proportionate share of the accumulated accounted for using the equity accounting method.
exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
148 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 149 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued Non-mining assets 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated separately.
The Group translates its income and expenses in presentation currency on a monthly basis.
During the years ended 31 December 2018 Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
and 31 December 2017 exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Estimated useful lives are as set out below: Russian Kazakh Armenian Rouble Tenge Dram US Dollar US Dollar US Dollar Machinery and equipment 520 years 31 December 2018 Transportation and other assets 310 years Year ended 69.47 384.20 483.75 Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Average 62.68 344.76 483.03 Maximum monthly rate 67.66 372.41 486.30 Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the assets Minimum monthly rate 56.79 320.70 480.45 carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
31 December 2017 Year ended 57.60 332.33 484.10 Stripping costs Average 58.35 326.02 482.71 During the production phase of a mine when the benefit from the stripping activity is the improved access to a component of the ore Maximum monthly rate 59.96 338.78 486.51 body in future periods, the stripping costs in excess of the average ore to waste ratio for the life of mine of that component are recognised Minimum monthly rate 56.43 312.48 478.25 as a non-current asset.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit-of-production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body made accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
The Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Armenia, accordingly, any translation of Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram denominated assets and liabilities into Estimated ore reserves US Dollar for the purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future Estimated proven and probable ore reserves reflect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally recovered in the future realise or settle in US Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with the JORC Code.
Foreign currency transactions Leases Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates Operating leases prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals arising under transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date on which the most recent operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Exchange differences arising from changes in exchange rates are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Exchange differences generated by monetary items that form part of the intragroup net investment in the foreign operation Impairment of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the consolidated financial statements within foreign currency translation reserve.
An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss or there are impairment reversal indicators.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared Property, plant and equipment to the estimated recoverable amount of the asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss or its reversal if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashMining assets generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Mining assets include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are depreciated to their residual values using the unit-of-production method based on proven and probable ore reserves according to the JORC Code, which Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The carrying amounts of all the cash-generating units is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proven and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
are assessed against their recoverable amounts determined based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on the Depreciation is charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining asset is capable of commercial production.
In respect of application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF using post-tax cash flows.
The DCF method is attributable to the development of those mining assets whose useful lives are expected to be less than the life of the mine, depreciation over the period of the assets useful proved and probable reserves and certain resources where a relevant resource-to-reserve conversion ratio can be reasonably applied.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of Mineral rights for the assets under development are included within Exploration and development.
When a production phase is started, the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in mineral rights are transferred into Mining assets and are depreciated as described below.
Capital  Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original assets are ready for their intended use.
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Impairment loss may be subsequently reversed if there has been a significant change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the Exploration and development assets last impairment loss was recognised.
Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, geological and similar types of costs, are capitalised into exploration assets if management concludes that future economic benefits are likely to be realised based on current internal assessment A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
of exploration results and identified mineral resources.
Inventories Exploration and evaluation expenditures are transferred to development assets when commercially-viable reserves are identified, so Metal inventories that the entity first establishes proved and probable reserves in accordance with JORC Code and respective mining plan and model Inventories including refined metals, metals in concentrate and in process, dor and ore stockpiles are stated at the lower of production are prepared and approved.
At the time of reclassification exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment based on the cost or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures incurred directly or indirectly in economic models prepared.
bringing inventories to their existing condition and location.
Work in-process, metal concentrate, dor and refined metal are valued at the average total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production i. e. the costs are allocated proportionally to unified metal The costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping costs, are where unified metal is calculated based on prevailing market metal prices.
Ore stockpiles are valued at the average cost of mining that capitalised as a part of mining assets when these costs are incurred.
ore. Where ore stockpiles and work in-process are not expected to be processed within 12 months, those inventories are classified as non-current.
150 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 151 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is no 2.
Significant accounting policies continued realistic prospect of recovery, e. g. when the debtor has been placed under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings, or in the case of trade receivables, when the amounts are over two years past due, whichever occurs sooner.
Financial assets written off may Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on forward metal prices for inventories which are still be subject to enforcement activities under the Groups recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate.
Any expected to be realised within 12 months, and the flat long-term metal prices for non-current inventories, less estimated costs to recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
complete production and selling costs.
Derecognition of financial assets Consumables and spare parts The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average moving the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers cost.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classified as a long-term nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises asset in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are Derecognition of financial liabilities added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
in the consolidated income statement.
Trade receivables without provisional pricing that do not have a significant financing component determined in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers are not initially measured at fair value, rather they are initially measured at their transaction price.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the Financial assets assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at amortised cost, at fair value through other Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is comprehensive income FVTOCI or at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL depending upon the business model for managing the deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
financial assets and the nature of the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade receivables without provisional pricing that do not contain provisional price features, loans and other receivables are held to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore are carried at amortised cost adjusted for any loss allowance.
The loss allowance is calculated in accordance with the impairment of financial assets policy described below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months Trade receivables arising from sales of gold, silver, copper and zinc concentrates with provisional pricing features are exposed to future or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
movements in market prices and have contractual cash flow characteristics that are not solely payments of principal and interest and are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss and do not fall under the expected credit losses mode described below.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that Effective interest rate method the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments including The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the reporting all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Impairment of financial assets Environmental obligations The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that are measured at amortised cost, An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the trade and other receivables and contract assets, except for trade accounts receivable with provisional pricing.
The amount of expected development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument.
work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash flows, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised in the consolidated income The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables and other receivable.
The expected credit losses on these financial statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line and the unwinding of the discount assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Groups historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific on the provision in the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during to the debtors, general economic conditions and assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related initial recognition.
However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL.
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
152 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 153 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued Revenue recognition 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The Group has two major streams: the sale of gold and silver bullions and sale of copper, gold and silver concentrate.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in a contract with a customer in exchange for The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and circumstances.
transferring promised goods, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax VAT.
The Group Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased obligations arising from recognises revenue when it transfers control of a product or service to a customer.
additional mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free interest rate.
Sale of gold and silver bullion Employee benefit obligations The Group processes dor produced in the Russian Federation into London Good Delivery Bars prior to sale.
This final stage of processing Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that reporting is carried out on a toll-treatment basis at four state-owned refineries.
The Group sells gold and silver bullion to banks through long-term period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation and agreements.
The sales price, as determined in the agreement, may be variable based upon the London Bullion Market Association LBMA Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
spot or fixed price, however the Group does not enter into fixed price contracts.
For domestic sales, control and title passes from the Group to the purchaser at the refinery gate with revenue recognised at that point.
For export sales, once the gold and or silver bars have been Taxation approved for export by Russian customs, they are then transported to the vault of the purchaser.
Control and title passes and revenue is Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed in accordance with recognised at the point when the gold and or silver bars are received by the purchaser.
the laws of countries where the Group operates.
Sales of copper, zinc, gold and silver concentrate Current tax The Group sells copper, gold and silver concentrate underpricing arrangements where final prices are determined by quoted market The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated prices in a period subsequent to the date of sale.
Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on forward prices for the expected date income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable of final settlement.
Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment, when control passes to the buyer.
Revenue is calculated based on the or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the copper, gold and silver content in the concentrate and using the forward London Bullion Market Association LBMA or London Metal reporting date.
Exchange LME price to the estimated final pricing date, adjusted for the specific terms of the relevant agreement.
Revenue is presented net of refining and treatment charges which are subtracted in calculating the amount to be invoiced.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial Share-based compensation statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to account for share-based compensation.
IFRS 2 requires companies to recognise all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in The fair value of the awards granted under the Performance Share Plan PSP as defined in the Remuneration report is estimated using a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
a Monte Carlo model valuation see Note 32.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, Awards which are granted under Deferred Share Awards DSA plan and are released over a period of three years, are measured at share and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that price at a grant date and are prorated across periods to the different vest dates see Note 32. the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as a general, administrative and selling expense over the vesting period with a profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve.
Upon the exercise of the awards the amounts recognised within the share-based compensation reserve are transferred to the stated capital account.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Earnings per share Earnings per share calculations are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or earnings per share are calculated using the treasury stock method, whereby the proceeds from the potential exercise of dilutive stock the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
options with exercise prices that are below the average market price of the underlying shares are assumed to be used in purchasing the The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Companys common shares at their average market price for the period.
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
In the course of preparing the financial statements, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on those financial statements.
The determination of estimates requires judgements which are based on historical experience, Current and deferred tax current and expected economic conditions, and all other available information.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items that are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax is also recognised Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates in consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the are revised and in the future periods affected.
The judgements involving a higher degree of estimation or complexity are set out below.
initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
Critical accounting judgements Uncertain tax positions The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimation which are dealt with separately below, made in the Provision for uncertain tax positions is recognised within current tax when management determines that it is probable that a payment process of applying the Groups accounting policies during the year that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in will be made to the tax authority.
For such tax positions the amount of the probable ultimate settlement with the related tax authority is the financial statements.
When the uncertain tax position gives rise to a contingent tax liability for which no provision is recognised, the Group discloses tax-related contingent liabilities and contingent assets in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Accounting for acquisitions To determine the appropriate accounting approach to be followed for an acquisition transaction, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the acquisition is of a business, and therefore within scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, or is of a group of assets that do not constitute a business and is therefore outside scope of IFRS 3.
In making this determination, management evaluates the inputs, processes and outputs of the asset or entity acquired.
Judgement is used to determine whether an integrated set of activities and assets is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to investors or other owners, members or participants.
Major acquisitions in the year included Prognoz, Nezhda and Amikan Note 4.
They have been assessed as business combinations under IFRS 3 and have thus been accounted for at their fair values.
154 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 155 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued Discount rates The Group used a post-tax real discount rate of 9.0% 2017: 9.0%.
Cash flow projections used in fair value less costs 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued of disposal impairment models are discounted based on this rate.
Operating costs, capital expenditure and other operating factors Cost assumptions incorporate management experience When accounting for acquisitions that represent business combinations, the Group applies judgement to determine the fair value of the and expectations, as well as the nature and location of the operation and the risks associated therewith.
Underlying input cost identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
assumptions are consistent with related output price assumptions.
Other operating factors, such as the timelines of granting licences and permits are based on managements best estimate of the outcome of uncertain future events at the balance sheet date.
The consideration paid is considered to be the primary indicator of the fair value of the assets acquired primarily mineral rights and liabilities assumed, although the fair value of mineral rights is also supported by the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF models No impairment for property, plant and equipment was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2018 as no indicators of impairment prepared as described in the Key sources of estimation uncertainty section below.
The sensitivities for goodwill impairment testing are disclosed in Note 20, and in the absence of indicators for impairment, these are not extended to impairment testing more generally.
The sensitivity of items held at fair value is not material.
The Prognoz, Nezhda and Amikan acquisitions were all achieved in stages.
Judgement is used to determine when control was obtained and the basis of fair value remeasurement of the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entities at that date including Ore reserves consideration of any control premium paid, and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
An ore reserve estimate is an estimate of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
Ore reserve estimates are used by the Group in the calculation of: depletion of mining assets using the units-of-production Assessment of indicators of impairment or its reversal of operating and development assets method: impairment charges and in forecasting the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs.
Also, for The Group is required to conduct an impairment test where there is an indication of impairment of an asset or a cash-generating unit.
the purpose of impairment review and the assessment of the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs, For goodwill, an annual impairment test is required.
Judgement is required in the assessment of whether indicators of impairment or its management may take into account mineral resources in addition to ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence that such reversal exist.
Operating and economic assumptions, which could affect the valuation of assets using discounted cash flows DCF, are updated In order to calculate ore reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about geological, technical and economic factors, including regularly as part of the Groups planning and forecasting processes.
Significant judgement is required to determine whether any economic quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices, or operating assumptions represent significant changes in the economic value of an asset or CGU.
Discounted cash flow models are discount rates and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of ore reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies prepared on the basis of such assumptions to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment or impairment reversal.
to be determined by analysing geological data such as the logging and assaying of drill samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
In making the assessment for impairment indicators, assets that do not generate independent cash inflows are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit.
Management necessarily applies judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period as additional geological data becomes available during the course of operations inflows to appropriate cash-generating units, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash flows within the value-in-use or if there are changes in any of the aforementioned assumptions.
Such changes in estimated reserves may affect the Groups financial calculation.
Subsequent changes to the cash-generating unit allocation or to the timing of cash flows could impact the carrying value of results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: the respective assets.
Refer to Note 20 for further information.
asset carrying values due to changes in estimated future cash flows: Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets depletion charged in the consolidated income statement where such charges are determined by using the units-of-production method: Exploration and evaluation assets include mineral rights and exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, provisions for decommissioning and land restoration costs where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing geological and similar types of costs.
Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised if management concludes that future economic of the payment of such costs: benefits are likely to be realised and determines that economically viable extraction operation can be established as a result of exploration carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities where changes in estimated reserves affect the carrying value of the relevant assets activities and internal assessment of mineral resources.
and liabilities: and contingent consideration liabilities where these are determined by the future production levels.
According to IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, the potential indicators of impairment include: managements plans to discontinue the exploration activities, lack of further substantial exploration expenditure planned, expiry of exploration licences Ore reserves are subject to annual reestimation please refer to the Reserves and Resources section of the Annual Report.
Based on in the period or in the nearest future, or existence of other data indicating the expenditure capitalised is not recoverable.
At the end of the ore reserves estimate as of 1 January 2019, the depreciation charge for the year ended 31 December 2018 would decrease by each reporting period, management assesses whether such indicators exist for the exploration and evaluation assets capitalised, which $20 million 2017: decrease by $15 million based on the ore reserves estimate as of 1 January 2018. requires significant judgement.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets As of 31 December 2018 total exploration and evaluation costs capitalised amount to $365 million 2017: $150 million with the most Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable significant asset of $290 million attributable to the Prognoz silver property acquired during the year ended 31 December 2018. profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised Note 17.
There is an application of judgement in assessing the amount, timing and probability of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings.
These factors affect the Key sources of estimation uncertainty determination of the appropriate rates of tax to apply and the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
These judgements are influenced, The following are the sources of estimation uncertainty that carry the most significant risk of material effect on next years accounts, inter alia, by factors such as estimates of future production, commodity lines, operating costs, future capital expenditure and dividend being items where actual outcomes in the next 12 months could vary significantly from the estimates made in determining the reported policies.
If actual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, the financial position, results amount of an asset or liability.
of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.
Cash flow projections for fair value accounting and impairment testing Deferred tax assets arising from tax losses carried forward recognised as of 31 December 2018 amount to $167 million 2017: $126 million.
Expected future cash flows used in DCF models are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are significantly Tax losses carried forward represent amounts available for offset against future taxable income generated by Mayskoye Gold Mining affected by a number of factors including ore reserves, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, exchange rates, Company LLC, JSC South-Verkhoyansk Mining Company and JSC Polymetal Management Russian Federation, JSC Varvarinskoye and discount rates and estimates of production costs and future capital expenditure.
Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLC Kazakhstan.
Each legal entity within the Group represents a separate tax-paying component for income tax purposes.
The tax losses of one entity cannot be used to reduce taxable income of other entities of the Group.
Gross tax losses carried Ore reserves and mineral resources Recoverable reserves and resources are based on the proven and probable reserves and forward of $495 million 2017: $448 million, for which a deferred tax asset is recognised in JSC Varvarinskoye and Bakyrchik Mining Venture resources in existence.
Reserves and resources are incorporated in projected cash flows based on ore reserve statements and LLP are available during the period up to 2028, with the most significant portion expiring in 2025 and 2028 Note 17.
The remaining gross exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons see below.
Mineral resources, adjusted by certain tax losses have an indefinite life.
It is not practical to show the likely impact on the deferred tax balances of changes in corporate parameters conversion ratios, are included where management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, despite additional because of number of legal entities with tax losses available and the different tax attributes applicable to each entity.
evaluation still being required prior to meeting the required confidence to convert to ore reserves.
Commodity prices Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked against external sources of information.
Polymetal currently uses a flat real long-term gold and silver price of $1,200 per ounce 2017: $1,200 and $15 per ounce 2017: $16, respectively.
Foreign exchange rates Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked with external sources of information for relevant countries of operation.
Management have analysed RUB US$ rate movements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
RUB US$ exchange rate is estimated at 65 RUB US$ 2017: RUB US$60.
156 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 157 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued Consideration transferred 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The fair value of the newly issued 6,307,000 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid for Prognoz to PAL was determined based on the spot price at the acquisition date, being $9.63, and it was valued at $61 million.
Recoverability of stockpiles and work in-process The assessment of the recoverability of metal inventories requires judgement both in terms of calculating expected costs to process The fair value of the newly issued 14,152,668 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid for Prognoz to the private investor and refine ore stock piles to produce concentrate or dor for sale, and in terms of estimating future prices to be realised on sale Note was determined based on the spot price at the acquisition date, being $9.83, and it was valued at $139 million, with $24 million allocated 22.
The Group uses survey and assay techniques to estimate quantities of the ore stockpiled and ore stacked in heap leach pads, as to the acquired shareholders loan.
well as the recoverable metal in this material and work in-process.
The amount of the recoverable metals, that will be available for sale, is determined based on technological recoveries, which are established for each deposit and extraction technology.
Changes in these The NSR royalties described above meet the definition of contingent consideration and are accounted for at their fair value at the estimates can result in a change in mine operating costs of future periods and carrying amounts of inventories.
acquisition date as set out below.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group provided for net realisable value of metal inventories in the amount of $21 million The fair value of the NSR payable to PAL was determined using a valuation model based on expected silver production and forecast silver year ended 31 December 2017: write-down of $16 million.
The royalty agreement is subject to a cap that increases progressively with the silver price.
The amount of inventories held at net realisable value at 31 December 2018 is $99 million 31 December 2017: $60 million.
Based on the internal forecast, benchmarked against the external sources of information, the Group applied the long-term silver price assumption of $15 per ounce, resulting in the NSR cap of $100 million, a higher cap of $250 million could apply under more beneficial The key assumptions used in determining the net realisable value of inventories at 31 December 2018 are consistent with those used for price assumptions.
At the acquisition date, the fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated at $9 million.
The fair value of the NSR payable to the private investor was similarly determined using a valuation model based on the expected Valuation of contingent consideration payable production of silver at the silver prices as above and was calculated using Monte Carlo modelling.
At the acquisition date, the fair value The Group has recorded contingent consideration liabilities of $54 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: $62 million related to various of the contingent consideration was estimated at $5 million.
The fair value of the NSR payable to PAL was determined using a valuation acquisitions made, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements.
Various estimates must be made when determining the value of model which simulates expected production silver and the silver prices to estimate Prognoz future revenues.
The royalty agreement is contingent consideration to be recognised at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions made are consistent with those made for subject to an agreed cap that increases progressively with the silver price.
impairment testing purposes see above, and additional assumptions are included in Note 29.
Significant changes in assumptions could cause an increase, or reduction, in the amount of contingent consideration payable, with a resulting charge or credit in the consolidated The key assumptions used in the contingent consideration calculations are set out below: income statement.
Silver price volatility 31.69% Silver price as of acquisition date long-term real price per ounce $16.94 $15 4.
Acquisitions and disposals Discount rate 9% a Year ended 31 December 2018 Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition Prognoz silver property acquisition In finalising the allocation of the purchase price for the Prognoz transaction as shown above, the Group has refined the valuation of the In January 2017 the Group entered into an agreement with Polar Acquisition Ltd PAL, under which Polymetal would participate in the Groups pre-existing interest in Prognoz, which determines any gain or loss arising when control was obtained.
The preliminary purchase development of the Prognoz silver deposit in Yakutia, Russia Prognoz.
Under the agreement, Polymetal acquired a 5% interest in price allocation based this valuation on the weighted average cost of the Groups total investment in Prognoz, but the Group has now Prognoz for $5 million including $2 million of related expenses in cash through the purchase of 10% of Polar Silver Resources LLC completed a full valuation of the pre-existing interest on a stand-alone basis.
As a result the gain on obtaining control has reduced from share capital a subsidiary of PAL, the entity holding a 50% interest in Prognoz, with the remaining 50% owned by a private investor.
an initial $24 million gain to nil.
Other refinements have been made to the initial purchase price allocation as set out below, with the most The arrangement allowed Polymetal to acquire from PAL their remaining 45% interest in Prognoz for a consideration based on the JORC significant effect being on the valuation of Property, plant and equipment.
compliant reserves estimate upon completion of the technical study.
As of acquisition date and as of 31 December 2017 the Group had determined that Prognoz constituted a joint venture under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and therefore the investment was accounted The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and their reconciliation to the provisional for using the equity method.
In January 2018 Polymetal agreed with PAL to accelerate the exercise of the option in order to acquire the accounting, reported in the interim consolidated financial statements for the period ended 30 June 2018, are set out in the table below: remaining 45% ownership stake PAL had in Prognoz at a fixed price.
Provisional In April 2018 the Group completed the acquisition of Prognoz through two consecutive deals.
On 13 April 2018 the Group completed amounts the acquisition of the 45% stake from PAL for consideration paid through the issue of 6,307,000 Polymetal new ordinary shares and on previously Adjusted reported Adjustments amounts 23 April 2018 acquired the remaining 50% a stake from the private investor for consideration paid by issuing 14,152,668 new ordinary $m $m $m shares of the Company.
Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition As a result of the transactions, Polymetal now consolidates its 100% stake in Prognoz.
Property, plant and equipment 321 31 290 Other current assets 2 2 In addition to the consideration paid to PAL for the 45% stake Polymetal also committed to pay PAL a net smelter return NSR royalty of Borrowings 47 5 42 between 2% and 4% prorated for the 45% stake being acquired, which will be dependent on the applicable statutory mineral extraction Deferred tax liabilities 57 7 50 tax rate at the time when the asset enters commercial production.
Fair value of the net assets acquired 219 19 200 In addition to the consideration paid to the private investor for the 50% stake Polymetal also committed to pay a NSR royalty in the range Consideration transferred of 0.5% to 2.5%, prorated for the 50% stake which was acquired and capped at $40 million.
The royalty will be only payable if the silver Fair value of shares issued to PAL for 45% 61 61 price is $19 oz or higher, with the actual royalty rate within the range determined on a progressive scale dependent on the silver price.
Contingent consideration payable to PAL 9 9 Consideration for 45% share in JV 70 70 The Group has determined that it obtained control over the Prognoz silver property as of 23 April 2018.
Fair value of shares issued for 50% share 139 139 Prognoz is the largest undeveloped primary silver deposit in Eurasia with JORC-compliant Indicated and Inferred Resources, estimated Contingent consideration payable 5 5 by Micon in 2009 of 292 Moz at 586 g t silver.
In October 2018 the Group prepared the updated resource estimate of 256 Moz at 789 g t Less consideration allocated to the Shareholders loan 24 24 silver equivalent with an increased share of resources within the Indicated category.
Total consideration for 50% share 120 120 Initial 50% investment in JV as of acquisition date 5 5 10 As the Prognoz operations represent an integrated set of activities with a focus on exploration, it was determined that it meets the Revaluation of 50% achieved by 13 April 2018 24 24 definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 and that it should be fair value accounted for using the acquisition method.
Total consideration 219 19 200 No significant financial assets were acquired in business combination.
158 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 159 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition 4.
Acquisitions and disposals continued During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group finalised the purchase price allocation for Nezhda.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below: Impact of the acquisition on the result of Group The impact of Prognoz on the Groups financial result was not significant because Prognoz had not generated any revenue or expenses Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition $m during the period from 23 April 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Property, plant and equipment 322 Inventories 3 Nezhda gold property acquisition Other current assets 10 In December 2015 the Group entered into a joint arrangement, under which Polymetal participates in advancing the development Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 10 of the Nezhdaninskoye gold deposit Nezhda in Yakutia, Russia.
On 19 January 2016 Polymetal obtained a 15.3% interest in the joint Environmental obligations 1 venture entity holding 100% of JSC South-Verkhoyansk Mining Company, a licence holder for Nezhda, for a total cash consideration of Borrowings 78 $18 million.
It was determined that the arrangement met the definition of a joint arrangement as per IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, as joint Deferred tax liabilities 38 control of two investors was established.
As the arrangement was structured through a separate vehicle and the investors had rights over their share in net assets of the joint arrangement, it was concluded that the joint arrangement meets the definition of a joint venture and Fair value of the net assets acquired 208 should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Consideration transferred Fair value of shares issued 136 In November 2016 Polymetal increased its share in Nezhda to 17.7% for a cash consideration of $3 million.
Cash consideration paid 10 Call option premium paid 12 In July 2017, Polymetal agreed to acquire an additional 7% in JSC South-Verkhoyansk Mining Company Nezhda for a cash consideration Call option fair value adjustment 1 of $8 million, from its joint venture partner, Ivan Kulakov.
Simultaneously, Polymetal acquired an option to buy out the remaining 75.3% in Initial investment in JV as of acquisition date 31 Nezhda the Call Option.
The Call Option premium amounted to $12 million.
Revaluation of initial share on business combination 20 In April 2018, Polymetal served a Call option exercise notice to acquire the remaining 75.3% stake for consideration of $144 million, Total consideration 208 payable in cash and Polymetal shares.
Cash outflow in acquisition 22 The completion of the sale and purchase of the additional 7% share in the JV and exercise of the Call Option were subject to approval by Impact of the acquisition on the result of the Group the Russian Federal Governments Commission on Foreign Investments into Companies of Strategic Importance.
The exercise of the Call The impact of Nezhda on the Groups financial result was not significant given the close proximity between the acquisition date and the Option was also subject to approval by the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service.
Nezhda had not generated any revenue in this period.
In November 2018, Polymetal received all necessary regulatory approvals and completed the acquisition of the remaining 82.3% stake in Amikan acquisition Nezhda from entities owned by Ivan Kulakov in two separate transactions: Following the acquisition of an additional 31.7% stake in October 2018, the Group increased its overall ownership in the Veduga gold deposit to 74.3%.
Veduga is a high-grade refractory gold deposit with reserves of 1.4 Moz of gold at 4.8 g t and additional mineral 7% was acquired for $8 million in cash as part of the Shareholder agreement signed in July 2017: resources of 0.4 Moz at 4.9 g t. The licence holder for the property is Amikan LLC Amikan.
75.3% was acquired for $146 million, of which $10 million was payable in cash and $136 million was payable in 13,486,579 newly issued Polymetal shares that represent 2.9% of Polymetals increased share capital.
Polymetal has been a partial owner of the property since 2006 with the original 50% stake acquired through the JV with AngloGoldAshanti and subsequently diluted by external equity financing.
From 2012 the Groups equity ownership was 42.65% The Group has determined that it obtained control over the Nezhda gold property on 26 November 2018. and it exercised significant influence over the property.
The investment was accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
In 20122018 2,882 Kt of ore with the average grade of 3.84 g t containing 356 Koz of gold was extracted from the open-pit mine at As Nezhda operations represent an integrated set of activities with a focus on exploration, it was determined that it meets the definition of Veduga.
Historically ore was sold to multiple processing plants including Varvara.
a business pursuant to IFRS 3 and that it should be fair value accounted for using the acquisition method.
As Amikan operations represent an integrated set of activities with a focus on mining and extraction of precious metals, it was determined Consideration transferred that it meets the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 and that it should be fair value accounted for using the acquisition method.
The fair value of the 13,486,579 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid was determined based on the spot price at the acquisition date, being $10.07, and it was valued at $136 million.
The fair value of the Call Option described above represents part of the Consideration transferred consideration transferred and comprised $11 million as of acquisition date.
The change in the fair value of the Call Option of $1 million The total consideration comprised $21.5 million, payable by issuing 2,456,049 Polymetal new ordinary shares.
The number of issued was recognised in the consolidated income statement.
shares has been determined by dividing $19.7 million by $8.036, the spot price of ordinary shares of the Company on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange as at market close on 10 October 2018 in US dollars.
The fair value of the consideration transferred was As the Group obtained control over the Nezhda gold property, which was previously considered a joint venture operation that constituted determined based on the 12 October 2018 closing share spot price of 8.78 USD.
a business, the Groups previously recognised share of the business subject to joint control was remeasured in accordance with IFRS 3.
The remeasurement resulted in a fair value gain of $20 million as of the acquisition date, and was recognised in the income statement.
As the Group obtained control over the Amikan gold property, which was previously considered a joint venture operation that constituted a business, the Groups previously recognised share of the business subject to joint control was remeasured in accordance with IFRS 3.
The remeasurement resulted in a fair value gain of $21 million as of the acquisition date, and was recognised in the income statement.
The non-controlling interest 25.69% ownership interest in Amikan recognised at the acquisition date was measured as the proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets and amounted to $17 million.
160 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 161 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Notes to the Consolidated financial statements continued The net assets of the disposed subsidiary at date of disposal were as follows: 4.
Acquisitions and disposals continued $m Property, plant and equipment 19 Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition Inventories 40 At the date of finalisation of these consolidated financial statements, the calculation of environmental obligation and the valuation Other current assets net 21 of property, plant and equipment have not been finalised and they have therefore only been provisionally determined based on the Environmental obligations 4 management best estimate.
Borrowings 25 The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below: Fair value of the net assets disposed 51 Cash consideration received 7 Assets acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition preliminary $m Loss on disposal 44 Property, plant and equipment 101 Inventories 5 Cumulative exchange differences in foreign operation recycled from translation reserve 19 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Total loss on disposal 63 Other current assets 1 Environmental obligations 1 Svetlobor disposal Borrowings 26 In November 2018 the Group sold its 100% interest in the Svetlobor platinum exploration project to a group of unrelated private Russian Deferred tax liability 14 buyers for $5.5 million in cash.
Svetlobors net assets were not significant and a gain on disposal of $5 million was recorded.
Fair value of the net assets acquired 68 Consideration transferred Other minor disposals Fair value of shares issued 22 During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group disposed of its minor subsidiary Kirankan, with a total loss on disposal of $2 million.
Initial investment in JV as of acquisition date 8 Revaluation of initial share on business combination 21 The Group also disposed of its interest in the joint venture Aktogai Mys LLC, which held the Dolinnoye exploration licence in Kazakhstan, Non-controlling interest at fair value 17 with a total gain on disposal of $5 million Note 21.
Total consideration 68 b Year ended 31 December 2017 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Primorskaya GGK LLC In May 2017 Polymetal purchased a 100% interest in Primorskaya GGK LLC, a company holding several licences for the silver-gold Impact of the acquisition on the result of the Group properties located in the Primorskiy region of Russia, from an unrelated party for a cash consideration of $2 million.
Amikan contributed $5 million to the Groups profit for the year after control was consolidated by the Group following the acquisition of an additional 31.7% stake in October 2018.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 all revenue recognised by Amikan originated from The company did not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 and the transaction was thus accounted for as an acquisition intercompany sales to Varvara.
Assets purchased as part of this transaction represent mineral rights held at cost of $2 million.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations In April 2018, Polymetal reached an agreement with the Russian Copper Company RCC for an all-share exchange of Polymetals Tarutin property in Russia for 85% of RCCs East Tarutin property in Kazakhstan.
As a result of the transaction, Polymetal received 85% In December 2018 the Group disposed of its Khakanja operations Note 4.
Khakanja was identified as a separate cash-generating of Tarutinskoye LLP, the licence holder for the copper-gold East Tarutin deposit located in Kazakhstan.
In return, Polymetal transferred unit and a separate major line of business, included in the Khabarovsk segment, and therefore it meet the definition of a discontinued 100% of Vostochny Basis LLC, the licence holder for the copper-gold Tarutin deposit located in the Russian Federation.
The transaction operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Assets held for sales and discontinued operations.
represents an asset swap and does not entail any additional payments or deferred considerations.
In October 2018 the Group entered into a legally binding agreement to sell 100% of its stake in the Kapan MPC CJSC.
The total East Tarutin is a copper-gold deposit located in proximity to the Varvara processing plant and is expected to source the ore for further consideration payable for Kapan amounted to $55 million, subject to working capital adjustments.
The sale was completed in January processing at the Varvara hub.
Kapan was identified as the major part of the Armenia cash-generating unit and the Armenia operating segment, and therefore it met the definition of a discontinued operation and an asset held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Assets held for sales and The acquired company does not meet the definition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 and the transaction represents the acquisition discontinued operations.
The proceeds from the Kapan disposal are expected to approximate to the carrying amount of the related net of mineral rights through a non-operating corporate entity and does not give rise to goodwill or a gain.
Based on IFRS 3 guidance the assets and accordingly no impairment loss has been recognised following the classification of these operations as held for sale.
carrying amount of the assets given up represent the cost of the investment in East Tarutin Kazakhstan.
As a result the Group has purchased mineral rights of $3 million.
The major classes of assets and liabilities held by Kapan which comprise operations classified as held for sale as of 31 December 2018 are as follows: Khakanja disposal $m In December 2018 the Group disposed of its Khakanja operations Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company LLC, which comprise Property, plant and equipment 40 the 600 Ktpa processing plant, related infrastructure at the Khakanja mine, and old stockpiles at Khakanja, Avlayakan and Ozernoye Deferred tax assets 7 deposits with current ore reserves of approximately 0.1 Moz of GE, as well as the exploration properties of Kundumi and Mevachan.
Inventories 16 The total consideration for Khakanja of $5 million was received in cash.
Further, debt of $25 million was transferred with the business Cash and cash equivalents 3 at the point of disposal.
Simultaneously the Group disposed of its Okhotsk port assets, which were previously accounted for as a part Other current assets 8 of Khakanja operations, for a consideration of $2 million paid in cash.
The disposal of Khakanja operations was effected as part of a strategy of selling smaller short-lived assets.
Total assets classified as held for sale 74 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 8 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 8 Net assets of disposal groups 66 Intercompany balances, net 12 Net assets of disposal groups including intercompany balances 54 162 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 163
