PRINCIPAL RISKS Managing our principal risks The company is committed to continuously improving its approach to risk management.
Iain Macdonald Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Effective risk management is central to increasing the likelihood of achieving our Significant risks during 2018 Significant risks in 2019 business objectives and protecting our personnel, assets, the communities where Oil price weakness and volatility Further oil price weakness and we operate and with whom we interact, volatility Underperformance of existing assets and our reputation.
Premier therefore Underperformance of Catcher asset Failure of new Catcher asset to fully has a comprehensive approach to deliver to expectations Failure to maintain schedule of riskmanagement.
Tolmount project Execution of planned corporate The Directors have carried out a robust actions Negative drilling results from key assessment of the principal risks facing appraisal assets Ability to fund existing and planned the Company, including those that would growth projects Ability to fund existing and planned threaten its business model, future growth projects performance, solvency or liquidity.
Breach of new banking covenants if Adescription of those risks, together oil prices fall or assets underperform Breach of banking covenants if oil with an overview of how such risks are prices fall or assets underperform Ability to maintain core managed, is set out on pages 38 to 39. competencies Timing and uncertainty of decommissioning liabilities Risk management and internal Timing and uncertainty of control in Premier decommissioning liabilities Continued ability to maintain core The corporate governance process in competencies Political and security instability in Premier is designed to determine the nature countries of current and planned Political and security instability and level of risk that the company is willing activity in countries of current and to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives planned activity Rising costs if oil prices recover and to provide an appropriate level of could limit access to service Rising costs if oil prices recover could assurance that any risks taken are providers limit access to service providers appropriately managed and that the system of internal controls is effective.
The risk management framework and the systems of internal control are designed to manage and communicate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities and control weaknesses will be detected.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 36 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 37 Risk management Premier believes that risk management leads to better quality decision-making Group risk management framework and increases the likelihood of the Risk management lies at the heart of Premiers system of internal controls.
company achieving its business A systematic process to identify, assess, reduce, monitor and communicate the objectives.
risks facing the business is undertaken across the Company.
Premier has adopted a comprehensive The process itself is periodically reviewed to continue to improve the framework for risk management based effectiveness of risk management inPremier.
on ISO 31000 principles and guidelines.
The Group Audit and Risk Function is responsible for administering the risk management framework and its continued improvement.
The framework is illustrated here.
Establish context Establish context The Companys business objectives and the risk appetite set by the Board together set the overall context for the management of risk in the Company.
Risk assessment To facilitate assessment of the main Risk Risk assessment risks facing the business, specific risks communication are identified by each business unit and consultation Risk identification and corporate function in the Company.
Risk These risks are recorded in the Company Risk analysis monitoring risk register.
Each risk is assessed and evaluation and review based on the likelihood of the risk manifesting and the impact of the risk if it was to manifest.
A matrix of risk likelihood versus impact is used to help, analyse and communicate risks throughout the Company.
The risk matrix facilitates the Risk consideration of risk inter-dependency reduction and the amalgamation of similar specific risks across the organisation.
Risks are categorised according to level and escalated up the organisation as appropriate.
Continuous improvement CONTINUED ON PAGE 40 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK FACTOR RISK DETAIL HOW IS IT MANAGED?
FINANCIAL RISKS Oil and gas prices are affected by global supply and Oil and gas price hedging programmes to underpin our Commodity demand and can be subject to significant fluctuations.
financial strength and protect our capacity to fund future price developments and operations.
Factors that influence these include operational issues, volatility natural disasters, adverse weather, climate change regulations, Premiers investment guidelines ensure that our investment political and security instability, conflicts, economic opportunities are robust to downside price scenarios.
conditions and actions by major oil-exporting countries.
Hedging of exposure to increasing carbon prices.
Price fluctuations can affect our business assumptions and our ability to deliver on our strategy.
Specific risks for 2019: inability to execute a satisfactory oil hedging programme due to low forward oil prices: uncertainty in implementation of IMO2020 regulations impacting fuel oil pricing.
Sufficient funds may not be available to finance the business Strong financial discipline.
Premier has an established Financial and fund existing operations and planned growth projects.
finance management system to ensure that it is able to discipline and maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial Volatile credit markets and bank risk appetite may impact governance capacity and to manage the level of assessed risk associated ability to refinance debt at maturity on attractive terms.
The management system Breach of delegated authority.
includes a defined delegation of authority to reasonably Financial fraud.
protect against risk of financial fraud in the Group.
Specific risks for 2019: reduced flexibility to manage Premier maintains access to capital markets through the the business under existing lender controls: breach of cycle by proactive engagement with banks and lenders banking covenants in downside scenarios: inability to as evidenced by the completion of its refinancing in 2017. fund a Sea Lion development.
An insurance programme is maintained to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed liquidity funds and A1 P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits.
Economics of investment decisions are tested against downside project scenarios.
Discretionary spend is actively managed.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Uncertain geology, reservoir and well performance.
Effective management systems governing geoscience, Production and reservoir and well engineering, and production operations development Availability of oilfield services including FPSOs and activities, including rigorous production forecasting and drilling rigs, technology and engineering capacity, delivery and reporting, field and well performance monitoring, and and skilled resources.
Adverse fiscal, regulatory, political, economic, social, execution Effective project execution management systems, including security including cyber and weather conditions.
contracting strategy and cost controls together with capable Immaturity of decommissioning in the UK resulting project teams and functional oversight.
in uncertain cost and timing estimates for Long-term development planning to ensure timely access decommissioning of assets.
to FPSOs, rigs and other essential services.
Potential consequences include reduced or deferred Preference for operatorship.
production, loss of reserves, cost overruns and failure to fulfil contractual commitments.
Specialist decommissioning team in place coupled with continued focus on delivering asset value to defer Specific risks for 2019: reliance on performance of abandonment liabilities.
Catcher asset: failure to maintain schedule of Tolmount project: acceleration of decommissioning of certain assets if they underperform.
Major operations and projects in the oil and gas industry Due diligence and regular engagement with partners in Joint venture are conducted as joint ventures.
The joint venture partners joint ventures in both operated and non-operated operations partner alignment may not be aligned in their objectives and this may lead to and projects.
and supply operational inefficiencies and or project delays.
Several of Pursue strategic acquisition opportunities, where appropriate chain delivery our major operations are operated by our joint venture to gain a greater degree of influence and control.
partners and our ability to influence is sometimes limited Defined management system for management of due to our small interest in such ventures.
Premier is heavily dependent on supply chain providers to Due diligence of supply chain providers, including diligence deliver products and services to time, cost and quality criteria of financial solvency, anti-bribery and corruption controls, and to conduct its business in a safe and ethical manner.
and controls to prevent facilitation of tax evasion.
Specific risks for 2019: access to and cost of appropriate Monitor contractual performance and delivery, service providers if oil prices strengthen.
including periodic audit of the effectiveness of their management systems.
Complete roll out of a comprehensive contract performance management programme for major contracts.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 38 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 39 PRINCIPAL RISK FACTOR RISK DETAIL HOW IS IT MANAGED?
OPERATIONAL RISKS The capability of the organisation may be inadequate Premier has created a competitive reward package including Organisational for Premier to deliver its strategic objectives.
The capability bonus and long-term incentive plans to incentivise loyalty capability of the organisation is a function of both the strength of and performance from the existing skilled workforce.
its personnel and the effectiveness of its business Continue to strengthen organisational capability to achieve management system.
This includes resource and succession Premier may be unable to attract, engage or retain planning, competency and leadership development.
personnel with the right skills and competencies or to Continuous improvement of business management deliver suitable succession plans for senior roles.
system and related controls appropriate to the size and The business management system may be inadequate or market position of the Company.
may not be sufficiently complied with.
Implementation of staff engagement plans following the Specific risks for 2019: unable to attract, engage or retain staff survey in 2018. key staff due increasing competition for talent, ageing Implementation of Staff Forum across the Group to demographic and an ageing asset portfolio.
inform management and the Board on cultural and people related issues.
Continued focus on Diversity & Inclusion across the Group.
Continued phased rollout of the Talent Management programme, including continued senior level succession at local and Group levels.
Implementation of recommendations emerging from externally facilitated organisation health check conducted in 2018.
Premier may fail to identify and capture new acreage and Focus on geologies we know well and in which we can build Exploration resource opportunities to provide a portfolio of drillable a competitive advantage.
success and exploration prospects and future development projects.
Continuous improvement in exploration management reserves Specific exploration programmes may fail to add expected system with strong functional oversight.
addition resource and hence value.
Manage exploration portfolio to maintain alignment with Lender controls may reduce ability to capture and execute strategic growth and spend targets.
Active new ventures activity and appropriate resourcing.
Specific risks in 2019: inability to access quality global opportunity set due to lender restrictions in a highly competitive market: and negative appraisal results on Zama and Tolmount East appraisal opportunities.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Significant asset integrity, process safety or wells incident Comprehensive HSES management systems including: Health, safety, on operated asset.
environment HSES reporting and auditing with a focus on the Significant incident arising from natural disaster, and security identification and management of major hazards.
pandemic, social unrest or other external cause.
Valid Safety Cases on all operated assets.
Consequences may include injury, loss of life, environmental Robust crisis management and emergency response damage and disruption to business activities.
processes in place and tested against.
Senior management visits to operated facilities to demonstrate commitment to HSES values.
Learning from internal and third-party incidents.
Premier operates or maintains interests in some Premier strives to be a good corporate citizen globally, Host government: countries where political, economic and social transition and seeks to forge strong and positive relationships with political and is taking place or there are current sovereignty disputes.
governments, regulatory authorities and the communities fiscal risks Developments in politics, security, laws and regulations where we do business.
Premier engages in respectful can affect our operations and earnings.
industry-wide lobbying and sustainable corporate responsibility and community investment programmes.
Consequences may include expropriation of property: cancellation of contract rights: limits on production or Premier maintains a portfolio of interests which includes cost recovery: import and export restrictions: price operations in both lower and higher risk environments.
controls, tax increases and other retroactive tax claims: Rigorous adherence to Premiers Business Ethics Policy and increases in regulatory burden or changes in local and Global Code of Conduct.
Monitor and adhere to local laws and regulations.
Consequences may also include threats to the safe Active monitoring of the political, economic and social operation of Company facilities.
situation in areas where we do business, including Specific risk in 2019: monitor impact of change of business continuity plans tailored to pre-defined levels Government in Mexico.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED CONTINUED FROM PAGE 37 Internal controls Reasonable assurance Risk reduction Business Management System The BMS, the risk management framework Premier attempts to reduce the likelihood Internal controls within Premier are set and the programme of audits and reviews and potential impact of the identified risks out in the Business Management System together form the ongoing process for facing its business.
According to the nature BMS.
The BMS is composed of the policies identifying, evaluating and managing the of the risk and the Board approved risk set by the Board, together with a nested set principal business risks faced by the appetite, Premier may elect to accept or of standards, procedures and processes for Company.
This process has been in place tolerate the risk as-is, treat the risk with each function and business unit involved in for the year under review and up to the controls and mitigating measures, transfer carrying out the Companysbusiness.
date of approval of the Annual Report and the risk to third parties or terminate the Financial Statements.
It is regularly risk by ceasing the underlying activity or During 2018, Premier improved the reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee operation.
In particular, Premier has a zero comprehensiveness of its BMS, ensuring and provides the Board with reasonable tolerance approach to fraud and ethics the group functions have a suitable assurance that appropriate controls are in non-compliance, and also ensures that management system in place to control place to provide effective management of safety and environmental risks are their activities.
business risks and to safeguard the Groups managed to levels that are as low as Regular review assets against inappropriate use or loss reasonably practicable.
In addition, The adequacy of the BMS is a function of andfraud.
exploration and asset development risks its design and operating effectiveness.
are managed on a portfolio basis.
Board responsibility The effectiveness is assessed through an Overall responsibility for the systems of Risk visualisation models are widely used annual programme of control audits, internal control and risk management and to facilitate the identification of appropriate activity reviews, exercises and drills agreed for reviewing the effectiveness of such risk reduction measures.
between functional and business unit systems rests with the Board.
This includes Of course, there are certain risks to which management, the most significant of an annual review to ensure that there is an Premier is exposed that it has very limited which are approved by the Audit and Risk effective process to identify, assess and ability to control or mitigate, such as oil Committee.
The programme is designed reduce the level of any significant risks that price or extended adverse weather to provide assurance to the Board that may affect the achievement of the Groups conditions in the UK North Sea.
Premier is embedding effective risk businessobjectives.
The Board also management across its operations.
periodically reviews the major risks facing Risk monitoring and review Significant findings from the most the business.
The status of risks and risk reduction significant audits and reviews are reported measures are monitored through regular to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The business performance reviews, committee monitors the implementation risk workshops, control audits and activity of recommendations arising.
These reviews in their totality are designed to identify changes in the level of Of note, during 2018 the company increased the identified risks, the emergence of new its focus on the timely closeout of actions risks and to assess the suitability and arising from its control audits and effectiveness of control measures.
As part activity reviews, ensuring improvement of these reviews, Premier seeks to learn opportunities identified from such audits from incidents and materialised risks.
The reviews help ensure that risks During 2018, the company also conducted emerging as a result of changes in the a review of the overall effectiveness of business activities or the external its BMS and identified a number of environment are identified and opportunities to continue to improve its suitablymanaged.
effectiveness that will be addressed from2019.
During 2018, the company enhanced its monitoring process by introducing a The annual cycle of monitoring in Premier regular Executive Committee review of culminates in the completion of a Corporate the most important risks facing each Governance Return.
The return is a business unit and group function and declaration by the head of each business including the emerging risks facing the unit and corporate function that confirms business.
compliance with the BMS and identifies measures to continue to improve the effectiveness of the management systems.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 41 Viability Statement Review of financial forecasts arise towards the end of 2020.
Potential In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The Projections are based on: mitigating actions could include further 2014 revision of the Combined Code, the non-core asset disposals, additional the Groups latest life of field production Directors have assessed the prospects of hedging activity, deferral of expenditure and expenditure forecasts on an asset the Company over a longer period than or completion of a corporate acquisition.
by asset basis, together with a variety the 12 months required for the Going of portfolio management opportunities The Group plans to refinance its existing Concern statement.
In preparing this which management could undertake financing facilities prior to their maturity assessment of viability the Board has if required: in May 2021.
Once the refinancing is considered the principal risks faced by completed, it is entirely possible that the assumed oil prices of US$60 in 2019, the Group, relevant financial forecasts Groups financial covenants will be US$65 bbl in 2020 and US$70 for in 2021, and sensitivities and the availability of assessed on a different basis.
adjusted for the Groups hedging adequate funding.
programme : and, The potential impact of each of the Assessment period the financial covenant tests and profile Groups other principal risks on the The Board conducted this review for a required by the Groups borrowing viability of the Group during the Forecast period of three years to 31 March 2022, facilities.
The Projections assess the Period, should that risk arise in its which was selected for the following Groups financial projected performance unmitigated form, has been assessed.
The reasons: against these revised financial Board has considered the risk mitigation At least annually, the Board considers covenants, for which more details are strategy as set out for each of those risks the Groups projections the provided in note 15 to the financial and believes that the mitigation strategies Projections over a three-year period.
statements, on page 144. are sufficient to reduce the impact of each risk such that it would be unlikely to Within the three-year period, liquid Sensitivities are run to reflect different jeopardise the Groups viability during commodity price curves are able to be scenarios including, but not limited to, the three-year period.
Given the lack of changes in oil and gas production rates, forward liquidity in oil and gas markets possible reductions in commodity prices Conclusion after this initial three-year period, we and delays or cost overruns on major The Directors assessment has been made are reliant on our own internal development projects.
with reference to the Groups current estimates of oil and gas prices without position and prospects, the Groups Review of principal risks reference to liquid forward curves.
strategy and availability of funding, the The Groups principal risks and The Group is not currently committed Boards risk appetite and the Groups uncertainties, set out in detail on to any major capital expenditure principal risks and how these are pages 38 and 39, have been considered beyond the three-year period.
managed, as detailed in the Strategic over the period.
The Directors have also Under the Groups revised borrowing Under the Projections, the Group is considered the availability of actions facilities which were finalised during expected to have sufficient liquidity over within their control in the event of 2017, all of the Groups current the three-year period and is forecasting to plausible negative scenarios occurring.
borrowing facilities are available until be able to operate within the Therefore, the Directors confirm that May 2021.
The Group has assumed it will requirements of the financial covenants they have a reasonable expectation that be able to refinance its facilities before in its existing borrowing facilities.
It has the Group will continue to operate and May 2021, within the three-year period.
been assumed that the existing covenants meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the would be adopted on the same basis in next three years and refinancing of the any future refinanced facilities.
Groups existing financing facilities will complete before maturity.
As part of the refinancing completed in 2017, the Group amended its financial covenants.
These covenants have progressively tightened during 2018 and for the 12 month period ending 31 March 2019 and subsequent testing periods both the net debt EBITDA and EBITDA Interest covenants have been reset to 3.0x.
The Group has run downside scenarios, where oil and gas prices are reduced by a flat US$5 bbl throughout the Forecast Period and where total production volumes are forecast to reduce by 10 per cent.
In either downside scenario, it is possible that, in the absence of any mitigating actions by management, a modest forecast covenant breach may Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
