Risk management and principal risks Approach to risk management Risk management overview Risk is considered at every level of the Groups operations and Effective risk management is a key element of the Boards is reflected in the controls and processes that have been put operational processes.
Risk is inherent in any business, and in place across the Group.
The Groups risk management process the Board has determined the Groups risk appetite, which is underpinned by strong working relationships between the isreviewed on an annual basis.
Group operations have been Board, the Adviser and members of the Advisers team which structured in order to accept risks within the Groups overall enables the prompt assessment and response to risk issues risk appetite, and to oversee the management of these risks that may be identified at any level of the Groups business.
to minimise exposure and optimise the returns generated for the accepted risk.
The Group aims to operate in a low risk The Board is responsible for effective risk management across environment, appropriate for its strategic objective of generating the Group and retains ownership of the significant risks that progressive returns for shareholders.
Key elements of maintaining are faced by the Group.
This includes ultimate responsibility this low risk approach are: for determining and reviewing the nature and extent of the investment focuses on the primary health real estate principal risks faced by the Group and assessing the Groups risk management processes and controls.
These systems and sectorwhich is traditionally much less cyclical than other real estate sectors: controls are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risks that the Group faces but will not eliminate such risks and can the majority of the Groups rental income is received directly provide reasonable but not absolute assurance.
or indirectly from government bodies in the UK and Ireland: The Adviser assists the Board in its assessment and monitoring the Group benefits from long initial lease terms, largely with ofoperational and financial risks and the Adviser has in place upwards-only review terms, providing clear visibility of income: robust systems and procedures to ensure risk management is embedded in its approach to managing the Groups portfolio the Group is not a direct developer of real estate, which and operations.
The Adviser has established a Risk Committee means that the Group is not exposed to risks that are that is formed of members of its senior management team.
inherent in property development: TheChairman of the Advisers Risk Committee is independent the Board funds its operations so as to maintain ofboth the Adviser and the Group and experienced in the anappropriate mix of debt and equity: and operation and oversight of risk management processes.
TheAudit Committee reviews the Groups systems of risk debt funding is procured from a range of providers, management and their effectiveness on behalf of the Board.
maintaining a spread of maturities and a mix of terms These systems and processes have been in place for the year soasto fix or hedge the majority of interest costs.
under review and remained in place up to the date of approval The structure of the Groups operations includes rigorous, ofthe Annual Report and Accounts.
regular review of risks and how these are mitigated and managed across all areas of the Groups activities.
The Group The Adviser has implemented a wide-ranging system of internal controls and operational procedures that are designed to manage faces a variety of risks that have the potential to impact on its performance, position and its longer term viability.
These include risk as effectively as possible, but it is recognised that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
Staff employed by the Adviser external factors thatmay arise from the markets in which the Group operates, government and fiscal policy, general economic areintrinsically involved in the identification and management of risk.
Strategic risks are recorded in a Risk Register and are conditions andinternal risks that arise from how the Group is managed and chooses to structure its operations.
assessed and rated within a defined scoring system.
24 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information The Advisers Risk Committee reports its processes of risk management and rating of identified risks to the Audit Committee.
The Risk Register forms an appendix to the report which details risks that have i an initial high rating: and ii higher residual ratings once the effectiveness of mitigation and or management actions have been overlaid.
The Audit Committee in turn agrees those risks that will be managed by the Adviser and those where the Board will retain direct ownership and responsibility for managing and monitoring those risks.
The Board recognises that it has limited ability to control anumber of the external risks that the Group faces, such asgovernment policy, but keeps the possible impact of suchrisks under review and considers them as part of its decision-making process.
Brexit The external environment remains difficult, and the Board is continuing to monitor the potential risks associated with the UK leaving the European Union Brexit.
As exit negotiations are ongoing, the final outcome remains unclear and it is too early to understand fully the impact Brexit will have on our business and our sector.
The main impact of Brexit is the potential negative impact on the macro-economic environment, potentially leading to political uncertainty and volatility in interest and exchange rates, but it could also impact our investment and occupier market, our ability to execute our investment strategy and our income sustainability in the long term.
Emerging risks The Board has also considered emerging risks and their potential impact on the Group.
In this regard, the Board has recently added climate change and environmental issues to the Risk Register.
Whilst it is not yet regarded as a principal risk and uncertainty and therefore is not included in the tables that follow, the Groups approach to the subject matter is considered in more detail in theResponsible Business section of the Annual Report on pages 32 to 37.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 25 Risk management and principal risks continued Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks faced by the Group that may threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity and its ability to meet the overall objective of the Group of delivering progressive returns toshareholders through a combination of earnings growth and capital appreciation.
These are set out below: Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Deliver progressive returns The UK and Irish governments continue to be The commitment to primary care is a stated objective of both the UK and Irish governments Potential over-reliance on the Medium Medium committed to the development of primary care andonacross-party basis.
NHSandHSE Likelihood is low but Policy risk and general economic conditions services and initiatives to develop new models Management engages directly with government and healthcare providers in both the UK PHP invests in a niche asset sector where impact of occurrence are out of the control of the Board, but Unchanged ofcare that increasingly focus on greater utilisation andinIreland to promote the need for continued investment in modern premises.
changes in healthcare policy, the funding may be major.
proactive measures are taken to monitor of primary care.
ofprimary care, economic conditions and the developments and consider their possible The attractiveness of long term, secure income streams that characterise the sector leads Despite the UKs likely exit from the European availability of finance may adversely affect the implications for the Group.
Union, the demand for health services will continue Groups portfolio valuation and performance.
to grow regardless, driven by demographics.
Whilst the uncertainty surrounding the exit may lead to fluctuations in the value of the Groups assets, there is no evidence of this at present.
Future government funding levels in the UK may be impacted by any long term, material change to economic performance as a consequence of Brexit.
A fundamental change in government policy could impact how the private sector regards its investment in this asset class and its willingness to further deploy private sector resources to improve the quality of primary care facilities.
The Group has completed its eighth acquisition in The Board has and will continue to fund its investments in Euros so as to create a natural hedge Foreign exchange risk Medium Low Ireland.
Asset values, funding and net income are between asset values and liabilities in Ireland.
Income and expenditure that will be derived Likelihood of volatility PHP has implemented a hedging strategy denominated in Euros.
from PHPs investments in Ireland will be ishigh but the potential Increased inthe form of a natural hedge so as to The UKs decision to leave the European Union denominated in Euros and may be affected impact at present manage exchange rate risk.
continues to cause exchange rate volatility whilst unfavourably by fluctuations in currency isrelatively low due the exit process is ongoing.
rates, impacting the Groups earnings and tothe quantum of portfolio valuation.
investment in Ireland, albeit this quantum isincreasing.
Grow property portfolio Competition High In terms of values, the Group has benefited from The reputation and track record of the Group in the sector means it is able to source Medium aflight to income as a consequence of the current forwardfunded developments and existing standing investments from developers, investors The emergence of new purchasers in the Likelihood is high and The Groups position within the sector wider economic uncertainty investors have been andowner-occupiers.
sectorand the recent slowing in the level impact of occurrence Unchanged andcommitment to and understanding attracted to the sector due to its long term, secure, The Group has a number of formal pipeline agreements and long standing development relationships ofapprovals of new centres in the UK may could be major.
ofthe asset class mean PHP is aware of a high government-backed cash flows.
Lack of supply, as a that provide an increased opportunity to secure developments that come to market in the UK restrict the ability of the Group to secure proportion of transactions in the market and consequence of the low number of new development andIreland.
newinvestments at a price that delivers potential opportunities coming to market.
approvals in the UK, has also contributed to the anappropriate return to shareholders.
The Group has a strong, identified pipeline of investment opportunities in the UK and Ireland.
Active management of the property portfolio generates regular opportunities to increase However, the same increase in demand and lack income and lease terms and enhance value.
ofsupply has meant that the Group is facing increased competition for viable opportunities.
26 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Deliver progressive returns The UK and Irish governments continue to be The commitment to primary care is a stated objective of both the UK and Irish governments Potential over-reliance on the Medium Medium committed to the development of primary care andonacross-party basis.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 27 Risk management and principal risks continued Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Grow property portfolio continued Financing High The Company successfully completed an Existing and new debt providers are keen to provide funds to the sector and specifically to the Medium over-subscribed equity issue in April 2018, raising Group, attracted by the strength of its cash flows.
The Group uses a mix of shareholder equity Likelihood of a restricted The Group takes positive action to ensure 115.0million 111.2 million net of expenses at a The Board monitors its capital structure and maintains regular contact with existing and potential and external debt to fund its operations.
supply is moderate and Unchanged continued availability of resource, maintain 7%premium to EPRA NAV as at 31 December 2017. equity investors and debt funders.
Arestriction on the availability of funds the potential impact of a prudent ratio of debt and equity funding In addition, the Group secured a new three-year wouldlimit the Groups ability to invest.
such a restriction could and refinances debt facilities in advance 30.6 million revolving credit facility with Santander be major.
Furthermore, a more general lack of equity in July 2018 and in December 2018 the Group ordebt available to the sector could reduce secured a 51 million 10.4-year private placement demand for healthcare assets and therefore secured against its investment properties held impact values.
The Groups undrawn facilities mean it currently has headroom of 190.6 million.
All covenants have been met with regard to the Groups debt facilities and these all remain available for their contracted term.
Manage effectively and efficiently The Groups property portfolio has grown by eight The Adviser meets with occupiers to discuss the specific property and the tenants aspirations Lease expiry management Medium Medium assets in the period.
Lease terms for all property and needs for their future occupation.
The bespoke nature of the Groups assets can Likelihood of limited The Adviser employs an active asset assets will erode and the importance of active 16 projects either completed or started on site in the period, enhancing income and extending lead to limited alternative use.
Their continued alternative use value Unchanged management programme and has a management to extend the use of a building occupational lease terms.
use as fit-for-purpose medical centres is key to ismoderate but the successful track record of securing remains unchanged.
delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
impact of such values enhancement projects and securing In addition, there is a strong pipeline of over 40 projects that will be progressed in 2019. could be serious.
Only 6.7% of the Groups income expires in the next five years and management is actively managing these leases expiries.
As well as management fees, the Adviser The advisory agreement with and performance of the Adviser is regularly reviewed.
Nexus PHP and Nexus relationship Medium Medium hasearned a performance incentive fee during remuneration is linked to the performance of the Group to incentivise long term levels The Group has no employees.
The continuance The likelihood of any The interests of the Adviser are aligned theperiod, some of which is only payable in ofperformance.
Nexus can be required to serve all or any part of its notice period should of the Adviser contract is key for the efficient unexpected change with the objectives of the Group and the Unchanged futureperiods and is dependent on continued theGroupdecide to terminate providing protection for an efficient handover.
operation and management of the Group.
islow but, if that composition of its team is monitored by outperformance of hurdle rates.
Group properties acquired in 2018 Celbridge Mallow Mountmellick 28 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Grow property portfolio continued Financing High The Company successfully completed an Existing and new debt providers are keen to provide funds to the sector and specifically to the Medium over-subscribed equity issue in April 2018, raising Group, attracted by the strength of its cash flows.
Navan Road Newbridge Ashington Moredon Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 29 Risk management and principal risks continued Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Diversified, long term funding Debt financing Medium Total Group borrowing has increased in the period Existing lenders remain keen to finance PHP and new entrants to debt capital markets have Medium but negotiations with lenders have confirmed that increased available resource.
Without appropriate confirmed debt facilities, The likelihood of The Board constantly monitors the facilities at the current time and off the back of the successful Management constantly monitors the composition of the Groups debt portfolio to ensure PHP may be unable to meet current and future insufficient facilities Unchanged available to the Group and looks to refinance equity raise in April 2018, the Group enjoys the compliance with covenants and continued availability of funds.
commitments or repay or refinance debt facilities ismoderate but the in advance of any maturity.
The Group is confidence of the lending markets both in terms as they become due.
impact of such an event subject to the changing conditions of debt ofthe traditional high street lenders, as well as The Adviser regularly reports to the Board on current debt positions and provides projections would be serious.
offuture covenant compliance to ensure early warning of any possible issues.
The Group secured a new 30.6 million revolving credit facility with Santander in July 2018 and in December 2018 the Group secured a 51 million private placement secured against its investment properties held in Ireland.
Term interest rate markets remained volatile during The Group holds a proportion of its debt in long term, fixed rate loans and mitigates its exposure Interest rates Medium Low the period and this volatility is likely to continue in to interest rate movements on floating rate facilities through the use of interest rate swaps.
Adverse movement in underlying interest The likelihood of The Group is currently well protected against the near future.
ratescould adversely affect the Groups volatility in interest rate As at the balance sheet date 98% of drawn debt is fixed or hedged.
the risk of interest rate rises, but, due to its Unchanged earnings and cash flows, and could impact markets is high and the Over the year, term interest rates have risen which continued investment in new properties and MtM valuation movements do not impact on the Groups cash flows and are not included in any property valuations.
potential impact if not has impacted the mark to market MtM valuations the need to maintain available facilities, will covenant test in the Groups debt facilities.
managed adequately of the Groups interest rate derivative portfolio, be exposed to future interest rate levels.
reducing its out of the money status.
Viability statement the Groups financial review and budgetary processes cover a three-year look forward period: and The Directors confirm that, as part of their strategic planning and risk management processes, they have undertaken an occupational leases within the Groups property portfolio assessment of the viability of the Group, considering the typically have a three-yearly rent review pattern and so current position and the potential impact of the principal risks modelling over this period allows the Groups financial and prospects over a three-year time horizon.
Based on this projections to include a full cycle of reversion, arising assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that fromopen market, fixed and index-linked rent reviews.
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its The Groups financial review and budgetary processes are based liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2021. on an integrated model that projects performance, cash flows, Although individually the Groups assets may have relatively position and other key performance indicators including earnings long unexpired lease terms and will all have a defined asset per share, leverage rates, net asset values pershare and REIT management strategy, the Board has undertaken its detailed compliance over the review period.
financial review over a three-year period because: 30 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Change to Risk Inherent risk rating risk in 2018 Commentary on risk in the year Mitigation Residual risk rating Diversified, long term funding Debt financing Medium Total Group borrowing has increased in the period Existing lenders remain keen to finance PHP and new entrants to debt capital markets have Medium but negotiations with lenders have confirmed that increased available resource.
Inaddition, the forecast model looks at the funding of the potential reasonable decline in asset valuations and the Groups activities and its compliance with the financial covenant ability to meet debt facility covenants.
Sensitivities also flex requirements of its debtfacilities.
The model uses a number of assumed rental growth rates.
In making its assessment, the key parameters in generating its forecasts that reflect the Groups Board has made a number of specific assumptions that overlay strategy, operating processes and the Boards expectation of the financial parameters used in the Groups models.
The Board market developments in the review period.
In undertaking its has assumed that there is little or no change to healthcare financial review, these parameters have been flexed to reflect policies or reduction in the levels of funding for primary care.
severe, but realistic, scenarios both individually and collectively.
Inaddition to the specific impact of the new debt facilities, Sensitivities applied are derived from the principal risks faced the Board has reflected itsreasonable confidence that the bythe Group see Risk Management on pages 24 to 31 that Group will be able to refinance or replace other debt facilities could affect solvency or liquidity.
These include the rate of that mature within the review period in advance of their investment in new properties and the return achieved from maturity and on terms similar to those at present.
those investments, the availability and cost of debt finance, any Harry Hyman Managing Director 30 January 2019 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 31
