01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Risk factors A number of risk factors affect Prudentials The adverse effects of such factors could In general, upheavals in the financial operating results and financial condition be felt principally through the following markets may affect general levels of and, accordingly, the trading price of its items: economic activity, employment and shares.
The risk factors mentioned below customer behaviour.
As a result, insurers Reduced investment returns arising should not be regarded as a complete and may experience an elevated incidence of on the Groups portfolios including comprehensive statement of all potential claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, impairment of debt securities and loans, risks and uncertainties.
The information and some policyholders may choose to which could reduce Prudentials capital given is as of the date of this document, defer or stop paying insurance premiums.
and impair its ability to write significant and any forward-looking statements are The demand for insurance products may volumes of new business, increase the made subject to the reservations specified also be adversely affected.
In addition, potential adverse impact of product under Forward-looking statements.
there may be a higher incidence of guarantees, and or have a negative counterparty failures.
If sustained, this Prudentials approaches to managing impact on its assets under management environment is likely to have a negative risks are explained in the section of this and profit: impact on the insurance sector over time document headed Group Chief Risk Higher credit defaults and wider credit and may consequently have a negative Officers Report of the risks facing our and liquidity spreads resulting in impact on Prudentials business and its business and how these are managed.
realised and unrealised credit losses: balance sheet and profitability.
For example, this could occur if the recoverable Risks relating to Prudentials Failure of counterparties who have value of intangible assets for bancassurance business transactions with Prudential eg banks agreements and deferred acquisition costs and reinsurers to meet commitments Prudentials businesses are are reduced.
New challenges related to inherently subject to market that could give rise to a negative impact market fluctuations and general economic on Prudentials financial position and fluctuations and general economic conditions may continue to emerge.
conditions on the accessibility or recoverability of amounts due or, for derivative For some non-unit-linked investment Uncertainty, fluctuations or negative trends in international economic and transactions, adequate collateral not products, in particular those written in some being in place: of the Groups Asia operations, it may not be investment climates could have a material adverse effect on Prudentials business possible to hold assets which will provide Estimates of the value of financial cash flows to match those relating to and profitability.
Prudential operates in a instruments becoming more difficult macroeconomic and global financial market policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly because in certain illiquid or closed true in those countries where bond markets environment that presents significant markets, determining the value at uncertainties and potential challenges.
are not developed and in certain markets which financial instruments can be where regulated premium and claim values For example, government interest rates realised is highly subjective.
Processes in the US, the UK and some Asian countries are set with reference to the interest rate to ascertain such values require environment prevailing at the time of policy in which Prudential operates remain low substantial elements of judgement, relative to historical levels.
This results in a mismatch due to the assumptions and estimates which duration and uncertainty of the liability cash Global financial markets are subject to may change over time : and flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a uncertainty and volatility created by a Increased illiquidity, which also adds suitable duration.
While this residual asset variety of factors.
These factors include to uncertainty over the accessibility liability mismatch risk can be managed, it the continuing reduction in accommodative of financial resources and may reduce cannot be eliminated.
Where interest rates monetary policies in the US, the UK and capital resources as valuations decline.
in these markets remain lower than those other jurisdictions together with its impact This could occur where external capital used to calculate premium and claim values on the valuation of all asset classes, effects is unavailable at sustainable cost, over a sustained period, this could have on interest rates and the risk of disorderly increased liquid assets are required to a material adverse effect on Prudentials repricing of inflation expectations be held as collateral under derivative reported profit.
and global bond yields, concerns over transactions or redemption restrictions sovereign debt, a general slowing in Jackson writes a significant amount of are placed on Prudentials investments world growth, the increased level of variable annuities that offer capital or in illiquid funds.
In addition, significant geopolitical risk and policy-related income protection guarantees.
The value redemption requests could also be uncertainty including the imposition of of these guarantees is affected by market made on Prudentials issued funds and trade barriers and potentially negative factors such as interest rates, equity values, while this may not have a direct impact socio-political events.
bond spreads and realised volatility and on the Groups liquidity, it could result in policyholder behaviour.
Jackson uses a reputational damage to Prudential.
The derivative hedging programme to reduce potential impact of increased illiquidity its exposure to market risks arising on these is more uncertain than for other risks guarantees.
There could be market such as interest rate or credit risk.
circumstances where the derivatives that Jackson enters into to hedge its market risks may not cover its exposures under the guarantees.
The cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will also affect Prudentials results.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 407 Risk factors continued In addition, Jackson hedges the guarantees Prudential is subject to the risk In addition, if a sovereign default or other on its variable annuity book on an of potential sovereign debt credit such events described above were to economic basis with consideration of deterioration owing to the amounts occur, other financial institutions may also the local regulatory position and, thus, of sovereign debt obligations held suffer losses or experience solvency or accepts variability in its accounting results in its investment portfolio other concerns, and Prudential might face in the short term in order to achieve the Investing in sovereign debt creates additional risks relating to any debt held in appropriate result on these bases.
exposure to the direct or indirect such financial institutions held in its In particular, for Prudentials Group IFRS consequences of political, social or investment portfolio.
There is also risk that reporting, the measurement of the Jackson economic changes including changes in public perceptions about the stability and variable annuity guarantees is typically less governments, heads of state or monarchs creditworthiness of financial institutions sensitive to market movements than for in the countries in which the issuers are and the financial sector generally might be the corresponding hedging derivatives, located and the creditworthiness of the adversely affected, as might counterparty which are held at market value.
Investment in sovereign debt relationships between financial institutions.
depending on the level of hedging obligations involves risks not present in If a sovereign were to default on its conducted regarding a particular risk type, debt obligations of corporate issuers.
obligations, or adopted policies that certain market movements can drive In addition, the issuer of the debt or the devalued or otherwise altered the volatility in the economic or local regulatory governmental authorities that control the currencies in which its obligations were results that may be less significant under repayment of the debt may be unable or denominated this could have a material IFRS reporting.
unwilling to repay principal or pay interest adverse effect on Prudentials financial when due in accordance with the terms of condition and results of operations.
Also, Jackson has a significant spread such debt, and Prudential may have limited based business with the significant Prudential is subject to the risk of recourse to compel payment in the event of proportion of its assets invested in fixed exchange rate fluctuations owing a default.
A sovereign debtors willingness income securities and its results are to the geographical diversity of or ability to repay principal and to pay therefore affected by fluctuations in its businesses interest in a timely manner may be affected prevailing interest rates.
In particular, fixed Due to the geographical diversity of by, among other factors, its cash flow annuities and stable value products written Prudentials businesses, Prudential is situation, its relations with its central bank, by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk subject to the risk of exchange rate the extent of its foreign currency reserves, that changes in interest rates, which are not fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the the availability of sufficient foreign fully reflected in the interest rates credited US and Asia, which represent a significant exchange on the date a payment is due, to customers, will reduce spread.
The proportion of operating profit based on the relative size of the debt service burden spread is the difference between the rate longer-term investment returns and to the economy as a whole, the sovereign of return Jackson is able to earn on the shareholders funds, generally write debtors policy toward local and assets backing the policyholders liabilities policies and invest in assets denominated international lenders, and the political and the amounts that are credited to in local currencies.
Although this practice constraints to which the sovereign debtor policyholders in the form of benefit limits the effect of exchange rate may be subject.
increases, subject to minimum crediting fluctuations on local operating results, rates.
Declines in spread from these Moreover, governments may use a variety it can lead to significant fluctuations in products or other spread businesses of techniques, such as intervention by their Prudentials consolidated financial that Jackson conducts, and increases central banks or imposition of regulatory statements upon the translation of results in surrender levels arising from interest controls or taxes, to devalue their into pounds sterling.
This exposure is not rate rises, could have a material impact currencies exchange rates, or may adopt currently separately managed.
The on its businesses or results of operations.
monetary and other policies including to currency exposure relating to the manage their debt burdens that have a translation of reported earnings could A significant part of the profit from similar effect, all of which could adversely impact financial reporting ratios such as M&GPrudentials insurance operations impact the value of an investment in dividend cover, which is calculated as is related to bonuses for policyholders sovereign debt even in the absence of operating profit after tax on an IFRS basis, declared on with-profits products, a technical default.
Periods of economic divided by the dividends relating to the which are broadly based on historical uncertainty may affect the volatility of reporting year.
The impact of gains or and current rates of return on equity, real market prices of sovereign debt to a greater losses on currency translations is recorded estate and fixed income securities, as well extent than the volatility inherent in debt as a component of shareholders funds as Prudentials expectations of future obligations of other types of issuers.
This profit could Consequently, this could impact be lower in a sustained low interest Prudentials gearing ratios defined as rate environment.
debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The Groups surplus capital position for regulatory reporting purposes may also be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates with possible consequences for the degree of flexibility that Prudential has in managing its business.
408 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Prudential conducts its businesses competitive position in some geographic of Insurance Supervisors IAIS, the EU subject to regulation and associated markets.
This could take effect, for Markets in Financial Instruments Directive regulatory risks, including the example, through increased friction in the MiFID II Directive and associated effects of changes in the laws, cross-border trade or measures favouring implementing measures, which came regulations, policies and local enterprises such as changes to the into force on 3 January 2018 and the EU interpretations and any accounting maximum level of non-domestic ownership General Data Protection Regulation, standards in the markets in which by foreign companies.
which came into force on 25 May 2018. it operates In addition, regulators in a number of The European Unions Solvency II Directive Changes in government policy and jurisdictions in which the Group operates came into effect on 1 January 2016. legislation including in relation to tax, are further developing local capital The measure of regulatory capital under capital control measures on companies regimes: this includes potential future Solvency II is more volatile than under the and individuals, regulation or regulatory developments under Solvency II in the UK previous Solvency I regime and regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the as referred to above, National Association policy may further evolve under the financial services and insurance industries of Insurance Commissioners NAIC regime.
The European Commission began in any of the markets in which Prudential reforms in the US and amendments to a review in late 2016 of some aspects of the operates including those related to the certain local statutory regimes in some Solvency II legislative package, which is conduct of business by Prudential or its territories in Asia.
There remains a high expected to continue until 2021 and third party distributors, or decisions taken degree of uncertainty over the potential includes a review of the Long Term by regulators in connection with their impact of these changes on the Group.
Prudential applied supervision of members of the Group, for, and has been granted approval by the The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a which in some circumstances may be UK Prudential Regulation Authority to use comprehensive overhaul of the financial applied retrospectively, may adversely the following measures when calculating services industry within the US including affect Prudential.
The proposed demerger its Solvency II capital requirements: the reforms to financial services entities, of M&GPrudential from Prudential plc will use of an internal model, the matching products and markets.
The full impact result in a change to Prudentials groupadjustment for UK annuities, the volatility of the Dodd-Frank Act on Prudentials wide supervisor to the Hong Kong adjustment for selected US dollarbusinesses remains unclear, as many Insurance Authority, and as a consequence denominated business, and UK transitional of its provisions are primarily focused on will change the group-wide supervisory measures on technical provisions.
the banking industry, have a delayed framework to which Prudential is subject, Prudential also has permission to use effectiveness and or require rule-making the final form of which remains uncertain.
deduction and aggregation as the method or other actions by various US regulators The impact from any regulatory changes by which the contribution of the Groups over the coming years.
There is also may affect Prudentials product range, US insurance entities to the Groups potential uncertainty surrounding future distribution channels, competitiveness, solvency is calculated, which in effect changes to the Dodd-Frank Act under the profitability, capital requirements, risk recognises surplus in US insurance entities current US administration.
management approaches, corporate or in excess of 250 per cent of local US Risk governance structure and, consequently, Prudentials designation as a G-SII was last Based Capital requirements.
For as long as reported results and financing reaffirmed on 21 November 2016.
The Prudential or its businesses remain subject requirements.
Also, regulators in FSB, in conjunction with the IAIS, did not to Solvency II, there is a risk that changes jurisdictions in which Prudential operates publish a new list of G-SIIs in 2017 and did may be required to Prudentials approved may impose requirements affecting the not engage in G-SII identification for 2018 internal model or other Solvency II allocation of capital and liquidity between following IAIS launch of the consultation approvals, which could have a material different business units in the Group, on the Holistic Framework HF on impact on the Group Solvency II capital whether on a geographic, legal entity, 14 November 2018, which aims to assess position.
Where internal model changes product line or other basis.
Regulators and mitigate systemic risk in the insurance are subject to regulatory approval, there may change the level of capital required to sector and is intended to replace the is a risk that the approval is delayed or not be held by individual businesses, the current G-SII measures.
In such circumstances, changes in regulation of selling practices, solvency to implement the HF in 2020 and it is our risk profile would not be able to be requirements and could introduce proposed that G-SII identification be appropriately reflected in our internal changes that impact the products sold.
In the interim, model, which could have a material impact Furthermore, as a result of interventions by the relevant group-wide supervisors have on the Groups Solvency II capital position.
governments in light of financial and global committed to continue applying existing economic conditions, there may continue Currently there are also a number of other enhanced G-SII supervisory policy to be changes in government regulation global regulatory developments which measures with some supervisory and supervision of the financial services could impact Prudentials businesses in discretion, which includes a requirement industry, including the possibility of higher its many jurisdictions.
These include the to submit enhanced risk management capital requirements, restrictions on Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and plans.
In November 2022, the FSB will certain types of transactions and enhanced Consumer Protection Act Dodd-Frank review the need to either discontinue or supervisory powers.
Act in the US, the work of the Financial re-establish an annual identification of Stability Board FSB in the area of systemic G-SIIs in consultation with the IAIS and Recent shifts in the focus of some national risk including the designation of Global national authorities.
The Higher Loss governments toward more protectionist Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs, Absorbency HLA standard a proposed or restrictive economic and trade policies the Insurance Capital Standard ICS being additional capital measure for G-SII could impact on the degree and nature developed by the International Association designated firms, planned to apply from of regulatory changes and Prudentials www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 409 Risk factors continued 2022 is not part of the proposed HF.
Various jurisdictions in which Prudential The implementation of complex However, the HF proposes more operates have created investor strategic initiatives gives rise to supervisory powers of intervention compensation schemes that require significant execution risks, may for mitigating systemic risk including mandatory contributions from market affect the operational capacity temporary financial reinforcement participants in some instances in the event of the Group, and may adversely measures such as capital add-ons and of a failure of a market participant.
As a impact the Group if these initiatives suspension of dividends.
major participant in the majority of its fail to meet their objectives chosen markets, circumstances could As part of the implementation of its The IAIS is also developing the ICS as part arise in which Prudential, along with other business strategies, Prudential has of ComFrame the Common Framework companies, may be required to make commenced a number of significant for the supervision of Internationally such contributions.
change initiatives across the Group, many Active Insurance Groups IAIGs.
The of which are interconnected and or of large implementation of ICS will be conducted in The Groups accounts are prepared in scale, that may have financial, operational, two phases a five-year monitoring phase accordance with current International regulatory, customer and reputational followed by an implementation phase.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS implications if such initiatives fail either ComFrame will more generally establish applicable to the insurance industry.
wholly or in part to meet their objectives a set of common principles and standards The International Accounting Standards and could place strain on the operational designed to assist supervisors in Board IASB introduced a framework that capacity, or weaken the control addressing risks that arise from insurance it described as Phase I which, under its environment, of the Group.
Implementing groups with operations in multiple standard IFRS 4 permitted insurers to further strategic initiatives may amplify jurisdictions.
The ComFrame proposals, continue to use the statutory basis of these risks.
The Groups current significant including ICS, could result in enhanced accounting for insurance assets and change initiatives include the combination capital and regulatory measures for IAIGs, liabilities that existed in their jurisdictions of M&G and Prudential UK and Europe, for which Prudential satisfies the criteria.
In May 2017, the the proposed demerger of M&GPrudential IASB published its replacement standard In late 2018, the US NAIC concluded and the intended sale of part of the UK on insurance accounting IFRS 17, an industry consultation with the aim of annuity portfolio.
Significant operational Insurance Contracts, which will have the reducing the non-economic volatility in execution risks arise from these initiatives, effect of introducing fundamental changes the variable annuity statutory balance including in relation to the separation and to the statutory reporting of insurance sheet and enhancing risk management.
establishment of standalone governance entities that prepare accounts according The NAIC is targeting a January 2020 under relevant regulatory regimes, to IFRS from 2021.
In November 2018, effective date for the new framework, business functions and processes data, the IASB tentatively decided to delay the which will have an impact on Jacksons systems, people and third party effective date of IFRS 17 by one year to business.
Jackson continues to assess and arrangements.
periods beginning on or after 1 January test the changes.
The NAIC also has an 2022 and is considering introducing further The proposed demerger of ongoing review of the C-1 bond factors in amendments to this new standard.
The M&GPrudential carries with it the required capital calculation, on which European Union will apply its usual process execution risk and will continue further information is expected to be for assessing whether the standard meets to require significant management provided in due course.
The Groups the necessary criteria for endorsement.
attention preparations to manage the impact of The Group is reviewing the complex The proposed demerger of M&GPrudential these reforms will continue.
requirements of this standard and is subject to a number of factors and On 27 July 2017, the UK FCA announced considering its potential impact.
The dependencies including prevailing market that it will no longer persuade, or use its effect of changes required to the Groups conditions, the appropriate allocation powers to compel, panel banks to submit accounting policies as a result of of debt and capital between the two rates for the calculation of LIBOR after implementing the new standard is currently groups and approvals from regulators and 2021.
The discontinuation of LIBOR in uncertain, but these changes can be shareholders.
In addition, preparing for its current form and its replacement with expected to, amongst other things, alter and implementing the proposed demerger the Sterling Overnight Index Average the timing of IFRS profit recognition.
is expected to continue to require benchmark SONIA in the UK and Given the implementation of this standard significant time from management, which other alternative benchmark rates in is likely to require significant enhancements may divert managements attention from other countries could, among other things, to IT, actuarial and finance systems of the other aspects of Prudentials business.
impact the Group through an adverse Group, it will also have an impact on the Therefore there can be no certainty as to effect on the value of Prudentials assets Groups expenses.
the timing of the demerger, or that it will be and liabilities which are linked to or which Any changes or modification of IFRS completed as proposed or at all.
Further, reference LIBOR, a reduction in market accounting policies may require a change if the proposed demerger is completed, liquidity during any period of transition in the way in which future results will be there can be no assurance that either and increased legal and conduct risks to determined and or a retrospective Prudential plc or M&GPrudential will the Group arising from changes required adjustment of reported results to realise the anticipated benefits of the to documentation and its related ensure consistency.
transaction, or that the proposed demerger obligations to its stakeholders.
will not adversely affect the trading value or liquidity of the shares of either or both of the two businesses.
410 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  The intended UK exit from the EU The UK and EU may experience The resolution of several issues may adversely impact economic a downturn in economic activity.
affecting the financial services conditions, increase market The effect of any downturn is expected industry could have a negative volatility, increase political and to be more pronounced for the UK impact on Prudentials reported regulatory uncertainty, and cause particularly in the event of a disorderly results or on its relations with operational disruption including exit by the UK from the EU.
Market current and potential customers reduced access to EU markets volatility and illiquidity may increase Prudential is, and in the future may be, which could have adverse effects including for property funds, where subject to legal and regulatory actions in on Prudentials business and redemption restrictions may be applied the ordinary course of its business, both its profitability in the period leading up to, and in the UK and internationally on matters On 29 March 2017, the UK submitted the following, the UKs withdrawal.
This relevant to the delivery of customer formal notification of its intention to could lead to potential downgrades in outcomes.
Such actions may relate to the withdraw from the EU pursuant to Article sovereign and corporate debt ratings application of current regulations for 50 of the Treaty on the European Union, in the UK and the EU and falls in UK example the Financial Conduct Authoritys as amended.
Following submission of this property values.
In a severe scenario FCA principles and conduct of business notification, the UK has a maximum period where the UKs sovereign rating is rules or the failure to implement new of two years to negotiate the terms of its downgraded by potentially more than regulations.
These actions could involve a withdrawal from the EU.
If no formal one notch, this may also impact on the review of types of business sold in the past withdrawal agreement is reached between ratings of UK companies, including under acceptable market practices at the the UK and the EU, then it is expected Prudentials UK business.
Further or time, such as the requirement in the UK to the UKs membership of the EU will prolonged interest rate reductions may provide redress to certain past purchasers automatically terminate at 11.00pm GMT occur due to monetary easing.
These of pensions and mortgage endowment on 29 March 2019.
The UKs decision to impacts may result in the adverse policies, changes to the tax regime leave the EU will have political, legal and effects outlined in the market and affecting products, and regulatory reviews economic ramifications for both the UK general economic conditions risk factor.
of products sold and industry practices, and the EU, although these are expected including, in the latter case, lines of The UKs exit from the EU could to be more pronounced for the UK.
Current regulatory result in significant changes to the The Group has several UK-domiciled actions include the UK insurance businesss legal and regulatory regime under operations, principally M&GPrudential, undertaking to the FCA to review annuities which the Group and, in particular, and these will be impacted by a UK sold without advice after 1 July 2008 to its M&GPrudential operates, the nature withdrawal from the EU, although contract-based defined contribution and extent of which remain uncertain contingency plans have been developed pension customers.
This will result in the while the outcome of negotiations and enacted since the referendum result UK insurance business being required to regarding the UKs withdrawal from to ensure that Prudentials business is not provide redress to certain such customers.
the EU and the extent and terms of any unduly affected by the UK withdrawal.
A provision has been established to cover future access to the single EU market The outcome of the negotiations on the the costs of undertaking the review and remains to be agreed.
There may be UKs withdrawal and any subsequent any related redress but the ultimate amount an increase in complexity and costs negotiations on trade and access to the required remains uncertain.
associated with operating in an countrys major trading markets, including additional regulatory jurisdiction.
Regulators may also focus on the approach the single EU market, is currently unknown.
that product providers use to select As a result, there is ongoing uncertainty There may be increased risk of third-party distributors and to monitor the over the terms under which the UK will operational disruption to the business, appropriateness of sales made by them.
leave the EU, in particular after the in particular to M&GPrudential.
Access In some cases, product providers can be transitional period ending in December to the EU market, and the ability to held responsible for the deficiencies of 2020 which itself is yet to be agreed in a service EU clients, may be adversely third-party distributors.
legally binding manner, and the potential impacted.
Negative market sentiment for a disorderly exit by the UK without a towards the UK from investors may In the US, there has been significant negotiated agreement.
While the Group result in negative fund flows and EU attention on the different regulatory has undertaken significant work to plan for service providers may be less willing, standards applied to investment advice and mitigate such risks, there can be no or unable to service UK fund managers, delivered to retail customers by different assurance that these plans and efforts will both of which may negatively impact sectors of the industry.
As a result of be successful.
on the asset management business reports relating to perceptions of industry of M&GPrudential.
The insurance abuses, there have been numerous In particular, depending on the nature business may experience higher regulatory inquiries and proposals for of the UKs exit from the EU, some or all of product lapses resulting from fund legislative and regulatory reforms.
This the following risks may materialise, which outflows.
The ability to retain and includes focus on the suitability of sales of may impact the business of the Group and attract appropriately skilled staff from certain products, alternative investments its profitability: the EU may be adversely impacted.
and the widening of the circumstances Contractual documentation may need under which a person or entity providing to be renegotiated or redrafted in order investment advice with respect to certain to remain effective.
employee benefit and pension plans would be considered a fiduciary subjecting the person or entity to certain regulatory www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 411 Risk factors continued requirements.
There is a risk that new heightened competition for talented and affected by its credit ratings, which are regulations introduced may have a material skilled employees and agents with local in place to measure the Groups ability adverse effect on the sales of the products experience, particularly in Asia, may limit to meet its contractual obligations.
by Prudential and increase Prudentials Prudentials potential to grow its business Prudential plcs long-term senior debt is exposure to legal risks.
rated as A2 by Moodys, A by Standard & In Asia, the Groups principal competitors Poors and Aby Fitch.
Litigation, disputes and regulatory include global life insurers such as Allianz, investigations may adversely affect Prudential plcs short-term debt is rated as AXA, and Manulife together with regional Prudentials profitability and P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by Standard & Poors insurers such as AIA, FWD and Great financial condition and F1 by Fitch.
Eastern, and multinational asset managers Prudential is, and may in the future be, such as Franklin Templeton, HSBC Global The Prudential Assurance Company subject to legal actions, disputes and Asset Management, J. P. Morgan Asset Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa3 regulatory investigations in various Management and Schroders.
In most by Moodys, A by Standard & Poors and contexts, including in the ordinary course markets, there are also local companies AAby Fitch.
of its insurance, investment management that have a material market presence.
These legal Jacksons financial strength is rated AAactions, disputes and investigations may M&GPrudentials principal competitors by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses include many of the major retail financial Moodys and A by A. M. Best.
and operations that are specific to services companies and fund management Prudential Assurance Co. Singapore Pte Prudential, or that are common to companies including, for example, Aviva, Ltds financial strength is rated AAby companies that operate in Prudentials Janus Henderson, Jupiter, Legal & General, Standard & Poors.
Legal actions and disputes may Schroders and Standard Life Aberdeen.
arise under contracts, regulations All ratings above are on a stable outlook Jacksons competitors in the US include including tax or from a course of conduct and are stated as at the date of this major stock and mutual insurance taken by Prudential, and may be class document.
companies, mutual fund organisations, actions.
Although Prudential believes that banks and other financial services In addition, changes in methodologies and it has adequately provided in all material companies such as Aegon, AIG, Allianz, criteria used by rating agencies could result respects for the costs of litigation and AXA Equitable Holdings Inc. Brighthouse, in downgrades that do not reflect changes regulatory matters, no assurance can Lincoln Financial Group, MetLife and in the general economic conditions or be provided that such provisions are Prudential Financial.
Given the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, Prudential believes competition will Adverse experience in the other sanctions that might be imposed and intensify across all regions in response operational risks inherent in the inherent unpredictability of litigation to consumer demand, digital and other Prudentials business, and those of and disputes, it is possible that an adverse technological advances, the need for its material outsourcing partners, outcome could have an adverse effect economies of scale and the consequential could disrupt its business functions on Prudentials reputation, results of impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and have a negative impact on its operations or cash flows.
Prudentials ability to results of operations generate an appropriate return depends Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses are significantly upon its capacity to anticipate Prudentials businesses, including the risk conducted in highly competitive and respond appropriately to these from both Prudential and its outsourcing environments with developing competitive pressures.
and external data hosting partners of demographic trends and continued direct or indirect loss resulting from profitability depends upon Downgrades in Prudentials inadequate or failed internal and external managements ability to respond financial strength and credit processes, systems or human error, fraud, to these pressures and trends ratings could significantly impact the effects of natural or man-made The markets for financial services in the its competitive position and damage catastrophic events such as natural UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, its relationships with creditors disasters, pandemics, cyber-attacks, with several factors affecting Prudentials or trading counterparties acts of terrorism, civil unrest and other ability to sell its products and continued Prudentials financial strength and credit catastrophes or from other external profitability, including price and yields ratings, which are used by the market to events.
Exposure to such events could offered, financial strength and ratings, measure its ability to meet policyholder disrupt Prudentials systems and range of product lines and product quality, obligations, are an important factor operations significantly, which may result brand strength and name recognition, affecting public confidence in Prudentials in financial loss and reputational damage.
investment management performance, products, and as a result its historical bonus levels, the ability to respond competitiveness.
Downgrades in Prudentials business is dependent on to developing demographic trends, Prudentials ratings as a result of, for processing a large number of transactions customer appetite for certain savings example, decreased profitability, increased across numerous and diverse products, products and technological advances.
costs, increased indebtedness or other and it employs a large number of models, In some of its markets, Prudential faces concerns could have an adverse effect on and user developed applications, some of competitors that are larger, have greater its ability to market products, retain current which are complex, in its processes.
The financial resources or a greater market policyholders, and on the Groups financial long-term nature of much of the Groups share, offer a broader range of products flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates business also means that accurate records or have higher bonus rates.
Further, Prudential pays on its borrowings are have to be maintained for significant 412 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  periods.
Further, Prudential operates in an Attempts to access or disrupt its ability to detect system compromise extensive and evolving legal and regulated Prudentials IT systems, and and recover should such an incident occur.
environment including in relation to tax loss or misuse of personal data, However, there can be no assurance that which adds to the operational complexity could result in loss of trust from such events will not take place which of its business processes and controls.
Prudentials customers and may have material adverse consequential employees, reputational damage effects on Prudentials business and These factors, among others, result in and financial loss financial position.
significant reliance on, and require Prudential and its business partners are significant investment in, the information The failure to understand and increasingly exposed to the risk that technology IT infrastructure, compliance respond effectively to the risks individuals or groups may attempt to disrupt and other operational systems, personnel associated with environmental, the availability, confidentiality and integrity and processes for the performance of the social or governance ESG factors of its IT systems, which could result in Groups core business activities.
During could adversely affect Prudentials disruption to key operations, make it difficult times of significant change, the operational achievement of its long term to recover critical services, damage assets effectiveness of these components may strategy and compromise the integrity and security be impacted.
The business environment in which of data both corporate and customer.
This Prudential operates is continually Although Prudentials IT, compliance and could result in loss of trust from Prudentials changing.
ESG-related issues may directly other operational systems, models and customers and employees, reputational or indirectly impact key stakeholders, processes incorporate controls designed damage and direct or indirect financial loss.
ranging from customers to institutional to manage and mitigate the operational and The cyber security threat continues to investors, employees, suppliers and model risks associated with its activities, evolve globally in sophistication and regulators, all of whom have expectations there can be no assurance that such potential significance.
A failure to manage those controls will always be effective.
Due increasing profile in its current markets material risks which have ESG implications to human error among other reasons, and those in which it is entering, growing may adversely impact on the reputation operational and model risk incidents do customer interest in interacting with their and brand of the Group, the results of its happen periodically and no system or insurance providers and asset managers operations, its customers, and its ability process can entirely prevent them although through the internet and social media, to deliver on its long-term strategy and there have not been any material events to improved brand awareness and the therefore its long-term success.
Prudentials legacy and other IT classification of Prudential as a G-SII could systems and processes, as with operational also increase the likelihood of Prudential Climate change is one ESG theme that systems and processes generally, may be being considered a target by cyber poses potentially significant risks to susceptible to failure or security breaches.
Further, there have been changes Prudential and its customers, not only to the threat landscape and the risk from from the physical impacts of climate Such events could, among other things, untargeted but sophisticated and change, driven by both specific short-term harm Prudentials ability to perform automated attacks has increased.
climate-related events such as natural necessary business functions, result in disasters and longer-term impacts, but the loss of confidential or proprietary data There is an increasing requirement and also from transition risks associated exposing it to potential legal claims and expectation on Prudential and its business with the shift to a low carbon economy.
regulatory sanctions and damage its partners, to not only hold customer, Climate-driven changes in countries in reputation and relationships with its shareholder and employee data securely, which Prudential operates could change customers and business partners.
Similarly, but use it in a transparent and appropriate its claims profile.
There is an increasing any weakness in administration systems way.
Developments in data protection expectation from stakeholders for such as those relating to policyholder worldwide such as the implementation of Prudential to understand, manage and records or meeting regulatory EU General Data Protection Regulation that provide increased transparency of its requirements or actuarial reserving came into force on 25 May 2018 may also exposure to climate-related risks.
For processes could have a material adverse increase the financial and reputational example, the FSBs Task Force on Climateeffect on its results of operations during implications for Prudential following a related Disclosures recommendations were the effective period.
significant breach of its or its third-party published in 2017 to provide a voluntary suppliers IT systems.
To date, Prudential In addition, Prudential also relies on a framework on corporate climate-related has not identified a failure or breach, or an number of outsourcing including external financial disclosures following the FSBs incident of data misuse, which has had a data hosting partners to provide several concern that there may be systemic risk material impact in relation to its legacy and business operations, including a significant in the financial system related to other IT systems and processes.
However, part of the UK back office and customer climate change.
it has been, and likely will continue to be, facing operations as well as a number subject to potential damage from computer As governments and policymakers take of IT support functions and investment viruses, attempts at unauthorised access action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions operations.
This creates reliance upon and cyber security attacks such as denial and limit global warming, the transition the operational performance of these of service attacks which, for example, to a low carbon economy could have an outsourcing partners, and failure to can cause temporary disruption to adverse impact on global investment asset adequately oversee the outsourcing websites and IT networks, phishing and valuations whilst at the same time present partner, or the failure of an outsourcing disruptive software campaigns.
investment opportunities which the Group partner or its key IT and operational will need to monitor.
In particular, there is systems and processes could result Prudential is continually enhancing its a risk that this transition could result in in significant disruption to business IT environment to remain secure against some asset sectors facing significantly operations and customers.
emerging threats, together with increasing www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 413 Risk factors continued higher costs and a disorderly adjustment business.
If mortality improvement rates regulations that can limit their ability to to their asset values.
This could lead to an significantly exceed the improvement make remittances.
In some circumstances, adverse impact on the value and the future assumed, Prudentials results of operations this could limit Prudentials ability to pay performance of the investment assets could be adversely affected.
dividends to shareholders or to make of the Group.
The potential broader available funds held in certain subsidiaries A further factor is the assumption that economic impact from this may impact to cover operating expenses of other Prudential makes about future expected upon customer demand for the Groups members of the Group.
levels of the rates of early termination of products.
Given that Prudentials products by its customers known as Prudential operates in a number investment horizons are long term, persistency.
This is relevant to a number of markets through joint ventures it is potentially more exposed to the of lines of business in the Group, especially and other arrangements with third long-term impact of climate change risks.
for Jacksons portfolio of variable annuities.
parties, involving certain risks Additionally, Prudentials stakeholders Prudentials persistency assumptions that Prudential does not face increasingly expect responsible investment reflect a combination of recent past with respect to its consolidated principles to be adopted to demonstrate experience for each relevant line of subsidiaries that ESG considerations including climate business and expert judgement, especially Prudential operates, and in certain markets change are effectively integrated into where a lack of relevant and credible is required by local regulation to operate, investment decisions and fiduciary and experience data exists.
Any expected through joint ventures and other similar stewardship duties.
change in future persistency is also arrangements.
For such Group operations, reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels Adverse experience relative to management control is exercised in of future persistency are significantly the assumptions used in pricing conjunction with other participants.
The different than assumed, the Groups results products and reporting business level of control exercisable by the Group of operations could be adversely affected.
results could significantly affect depends on the terms of the contractual Furthermore, Jacksons variable annuity Prudentials results of operations agreements, in particular, the allocation of products are sensitive to other types of In common with other life insurers, the control among, and continued cooperation policyholder behaviour, such as the profitability of the Groups businesses between, the participants.
In addition, the take-up of its GMWB product features.
depends on a mix of factors including level of control exercisable by the Group mortality and morbidity levels and trends, could also be subject to changes in the In addition, Prudentials business may be policy surrenders and take-up rates on maximum level of non-domestic ownership adversely affected by epidemics and other guarantee features of products, investment imposed on foreign companies in certain effects that give rise to a large number of performance and impairments, unit cost jurisdictions.
Prudential may face financial, deaths or additional sickness claims, as well of administration and new business reputational and other exposure including as increases to the cost of medical claims.
The Groups regulatory censure in the event that any Significant influenza and other epidemics businesses are subject to inflation risk.
of its partners fails to meet its obligations have occurred a number of times In particular, the Groups medical insurance under the arrangements, encounters historically but the likelihood, timing, or businesses in Asia are also exposed to financial difficulty, or fails to comply with the severity of future epidemics cannot be medical inflation risk.
local or international regulation and predicted.
The effectiveness of external standards such as those pertaining to the parties, including governmental and Prudential needs to make assumptions prevention of financial crime.
In addition, non-governmental organisations, in about a number of factors in determining a significant proportion of the Groups combating the spread and severity of any the pricing of its products, for setting product distribution is carried out through epidemics could have a material impact on reserves, and for reporting its capital levels arrangements with third parties not the Groups loss experience.
and the results of its long-term business controlled by Prudential and is therefore operations.
For example, the assumption As a holding company, Prudential dependent upon continuation of these that Prudential makes about future is dependent upon its subsidiaries relationships.
A temporary or permanent expected levels of mortality is particularly to cover operating expenses and disruption to these distribution relevant for its UK annuity business, where dividend payments arrangements, such as through significant payments are guaranteed for at least as The Groups insurance and investment deterioration in the reputation, financial long as the policyholder is alive.
Prudential management operations are generally position or other circumstances of the third conducts rigorous research into longevity conducted through direct and indirect party or material failure in controls such as risk, using industry data as well as its own subsidiaries, which are subject to the those pertaining to the third-party system substantial annuitant experience.
As part risks discussed elsewhere in this failure or the prevention of financial crime of its pension annuity pricing and reserving Risk factors section.
could adversely affect the results of policy, Prudentials UK business assumes operations of Prudential.
that current rates of mortality continuously As a holding company, Prudentials improve over time at levels based on principal sources of funds are remittances adjusted data and informed by models from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed from the Continuous Mortality funds, the shareholder transfer from Investigation CMI as published by the long-term funds and any amounts that may Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
be raised through the issuance of equity, Assumptions about future expected levels debt and commercial paper.
of mortality are also of relevance to the Certain of Prudentials subsidiaries are Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit subject to applicable insurance, foreign GMWB of Jacksons variable annuity exchange and tax laws, rules and 414 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Prudentials Articles of Association contain an exclusive jurisdiction provision Under Prudentials Articles of Association, certain legal proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings by a shareholder in its capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors and or its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the shareholder and such professional service providers.
This provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse tax consequences Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, and their interpretation may change, possibly with retrospective effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
Significant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change in the tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation legislation or its scope or interpretation could affect Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 415
