44 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks The Board has focused on strengthening the Groups governance through 2018.
This has involved development of the Groups risk management framework and the creation of a Cross Divisional Risk Forum to provide clear and co-ordinated second and third line risk focus to the newly formed Group ExCo to ensure greater first line senior management attention at the Group level.
Risk management is the process of identifying, assessing and managing the principal risks that the Group faces, including those arising from market disruption and evolving regulatory requirements.
The Board has reviewed and approved a significantly enhanced Risk management and regulation series of Board-reserved matters providing greater clarity Historically, the Groups risk management approach has always onarrangements between the Group and the divisions : been organised such that each of Vanquis Bank, CCD and In support of the Board-reserved matters, a Delegated Authorities Moneybarn independently maintain and manage their respective Manual DAM has been approved by the Board which sets out risk management frameworks.
As a result of this Group structure, specific levels of authority in relation to the Group and also the primary responsibility for risk management including conduct divisions.
This provides much greater clarity over when and and regulatory risk, has sat at divisional level.
The divisions each wherekey Group decisions can be made: have in place risk management frameworks, which are developed All of the above documentation and revised arrangements have and operated in each division.
The Group has provided broad been incorporated into a comprehensive Board Governance direction to ensure a degree of consistency, and has overseen Manual BGM which sets out the full range of operating processes, the implementation of the divisional frameworks.
During 2018, roles, responsibilities, authorities, and inter-group arrangements the appointment of a Group Interim Chief Risk Officer CRO has that support the effective running of the Board: led to increased co-ordination, collaboration and clarity around The BGM is further supported by a similar, comprehensive, the respective risk profiles and their management, although Executive Governance Manual EGM.
Using the BGM as the underlying fundamentals of divisional risk and regulatory abackdrop, this more clearly defines the modus operandi, responsibility remain unchanged.
The processes around the roles, responsibilities and authorities of the new Group ExCo Groupsrisk management have been strengthened with greater which came into operation in January and has now been focus on the Groups key risk profile, development of the new operatingthroughout the year: Grouprisk appetite and policy frameworks, and enhanced reportingto the Group Risk Committee GRC.
Following a changing strategic focus as reported last year, the The focus is now to ensure these changes are effectively ChiefExecutive Officer has been instrumental in establishing embeddedover time.
acultural development programme which has put in place new keystrategic drivers that centre around our customers and how Recent developments we would like to operate going forward.
This work has been During 2018, significant progress has been made in relation to finalised and is now being rolled out across the business.
theGroup governance and risk frameworks.
The Board sponsored More specifically focusing on risk, the following actions have a dedicated programme to complete the recommendations of the been delivered: review undertaken in early 2018 and as a result the following have As covered last year, a new interim Group CRO was appointed and allbeen completed: his focus has been on improving the Group risk and governance A Board skills review was undertaken and several new frameworks.
In combination with the recent appointment of a new appointments have been made to considerably strengthen GRC Chairman, we have seen significant steps forward in the way themixand levels of direct and relevant skills and experience: the Group identifies, manages and controls risk: The Group Board has reviewed the composition of each of As part of a revised Group risk framework, the activities of the the divisional boards with the respective divisional chairmen.
former Risk Advisory Committee now disbanded have been A process is now underway to implement changes which transferred across to a the Cross Divisional Risk Forum to provide enhancebroader capabilities and drive greater cultural and clear and co-ordinated second and third line risk focus: and b strategic alignment between the Group and the divisions: tothe newly formed Group ExCo to ensure greater first line senior The Board has reviewed and approved new versions of all management attention at the Group level.
The re-titled GRC is the ofthecommittee terms of reference to ensure these drive the formal sub-committee of the Board and its terms of reference, keyactivities of the Board and its sub-committees effectively: scope and coverage have been reviewed and enhanced: 45 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report The Board has reviewed Group risk appetite and approved The Group interim CRO has worked closely with the divisional anewGroup framework and series of appetite measures: CROs who maintain full responsibility for managing risks ata divisional level and has greatly improved collaboration, A new Group policy framework has been approved with information sharing and risk transparency as it escalates newpolicies included and reflecting existing policies uptotheGroup ExCo and the Board: updatedtoreflectthe new risk appetite: The Group has ensured it develops the best possible relationship The new Board appointments have created a stronger with all our regulators and, at the Group level, we have improved andmorerounded and challenging GRC: co-ordination and consistency in how contact is managed with the The focus of the GRC has moved significantly towards the key regulator.
This has included regular meetings between our Group issues facing the Group, both current and forward looking: CEO and senior management with the PRA, FCA and CBI: and As previously announced, the Board is finalising plans to During the year a comprehensive conduct risk assessment was establisha customer, culture and ethics committee, which undertaken and an action plan is in place to ensure all possible isintended to be a committee of the Board and would be steps are taken to manage and address past, current and chairedby ElizabethChambers: potentialfuture risks.
This has been submitted to the FCA.
Group risk reporting has been expanded to provide wider In last years report, a number of key risks were highlighted which coverage across the full spectrum of risks, with particular were particularly important to that point in time.
During the year emphasis on those of current or potential future significance.
anumber of these have been addressed, particularly those around Each risk is assessed on grounds of materiality and probability capital and funding following the successful completion of the rights ofimpact and action plans are included to demonstrate how issue, and implementation of the home credit operational recovery eachis being managed: plan.
Our GDPR programme was completed on time and it is felt A forward looking agenda has been created for the we are in a good position in this regard, with only minor aspects GRC whichensures it has time allocated to fulfil all of its remaining outstanding.
 allowing time to deep dive into key In a revised approach for this year, this report now sets out firstly the areasofconcern or potential future threat: principal risks which face the Group, followed by a number of more specific and generally forward looking risks which have the Boards specific attention and are a focus of the GRC.
It is not an exhaustive list but addresses the risks which are currently deemed to be potentially the most material to the Group.
46 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued The Groups approach to risk management Further detail covering theoperation of the Board TheBoard committees can be found Reviews the risk management on pages 109 to 136. framework annually to ensure thatitremains fit for purpose andcomplies with relevant lawsandregulations includingthe Code.
Board committees Customer, Culture and Group Risk Audit Remuneration Ethics Committee Committee Committee Committee The role of this committee of Chaired by a non-executive The Audit Committee provides The Committee is responsible the Board will be to review the director of the Board, it is governance and oversight for the remuneration of the Groups culture and business responsible for ensuring that of the financial reporting and Chairman, the executive directors processes to ensure they are there is an appropriate risk disclosure process, the audit and the Company Secretary.
focused on delivering fair management framework process and the system of The remuneration and terms of customer outcomes: oversight embedded across the Group, internal controls and compliance.
appointment of the non-executive of the Groups delivery and and monitors key risk positions directors are determined by embedding of its Blueprint: and trends.
The Committee also and ensuring the Board meets reviews and sets remuneration its corporate governance of the senior management teams requirements under the 2016 UK within the three divisions and the CorporateGovernance Code.
Management committees Group ExCo Chaired by the CEO the ExCo is responsible for supporting the CEO in developing, proposing andimplementing a Board approved strategy.
In so doing, it is also responsible for managing the Groupstrategic risks and overseeing divisional risk.
The ExCo receives reports from the individual divisional managing directors which cover key risks within their respective divisions.
The interim GroupCRO also provides a regular report from a second line perspective on the enterprise wide risksfacing the Group, how they are trending, whether they are within risk appetite and  ordeveloping risks that require focus.
Finance Forum Group Treasury committee A quarterly finance forum, chaired by the Group Finance A quarterly Group treasury committee, chaired by the Group CFO Directorand attended by divisional finance directors and senior and attended by divisional finance directors, the Group treasurer, finance management including the heads of tax, audit, treasury head of Group tax, and the Group financial controller ensures that andrisk, reviews and provides oversight of the key financial there is active management of the financial risks and that liquidity, mattersof the Group.
market, counterparty and prudential regulatory risks are managed within Board approved appetites.
Whistleblowing Group and Corporate policies Cross Divisional Risk Forum CDRF Whistleblowing policies and procedures are in place in The Board has completely reviewed policies A monthly forum which brings together the each oftheGroups divisions.
The Group is committed to inplace across the Group and has approved interim GroupCRO, each of the divisionalCROs, the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and anover-arching set of Group policies with which theinterim Group Chief Internal Auditor, accountability and employees are encouraged to raise all business units must comply.
The forum: genuine concerns under these policies either by contacting process took into account our Group Risk Provides a platform for sharing views of risks a manager or telephoning a dedicatedexternal helpline Appetite and existing Divisional policies and acrossallareas of the Group: Reviews key divisional risks and agrees on the in confidence.
sought to ensure alignment where practical, but Groupaggregate risk profile: the Group Board are now clearly sighted on the During 2018, this external helpline was operational Undertakes forward looking risk assessments policies in place across the Group.
A certification throughout the Group and procedures are in place andidentifies any new oremerging risks: process to ensure compliance is in place Provides an independent forum for the divisional toensure issues raised are addressed in a confidential and each Division will be required to certify CROsto escalate anyconcerns they may have: manner.
The Company Secretary is requiredtoreport Enables the Group interim CRO and Group interim Chief compliance on abiannual basis.
This includes to the Audit Committee in December each year Internal Auditor to give a further independent viewpoint any suggestions for improvements.
ontheintegrity ofthese procedures, the state on both the risks of the divisions and the Group:  reached.
Shape Executive and Board Risk reporting: and Assists the Chairman of the GRC to better understand andprioritise the key risks of the Group.
47 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Three lines of defence model From the internal control description above it can be seen that the Group operates an effective three lines of defence model as set out below: Line of defence Division responsibilities Group responsibilities The divisional Managing Directors and the key The Group CEO and senior management of the Group including First line approved persons senior managers are fully Divisional Managing Directors who sit on the Group ExCo are responsible for managing and controlling the responsible for developing the Group strategy for approval and for risks within their area of responsibility.
They effectively overseeing its implementation.
Through this process, key risks must operate within the Group and divisional risk facing the Group are identified and managed by the respective senior appetite, policy and control frameworks, reporting managers, either directly as in the case of the Group CFO or indirectly on key risks and escalating as appropriate.
through the divisional first line activities.
Monthly reports to ExCo from They ensure they have sufficient resources and all senior managers provide key risk coverage.
effectively controlled processes to operate the business and sustainably deliver against business strategy and objectives.
Each division has its own dedicated CRO, who As the Group itself is an unregulated entity, the interim Group Second line acts as the approved person senior manager with CROcarries no specific approved person or senior manager status.
The CROs have Thisroleis thereforeto: developed specific risk frameworks appropriate Support the Group in developing and maintaining an effective to their divisional and regulatory needs, and are governance and risk management framework appropriate responsible for: totheGroup structure: Establishing a risk management framework To provide additional expert advice, support and challenge fortheir respective divisions: tothedivisional CROs: Agreeing risk appetite with the divisional To provide an additional escalation route for divisional CROs board and effectively managing and reporting if required: against this: To aggregate and independently assess the divisional risk profiles: Independent challenge, review and assurance To provide Group ExCo and Board risk reporting: over divisional first line activities: To undertake strategic risk identification and risk analysis Resourcing, managing and directing the at theGroup level and to co-ordinate activity relating to the activities of their local risk specialist teams: and Groupspecific risks: and Acting as a key liaison point for their To lead on developing a co-ordinated and integrated approach respective regulators.
to the management of the Groups ExCo conduct risks and regulatory relationships.
The Group internal audit function encompasses The Group Interim Chief Internal Auditor helps the Board and ExCo Third line all divisions, with a dedicated senior audit leader toprotect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the organisation.
The divisions are subject to a suite of Through the work of the Group internal audit function, the Interim audit reviews each year, as part of the annual audit GroupChief Auditor focuses on: plan which is agreed by divisional executive teams, Assessing whether significant risks are identified and appropriately the Group ExCo and the Group Audit Committee.
reported by management and the risk function to the Board and The audit reviews focus on both the design and theGroup ExCo: operational effectiveness of internal controls, as Assessing whether significant risks are adequately controlled: and operated by management.
The reviews highlight opportunities for management to improve the Challenging the Group ExCo to improve the effectiveness existing control environment, to support better ofgovernance, risk management and internal controls.
business performance and management of risk.
The Interim Group Chief Internal Auditor reports primarily to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee with a dotted reporting linetothe Group CEO.
48 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Principal risks Likelihood Key P1.
Capital risk P7 P6 P3 Liquidity and funding risk P5 P4 P4.
Challenge to agent self-employed status P3 The above risks are shown on a net basis, after mitigating actions.
Home credit recovery plan Arrears E6 E8.
Brexit The above risks are shown on a net basis, after mitigating actions.
Impact Impact 49 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Principal risks Movement Risk # Risk in 2018 Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The Group operates three The Group operates credit scoring P1 Credit risk credit businesses Vanquis methodologies led by credit specialists Bank, CCD and Moneybarn in all of its businesses and these and the risk is one of are well maintained and monitored unexpected credit losses onaregular basis.
arising through either These are variously supported by adverse macro-economic clearly defined credit policies to factors or systems and restrict certain types of lending and control failures in credit there are also manual underwriting processes.
support processes in many parts of the business, particularly home credit.
The Group operates in the nonstandardlending sector and as such credit default levels are higher, but allindicators confirm the risk profile iswithin expected ranges.
During 2018, each division has reviewed their respective credit profiles and has undertaken selective tightening to ensure any higher than desired risk segments have been addressed.
Macro-economic downturn risks are assessed through stress testing as part of the ICAAP processes and these confirm the Group can comfortably withstand the impact of a material stress, as defined by the PRA.
The Group is reliant upon third party data from credit bureau and, as such, is dependent upon the accuracy ofthis data.
The risk that the Group During the year, the rights issue P2 Capital risk has insufficient capital wassuccessfully undertaken and toeither meet regulatory has restored the Group to a position requirements or to sustain ofcapital strength.
the long term viability The ICAAP process has confirmed that ofthebusiness.
the Group is projected to have sufficient capital resources even under a severe stress environment.
The resolution of the FCA investigation into ROP at Vanquis Bank has been substantially completed and the Group is close to finalising the remediation programme, with all amounts fully provided for.
The FCA investigation into affordability, forbearance and termination options at Moneybarn is reaching a conclusion and it is believed that existing provisions, created in 2017 are sufficient to address any resulting remediation.
50 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Principal Risks continued Movement Risk # Risk in 2018 Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The risk that the Group has The Group seeks to maintain a secure Liquidity and P3 insufficient liquidity tomeet funding and capital structure.
It has funding risk its obligations as they fall three core funding objectives: due, and or is unable to To maintain borrowing facilities maintain sufficient funding to fund growth and contractual for its future needs.
maturities outside of Vanquis Bankover the next 12 months: Maintaining a CET1 ratio in excess ofthe minimum regulatory requirement of 25.5% together withregulatory capital headroom inexcess of 50m: and Maintaining diversified funding sources.
During the year, the Group significantly improved the capital and liquidity position with the 300m rights issue and by refinancing the 250m October 2019 bond with the issue of a new 250m bond maturing in 2023 and buy back of222.5m of the existing bond.
During the year, the Group has maintained its investment grade credit rating and, as at 31 December 2018, the Group had headroom on its committed bank facility of 327.4m.
In addition, Vanquis Bank accepts retail deposits and, in line with its regulatory requirements, maintains liquid resources to meet certain stress events as stipulated within its Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
IT systems failure, As a customer-led business reliant upon P4 IT risk unavailability or denial technology to serve customers through ofservice security issues a number of different channels, IT risk can lead to material remains high and receives continued business interruption management focus.
or customer detriment To date, there have been no material causing significant issues affecting the business, but financialloss.
shortcomings are being addressed through a focussed programme of work.
The Groups core technology infrastructure is being upgraded to provide increased resiliency and continuing reliability.
The new Group Chief Information Officer CIO leads ona wide ranging program of continuing investment and it is expected that this risk will continue to reduce over time.
Given known shortcomings, the probability of incidents occurring isincreased as the Group goes through the required changes.
To date any incidents have been quickly resolved and not caused any material harm.
Accordingly the overall impact is notassessed as high.
51 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Movement Risk # Risk in 2018 Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The risk of loss resulting Each division has effective operational Operational P5 from inadequate or failed risk frameworks in place which include risks internal processes, people risk identification and assessment, and and systems or from control remediation.
Risk registers are in place across the Group and either risk process maps or Operational risk covers risk control self-assessment processes a wide range of different ensure management have a clear view categories including ofthe risks they manage.
specificevent risk, fraud, IT Systems risk, business The three lines of defence model continuity, AML, etc.
throughout the Group ensures there is management responsibility for controlling the business operations, andindependent lines of challenge fromrisk and audit.
Issues arising in CCD during 2017 continue to be addressed through theimplementation of the home creditrecovery plan.
IT risk remains a key area of focus for theGroup and a series of infrastructure and IT upgrade resiliency improvements are already in train.
The risk of failing to meet The Group operates in a highly Regulatory P6 regulatory requirements regulated environment and in an andconduct orexpectations and or industry sector where customers are risk deliver poor customer potentially more vulnerable and need outcomes leading to careful management.
potential customer The FCA investigations into Vanquis bank detriment.
and Moneybarn are either fully resolved or close to finalisation and the Group has worked hard to ensure a positive future relationship with its regulators.
The Group undertook a conduct risk assessment covering all business areasand has identified a series ofprogressive actions that will further ensure we continue to deliver positive customer outcomes.
This has been submitted tothe FCA.
We remain mindful that the regulatory landscape is continually evolving and regularly reassess our risks through horizon scanning and regulatory impact assessment across the Group.
As was seen with Wonga, claims management companies CMCs have become particularly active around nonstandard lending sectors and there remains a risk that they might target oneof the sectors in which we operate.
We have seen increases in customer complaints via this channel, but we continue to robustly defend inappropriate or unsubstantiated claimsand work closely with the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS in this regard.
52 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Principal Risks continued Movement Risk # Risk in 2018 Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The Group has been, and In July 2017, the Group changed their Challenge P7 may continue to be, subject operating model of its home credit toagent to claims brought against business in the UK from a self-employed self-employed itby either former agents or agent model to an employed workforce status tax authorities challenging so as to take direct control of all aspects the historic employment of the customer relationship.
In the status of the Groups home Republic of Ireland the Group continues credit agents in the UK and to operate a self-employed agent the employment status operating model.
ofagents in the Republic Policies and procedures were in place ofIreland, particularly in the UK up to the transition to the given recent employment new operating model in 2017 and status cases reported continue to be in place in the Republic inthemedia.
of Ireland which seek to ensure that the relationship between the business Were the Group to be and the agents it engages is such that unsuccessful in defending self-employed status is maintained.
such claims, it may be Compliance with policies is also tested.
required to make payments to former agents as well To date the Group has successfully as being liable to pay defended historic employment status additional taxes, including claims brought against it by former PAYE and National agents in the UK and employment Insurance Contributions status claims brought by agents in the tothe relevant authorities.
The Group has also previously agreed the self-employed Furthermore, were a class status of agents with the tax authorities action or tax authority in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, challenge to be made although there can be no guarantee against the Group, whether that future claims or challenges will or not such action is besuccessfully defended.
successful, the Group could suffer harm to its reputation by virtue of any press or media attention.
Emerging risks Risk # Risk Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The FCA has been looking To date the Group and its businesses has Threats to E1 closely at the non-standard successfully accommodated regulatory changes industry lending sectors, particularly including the Credit Card Market Study CCCMS, high cost credit and home affordability changes PS18 19 and the more recent collected credit.
There changes announced under the High Cost Credit remains a risk that further review CP18 42. regulatory intervention All of these changes have either been addressed could result in constraints or have been anticipated through actions already leading to required changes in train.
in the Group and divisional The FCA has been supportive of home credit business model s. intheir plans but the Group will continue to work closely with the regulators to ensure we are able to fully comply and also potentially help shape anyfuture reforms.
This risk is considered to have a very high potential gross impact if the regulators were to consider extreme steps, but given the level of action taken so far the probability of further significant industry regulation beyond expected levels isconsidered lower.
53 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk # Risk Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy As was seen with the FCAs The pro-active ROP remediation programme Conduct risk E2 investigation into ROP, to refund interest on customer accounts Product there are risks that certain isapproaching its final stages.
liability aspects of the products Other than ROP, which is not currently on by the Group or the way sale tonew customers, the Group believes its we lend or promote them productsare simple and straightforward, and will always remain under soldor promoted in a fully compliant manner.
Each division has product review processes which There is a future risk that consider customer outcomes and product construct the regulator identifies and design, and we monitor closely all complaints product features or pricing received and take corrective action should this or customer outcomes prove appropriate.
that they consider As we saw with the ROP during 2017, the unacceptable, leading impactof a material finding carries a very high topossible remediation gross risk, but we consider the potential for any andintervention.
further product related findings from the FCA tobeconsiderably lower.
In the non-standard Moneybarn are currently nearing the end of an Responsible E3 lending sector, the risks of enforcement review into its lending processes, lending inadequately undertaking including affordability, and it is expected that affordability affordability assessments the outcome of this review will be concluded can be high and lead to shortly.
The Group believes it has raised a more customer detriment and than adequate level of provision against any regulatory intervention.
Across the Group, an extensive review of past and current affordability processes has been undertaken in order to determine whether there may be any systemic issues.
Supported by external legal advisors, the review has concluded processes are compliant and that there are no obvious systemic back book issues.
Isolated instances of process failure may beidentified.
However, it is not considered that they would require significant action other than onacaseby case basis.
As evidenced in recent wellDuring the last year the Group have seen Claims E4 publicised cases, concerted anincrease in the level of complaints received management efforts by CMCs can lead to via CMCs.
In a number of cases these have companies a significant increase in the been completely spurious claims and have level of complaints being beenrejected outright.
raised against the Group, Where valid claims are received, the Group whether these end up considers each on a case by case basis and only being settled or rejected.
settles a claim where it is clear there has been aprocess failure which may have led to potential oractual customer detriment.
The Group is not aware of any systemic issues and isable to provide a robust defence against complaints received via this channel.
The Group assesses the probability of increasing complaint levels as relatively high during the year.
With the upcoming regulation of CMCs under theFCA, it is believed that volumes may plateau orreduce over time.
As with all our complaints management activities, we undertake root cause analysis to improve our customer lending processes and ensure we continue deliver fair outcomes for our customers.
54 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Emerging risks continued Risk # Risk Description Likelihood Mitigating activities Link to strategy The risk of data breaches Significant work has been completed in 2018 Data and E5 orfailure to comply todeliver GDPR compliance.
Further plans are information with data protection inplace to continue towards full compliance.
security requirements such as Internal control processes call for the classification GDPR can result in costs of data and protection of any customer or sensitive to remediate, fines and data appropriate to its content.
is provided to all staff on the risks, controls and personal responsibilities in this regard.
Fines for non-compliance with GDPR are potentially very large but the controls and security mechanisms in place provide comfort for the Group that probability of occurrence is low.
Failures in governance A dedicated program was undertaken during Risk and E6 and or risk management 2018to strengthen governance and risk governance systems and controls management at both Group and divisional levels.
capabilities can lead to unexpected A fully documented approach has now been signed outcomes or surprises off at the Group Board and a number of much forsenior management, improved governance, risk and control processes aswell as potential have been introduced during 2018. regulatory censure under Although some elements are still relatively new and the Senior Managers require further embedding, it is considered that this Certificate Regime.
risk is low in terms of overall impact and probability.
We recognise that the speed of embedding these new activities could be hampered by changes in our operating model arising through the recently announced takeover offer.
CCD may fail to identify A great deal of work has taken place to improve Home credit E7 and manage customers the overall arrears process in home credit: the recovery plan showing signs of actual introduction of targeted customer communications Arrears or possible repayment as well as internal and external recoveries activities difficulty.
should support the forward flow management of arrears.
There still remains some challenges around how the home credit business better supports customers who find themselves in financial difficulty.
The ongoing confusion The consequences for the Group would most likely E8 Brexit and lack of clarity as to be felt through the knock on effects of a macrohow and when Brexit economic downturn, including potentially higher may occur is generating unemployment and increased living costs.
potential adverse economic Customers financial positions would potentially consequences.
These beimpacted leading to higher levels of financial include potentially lower distress and ultimately losses for the Group.
investment, uncertainty The non-standard lending sector has a higher over job security and degree of losses under normal conditions, possible withdrawal and theimpact from economic decline are ofbusiness and comparativelylower in their impact.
Through the ICAAP macro-economic stress testing, the Group has considered the outcome of a severe stress and has sufficient capital to manage its way through a downturn, although shorter term incomeand results will be materially affected.
Brexit is inherently uncertain and the risks assessments reflect this position.
