01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for ensuring that Risk management Second line of defence an appropriate and effective system of A key component of the Manual is the risk control and oversight internal control and risk management is Group Risk Framework, which requires Assists the Board to formulate and then in place across the Group.
The framework all business units to establish processes implement the approved risk appetite of risk management and internal controls for identifying, evaluating and managing and limit framework, risk management centres on clear delegated authorities to the risks facing the business.
plans, risk policies, risk reporting and ensure Board oversight and control of risk identification processes: and The Board determines the nature and important decisions.
The framework is Reviews and assesses the risk-taking extent of the principal risks it is willing to underpinned by the Group Code of activities of the first line of defence, take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Business Conduct, which sets out the where appropriate challenging the It has delegated authority to the Risk ethical standards the Board requires of actions being taken to manage and Committee to assist the Board in providing itself, employees, agents and others control risks and approving any leadership, direction and oversight of the working in the Group.
The framework is significant changes to the controls Groups overall risk appetite, risk tolerance designed to manage rather than eliminate in place.
and strategy, overseeing and advising the risk of failure to achieve business on the current and potential future risk Third line of defence objectives, and can only provide exposures of the Group, reviewing and independent assurance reasonable and not absolute assurance approving the Groups risk management Provides independent assurance against material misstatement or loss.
framework, including changes to risk limits on the design, effectiveness and within the overall Board approved risk Internal control implementation of the overall system appetite, monitoring the effectiveness The Group Governance Manual of internal control, including risk of the risk management framework and the Manual sets out delegated authorities management and compliance.
adherence to the various risk policies.
and establishes the requirements for Regular activities are detailed in the Formal review of controls subsidiaries to seek approvals from or report on pages 124 to 127.
A formal evaluation of the systems of report to Group Head Office.
Group-wide internal control and risk management standards are established through policies The Groups risk governance is carried out at least annually.
Prior to and other governance arrangements.
arrangements, which support the Board, the Board reaching a conclusion on the These policies are also included within the the Risk Committee and the Audit effectiveness of the systems in place, the Manual.
Internal controls and processes, Committee, are based on the principles full report is considered by the Disclosure based on the provisions established in the of the three lines of defence model: Committee and Audit Committee, with Manual, are in place across the Group.
risk taking and management, risk control risk-specific disclosures within the report These include controls covering the and oversight, and independent assurance.
also reviewed by the Risk Committee.
The This evaluation takes place prior to the operation of these controls and processes First line of defence publication of the Annual Report.
facilitates the preparation of reliable risk taking and management financial reporting and the preparation of Takes and manages risk exposures As part of the evaluation, the chief local and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the risk appetite, executive and chief financial officer in accordance with the applicable mandate and limits set by the Board: of each business unit, including Group accounting standards, and requirements Identifies and reports the risks that Head Office, certify compliance with of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
These controls the Group is exposed to, and those the Groups governance policies and include certifications by the chief executive that are emerging: the risk management and internal control and chief financial officer of each business Promptly escalates any limit breaches requirements.
The Group Risk function unit with respect to the accuracy of or any violations of risk management facilitates a review of the matters identified information provided for use in preparation policies, mandates or instructions: by this certification process.
This includes of the Groups consolidated financial Identifies and promptly escalates the assessment of any risk and control reporting, and the assurance work carried significant emerging risk issues: and issues reported during the year, risk and out in respect of US reporting requirements.
Manages the business to ensure full control matters identified and reported by compliance with the Group risk the other Group oversight functions and The Board has delegated authority to the management framework as set out in the findings from the reviews undertaken Audit Committee to review the framework the Manual, which includes the Group by Group-wide Internal Audit, which and effectiveness of the Groups systems Risk Framework and risk policies as well carries out risk-based audit plans across of internal control.
The Audit Committee as approval requirements, among other the Group.
Issues arising from any external is supported in this responsibility by the requirements.
regulatory engagement are also taken assurance work carried out by Group-wide into account.
Internal Audit and the work of the business unit audit committees, which oversee the effectiveness of controls in each respective business unit.
Details of how the Audit Committee oversees the framework of controls and their effectiveness on an ongoing basis, is set out more fully in the report on pages 115 to 123. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 107 3rd line of defence 2nd line of defence 1st line of defence Risk management and internal control continued Board Board Nomination Remuneration Risk Audit & Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Executives Chief Executive Group Committee Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Group Asset Group Group and Liability Regulatory Chief Risk Committee Director Officer Balance Sheet & Chief Group Executive Capital Management Financial Risk Committee Committee Officer Management Sub-committees Group Group Chief Security Group Group Group-wide Finance Compliance Information Security Risk Internal Audit Office Board-level committees Executive personnel Exec Management committees GHO functions Direct reporting line Regular communication and escalation For the purposes of the effectiveness Effectiveness of controls control environment, and the necessary review, the Group has followed the FRC In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the actions that have been or are being taken.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal UK Code and provisions C. 2.1 and C. 2.2 The Audit Committees at Group and Control and Related Financial and Business of the HK Code, the Board reviewed the subsidiary level collectively monitor Reporting.
In line with this guidance, effectiveness and performance of the outstanding actions regularly and ensure the certification provided above does system of risk management and internal sufficient resource and focus is in place not apply to certain material joint ventures control during 2018.
This review covered to resolve them within a reasonable where the Group does not exercise all material controls, including financial, time frame.
In these cases, operational and compliance controls, The Board confirms that there is an ongoing the Group satisfies itself that suitable risk management systems, budgets and the process for identifying, evaluating and governance and risk management adequacy of the resources, qualifications, managing the significant risks faced by the arrangements are in place to protect the experience of staff of the Groups Group, which has been in place throughout Groups interests.
However, the relevant accounting, internal audit and financial the period and up to the date of this report, Group company which is party to the joint reporting functions.
The review identified and confirms that the system remains venture must, in respect of any services a number of areas for improvement, effective.
it provides in support of the joint venture, particularly in respect of the general IT comply with the requirements of the Groups internal governance framework.
108 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
