PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 35 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Insight for effective risk management The Audit & Risk Committee assumes accountability for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Seepage28 of our 2018 Governance and Financial Statements for further information.
Viability statement that expires in February 2020 will be The viability assessment has two parts: renewed on a similar basis as there is 1.
T he Directors considered the period PZ Cussons has over 130 years of nothing to indicate that this would not over which they have a reasonable trading history with a long standing be the case.
The cost savings expected expectation that the Group will tradition of sustainable growth in our from the further optimisation of continue to operate and meet its key regions of Europe, Africa and Asia.
the Groups operating model were liabilities: and Our in-depth local understanding, included in the first year only: and strong brand position and robust 2.
T he Directors considered the Carried out a robust assessment of the infrastructure within these markets, potential impact of severe but principal risks and uncertainties facing allied to a strong Group balance sheet, plausible scenarios over this period.
the Group, including those that would enable us to withstand short-toAlternative forecasts have been threaten its business model, future medium-term political and financial prepared that take account of performance, solvency and liquidity.
instabilities that may adversely impact the Groups principal risks and the Group.
uncertainties and the impact they could have, both individually and The Directors have assessed the taken in aggregate, on the Groups prospects of the Group over a period performance.
of three years from the balance sheet date.
A three year period is considered Of these, the most severe but plausible scenarios or combinations thereof appropriate for this assessment reviewed were as follows: because it is consistent with the period over which we consider risks covered Scenario Link to principal risk s by the risk register and it enables a A global economic downturn leading to a material Consumer, Customer high level of confidence in assessing reduction in profitability in our main markets of Nigeria, andEconomic Trends viability, even in the extreme scenarios the UK, Indonesia and Australia described below.
A devaluation of the currency and a reduction in Treasury and Tax Assessment liquidity in Nigeria leading to nil profit from this market, combined with an increase in funding costs The business model and strategy as set out on pages 6 and 7 are central A reduction in profit due to a one-off charge received IT and Information Security to an understanding of the Groups from a regulatory body Treasury and Tax prospects and provide the framework for the strategic plan that is reviewed Legal and Regulatory Compliance and approved annually by the Board, including detailed trading and cash flow forecasts covering that period.
Findings Conclusion The alternative scenarios assumed Based on their assessment of In order to report on the viability of the reductions in revenue, margin, net profit prospects and viability, the Directors Group, the Directors: and cash flow over the three year period.
confirm that they have a reasonable Considered the Groups revenue In all cases the Group remained viable.
expectation that the Group will be able profit projections, cash generation The scenarios modelled did not account to continue in operation and meet its and financing position including for mitigating actions that the Group liabilities as they fall due over the three headroom and covenants on could take, such as a reduction in capital year period ending 31 May 2021. existing facilities.
It was assumed expenditure, reduction in overhead that funding facilities will continue spend and increasing the Groups to be available and that the facility financing facilities.
I m p l e m e n t y f i t n 36 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Identifying and assessing risk and implementing effective risk mitigation activities isan essential element of ensuring that we are able to deliver on our strategy.
The process and timetable are replicated Group Internal Audit provides Our Approach at regional business levels and the independent assurance to both the The Board has ultimate responsibility regional teams report the outcome Executive Committee and the Audit & for effective risk management of the oftheir risk management process to Risk Committee on the effectiveness of Groups strategic objectives.
During the the Executive Committee to ensure the Groups risk management framework year we refreshed our Risk Management thecapture of both the significant and that sound internal control systems Policy and strengthened the common Group-wide risks, along with any operate to mitigate these risks.
risk framework utilised throughout specific risks that apply to a particular the Group.
This covers initial risk market.
Again, each risk identified and Our Group risk management processes identification and assessment through to responsibility for mitigating actions is are designed to manage rather than planning and implementing effective risk owned by a designated senior member eliminate the risk of failure to achieve its mitigation activities, and finally defining of local management.
strategic objectives and can provide only a disciplined timetable to routinely reasonable but not absolute assurance monitor and report the risk profile for against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has considered and approved the risk management policy and the risk appetite for the Group, and has delegated the review of risk management effectiveness to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Audit & Risk Committee assesses and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework by routinely receiving analysis and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to ensure, where possible, that appropriate action is being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Group operates both top-down Risk and bottom-up approaches to ensure Management that both significant strategic and operational risks are identified.
The process Executive Committee performs an assessment of all principal risks facing the Group including consideration of any internal or external risk trends that may give rise to new risks.
"In addition, ""deep-dive"" reviews of specific principal risks are performed to ensure that the controls are adequately resourced and are effective to maintain exposure within the defined risk appetite parameters."
Each principal risk is owned by an Executive Committee member.
e d I P l a n t r r o o p t i e n r o d M n a A s s e s s Internal Audit Top down PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 37 Our Risk Management Framework Board of Directors Defines policy, sets risk appetite and assesses principal risk fortheGroup.
Maintains overall responsibility for sound risk management and internal controls.
Audit & Risk Committee Assesses and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and internal control systems.
Executive Committee Ensures that the risk management framework is embedded andoperates throughout the Group.
Regularly reviews the regionaland consolidated risk registers and ensures that mitigationactivities are in place.
Regional and Operating Unit Management Ensures that the risk management framework is embedded ataregional and local level.
Regularly reviews the risk register andensures that mitigation activities are in place.
Consumer, Customer and Economic IT and Information Security: the Changes to our Risk Profile Trends: as noted in both the Chairs prevalence and sophistication of As part of our risk management process, and Chief Executive Officers cybersecurity incidents in general we not only identified the risks most statements, the year has been for all companies continues to significant for our business, but also particularly challenging in our largest elevate.
Consequently there is both whether we believe the gross level for market Nigeria and in our UK Washing an increased risk of disruption to each risk is increasing or decreasing.
We believe our operations, or unauthorised Those risks that we believe are most these factors will not decrease in the access and misuse of our sensitive prominent or increasing in profile to the short-term and therefore maintain an information as a result of our systems Group are: elevated riskstatus: and being attacked.
Bottom up 38 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Link to strategy key Delivering growth and Leveraging our marketCreating a world class supply expansion across all of leading brands across all chain to optimise business our geographies our categories and operational efficiency Embracing our CANDO Integrating Good4Business spiritand culture to build principles into our global clear differentiation operations Risk Description of risk Measures to manage risks Consumer, In an environment where consumer We actively listen to our consumers via social listening, market preferences and behaviours are changing research and shopper insights to ensure that our product Customer more rapidly, and the channels by which development pipelines respond rapidly and meet our consumers and Economic our consumers purchase our products needs.
Examples of our new products brought to market are included Trends evolve, there is a risk that we neither meet in the regional reviews on pages 28 to 33 for our main threemarkets.
our consumers needs nor ensure that During the year we focused on maintaining strong relationships with our brandsare well presented and easily our existing customers and built relationships with new customers, available to purchase.
"which range from centrally managed large ""modern"" retailers to small In addition, we operate in a number of ""traditional"" traders accessed via distributors in developing countries."
markets that are exposed to elevated Joint business plans are in place with our key customers, with agreed economic and political volatility that can KPIs that are subject to regular monitoring and performance reviews.
impact our consumers' purchasing ability.
By operating across a number of both developed and developing markets we are able to mitigate, to a degree, regionalised risks.
In addition, our long-established history of operating in these markets has also allowed us to distinctively understand our consumers and evolve our product portfolio accordingly.
We communicate with our customers A centrally governed IT function continually monitors known and IT and and suppliers electronically and our emerging threats that may impact us.
Information manufacturing, sales and distribution Security We have refreshed our IT policy framework, which includes both operations are dependent on reliable IT protection of business and personal information and elevated systems and infrastructure.
Prolonged awareness including cyber-risk to our employees.
disruption to these systems could have a significant negative impact on the Processes are in place to ensure that our critical data is backed performance of the Group.
Ongoing investment in upgrades patches cybersecurity threats are becoming more ofoursystems and the applications we use ensures their security prevalent and sophisticated in nature, which andreliability.
We routinely test our systems to ensure that they could lead to unauthorised access to our remain robust.
systems and loss of sensitive information.
The need to find more sustainable ways of Our Good4Business strategy, and in particular our Environment, Sustainability doing business is vital.
This includes ensuring Sourcing and Community & Charity programmes, that are led and Environment the raw materials we need are responsibly andmonitored by a Board Committee, ensures that we commit sourced and efficiently used and that we tooursustainability objectives for all our stakeholders.
are responsible and an integral part of the Read more about our G4B Environment programmes, including our communities in which we operate.
"Failure to ""25by25"" Plastic Promise initiative to reduce use of plastics, in the do so risks us not achieving our stated our G4Bsection on page41."
stated Purpose, Ambition and Values.
This could consequently limit our ability to grow and create value and may potentially damage our reputation.
We are subject to a wide spectrum of Our legal, regulatory and safety specialists both at a Group and Legal and legislation, regulation and codes of practice regional level monitor and review the external legal and regulatory Regulatory that can vary between the geographies environment to ensure that we remain aware of and up to date with Compliance in which we operate.
Examples include all relevant laws and legal obligations.
They are also supported by a product safety, competition, anti-bribery network of external experts who can be engaged as required.
and corruption, Health & Safety and In addition, we operate a confidential global whistle-blower hotline, employment.
Failure to adhere to such laws which is widely communicated and available to all our employees.
can result in reputational damage, as well as significant fines and the possibility of For further information, see our Business Governance and Ethics criminal liability.
programme within the G4B section on page 40.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 39 Risk Description of risk Measures to manage risks We recognise that in order to deliver We regularly review our reward programme, which combined with Talent sustained growth, we require the best our CANDO culture provides an attractive employment proposition Retention calibre of people.
Failure to attract, develop to current and prospective future employees.
and retain the correct combination of Our global appraisal and employee management process allows us appropriately qualified, experienced and to identify training requirements and validate succession plans, as motivated employees could jeopardise our well as identify our future leaders and critical talent that needs to ability to meet our strategic objectives.
See the CANDO section on page 20 for further details of how we have enhanced our talent development and retention programmes.
As we further optimise our operating model, Dedicated programme management teams have been established Business and continue to leverage additional cost that include Executive Committee members, with key initiative Transformation synergies from the recent completion of progress routinely reported to the Board.
our globally deployed SAP system, there is a For further information on the business transformation initiatives see risk that failure to execute these initiatives theChief Executive Officer's review on page 4. effectively could result in under-delivery of the expected benefits and consequently impact the return we are able to make to our shareholders.
Consumer The safety and quality of our products is of We apply robust quality management standards and systems, paramount importance to us to ensure the rigorously monitoring them throughout all stages of the supply Safety well-being of our consumers.
This not only applies to our own production facilities but the practices we adopt to ensure product toourthird-party manufacturers as well.
safety may result in reputational damage, We also maintain a dedicated consumer complaints hotline.
Any significant financial loss from product recalls incidents relating to the safety of our consumers or quality of our and fines from regulators together with products are actively investigated to ensure that timely and effective possible criminal liability for the Group.
Read more about our Consumer Safety programmes in the Business Governance and Ethics section of Good4Business on page 40.
Our production and distribution We undertake a rigorous selection process prior to engaging Supply Chain facilities could be severely impacted by with new third party suppliers and perform ongoing audit and and Logistics adverse effects, such as a failure of a key performance monitoring to ensure that contracted standards are supplier, a Health & Safety incident, or an being maintained or exceeded.
We use multiple suppliers where environmental catastrophe.
Our dedicated Group Procurement team has specialist knowledge and understanding of key raw materials and commodities markets and our systems allow us to review forward requirements and to obtain value.
See further details of our modern supply chain operations on page 18.
The international nature of our operations We maintain an established Group Treasury function and our Treasury and gives rise to both transaction exchange Group Treasury Policy defines our non-speculative approach Tax rate risk and translation exposure when tothemanagement of foreign currency exposures.
the results, assets and liabilities of foreign Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits with shortsubsidiaries are translated into Sterling.
to medium-term forward exchange contracts taken to reduce our In addition, in the event of tax authority exposure to fluctuations.
challenge to a filed tax position in a A Group Taxation Policy is in place available on our website, which jurisdiction in which we operate, there is a defines the way in which we conduct ourselves with respect to our risk of an unplanned charge and resulting tax affairs.
Our in-house taxation expertise is also complemented by the use of specialist tax consultants and advisers to ensure compliance with all local and international tax regulations and treaties.
Brexit The impact of the UKs exit from the EU has been considered as part of the risk management process.
Whilst we do not see this as requiring a separate defined risk area, it has been considered as an element of other principal risk areas.
The introduction of trade tariffs, further volatility in Sterling and limits to the free movement of people could particularly impactour European-based operations, including both our suppliers and the purchasing ability of our consumers located within the region.
We will continue to monitor the potential impact of Brexit and take proactive steps to mitigate any risks that may emerge.
