PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 79 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial riskmanagement a Financial instrument fair value estimation The Group holds a number of financial instruments that are held at fair value within the Financial Statements.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments utilised by the Group during the years ended 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: Current and non-current investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Groups Balance Sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term in nature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings and cash The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
In deriving the fair value, the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, level 2 or level 3 dependent on the valuation method applied in determining their fair value.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
For both the year ended 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017, the assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency contracts have been classified as level 2.
There have been no transfers between either level 1 and 2 or level 2 and 3 in any period.
80 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial riskmanagement continued b Financial liabilities and assets Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017.
None of the financial assets and liabilities have been reclassified during the year: Restated 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying amount and amount and fair value fair value m m Available for sale Current asset investments held at cost 0.3 0.3 Non-current asset investments 0.3 0.3 Loans and receivables Cash and short-term deposits 102.7 150.6 Trade and other receivables 158.7 179.1 Fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial assets 1.5 Derivative financial liabilities 1.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 90.9 118.9 Bank overdrafts 16.5 34.5 Bank loans 251.9 260.2 Trade and other payables previously included accruals and deferred income, which does not meet the definition of a financial liability and as such has been excluded from this disclosure.
Current and non-current asset investments have been included in this disclosure.
Included in cash and other short-term deposits is cash denominated in the Nigerian Naira of 52.3m 2017: 52.5m, which has been translated based on the NIFEX rate of exchange.
The appropriateness of this exchange rate is considered a critical area of judgement as disclosed in Note 1.
Borrowings 2018 2017 m m Overdrafts due within one year 16.5 34.5 Bank loans due within one year 251.9 260.2 268.4 294.7 Loans due within one year includes the Groups main borrowing facility, provided by three lenders in the form of a 285m multicurrency revolving credit facility committed until 29 February 2020.
The Group also has access to uncommitted working capital facilities amounting to 197.9m 2017: 201.6m.
At 31 May 2018, 16.5m 2017: 14.0m was drawn against these facilities in the form of overdrafts and short-term borrowings.
Overdrafts do not form part of the Groups main borrowing facility and arise as part of the Groups composite banking arrangements with key banking partners.
Under the terms of this arrangement, cash and overdraft balances recognised by the Overdrafts Obligor Group are considered as one cash pool with the net position being monitored by the Directors and Lenders.
These overdraft balances have been presented gross with a corresponding increase in cash at bank and in hand.
The terms of the Groups main facility reflect current market commercial terms and pricing for a loan of this nature for a credit score relating to PZ Cussons standing.
Drawn amounts under the facility attract a variable margin over LIBOR based on the Groups Net Debt EBITDA ratio.
Undrawn amounts attract a commitment fee.
The facility is unsecured but the lenders benefit from a guarantee from the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group.
2018 2017 2018 Interest 2017 Interest m rate % m rate % Borrowing 268.4 1.5% 294.7 1.4 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 81 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial riskmanagement continued c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise all trading and hedging derivatives that include the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts.
These are fair valued as level 2 derivative financial instruments.
The net valuation of the forward foreign exchange contracts at year end is: 2018 2017 m m Assets Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.5 Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.1 The full fair value of the Groups hedging derivatives is classified as a current asset or liability as the maturity of the hedged items is less than 12 months.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises on sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity that enters into the transaction.
The Groups policy is to hedge committed sale and purchase transactions in full, and to hedge a proportion of highly probable forecast sale and purchase transactions on a twelve-month rolling basis.
Foreign currency transaction risk also arises on financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and Group policy also allows for these exposures to be hedged using forward currency contracts.
At 31 May 2018, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign currency contracts that are held to hedge the Groups transaction exposures was 96.8m 2017: 43.7m.
For accounting purposes, the Group has designated the foreign currency contracts as cash flow hedges.
At 31 May 2018, the fair value of the contracts was 1.1m 2017: 1.5m.
d Financial risk management The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in exchange rates, credit risk, liquidity and interest rates.
The Groups treasury function reports to the Board at least annually with reference to the application of the Group Treasury Policy.
The policy addresses issues of liquidity, funding and investment as well as interest rate, currency and commodity risks.
The Groups risk management policies are designed to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor the risks and limits continually by means of reliable and up-to-date systems.
The Group modifies and enhances its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets and products.
The Audit & Risk Committee, under authority delegated by the Board, formulates the high-level Group risk management policy, monitors risk and receives reports that allow it to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management policies.
i Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
The Group has dedicated standards, policies and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
Although the Group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating and equity price reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each aforementioned class of receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As an example the Groups borrowings are arranged with a syndicate of major banks and are committed until 2020.
82 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial riskmanagement continued An analysis of the international long-term credit ratings of counterparties where cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts are held is as follows: 2018 2017 m m AA 7.1 19.2 A 18.5 38.7 B 59.1 55.1 C 1.5 3.1 Total 86.2 116.1 ii Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains a strong liquidity position and manages the liquidity profile of its assets, liabilities and commitments so that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all funding obligations are met when due.
All of the Groups financial liabilities, including derivatives, will be settled within 12 months.
Foreign exchange forward contracts are settled on a gross basis.
iii Market risk management Market risk is the risk that movements in market rates, including foreign exchange rates, cash flow, interest rates and commodity prices, will reduce the Groups income.
The management of market risk is undertaken by the operating unit Finance Directors under delegated authority using risk limits approved by the Board.
iv Foreign exchange risk management The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Subsidiary undertakings must ensure that all transactional exposures arising from commitments in a currency other than their functional currency are identified and monitored.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to manage these exposures.
The below sensitivity analysis was conducted by modelling a 10% weakening based on average annual fluctuations of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 May, which would have increased equity and increased decreased profit by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant: 2018 2017 Income Income Equity statement Equity statement m m m m Nigerian Naira 21.1 0.1 23.7 2.0 Euro 3.5 0.1 4.5 0.4 Indonesian Rupiah 3.5 0.5 4.1 0.7 Australian Dollar 3.1 1.2 2.1 0.5 Polish Zloty 1.5 0.1 1.6 A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the above currencies would have had the equal and opposite effect on equity and profit by the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
v Price risk management Due to the nature of the business, the Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group does take measures to protect against short-term impacts of these fluctuations: however, failure to recover higher costs could have a negative impact on profits.
