Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management framework Board of Directors Effective risk management plays an integral Responsible for effective risk management across QinetiQ Group.
Sets risk appetite role in everything we do: ensuring we utilise the and assesses principal risks Group-wide risk management framework to inform our decision-making, support the successful Risk & CSR Committee Audit Committee delivery of our objectives and increase our Focuses on risks where the primary Focuses on risks where the primary operational efficiency.
impact is non-financial impact is financial Our strategic focus on commercial innovation and changes in our core customers approach to risk Executive Committee are key business drivers shaping our application of Identifies and monitors the principal risks, as well as the material risks risk management.
Proposing innovative business including operational reported from the Business and Group Functions models and taking a more outputs-based approach to existing and new contracts are examples of how we are taking on more risk to Risk Management Internal Audit pursue opportunities, while simultaneously Designs and facilitates the risk Provides assurance to senior innovating for our customers advantage.
management processes across the management and the Board on the organisation, provides risk expertise and effective implementation of risk Our risk management framework, including support to the businesses and reports risk management processes and internal key responsibilities is shown to the right.
The information across the Group control systems, through an ongoing reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & programme of risk-based audits CSR Committee can be found on pages 55 to 61.
Details of the Groups system of risk management and internal control can be Business and Operational Management found in the corporate governance statement Own and review Business and Operational risks, operate controls and implement mitigation on pages 50 to 54. actions QinetiQ risk appetite Cautious Balanced Eager The Board defines and reviews its tolerance of risk through establishing a clear risk appetite Commercial and setting appropriate delegations of authority to the executive and senior leaders.
QinetiQ Opportunities relating focuses on those critical risk areas necessary to increased market to achieve our strategic goals.
The risk appetite share where we have is articulated by defining three categories which proven delivery into describe the balance of scrutiny and mitigation existing markets activity against likely benefit or reward: Cautious Opportunities that Avoidance of uncertainty with negligible or low translate proven residual risk.
Applying innovation prudently where delivery into new the risks are fully understood.
markets Balanced Opportunities that Preference for delivery options that have a low translate new or moderate degree of residual risk.
Applying capability delivery into innovation only where successful delivery is likely.
existing customers Eager Willing to consider all delivery options despite Opportunities that greater inherent risk and eager to be innovative.
involve new capability or delivery into new markets Operational Operational delivery Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements 22 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Bottom up Top down Risk register The Group risk register consists Strategic risks of material risks relating to effective delivery of our strategy.
The Board recognises that some risks may be UK Defence Test and International affected by factors outside the control of the Company and also Evaluation strategy strategy recognises that however robust the risk management processes are, they cannot provide absolute assurance and unknown risks may manifest Risk Risk without warning.
The Company UK Government budget constraints lead to Plans to grow our international business may be has processes in place to deploy reduced spending in the core markets in which impacted by external influences outside of our appropriate management to the Group operates.
EU exit causes a loss of control, such as geopolitical risks, or specific risks such risks.
market confidence and reduction in collaborative arising from working in new markets.
Impact Impact A reduction in revenue and associated Unable to realise expected growth in the planned profitability from the Groups government and time-frames.
Mitigation Mitigation Our strategy is focused on leading and Our international strategy is focused on the modernising UK Test and Evaluation in support of markets we feel we have the best routes to access our customers objectives.
with the most appropriate products or services.
Proactive engagement with our major customers Adopting a focused approach ensures we can allows us to support their objectives and our closely monitor our progress, adapting and investment into core contracts helps to ensure responding as necessary.
that we are able to provide the right services as the threat environment continues to evolve.
We undertake extensive due diligence, taking the appropriate professional advice to ensure Note Read more in the Strategic report on page 8 structural, regulatory, legal and political risks are The Transformation Programme risk understood and minimised.
included in the 2017 Annual Report has been retired following the We partner, where appropriate, with high-quality successful completion of the initial local businesses to leverage their infrastructure Programme.
However, focus remains and fide-risk the process.
on ensuring the subsequent changes are embedded.
Read more about our addressable markets on page 16 Key Metrics Metrics Proximity Customer satisfaction All financial KPIs All financial KPIs International revenue 0-1 years Responsibility Responsibility Group Director Business Development Managing Director International 1-2 years Risk appetite Risk appetite Eager Balanced to Eager 2 years Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Medium High Medium High Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Low Medium High Strategic report | Principal risks QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Strategic risks Innovation strategy A material element of the Single source Groups revenue is derived contract regulations from one contract Risk Risk Risk Failure to create a culture of innovation or to invest The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is Group performance is adversely affected by adequately in, or create value from, our innovation a 25-year partnering relationship with UK MOD to application of regulations from the Single Source investment.
As well as the risks arising from the provide test, evaluation, and training services.
introduction of disruptive technologies alternative Government budget constraints could lead to a business models.
material change to the contract.
Impact Impact Impact Negative impact on the Groups market position, The LTPA directly contributes a material The regulations could have an adverse impact competitiveness, and future growth.
proportion of the Groups revenue and earnings.
on the Groups financial performance.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We have a strong track record of innovation.
Our aim is to provide our customer with the Our strategy to lead and modernise UK T&E and capabilities they need to test and train against invest in our core contracts allows us to put a Our overall strategy helps us to ensure that we current and future threats in a cost-effective greater volume of our UK single sourced work onto focus our innovation on areas with clear manner leading and modernising UK T&E.
longer-term firm-price contracts, reducing the commercial opportunities.
proportion of our revenues exposed to changes As a business we have become more customer in the SSRO rate.
We are focused on effective collaboration to find focused and we are applying this to understanding the best routes to market for our technology, such requirements for the remainder of the LTPA which Our growing international business provides the as our partnership with Rockwell Collins.
we are in the process of negotiating.
opportunity for us to earn higher-margin work which further mitigates SSRO margin pressure Our operating model, based on matrix working, Our recent investment into a core part of this on qualifying work within the UK.
helps to ensure that any internal barriers to contract continues to ensure it meets our collaboration and knowledge sharing are removed.
customers expectations and remains relevant QinetiQ continues to support a joint industry in an evolving threat environment.
position in refining the SSRO framework and Read more about our approach to its practical application.
Metrics Metrics Metrics Customer satisfaction All financial KPIs except orders Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Customer satisfaction All financial KPIs IRAD investment Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Group Director Business Development Managing Director Maritime, Land and Weapons Chief Financial Officer Group Director Test & Evaluation Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Balanced Balanced Cautious Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Medium High Medium High High Medium Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity 24 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Operational risks Recruitment and retention Significant breach of relevant Security and IT systems laws and regulations Risk Risk Risk The Group operates in many specialised The Group operates in highly regulated A breach of physical or data security, cyberengineering, technical and scientific domains environments and recognises that non-compliance attacks or IT systems failure could have an where key capabilities and competencies may be has the potential to compromise our ability to adverse impact on our customers operations.
lost through failure to recruit and retain employees conduct business in certain jurisdictions and or a lack of domain-specific graduates leads to a would potentially have an impact on a variety future skills shortage.
Impact Impact Impact Delivery of business strategies, plans and projects Failure to comply with particular regulations could Significant reputational damage, as well as would be impacted negatively.
result in a combination of fines, penalties, civil or the possibility of exclusion from some types of criminal action, suspension or debarment from government contracts resulting in reduced government contracts, as well as damage to the orders, revenue and profit.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Ensuring regular communication and Instilling the right behaviours and culture within Data security is assured through a multi-layered greater connectivity for our people via the QinetiQ is a key part in minimising the risks.
approach that provides a hardened environment, Employee Engagement Group, face-to-face including robust physical security arrangements communications, and the launch of the Global In addition, the Groups robust policy, procedures and data resilience strategies.
and mandatory training defines clear expectations for the Group and its employees.
Information systems are designed with Helping our people to develop and fulfil their consideration to single points of failure and potential via the QinetiQ Academy and clear Key areas of focus include: comply with relevant accreditation standards.
Safety of product and services, health, safety & Mandatory security awareness training for all staff.
environment, international trade controls, bribery Ensuring we have access to talent now and in and ethics, where the Group adopts a zero the future such as the STEM outreach programme tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
and as founding members of The 5% Club.
Read more about our people on page 32.
Metrics Metrics Metrics Employee engagement Health and safety Cyber dashboard Apprentices and graduates Mandatory training compliance Security dashboard Voluntary employee turnover Commercial intermediary monitoring Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Group Director Human Resources Company Secretary Group General Counsel Chief Financial Officer Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Balanced Cautious Cautious Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Low Medium Medium High Medium High Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Strategic report |Principal risks QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic report P PR RI IN NC CI IP PA AL L R RI IS SK KS S C CO ON NT TI IN NU UE ED D RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION Using our risk appetite to inform our approach to international business Our international business growth targets are ambitious and in order to achieve these we need to be clear about the specific risks we face and the level of risk we are prepared to accept see International strategy risk.
We have a Balanced to Eager approach to opportunities where we are able to translate proven capabilities into new markets: with a preference for delivery options that have a high chance of success but a low or moderate degree of residual delivery risk.
Our approach to developing our presence in new markets has been to amalgamate local knowledge, business capability, regulatory awareness and cultural values, with our proven capability and technology.
The most advantageous approach to achieving this outcome has been to utilise partnerships which deliver a solid platform for growth, minimising our capital investment requirements and deliver an accretive low risk value proposition.
Minimising our residual risk exposure in this way strengthens the realisation of sustainable and profitable revenue growth for the International business.
Investing into the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA Considering risk in how we deploy our capital Considering the balance between risk and reward is a key part of determining how and where we deploy our capital.
We have an Eager risk appetite for opportunities which increase market share where we have proven delivery into existing markets, ensuring we have considered all delivery options and are innovative.
The investment we are making into the LTPA is an example of how risk-based decision-making has been used to identify and progress an opportunity for the mutual benefit of our customer and our business, and is aligned to our strategy of leading and modernising UK T&E.
S ee risks UK Defence Test and Evaluation strategy and A material element of the Groups revenue is derived from one contract This approach made strategic sense: the long-term contractual revenues, margin and capital repayment profiles, which provide a reasonable rate of return, were complemented by the opportunities to attract a growing share of international work to our UK facilities.
26 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
