Strategic report Risk Management How we manage risks Throughout the year the risk management approach Risk management process and will be subject to continuous review and updated methodology toreflect new and emerging issues, which are The effective understanding, acceptance and themselves reviewed to understand the significance management of risk is fundamental to the strategy to the business.
Risks are identified and monitored and success of Rank.
An enterprise-wide Group risk through risk registers at the Group level and within management methodology is in place.
This is key business units, ensuring both a top-down and integrated into the organisation management bottom-up approach.
structure and responsibilities, with the principal aim of providing oversight and governance of the key The board has overall responsibility for the and principal risks to the Group, as well as ongoing operation of the risk management framework and monitoring of any upcoming and emerging risks.
for establishing the Groups risk appetite, as well as ensuring that the above approach is embedded into During the period under review, Rank has sought to the operations of its business.
The audit committee improve its enterprise risk management capabilities holds responsibility for assessing the ongoing and to enhance its ability to identify, mitigate, effectiveness of the risk management framework and monitor and review these principal risks.
For each processes, and for undertaking an independent risk identified within the impact areas the review of the risk mitigation plans for material risks.
likelihood, consequence and risk owner executive committee member are identified.
The risk owner Additional committee working sessions are held isresponsible for defining the risk mitigations, with departmental and divisional management to whichare reviewed for appropriateness and ensure that risks are being identified in a timely monitored regularly.
manner, mitigating controls over identified risks Risk management framework Board Overall responsibility for risk management framework and processes Sets risk appetite Reviews the Groups risk profile Group Audit internal committee audit Risk function committee Oversees risk management Reviews corporate risk register Develops a risk-based internal frameworkand processes auditprogramme Carries out deep dive reviews into Reviews action plans to specific departments and support Audits the risk processes across managesignificant risks functions risk registers theorganisation Identifies and manages risks as they arise Receives and provides assurance onthe management of risk Provides a forum to ensure the adequate and timely progress Reports on the efficiency and of  effectiveness of internal controls 42 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS areappropriate and effective, and action plans are include consideration of theimpact of each risk, the put into place foremerging risks.
This approach direction of travel andactions taken to mitigate ensures that organisational risks are being identified these risks.
The risks considered included: in both atop-down and a bottom-up manner to a decline in retail revenue: give assurance that risk registers are appropriate adverse changes to rates of tax: andcomprehensive.
adverse regulation: Internal audit helps manage risk identification through conducting independent reviews of both adverse gaming win: the business risk and its progress in performing the breaches of regulation: mitigating action plans agreed for any relevant risks, the status of which is reported to the risk committee.
loss of licences: and technological risks including cyber security.
Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing The Group strategic plan is updated annually the financial information, the directors have andconsiders current trading trends, the impacts considered the issues impacting the Group during from capital projects, existing debt facilities, and the period as detailed in the operating review on expected changes to the regulatory and competitive pages 34 to 38 and have reviewed the Groups environment as well as expectations for consumer projected compliance with its banking covenants.
In carrying out the assessment Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and the directors have reviewed and challenged key operating budgets, the directors believe that the assumptions within the Groups strategic plan.
Group will generate sufficient cash to meet its Anumber of plausible but severe downside risks, liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from including consideration of possible mitigating the approval of this report and will comply with its actions, have been modelled with particular focus banking covenants.
on the potential impact to cash flows, net debt headroom and covenant compliance throughout Viability statement theperiod of review.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK A number of assumptions were included within the Corporate Governance Code, the directors make assessment, including no material adverse change to: thefollowing statement.
The directors have considered the current position gaming legislation: of the Group, its prospects and longer-term viability gaming duties: over a period of three years to June 2021.
Although societal attitudes to gambling: and longer periods are used when making significant strategic decisions, three years has been used as it is licences required to operate gambling.
considered the longest period of time over which suitable certainty for key assumptions in the A reverse stress test was also carried out in order gambling sector can be made.
toanalyse combinations of the above risks which couldbring about insolvency: in such cases it is In making this statement, the directors have anticipated that mitigation measures including performed a robust assessment of the principal risks areduction in dividends and capital expenditure facing the Group which includes consideration of could be implemented in order to forestall both financial and non-financial risks that may suchanoutcome.
threaten the business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency of the Group.
The principal As a result of this assessment the directors have risks facing The Rank Group Plc and our approach concluded that they have a reasonable expectation torisk management are set out on page 44 to 46 and that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three-year period.
Our risk management process Monitor Review Identify Mitigate www.
