Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Addressing our risks The risks below do not include all risks associated Principal risks with the Groups activities.
Additional risks not The risks outlined in this section are those principal presently known to management, or currently risks that are material to the Group and represent a deemed less material, may also have an adverse point-in-time assessment, as the environment in effect on the business.
Examples of other risks which the Group operates is constantly evolving include ongoing changes in the macroeconomic andtherefore new risks may arise.
Risks such Additionally, the potential impact of known risks asthese are not raised as principal risks, but are may increase or decrease and our assessment of a nevertheless under constant monitoring by the risk may change over time.
The risks below are not Group for any impact on the subsequent set out in any order of priority.
Principal change in risk Mitigation Risk risk Impact strategy More laws and Regulations information Regulatory and legislative regimes for betting and The Group ensures that it actively provides increasing See our market gaming in key markets are constantly under and promotes a compliant environment in review With the increased focus of review and can change at short notice.
These which customers can play safely.
regulators the risk here is changes could benefit or have an adverse effect page 21 considered to be increasing, The Group participates in trade bodies on the business and additional costs might be and the impact of nonrepresentations to political and regulatory incurred in order to comply.
compliance could result in bodies to ensure that such stakeholders the imposition of licence Current key risk areas include: clearly understand the positive conditions, the loss of contribution that the business provides to responsible gambling including adverse gaming licences and or fines.
impact on brand and reputation : The Group also works with stakeholders,  enhanced due customers and regulators to help public diligence requirements: and understanding of the gaming offers it jurisdiction management.
The Group engages with regulators as appropriate and examines the learnings from, and measures adopted by, other operators and sectors of the gambling industry.
More Taxation information Changes in fiscal regimes for betting and gaming The Group continues to monitor taxation Stable See our Tax in key markets can change at short notice.
These levels, performs regular analysis of the FactFile It is envisaged that there will changes could benefit or have an adverse effect financial impact to the organisation of be no further changes in page 47 and additional costs might be incurred in order changes to taxation rates and develops taxation in the immediate to comply with any fiscal requirements.
organisational contingency plans as future other than Remote appropriate.
Gaming Duty, with the risk Current key risk areas include: and impact of current regimes Remote Gaming Duty: being understood.
Machine Gaming Duty: and Gaming Duty.
44 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS principal change in risk Mitigation Risk risk Impact strategy More Changing Consumer Needs information Progressive changes over time in retail consumer The Group monitors financial performance Increasing See our market spending habits are resulting in lower numbers across the clubs with clubs performing review With the retail of customer visits.
This can also be attributable to adversely being raised for remedial macroeconomic the overall retail proposition declining in attention.
page 21 environment, changes in relevance to the consumer and changes in the consumer spending habits Changing the club product and service macroeconomic environment.
and need to continually offering to have greater appeal to todays assess the relevance of the more leisure-oriented customer is being proposition, this is requiring developed through segmentation and new an ever-increasing focus by product offerings.
Strategic Projects Key strategic projects could fail to deliver Key strategic projects are subject to detailed Increasing resulting in missed market opportunities, and or management oversight from a project team A failure to deliver key take longer to deliver resulting in missed as well as having sponsorship from a strategic projects impacts on synergies and savings.
customer loyalty and the strategic growth of the Current key strategic projects include: The Group has a structured and disciplined organisation.
project delivery methodology to ensure Grosvenor One: and that critical projects are robustly managed content management system.
A comprehensive project risk approach isalso undertaken within the project, managed by experienced project managers.
More business continuity planning information Planning and preparation of the organisation to Group business continuity plans have been Stable See our ensure it overcomes serious incidents or disasters developed and are in place for key business strategyon The geographical nature of and resumes its normal operations within a areas, with an ongoing refresh to ensure the operating environment reasonably short period is critical to ensure that that they remain current for all business page 24 and key risk exposures have minimal impact occurs to its operations, areas.
not changed significantly and customers and reputation.
This approach includes the development, Typical disasters that business continuity covers embedding and refinement of the incident can include: natural disasters including fires and and crisis management approach for the floods, accidents impacting key people, Group in order to proactively manage insolvency of key suppliers, negative media these incidents.
com | 45 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued principal change in risk Mitigation Risk risk Impact strategy More Customer Data Management information Processing of personal customer data including Awareness, training and recruitment of a STABLE See our name, address, age, bank details and betting data protection officer to oversee ongoing strategyon The Group has developed a gaming history is performed and therefore must data regulation compliance.
robust control environment comply with strict data protection and privacy page 24 in relation to customer data A programme of activity has been initiated laws in all jurisdictions in which the Group controls and the regulatory to ensure the Group meets the GDPR operates, such as GDPR.
requirements and continues to improve its The Group is exposed to the risk that this data current control environment.
could be wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in breach of data protection regulations.
This could result in prosecutions including potential financial penalties and the loss of the goodwill of its customers.
It could also deter new customers.
Cyber Security and Resilience Cyber attacks can disrupt and cause considerable External cyber benchmarking has been Increasing financial and reputational damage to the Group.
performed to understand the maturity of Due to the persistent nature If a cyber attack were to occur the Group could controls with a roadmap of further work of this threat and reliance on lose assets, reputation and business, and planned to enhance them within the core technology systems, this potentially face regulatory fines and litigation current IT estate.
is considered an increasing as well as the costs of remediation.
A programme of work is ongoing to Operations are highly dependent on technology enhance cyber security and resilience and advanced information systems such as within the IT estate with dedicated cloud computing and there is a risk that such specialised resources.
technology or systems could fail or outages occur.
Third Party Supply Chain The Group is dependent on a number of The Group has a central team in place to stable third-party suppliers for the operation of its oversee the process for acquisition of The third-party operating business.
The withdrawal or removal from the suppliers across the Group.
environment and key risk market of one or more of these third-party exposures remain unchanged.
Close communication and relationships suppliers, or failure of these suppliers to comply are in place with suppliers to ensure that with contractual obligations, could adversely Group requirements can be met.
affect operations, especially where these suppliers are niche.
VOLATILITY OF GAMING WIN The nature of the games played means that win Gaming limits are utilised across all areas Stable margin can fluctuate in the short term, although of gaming operations to continually Fluctuations in gaming win it will generally perform at a stable average over a manage risk exposure.
Such limits are margin directly affect longer period.
The important VIP sector of the business in both retail and digital contains a small volume of customers who can themselves create volatility in the overall margin given the value of their gaming play.
Issues with misfeasance or the accurate management of the games can also affect win margins.
46 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
