Principal risks Our principal and emerging risks, as at 31 December 2018.
Key to principal risks Category ID Risk title Risk statement RB 2.0 delivery RB 2.0 does not deliver improved business performance: 1 Change programme delivery IFCN operational and cultural integration Accelerated growth delivery Innovation Inability to innovate and organically drive top-line growth 2 Strategic Disruption Inability to respond, adapt and evolve to changing consumer needs and behaviours: 3 Channel disruption specifically digital requires changed perspectives and greater speed and agility to compete Increased competition from local and trade brands Product safety Consumer safety compromised 4 Supply continuity Disruption to the continuity of supply: 5 Loss or prolonged closure of a mono-source factory Failure of operational resilience BCP business continuity planning New regulations requiring local suppliers Operational Cyber-security Significant business disruption due to increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks 6 Fatality major Death or serious injury as a result of a failure to prevent work accidents 7 employee safety incident Talent Inability to attract, retain, motivate and develop talent 8 Tax disputes Significant unprovisioned cash flows as a result of tax authority challenges to filed 9 taxpositions Regulatory Inability to keep pace with an evolving regulatory landscape resulting in potential 10 environment manufacturing and distribution disruption impacting top-line growth and brand reputation Compliance Legal Non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations anti-corruption, global 11 non-compliance competition, GDPR Department of Justice DoJ Risks deriving from ongoing DoJ investigation and related antitrust litigation 12 South Korea Humidifier Risk from liability beyond current provisioning 1 3 Sanitizer HS Black Swan event Multiple brands impacted by unforeseen reputational incident s BS Other Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Emerging risks: Regulatory Changes in the regulatory landscape in Sustainability We fail to adapt to sustainability keycountries adversely impact our operations there.
opportunities and challenges such as transparency and Tariffs and trade sanctions Increasing global political traceability of sourcing, supply chain performance and instability may result in a structural change to tariffs and environmental impacts water, climate change, waste, trade agreements adversely impacting our supply chain.
alongside changing stakeholder expectations, including theuse of packaging plastics, paper and board, etc.
Principal risks Interconnected risks Action planning to mitigate principal risks is complicated bythe interconnectivity between them, requiring robust oversight by leadership teams to prioritise time and resources as appropriate.
BS 1 3 Compliance Strategic 1 12 2 12 5 11 1 2 4 3 1 3 11 8 10 3 10 6 7 9 9 4 8 5 7 6 Remote Possible Likely Highly Likely Operational Probability Mitigation activity Colour indicates extent of activity outstanding to mitigate in-line with risk appetite.
Significant and Some significant All significant urgent actions actions remain mitigating actions remain underway in progress are in place and operating effectively Risk movement Arrows indicate movement from prior year position.
Direction and distance of movement.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 43 Impact Manageable Moderate Major Critical Principal risks continued Risk movement: 1.
RB 2.0 delivery Decreasing The risk Potential impact Current control strategy Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 The RB 2.0 reorganisation does not RB 2.0 undermines operating Detailed Gemini change programme Gemini streams and ERP deployments Executive ownership resides directly at Execution to plan of the Gemini deliver the anticipated improvement performance across the business, are sponsored and owned by specific execution plan prepared and corporate with the Group CEO and CFO, major change programme with to business performance and instead particularly in the context of integration ongoing governance model senior leadership team members.
Strong with both business units responsible each of its multiple workstreams, causes significant unforeseen of multiple systems across both business governance and change management implemented alongside.
including legal entity restructuring, disruption to the Group operations.
The heavy change agenda controls in place to ensure there operating model, enhanced financial required to successfully implement is regular focus on understanding Specifically, legal entity restructuring Board oversight is provided by reporting, ERP migration, business RB 2.0 leads to change fatigue and completed in our key markets, including progress, removal of any roadblocks, the main Board, with the Audit shared services andproduct life cycle breakdown of key controls.
to drive delivery and ensure the seamless customer go-live for the new Committee overseeing the programme management.
Progress to plan on each of the effectiveness of key controls.
management of the supporting is expected to continue until IFCN integration takes longer than workstreams, including IFCN integration.
expected and or distracts attention Personal leadership of the Group CEO and Group CFO.
Specifically, the from business delivery, and does Target rating from current Amber not deliver the projected benefits Programme Review Board PRB is toGreen by the end of 2019. chaired by the Group CFO and meets within expected time frames.
The Audit Committee reviews progress of Gemini at every meeting, including rolling deep dives into each workstream.
Innovation New The risk Potential impact Current control strategy Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 That the current innovation pipeline Inability to effectively innovate results R&D organisation split between Base business innovation is driven Executive ownership resides directly with Ongoing activity to embed and is not sufficient to meet our growth through a three-year pipeline and in failure to achieve the necessary dedicated innovation teams focused the heads of the two business units strengthen organisation as well ambitions, with the recent focus innovation rate hurdles in terms of on NPD delivery for key global brands resource allocation, with quarterly Health and Hygiene Home.
as enabling the core capabilities on fewer, bigger, better leaving us monitoring against targets.
growth contribution and GM accretion and operations team focused on to optimise its effectiveness.
to organically drive top-line growth.
Front-line organisation Board oversight is provided by the has been strengthened through Investment in cross-functional teams main Board.
Target rating from current Amber to Inability to compete with the category development team being to assess and participate in new remain Amber at the end of 2019.
This new competitor, often smaller relocated into the markets.
Resource growth platforms and whitespace, is a multi-year deliverable to build and entrepreneurial companies leveraging dedicated to deliver on e-commerce partnership with manufacturers embed the significant actions required.
new channels and digital media.
to fast track innovation in new segments and consumer data insights External partnership capabilities capability to identify emerging strengthened to co-create innovations.
Consumer data and insights team focused on insight generation and idea validation through new digital tools for faster and more accurate innovation modelling.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 1.
See Viability Statement on pages 56-57.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 45 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 3.
Disruption New The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Inability to respond, adapt and Share loss to insurgent brands that are End-to-end structures and Broader strategy under development but Executive ownership resides directly E-commerce strategy, strengthened evolve to changing consumer needs nimbler in proactively understanding accountabilities being put in place examples include category management with the heads of the two business resourcing and technology, and new and behaviours with appropriate evolving consumer needs and to drive disproportionate growth within RB 2.0 reorganisation to provide units Health and Hygiene Home.
success models will be rolled out to innovation and agility to service.
leveraging 21st century marketing the right mix between product life cycle markets.
in key opportunity markets and technology, as well as exploiting rapidly categories.
E-commerce strategy, and national brand support in store.
Board oversight is provided by the emerging channels like e-commerce main Board.
Target rating from current Amber to resourcing and technology being and Mom and Baby Stores, could rolled out to lead markets.
This is significantly reduce top-line growth.
a multi-year deliverable to build and embed the significant actions required.
Product safety No change The risk Potential impact Current control strategy Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Risk of robust process for the Consumer safety issues lead to Completion of several product A robust quality management system Executive ownership resides directly Key activities for 2019 are the first assessment of product safety not is underpinned with clear policies and reputational damage with consumers, safety programmes and piloting with the Group Chief SQRC Officer, phase of an upgraded product lifecycle being in place or operating effectively, customers or regulators.
Significant ofa product lifecycle management supporting systems, which are subjected who drives activity through each of the management system to better enable leading to safety risk to consumers.
to comprehensive and independent financial losses could arise from system to improve compliance and business unit executive leadership teams.
compliance management throughout supply disruption, product recalls, reduce manual intervention.
safety and vigilance team monitors Board oversight is provided by as well as possible criminal liability Roll-out of base training to all and reports on adverse events.
Target rating from current Amber for senior management.
Also, gaps employees, as well as specific training to remain Amber at end 2019. in the completion of our safety for relevant employees to understand Safety and vigilance is part of the This is a multi-year deliverable assessments and a lack of anticipation their role in ensuring safety, quality and SQRC safety, quality and regulatory to replace current systems.
of new safety concerns could regulatory compliance for RB products.
compliance team which reports exacerbate any potential impact.
directly to the CEO and is accountable to the Compliance Management Committee CMC and thereafter to the CRSEC Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 3.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 47 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 5.
Supply continuity Increasing The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Risk of disruption to the continuity of Such disruption could result in supply Increased investment in manufacturing Procurement, manufacturing and supply Executive ownership resides directly Further develop specific BCPs.
For supply as a result of reliance on single shortages and importation barrier facilities to enhance reliability and services have defined manufacturing with the Group Chief Supply Officer, specific brands and markets, identify factories that supply key markets issues, leading to loss of sales and continuity of supply.
Highly Protected and quality control processes to ensure with both business units responsible a second manufacturing source and without actively qualified alternative market share.
Also, potential loss products are safe and meet all regulatory Risk HPR certification achieved for all for their respective deliverables.
execute formula equipment qualification manufacturing sites in place.
of competitiveness and profitability but one key ex-MJN manufacturing and legal requirements.
Continuous trials to provide an active BCP.
from service level deterioration arising review of new and alternative suppliers locations.
Business Continuity Plans Board oversight is provided by the from factory capacity constraints, BCPs reviewed and strengthened of key ingredients.
Target rating from current Red to warehouse or transport set-up charges assessed and those considered key or to ensure that business continuity Amber by the end of 2019. or insufficient change capability in arrangements remain appropriate.
strategic have the required investment factory and or supply services, including to attain HPR status by our insurers.
Also, annual review of business interruption insurance policies to ensure adequate cover is in place.
Cyber-security Decreasing The risk Current control strategy Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 RB is susceptible to increasingly Significant business disruption, data Assessment of enterprise cyber-security Cyber-security risk working group Executive ownership resides directly with Deployment of agents to all RB systems sophisticated cyber-attacks aimed established to govern, track and report theft, regulatory non-compliance, risk to determine downstream risks, the Group Chief Information Officer.
to ensure continuous monitoring of at causing harm to our information reputational damage and financial document and prioritise, implementation on risk management activities and vulnerabilities and implementation of assets by circumventing confidentiality oversee control design effectiveness loss through fines or inability to of first phase of cyber defence Board oversight is provided by the an advanced remediation management via unauthorised access and or operate the business normally.
monitoring partnership including and operational effectiveness testing.
service to continuously track and disclosure, integrity via modification end-to-end execution to detect and Ongoing investment in the Cyber drive remediation of discovered of data or availability via This risk is heightened by increasing respond in a highly proactive and Transform Programme CTP to buy risk system vulnerabilities.
Also, further destruction or denial-of-service.
volume and types of sensitive personal controlled way and deployment down by implementing relevant controls strengthening of automated tooling data held, a strengthened regulatory of external digital threat and risk to achieve a good cyber-security control into digital agile processes to reduce environment including significant monitoring and alerting capability.
the risk associated with introduction financial penalties for non-compliance, ofvulnerabilities into RB environments.
increased likelihood and overall impact Continued implementation, of cyber-security risks due to the operationalisation and sophistication Target rating from current Red to growing number of connected systems of the cyber-security operating model, Amber by the end of 2019, as a including third parties and a continuing organisational structure and programme number of significant ongoing actions rise in sophistication, complexity, to provide ongoing security controls are completed and align to provide volume and speed of cyber-attacks.
enhanced mitigation, although further significant actions are foreseen to remain current as the threat evolves.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 5.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 49 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 7.
Fatality major employee safety incident No change The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Work accidents leading to death, Impacts are wide ranging and variable Extensive programme to embed Policy and enhanced employee EH&S Executive ownership resides directly Refreshing of Group minimum injury or illness on RB premises or in materiality: they may include loss heightened employee health and safety standards in place, audit compliance with the heads of the two business standards into Highly Protected Manual premises under RB supervision, in of life, damage to brand employer EH&S culture across the enlarged programme ongoing including selfunits Health and Hygiene Home.
format, completion of Group 18001 case of outsourced operations.
reputation, reduced operational assessment, site visits, assurance of Group, through rigorous auditing, Certification across all RB sites by end efficiency from factory closure or culture surveys and training initiatives.
improvement actions and culture Board oversight is provided by of year.
Also, continued programme significant supply disruption, impaired surveys and ongoing EH&S training the CRSEC Committee.
ofculture surveys and local safety days.
financial performance from lost sales, Driver Safety Standard Programme including commercial offices.
fines or remediation cost and possible deployed.
The EH&S standards are set and Target rating from current Amber to criminal liability for senior management.
Oversight from Supply and R&D audited against by a second line of remain Amber at the end of 2019. leadership teams as well as the Group defence compliance team within SQRC, CMC and CRSEC Committee.
accountable to the CRSEC Committee.
Talent Increasing The risk Current control strategy Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Post completion of the RB 2.0 Disruption to business performance.
The implementation of the RB 2.0 Succession plans for key management Executive ownership resides directly The current reward structure is kept reorganisation, there is a risk that positions are in place.
Retention risk reorganisation presented the opportunity with the Group Chief HR Officer, under review to ensure it remains fit RB cannot implement its strategies to optimise talent across the Group analysis is undertaken regularly, including with both business units responsible for purpose and appropriate targets and meet objectives as a result of review of turnover rates.
Continuous and succession planning has benefited for their respective deliverables.
are set for both external and internal management leaving the business who from the infusion of MJN talent.
review of competitiveness of the stakeholders.
Strategic workforce cannot be readily replaced by equally total compensation programmes and Board oversight is provided by the planning is in progress to understand high-calibre experienced candidates.
Employee Value Proposition EVP set Remuneration Committee.
the shape of the workforce and how by management with focus groups itwill change over the next three years undertaken at each business unit level.
DARE programme to Develop, Target rating from current Amber Attract, Retain and Engage talented to Green by the end of 2019. women launched in May 2015 with the aim of increasing the retention rate of females from manager to senior management positions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 7.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 51 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 9.
Tax disputes No change The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Risk of significant unprovisioned If our operating model is not considered Ongoing timely and robust responses Ongoing review by RB Tax, country Executive ownership resides at corporate Timely and robust responses to cash outflows as a result of in any country to be BEPS compliant to progress outstanding disputes FDs and external advisors with directly with the Group CFO.
progress outstanding disputes, tax authority challenge to filed or the necessary behavioural change and continual monitoring of central provisioning for anticipated continual monitoring of progression tax positions in territories.
is not sufficiently communicated or progression in relation to Advanced exposures.
Continuous monitoring Board oversight is provided by the in relation to APAs and subsequent implemented and embedded, both Pricing Agreements and subsequent of information onEC State Aid Audit Committee.
operating model tax audits and The tax environment remains uncertain: internally and externally, tax authorities operating model tax audits.
investigations and possible application increased prioritisation of projects EC investigations into potential state may successfully challenge the tax results to RB.
Monitor impact of the BEPS and senior management overview.
Also the of the operating model with a potentially Detailed and thorough documentation initiative and other law changes to adoption in countries of the Base Erosion significant financial impact on the Group.
and technical support from advisors.
identify possible adverse impacts and Target rating to remain Green at the and Profit Shifting BEPS initiative put in place remedial strategies.
end of 2019. creates the potential for uncertainties, as does tax reform e. g. the US.
Proactive engagement with both business units on RB 2.0 programme activities.
Regulatory environment Decreasing The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Risk of non-compliance with regulations Significant financial losses arising A detailed review of the portfolio is Multiple control programmes in place Executive ownership resides directly Key activities for 2019 are the first of relevant product classifications from supply disruption, product ongoing with progress exceeding 2018 to manage regulatory compliance with the Group Chief SQRC Officer, phase of an upgraded product lifecycle e. g. medicinal products, medical recalls, delayed launches, penalties, targets.
The programme reviews critical risks, including: regulatory excellence who drives activity through the Health management system to better enable devices, dietary supplements, etc.
or even possible criminal compliance elements of the portfolio compliance of RBs medicine business unit executive leadership team.
compliance management throughout food, cosmetics, general products, liability for senior management.
and covers both business units.
The marketing authorisations, product the life cycle.
and applicable regulations, schedule follows a risk-based approach.
vulnerability review of ingredients, Board oversight is provided by guidelines, internal standards and or formulations, stability data, etc.
Target rating from current Amber registrations across the supply chain Also, an upgraded product lifecycle Health portfolio and product integrity to remain Amber at end 2019. and throughout the product life cycle.
management system is being developed compliance with registration and This is a multi-year deliverable and piloted to replace ageing systems or regulatory requirements.
as well as integrate RB and MJN.
Also, the CMC structure ensures KPIs are reported from the top to all levels in the organisation.
There is an appropriately resourced single system for consumer complaints in place and specialist audit teams providing independent assurance.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 9.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 53 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 11.
Legal non-compliance No change The risk Potential impact Current control strategy Mitigation progress in 2018 Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Risk that we are not fully compliant with Damage to RBs reputation, significant Ongoing proactive management of Group compliance programme with Executive ownership resides directly Continued embedding of this function relevant laws and regulations, including potential fines and possible criminal dedicated compliance personnel current and potential litigation.
Project with the Group SVP General Counsel will continue with key activities anti-corruption laws, data privacy liability for RB senior management.
developed for monitoring and preventing in each business unit supported by and Company Secretary, with including competition law targeted risk laws and global competition laws.
internal compliance liaisons and any potential abuse of market position.
both business units responsible for assessments and e-learning module: The acquisition and integration of Development and roll-out of updated external local legal experts as and when their respective deliverables.
delivery of core GDPR requirements: MJN have increased our exposure required.
Interaction with HCPs policy online training for the enlarged RB Group and rationalisation of RB and with regard to anti-corruption laws, fully incorporating the acquired MJN strengthened and extended to cover the Board oversight is provided by IFCN due diligence processes.
specifically Health Care Professional full portfolio of the Health business unit.
a combination of the Audit and HCP interactions.
Data privacy risk CRSEC Committees to ensure Target rating from current Amber has also increased with new regulation Global compliance online training Progression of GDPR readiness full and appropriate coverage of toremain Amber at the end of 2019. e. g. GDPR and as companies hold project post-May 2018, including modules completed by all employees, the compliance programme.
This is an ongoing and dynamic with refresher deployment each growing amounts of personal data.
the formation of RB Privacy Office programme for which significant and the definition of broader privacy year: core modules include code of new actions are expected as we conduct, anti-bribery, antitrust, data objectives to ensure that privacy by respond to new situations and design is embedded across the Group.
privacy and separately product safety.
Group-wide whistleblower hotline operational, widely communicated and reinforced through robust independent investigation and follow-up.
Department of Justice DoJ No change The risk Potential impact Current control strategy Oversight accountability Mitigation progress in 2018 Activity impact for 2019 Risks deriving from ongoing DoJ Potential criminal indictment of Efforts to reach civil resolution Ongoing close oversight by Group Executive ownership resides directly RB will continue to respond investigation and related antitrust SVP General Counsel and Company the Group or employees, with of the investigation.
with the Group SVP General appropriately to any new enquiries litigation relating to legacy reputational impact, distraction and Secretary, top management and Board, Counsel and Company Secretary.
or requirements from DoJ if and pharmaceutical business.
with advice from external counsel.
potential debarment which could Ongoing preparation of defences when they are received.
theoretically extend to IFCN business.
Board oversight is provided by the main Board.
Target rating from current Amber to Significant financial liability for the remain Amber by the end of 2019, as Group from settlement or adverse court there is nothing further to be done to decisions in criminal or civil matters.
mitigate the risk at the present time.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 11.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 55 Principal risks continued Risk movement: 13.
South Korea Humidifier Sanitizer HS No change The risk Potential impact Mitigation progress in 2018 Current control strategy Oversight accountability Activity impact for 2019 Significant financial and reputational While a provision was made in 2016 to RB South Korea has continued to Full public apology formally and Executive ownership resides directly Continue to work closely with the risk as a result of the health issues cover the initial rounds and certain other work closely with the government, repeatedly made by RB South Korea withthe Group CEO.
government, lawyers and other caused by consumers inhaling costs, the risk of additional exposure lawyers and other businesses to to affected parties.
Regular review businesses to progress and close Oxy Sac Sac a humidifier sanitizer remains.
There is still some uncertainty meetings continue with the Group, to Board oversight is provided by the progress and close settlement with settlement with claimants as well acquired from Oxy in 2001. around the outstanding claimants from claimants as well as to establish a viable oversee and guide settlement progress main Board.
as to establish a viable ongoing the final round, as well as from potential and other issues as they arise.
ongoing model for the business.
associated injuries, as designated by the local fact-finding commission.
Modelling continuously updated Target rating from current Amber to quantify and monitor evolving to Green by the end of 2019. risk and ensure adequacy of provisioning for financial exposure.
Viability Statement The Board conducted a Viability Review covering a five-year period.
This period was selected as it is the period covered in the Groups long-term forecasting process, which covers the introduction to market of the current new product pipeline.
The five-year Viability Review first looks at the Groups ability to continue in operation if it performs in line with the Group forecast.
This assumes that normal market conditions continue and current trends remain.
The evaluation takes into account the Groups cash flow, historical Group planning accuracy, available banking facilities and interest cover ratios in connection with financial covenants.
The analysis concluded that if RB performs in line with forecasts it would have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and remain compliant with financial covenants.
The analysis goes on to consider the viability of the business should adverse unexpected events arise.
To illustrate this, a sensitised view of the Group forecast was produced.
The adverse assumptions are based primarily upon the realisation of key Group principal risks, which have the most relevant potential impact on viability see risks marked on pages 44to 57.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk movement: 13.
The sensitivity assigns each adverse assumption an estimated As a result of the Viability Review, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in annual monetary value and estimates the impact on interest cover ratios and headroom over available borrowing facilities.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period covered in the Viability Review.
The analysis concludes that even with the occurrence of key unexpected scenarios, RB would still have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and remain compliant with financial covenants.
The Board has further considered the occurrence of a Black Swan event: an event with sufficient potential impact to risk the future of RB as a strong and independent business operating in its chosen markets.
The occurrence of a major issue could result in significant reputational impact, a catastrophic share price fall, significant loss of consumer confidence, and the inability to retain and recruit quality The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 57, has been people.
Such an event could have an impact on the viability approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board As there are a number of mitigating controls in place across the business, the occurrence of a Black Swan event is Rupert Bondy considered sufficiently unlikely that it has not been factored Company Secretary into the sensitivity analysis.
18 March 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 57
