STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 100 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 101 GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Report continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GOING CONCERN Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 are set out in the table below.
The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and financial reporting published by Current Comparison the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Reporting Year Year 1 July 17 to 1 July 16 to As explained in the Financial Review on pages 48 to Emissions from: 30 June 18 30 June 17 Units 51, the Group maintains adequate committed Scope 1 activities: banking facilities.
As stated in note 14 to the financial Direct emissions from combustion of fuels statements, at 30 June 2018, the Group had 245m and business travel 12,006 11,128 tonnes of CO e of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available.
2 Scope 2 activities: After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 2,275 2,956 tonnes of CO e consider they have a reasonable expectation for 2 stating that the Group and the Company have Total emissions: adequate resources to continue trading for the Scope 1 Scope 2 14,281 14,084 tonnes of CO e 2 foreseeable future.
These enquiries consisted of a Intensity ratio: detailed review of the Groups financial forecast for 2 2 the period to 31 December 2019.
The forecasts take Total emissions per 100m of build 2.48 2.50 tonnes of CO e per 100m of build 2 into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
As part of the review, the Group analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period linked to its banking facility, arriving RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
at an assessment of the headroom evident between Further details and the independent assurance The Company has a centralised Product the forecast covenant test outturn and the outturn report can be found at www.
co. uk Development Team charged with identifying and necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
The building-responsibly  new construction techniques and review confirmed headroom within both financial efficiently.
In addition, the Company has a covenants and facilities.
centralised Sustainability Team, as these issues play INDEPENDENT AUDITORS a prominent role in the Companys activities.
The Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going The Company has commenced a tender process Company recognises its responsibilities to the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
for the appointment of new Auditors.
The tender community as a whole and has adopted an process will be supervised by the Audit By order of the Board environment strategy which is a core part of the Committee, who will then make a recommendation Companys objectives.
to the Board on the appointment of the replacement Auditor.
Following the appointment, The charge to the income statement in respect of GRAHAM COPE an announcement will be made.
research and development in the year ended 30 Company Secretary June 2018 was 0.6m 2017: 0.6m.
Redrow plc In the meantime, a resolution to re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors METHODOLOGY Registered no: 2877315 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on This disclosure includes all of the emission sources Wednesday, 7 November 2018. required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic 3 September 2018 Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
PROVISION OF INFORMATION These sources fall within our consolidated financial TO AUDITORS: statement and we do not have responsibility for any In the case of each Director in office at the date the emission sources that are not included in our Directors report is approved, confirm that: consolidated statement.
a so far as the Director is aware, there is no Emissions have been calculated using the UK relevant audit information as defined in section Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the for Company Reporting.
Reported Scope 2 emissions Companys Auditors are unaware: and are calculated using location-based method.
b they have taken all of the steps that they ought This inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has to have taken as a Director in order to make been verified by SGS to a limited level of assurance, themselves aware of any such relevant audit in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006, as meeting information and to establish that the Companys the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Auditors are aware of that information.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 102 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 103 GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Annual Report and the financial statements in Each of the Directors, whose names and functions accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are listed below confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 12 month that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, period.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared balanced and understandable and provides the the Group financial statements in accordance with information necessary for shareholders to assess International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the Group and the Companys position and as adopted by the European Union and Company performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this the European Union.
Under company law, the statement are: Directors must not approve the financial statements Steve Morgan Chairman unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and John Tutte Group Chief Executive Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director financial statements, the Directors are required to: Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent select suitable accounting policies and then apply Non-Executive Director them consistently: Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director Group financial statements and IFRSs as adopted Vanda Murray Non-Executive Director by the European Union have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: By order of the Board make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and GRAHAM COPE prepare the financial statements on the going Company Secretary concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will 3 September 2018 continue in business.
Redrow plc The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding Redrow House the assets of the Group and the Company and St. Davids Park hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Flintshire and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
CH5 3RX The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
LYON SQUARE, HARROW, LONDON STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 104 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Redrow plc detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but Opinion Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit not limited to, the listing rules, pensions legislation and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, reviewing Committee.
In our opinion, Redrow plcs group financial statements and the financial statements disclosures and agreeing to underlying supporting documentation where necessary.
We made enquiries company financial statements the financial statements : with management to obtain further understanding of current and potential risks of non-compliance.
There are inherent limitations Basis for opinion in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events We conducted our audit in accordance with International give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the groups responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 12 month period the period then ended: risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
have been properly prepared in accordance with have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as our opinion.
Key audit matters adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Independence Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the companys financial statements, as applied in accordance financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and We remained independent of the group in accordance with the not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with risks identified by our audit.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2018: the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard consolidated income statement and statement of were not provided to the group or the company.
We tested managements controls over the process for estimating Valuation of inventory Group comprehensive income, the Group and Company statement of the expected remaining build costs, including the budgeting and See the Accounting Policies for the directors cash flows, and the Group and Company statement of Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, review processes.
disclosures of related accounting policies and key changes in equity for the 12 month period then ended: the we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the accounting estimates.
See note 13 for the detailed We have also attended a divisional commercial meeting to accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
company in the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. disclosures on the inventory balance at year end.
understand and observe the process for discussing build progress at individual sites, updating cost to complete accruals, investigating The Group holds inventory in the form of land for build variances, and any potential issues with planning permission development, work in progress and showhomes with a on sites held.
Our audit approach carrying value of 2,291m, net of provisions.
Overview Weinspected evidence of the Boards review of divisional The carrying value of inventory is determined by managements forecast sales prices.
reference to a number of assumptions and Overall group materiality: 19.00 million 2017: 15.75 million, judgements, which are subject to levels of estimation.
We have observed a sample of site assessments performed at based on 5% of profit before tax.
These include regular updates to site appraisals for month ends to determine the progress of the site build.
Materiality latest sales prices and costs to complete, the Overall company materiality: 7.79 million 2017: 4.90 million, availability of mortgage financing for customers, the based on 1% of total assets.
We did not identify any significant deficiencies of control during availability of Government schemes aiding first-time these procedures.
buyers, and assessments of the likelihood of obtaining Two financially significant companies in the Group, being Redrow planning permission on land held for development.
We reviewed managements forecasts to identify any non-profitable Audit scope Homes Limited, and Redrow plc.
sites, assessing managements assumptions relating to these sites Changes in any of these key judgements could lead to and ensuring adequate provisions were included for them.
We The components where we performed our audit work, accounted a material change in the carrying value of inventory.
compared forecast sales prices to actual prices achieved post for 98.4% of revenue and 94.4% of profit before tax.
year-end and assessed the accuracy of managements historical Key audit forecasts by comparing net realisable values recognised in the prior matters year with actual sales prices achieved in the current year.
All sites Valuation of inventory Group.
identified through this procedure were either already included in Valuation of pension scheme surplus Group and Company.
managements provision, or related to build variances which form part of a separate provision.
For significant sites that have not yet been developed, we The scope of our audit considered the latest stage of planning applications and assessed the accuracy of managements historical estimates by comparing As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial previous estimated impairments to actual outturns achieved.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant not identify any material differences between managements accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
estimations and actual results achieved.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 106 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Redrow plc For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The range of materiality allocated across components was between 7.79 million and 18.80 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
Valuation of pension scheme surplus Group We obtained and read the IAS19 valuation report that was prepared by the Groups independent firm of actuaries and used by the and Company We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.9 directors in calculating the value of the Groups surplus in respect of See the Accounting Policies for the directors million Group audit 2017: 0.8 million and 0.4 million Company audit 2017: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below the defined benefit pension scheme.
disclosures of related accounting policies and key those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
See note 7e for the detailed We have reviewed the pension scheme membership data provided disclosures on the pension scheme surplus.
to managements actuary in relation to deferred members on which Going concern the pension surplus is calculated.
In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme with a net surplus of 22 million at the year We used our own actuarial experts to assess the judgemental end.
This surplus is derived from assets with a gross assumptions within the valuation report, specifically the discount Reporting obligation Outcome value of 133 million less the present value of rate, future RPI inflation, mortality rates and expected returns on obligations of 111 million, both of which are significant investments.
The results of our audit work indicated that the We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or in the context of the overall balance sheet and the financial and demographic assumptions were within a reasonable in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether to draw attention to.
However, results of the Group.
the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of because not all future events or accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification conditions can be predicted, this The valuation of this net surplus is dependent on the We reviewed managements assessment of the right to recognise of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys ability to continue statement is not a guarantee as to application of significant judgements in the actuarial the net pension surplus under the requirements of IFRIC 14 and in as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of the groups and companys ability to assumptions, in particular discount rates, future Retail light of the Scheme Rules are satisfied that it is appropriate to Price Index RPI inflation and mortality rates, and the approval of the financial statements.
No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
Changes in any of the key actuarial assumptions accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our could lead to a material movement in the calculated net surplus.
knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information How we tailored the audit scope The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in and the industry in which they operate.
this report, any form of assurance thereon.
The Group comprises one principal trading company and a number of smaller subsidiaries and joint ventures, all of which are based in the UK.
We performed audits of the two financially significant companies in the Group, being Redrow plc and Redrow In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Homes Limited.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
All work was performed consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the by the Group engagement team.
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Materiality With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Strategic Report and Directors Report Group financial statements Company financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Overall materiality 19.0 million 2017: 15.75 million.
Directors Report for the period ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the We believe that total assets is the In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the primary measure used by the primary measure used by the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 shareholders in assessing the shareholders in assessing the position of performance of the Group, and is a the Holding Company, and is a generally generally accepted auditing benchmark.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 108 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Redrow plc is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or solvency or liquidity of the group in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: The directors confirmation on page 102 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Use of this report The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with The directors explanation on page 102 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING qualifications or assumptions.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with Other Code Provisions the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The statement given by the directors, on page 102, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and Appointment companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 5 January 1987 to audit the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 1987 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 32 years, covering the years ended 30 June 1987 to 30 June 2018..
The section of the Annual Report on page 70 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
ARIF AHMAD Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Directors Remuneration Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 3 September 2018 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 110 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Income Statement Balance Sheets For the 12 months ended 30 June As at 30 June Group Company 2018 2017 Note m m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note m m m m Revenue 1,920 1,660 Assets Cost of sales 1,451 1,255 Intangible assets 8 2 2 Gross profit 469 405 Property, plant and equipment 9 15 16 Administrative expenses 87 83 Investments 10 6 27 Operating profit 2 382 322 Deferred tax assets 11 4 5 3 Financial income 3 3 4 Retirement benefit surplus 7e 22 22 Trade and other receivables 12 8 11 Financial costs 3 10 12 Total non-current assets 57 61 22 3 Net financing costs 7 8 Inventories 13 2,218 2,043 Share of profit of joint ventures after interest and taxation 10 5 1 Trade and other receivables 12 42 35 675 945 Profit before tax 380 315 Cash and cash equivalents 14f 90 62 89 61 Income tax expense 4 72 62 Total current assets 2,350 2,140 764 1,006 Profit for the year 308 253 Total assets 2,407 2,201 786 1,009 Earnings per share basic 6 85.3p 70.2p Equity diluted 6 85.2p 70.0p Retained earnings at 1 July 2017 1,131 937 701 701 Profit for the year 308 253 1 51 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 18 7 18 7 Dividend Paid 74 44 74 44 Movement in LTIP SAYE 4 8 Retained earnings 18 1,379 1,131 646 701 Share capital 17 37 37 37 37 Share premium account 18 59 59 59 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other reserves 18 8 8 7 7 Statement of Comprehensive Income Total equity 1,483 1,235 749 804 Liabilities For the 12 months ended 30 June Bank loans 14 5 90 5 90 Trade and other payables 15 178 197 Group Company Deferred tax liabilities 11 5 3 2018 2017 2018 2017 Retirement benefit obligations 7e 2 2 Note m m m m Long-term provisions 16 9 8 Profit for the year 308 253 1 51 Total non-current liabilities 197 300 5 92 Other comprehensive income expense Bank overdrafts and loans 14b 22 45 83 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Trade and other payables 15 671 585 30 27 Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations 7e 22 8 22 8 Current income tax liabilities 34 36 2 3 Deferred tax on actuarial gains losses taken directly to equity 4 1 4 1 Total current liabilities 727 666 32 113 Other comprehensive expense income for the year net of tax 18 7 18 7 Total liabilities 924 966 37 205 Total comprehensive income for the year 18 326 246 19 44 Total equity and liabilities 2,407 2,201 786 1,009 The financial statements on pages 110 to 142 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 September 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: JOHN TUTTE BARBARA RICHMOND Director Director Redrow plc Registered Number 2877315 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 112 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Cash Flows For the 12 months ended 30 June For the 12 months ended 30 June Group Company Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note m m m m Note m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 308 253 1 51 Operating profit loss 382 322 2 3 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 18 7 18 7 Depreciation and amortisation 3 2 Total comprehensive income relating to the year net 326 246 19 44 Adjustment for non-cash items 6 5 2 Dividend paid 18 74 44 74 44 Movement in LTIP SAYE 18 4 8 Operating profit loss before changes in working capital and provisions 379 319 4 3 Net increase decrease in equity 248 194 55 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 5 6 270 19 Opening equity 1,235 1,041 804 804 Increase in inventories 175 140 Closing equity 1,483 1,235 749 804 Increase in trade and other payables 76 3 3 2 The above items are presented net of tax where appropriate.
See note 4 and note 11 for information on income tax and deferred Increase in provisions 1 1 tax expense.
Cash inflow generated from operations 276 189 269 18 As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Income Statement of Redrow plc is not presented as a part of these Interest paid 4 5 3 3 financial statements.
Tax paid 74 56 The consolidated profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year, excluding intra-Group dividends, is made up Net cash inflow from operating activities 198 128 266 15 asfollows: Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of software, property, plant and equipment 2 1 2018 2017 m m Interest received 4 13 Holding company 1 5 Net receipts from net payments to joint ventures Subsidiary companies 307 248 continuing operations 26 1 308 253 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 24 2 4 13 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of bank borrowings 5 90 5 90 Repayment of bank borrowings 90 230 90 230 Purchase of own shares 12 16 Dividend paid 74 44 74 44 Net cash outflow from financing activities 171 200 159 184 Increase decrease in net cash and cash equivalents 51 74 111 156 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 17 91 22 134 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 19 68 17 89 22 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 114 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have In respect of social housing, the Group enters into contracts for a.
Subsidiaries INTANGIBLE ASSETS COMPUTER SOFTWARE beenprepared in accordance with International Financial the sale of social housing either at an agreed price or at a Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union discount to open market value.
Payment for these properties is The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, basis of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and EU and effectiveat 30 June 2018, and in accordance with made by the purchaser, either on legal completion of the unit or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years, IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations and the or, in certain circumstances on a staged basis.
Revenues in all entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its charged toadministrative expenses.
These are reviewed for Companies Act 2006 asit applies to companies reporting cases are recognised on the legal completion of the built home.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances under IFRS and Article 4 ofthe IAS Regulation and in the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Profit is recognised on legal completion.
accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Identifiable the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities SEGMENTAL REPORTING assumed in a business combination are measured at their Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost for administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the cost less thesubsequent depreciation of buildings.
As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject has only one business and geographic segment.
This is dateand the reported amounts of revenue and expenses All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic to an annual impairment review, with any reduction in value consistent with the information provided for internal reporting during the reporting period.
Whilst these estimates are based cost less depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly being taken straight to the income statement.
Adjustments are purposes to the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Board.
on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or attributable to bringing the assets to the location and condition made as necessary to the financial statements of subsidiaries The Group has no key customers.
actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by theGroup.
estimates refer to note 1. intended by management.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS All inter-company transactions and balances between Group The financial statements have been prepared on a going Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring and charged so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual of such significance that they require separate disclosure.
Interests in joint ventures values over their estimated useful lives, on a straight line basis Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the London as follows: The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS Stock Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
NET FINANCING COSTS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by Buildings within freehold property 50 years The principal accounting policies have been applied joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest Plant and machinery 510 years consistently in the periods presented.
rights and obligations of each investor.
Interest costs are recognised in the income statement on Fixtures and fittings 35 years assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined an accruals basis in the period in which they are incurred.
The principal accounting policies are outlined below: them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION INCOME AND DEFERRED TAX appropriate at each balance sheet date.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any the Groups share of the results and share of net assets of to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may appropriate adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
jointly controlled entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as shown in the plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents Control is achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern its interests in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise which are never chargeable or allowable for tax or which are the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Redrow plcs further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
accounting reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
normal monthly reporting process, the actual date to which Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the balance sheet has been drawn up is 1 July 2018 2017: 2 method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries July2017.
For ease of reference, all references to the amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also is held at cost less any impairment.
year or 12 months and financial position are for the year statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an ended 30June and as at 30 June.
LEASES impairment of the asset transferred.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is REVENUE AND PROFIT RECOGNITION under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as probable that taxable profits will be available against which Redrow plcs Company income statement.
The profit for the Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax financial year is dealt with in the statement of changes in respect of the sale of residential housing and land and of charged to work in progress or income on a straight line basis liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences.
commercial land and developments net of value added tax over the termof the relevant lease.
tax is calculated atthe rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
This is recognised on legal completion.
Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained earnings as appropriate.
