Group business code and other policies Strategic report Risk and risk management Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Risk management controls are integrated into all levels of our business and across all our operations.
We continually assess our exposure to risk and seek to ensure that risks are appropriately mitigated.
Overview of risk management Activities during the year The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of The executive risk committee met four times in the period our system of risk management and internal control.
It has and conducted a thorough review of our principal risks, established the level of risk that is appropriate for our aswell as the relevant mitigation plans for each.
business and acceptable in the pursuit of our strategic The overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management objectives and has therefore set appropriate policies.
It has and mitigation processes is reviewed regularly by the also set delegated authority levels to provide the framework Executive Board and the Audit Committee.
for assessing risks and ensuring that they are escalated to the appropriate levels of management, including up to the The internal audit team operates independently, reporting to Board where appropriate, for consideration and approval.
Scheduled visits to Group companies were held and documented, with an executive summary The roles and responsibilities of the Board, key committees provided to the Audit Committee and any significant and all levels of management from a risk management shortcomings acted upon promptly.
Process enhancements perspective are summarised in the infographic below.
are worked upon by this team.
All operating companies This process ensures that risks are not just the product of a are required annually to complete self-certification bottom-up approach but are also examined from a top-down questionnaires, regarding compliance with Group policies, perspective via an integrated senior management process, procedures and requirements.
which is closely aligned with the Groups strategy, in order to enhance the Groups approach to risk generally.
Risk management framework information and feedback flow Board Audit Committee Executive Board Executive risk committee and Brexit steering group Top-down review Group risk register Bottom-up review ISM Board Other operational Group operating companies management 32 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 External auditor and internal audit Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information As reported last year, enhanced due diligence procedures Cyber threats have been implemented for routinely screening new and In relation to the continuing cyber security threat, we existing agents and distributors, utilising the services of a have trained several senior IT managers to a high level market-leading screening service, World Check.
We have and rolled out further company-wide training.
We have an Intermediary Due Diligence Policy together with a further strengthened our IT systems resilience in key specific e-learning course, which explains to employees areas as well as the monitoring of emerging threats.
ourrequirements and the process to follow.
Considerable resource has been allocated to ensure we meet the requirements of the General Data Protection Viability statement Regulation that came into force in May 2018. for more information see page 37 Ethical business practices Key focus areas for the 2018 financial year Our Group Business Code reminds employees about the A robust assessment of the principal risks facing importance of doing the right thing in all our activities.
the Group, including those that would threaten We also have an Anti-Bribery Policy and a Whistleblowing its business model, future performance, solvency Policy facilitated by a confidential global telephone service or liquidity.
run by Safecall, which together with employee training in these areas is a fundamental part of our programme Implementation of measures in response to the to establish guidelines and promote a culture of ethical General Data Protection Regulation.
Training continues to be Four meetings of the executive risk committee.
refreshed and refined to suit the risk profile in the business and is reviewed by an anti-bribery working group several Recruitment of a new General Counsel & times per year, which facilitates evaluating risk in this area.
We have so far trained 2,090 employees on our anti-bribery Consideration of the risks related to Brexit.
Key messages were also reinforced at our Subsidiary Conference in March 2018.
Any calls to our Evaluation of and protection against cyber whistleblowing line are rigorously followed up.
Risk likelihood and impact before mitigation The diagram to the right shows the Boards analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation.
1 Current trading levels and order book 1 2 Research and development 3 Supply chain management 4 Regulatory legislation for 6 healthcare products 2 5 Defined benefit pension schemes 3 7 6 Exchange rate fluctuations 7 Cyber security threats 4 5 Further descriptions and associated mitigations are shown on pages 34 to 36.
Low High Likelihood of risk Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 33 Risk impact Low High
