STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TURNING RISK INTO OPPORTUNITY Our continuously improving approach to risk management has allowed us to adapt to a volatile risk environment INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT challenging.
Accordingly, we voluntarily reduced and is a fundamental element of strategic soil treatment volumes from the middle of planning to achieve our objectives.
The Risks are inevitable in doing business and August, which impacted our performance.
core elements of our risk management the existence of risk presents both threats We are addressing the matters raised by IL&T framework include: and opportunities.
Key risks are considered and broadening our range of soil outlets.
downside risks that represent a potential threat ` Our schedule of matters reserved for the to achieving our objectives.
We operate in a Within our Municipal Division increased Board and our strict adherence to it.
This rapidly changing environment with specific onerous contract provisions demonstrated ensures that all significant issues affecting industry, commercial, regulatory and other key significant inherent risks in long-term PFI strategy, structure, viability and financing risks, including some beyond our control.
These ongoing challenges have are properly managed by the Directors: reinforced the Boards caution with regard Effective management of risk is essential to to complex long term contracts.
Further ` Our risk management framework.
the delivery of our strategy and objectives, investments in control frameworks are This ensures that each of our businesses achievement of sustainable shareholder value, underway and in detailed implementation of identifies the risks it faces and their the protection of our reputation and good learnings and recovery plans.
importance, designs and implements corporate governance and ethical conduct.
effective mitigations to control key risks Sound risk management enhances our ability To ensure a balanced approach to risk the and that these mitigations are monitored to achieve our objectives.
Board assigned significant resources to meet and remain effective.
The output of this our risk management objectives.
process is a summary of all our significant During the year we have completed risk strategic, operational, financial and assessment initiatives across the Group, Despite having implemented extensive new compliance risks, our mitigating controls its divisions, certain specific functions and fire procedures over the course of the year, the and the action plans necessary to reduce projects.
One of the significant changes to our property and business interruption insurance risks to a level aligned with our risk appetite.
risk profile involves our top risks that have market for waste management facilities and Formal responsibility for risk management shifted from being input market related to activities continues to tighten, resulting in is positioned firmly in the line through the output market driven.
Property divisional management teams, coordinated and business interruption insurance is a critical by the Divisional Finance Directors.
Risk Favourable economic factors are resulting cover which offers essential protection to our registers, mitigations and alignment with in growing input volumes which are putting business.
We have successfully introduced a risk appetite are reviewed by divisional increased pressure on outlets that are largely new insurance captive for 2018 19 in order to management, our Risk Committee, Audit full.
Recyclate markets have been disrupted by maintain affordable coverage.
Committee and the Board to ensure the Chinese import bans and commodity market appropriateness of the risks identified fluctuations that can result in less demand Our focus remains to exercise good risk and the effectiveness of the controls and for our recycled and recovered products.
The management during integration to ensure we actions reported: majority of the impact has been offset through deliver the value capture and other benefits dynamic pricing and targeted price rises, of integration.
We have a specific risk register ` Change being managed carefully demonstrating that our mitigations are broadly and risk meetings to manage this, as well as through project management and effective.
During last year however, some risks individual risk registers embedded into all approval processes, with embedded have materialised and impacted us.
risk management in day to day project management activities: Environmental regulation continues to tighten OUR RISK FRAMEWORK in most countries we operate in.
A review at ` Embedded risk management systems our ATM facility was carried out by IL&T, an Our risk framework encompasses a systematic that are part of our day-to-day operations.
environmental agency in the Netherlands, on process for evaluating and addressing the These underpin the effectiveness of our the soil treatment process and output, which likelihood and impact of risks in a structured risk management processes by involving has negatively affected our offset of treated and cost effective way.
Risk management is a a wide audience in risk systems, such as soil into a market that has been increasingly cornerstone of sound management practice divisional registers, to ensure all risks are For investors: www.
com 70 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Identify and evaluate our Five objectives of our risk universe of potential risks to allow the creation and management framework: management of registers of risks faced by the Group.
Know what risks we face Maintain and improve Manage a risk strategy a system of internal in which the tolerance Know what Control controls to manage risks in and appetite of the risk we want decision making, contract Group for differing systemic risk management and to accept levels and types of risk financial transactions.
Ensure that Ensure that all Train our management is identified key risks Manage trained in the effective people are effectively mitigated or mitigate identification, or, where appropriate, in risk assessment and transfer risks through our risks management management of risk.
considered and ranked appropriately and that mitigations are informed and practical: Risk management responsibilities ` Enhanced risk assessment for all major RENEWI PLC BOARD capital requests.
This ensures we allocate Independent funds in a risk aware manner to maximise review the value of our investments and minimise the risk of under-performance: and Audit Committee Executive Committee ` Review of key risks at each divisional review meeting which ensures that we monitor our Risk key risks and mitigations at an appropriate reporting Operating divisions level.
It also supports risk management as an embedded feature of our decisionRisk Committee making process.
Business unit OUR RISK RESPONSIBILITIES management Risk: AND ARCHITECTURE Coordination Risk: Consistency Our operating divisions and business unit Assessment Culture management have responsibility for the Management Best practice review assessment and management of risk, with Responsibility Systems formal responsibility assigned to the Divisional Finance Directors.
Our Risk Committee, working with the Risk Manager, promotes an appropriate risk culture in Renewi in which an awareness The Risk Committee supports how we manage to the attention of the Board.
The decisions and management of risk in all its forms is risk through information, frameworks, policy, of the Board and their risk appetite are considered by management in their daily strategy and processes.
Reporting through our cascaded back through our risk architecture to activities and ensures that the Board approved Audit Committee and Executive Committee ensure that the approach to risk appetite and Group Risk Management Framework is ensures the identification and communication tolerance are aligned and consistent across all implemented and effective.
of critical risks, and that key risks are brought of our activities.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 71 | STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED OUR PROGRESS AGAINST 2017 OBJECTIVES AND THE FUTURE In our 2017 Annual Report we committed to further actions to improve our risk management processes in 2017 18.
Despite the potential distractions of our integration, good progress has still been made on our day-to-day risk management.
A summary of this progress as well as our objectives for 2018 19 are shown below.
What we said we would do in 2017 18 How we did Through our new integrated Risk Committee, produce revised and A close collaboration between our risk manager, our operating new divisional risk registers aligned with our new company, and divisions and the risk committee has established revised and new upload these to our web-based risk tool divisional risk registers aligned with our new organisation.
During our first integrated Risk Committee we included several Continue the approach of guest spots into our Risk Committee internal guest spots from different functions and levels across agenda to ensure we consider the whole of our risk spectrum with our company.
We will continue to use internal and external guest input from both internal and external sources.
The business continuity project has been completed including Review quality of business continuity planning across our larger a thorough review of the quality of business continuity planning company across Renewi.
Fire systems standard is at final draft stage - final comments from Integrate existing fire system standards into one high-quality insurers have been received and we have confirmed the standard package for our larger company at a fire improvement group meeting on 22 February.
Integrate existing risk management policies, incorporating the best from both merged companies to provide high quality policies We have reviewed, revised and integrated our risk management and processes in our larger company.
Ensure easy access to these framework and policies.
policies by all employees Conduct series of deep-dive studies of key insurance covers during 2017 to ensure best risk approach for our larger merged company Insurance deep dives were conducted 2017, and are now at 2018 insurance renewals.
Investigate alternative retained risk completed.
mechanisms Investigate use of web-based risk tool as an audit tracking and We are currently still in the process of selecting a web-based risk reporting package across our larger company tool.
Organisation structure and assignment of responsibilities for risk Reallocate leaders in line with new and revised divisional risk have been completed.
Most important change is that Divisional registers reflecting our new merged divisional structure Finance Directors are assigned formal responsibility for risk management within their division.
Investigate options for risk management knowledge sharing via Our new ICT platform has been rolled out and will enable us to ICT systems in our larger company further improve risk management knowledge sharing.
com 72 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk Management Objective Actions for 2018 19 ` Establish bottom up divisional and functional risk register processes.
Further improve our Know what risks we face divisional risk registers and increase the revision interval.
` Establish functional risk registers for ICT, Product Sales, SHEQ, Finance and HR.
` Establish risk registers at business unit level for Monostreams businesses.
` Further improve the robustness of our risk management procedures with development and implementation of a methodology for identification of unknown risks.
` Formalisation of the risk appetite at divisional level, aligned with Group risk appetite and Know what risks we want to accept taking into account and addressing potential aggregation risks.
` Creation of risk awareness through effective communication of risk management strategy, risk appetite, policies and processes Manage or mitigate our risks ` Identification and execution of additional mitigating actions required on key risks ` Development of Group Key Risk Indicators ` Implementation of a key control framework ` Expand a strong risk culture through creation of risk awareness by training and sharing Train our people in risk best practices as well as making steps in the creation of an open culture where we learn management from past instances.
` Creation of additional risk awareness through effective communication of risk management strategy, risk appetite, policies and processes Control systemic risk ` Further embedding risk management in core day to day processes ` Implementation of a key control framework, supported by an ICT tracking and tracing tool.
` Establish monthly key control compliance reports For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 73 | STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED KEY RISKS AND MITIGATIONS Our key risks are outlined in the heat diagram on the right and in the table on the following pages.
For 2018 our key risks have been discussed in detail by both our Risk Committee and senior leaders, and include 8 1 revisions to risk rating and additions.
The heat diagram 7 2 has been commented on by our Audit Committee.
The final version has been approved by the Board.
3 12 9 Key risks 4 5 15 1 Output pricing and demand 10 2 Outlet capacity 13 6 3 14 Environmental permit risk 16 4 Changes in law and policy 5 Long-term contracts 6 Labour availability and cost 7 Integration risks 11 8 Brexit 9 Input pricing competition 10 Talent development leadership 11 Operational failure 12 Investment and Growth Likelihood 13 Digitalisation 14 Health and safety risk 15 Input volumes 16 ICT failure and cyber threat Overarching key risks All risk levels shown in the heat diagram are net risks and therefore include the current The arrows indicate the risk development compared to level of mitigation.
previous year with a circle indicating the risk is stable.
Yellow circles highlight new risks.
A description of each risk can be found in the table below.
SUMMARY OF KEY RISKS Reference numbers are consistent with those used in the heat diagram above Key risk Key mitigation Commentary ` Focus on improving product quality Increased significantly over last year with 1 Output pricing and demand ` Maximise off-take pricing leverage, cost inflation in off-take markets and falling That the value we receive for recycled where appropriate recyclate prices due to Chinese import bans.
and paid for recovered product falls or ` Cost control to offset impact of lost worsened revenue The majority of the impact has been offset ` Sustainable technologies used align through dynamic pricing and targeted price Risk direction: with market needs and international and rises, demonstrating that our mitigations national policy are broadly effective.
` Renegotiation of long-term and fixed price off-take contracts where appropriate ` Dynamic pricing For investors: www.
com 74 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Impact SUMMARY OF KEY RISKS Reference numbers are consistent with those used in the heat diagram left Key risk Key mitigation Commentary ` Investment in technologies which fit with Growing input volumes are putting 2 Outlet Capacity market needs for products increased pressure on outlets that are Lack of capacity at outlets increased price ` Experienced employees dedicated to largely full.
Recyclate markets disrupted by of disposal of burnable waste and other product off-take markets Chinese import bans.
` Diversity of product off-takers to spread Balancing input and output volumes is risk Risk direction: an ongoing risk to short term profits that ` Quality control systems in place to Renewi is working to mitigate.
ensure quality of products is as required New long-term off-take contracts signed for Municipal Division guarantee capacity.
` Effective management of all Pressure on environmental permits through 3 Environmental permit risk environmental matters arising increasingly strict regulation has grown That our environmental permits to operate ` Environment management systems and over recent years.
Internal management of are restricted or removed regular inspections and audits in place compliance through competent specialists ` Monthly environmental issues reporting is recognised as key.
Risk direction: across all levels of organisation Current challenges at ATM being carefully ` Experienced and competent monitored and addressed by management.
environmental specialist employees in place ` Community environmental engagement performance in place as key business objective ` Horizon scanning by competent internal Our business model is in line with societys 4 Changes in law and policy specialists to ensure changes are needs for sustainable waste management.
Adverse impacts from changes in law and planned for and managed, and potential Many changes in law and policy provide policy, including environmental, tax and opportunities captured opportunities for Renewi.
Potentially similar legal and policy regimes ` Alignment of business model with adverse changes are planned for and national and international policy and managed.
The potential impacts of a Risk direction: law towards more sustainable waste disparate approach in the UK, in particular management practices in environmental policy, following Brexit is being tracked.
` Strict Board controls on entering into Developments and performance in UK 5 Long-term contracts any new major contracts PFI operations have underscored the That we enter into long-term contracts ` Selective bidding on contracts importance of this risk.
at disadvantageous terms or we rely on a ` Detailed risk assessment and due Ongoing challenges in the Municipal small number of large contracts diligence on contracts Division have reinforced the Boards ` Tight controls and reviews on build Risk direction: caution with regard to complex long term programmes to ensure on track contracts.
Further investments in control frameworks are underway and in detailed implementation of learnings and recovery plans.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 75 | STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Key risk Key mitigation Commentary ` Make the company an attractive place to New risk as a result of general economic 6 Labour availability and costs work.
Employer of choice recovery, combined with a relative That there are shortages of certain labour ` Measure employee engagement and unwillingness of the younger generation to types leading to unavailability or severe satisfaction through surveys undertake certain forms of physical labour.
wage inflation ` Retention ` Offer competitive wages Risk direction: NEW RISK ` Comprehensive and in-depth due We have a clear vision of where value 7 Integration risks diligence prior to merger capture from our merger lies, and a clear That integration of the two companies ` Use of competent external advisors plan to achieve it.
including the creation of a strong corporate where required Clear reporting for value capture culture and migration of IT systems is ` Clear integration plan with road map to performance and tracking against ineffective and or fails to deliver anticipated successful integration in place integration plan is in place.
` Dedicated divisional integration teams supported by central integration We have beaten our plan in the first year Risk direction: management office in place and have clear visibility for achieving the ` Clear targets in place for integration remainder.
Principle outstanding risk is the performance communicated to all key migration of core processes and IT systems.
employees ` Regular flagship events to coordinate teams and share learnings ` Monthly detailed reviews of divisional and functional projects ` Scenario planning for hard Brexit Brexit is very likely to have at least some 8 Brexit capacity management impact on export of waste and recyclates That a hard Brexit disrupts the export ` Flexible prudent approach to hedging internationally.
Higher impact scenarios of waste and recyclates internationally, strategies however, are considered less likely than creating offtake costs in UK and over- ` Identify potential new offtake solutions lower impact scenarios.
Only the hard capacity of incineration in the Benelux in the UK Brexit, high impact scenario is considered a key risk.
Risk direction: NEW RISK ` Constant reporting and monitoring of Delivered reduced costs and increased price 9 Input pricing competition price via operational systems competitiveness.
Set against this, macroThat market pricing may put pressure on ` Cost management, both structural and economic pressures remain, although in our margins operational, to deliver cost leadership in many markets is improving.
core markets Risk direction: Commercial effectiveness projects and ` Use of long-term contracts, where detailed tender review to ensure margin appropriate recovery.
` Effective commercial organisations to maximise margins ` Targeted price increases ` Performance appraisal process in place The recovering economy means that talent 10 Talent development leadership ` Talent mapping and development is in increasingly short supply.
The Renewi That we lack the required management process organisation is now much more settled and capabilities ` Leadership programmes in place in place.
` HR Director and divisional teams to Risk direction: Promoting the Renewi brand and our ensure good HR leadership values to increase the attractiveness of the NO CHANGE ` Engagement surveys in place company as a place to work.
` Key objectives set for absence management and employee development For investors: www.
com 76 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key risk Key mitigation Commentary ` Effective insurance programmes Implemented extensive new fire procedures 11 Operational failure supported by experienced brokers over the course of the year.
And we have Operational failure and or fire at a key ` Improvements in fire control through introduced a new insurance captive in order facility leading to business interruption and new and stricter fire control standards to maintain affordable coverage.
other costs ` Fire risk survey process in place including engagement with insurers, and Risk direction: with competent external advice Resilience at our major unique facilities NO CHANGE ` Business continuity planning in place at remains our concentration, with highall major sites quality maintenance and lifecycle ` Mechanical breakdown insurance in programmes in place.
Across our general place for at-risk facilities and reviewed recycling and recovery plants, our larger on a regular basis for adequacy company provides greater flexibility to ` Highly-experienced operational teams divert wastes and retain value internally in with in-depth knowledge of processes the event of breakdown.
` Regular annual and other shutdowns at key facilities to ensure they remain well invested and maintained ` Business continuity planning includes breakdown risk and mitigation measures ` Continuous improvement of cash control On track with synergy delivery and 12 Investment and growth ` Continuing portfolio management integration, resulting in stronger cash That funding is not available or that ` Reinvest only where profitable generation and cash position.
funding sources are available, but that cash ` Good budget control on capital projects We are strategically planning to ensure we generation is insufficient to allow access to ` Good balance of leased and owned have access to existing and new forms of funding.
` Diverse range of financing options and Risk direction: timings ` Good quality external advice ` Strong relations with investors ` Good management reputation and planning ` IT Director part of Executive First four robots now in place in the shared 13 Digitalisation Committee with remit to identify future service centre.
That a disruptive technology or business opportunities and risks Ongoing investment to put the post merger model deployed by a competitor or new ` Sustained investment to move to core foundations in place.
entrant impacts our ability to compete Renewi IT platforms and then invest in next generation systems.
Risk direction: ` Invest in robotics and automation NEW RISK ` Implement master data management programme in preparation for the future ` Closely monitoring new entrants into the marketplace.
` Top agenda item on all management We have competent internal specialists 14 Health and safety risk meetings in place.
A safety priorities plan has been Injury or loss of life.
That we incur ` Corporate Health and Safety Manager produced, and initiatives such as on reputational loss, or civil and criminal costs.
and competent internal specialists in machinery safety have been completed.
place Risk direction: Safety reporting of performance is in place.
` Defined and tracked health and safety New safety culture programme to be a core priorities plan in place focus of 2018 19.
` Active engagement with regulators ` Safety leadership programme in place ` Coherent targets in place for accident, near-miss and other key safety performance parameters For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 77 | STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Key risk Key mitigation Commentary ` Strong reporting of incoming waste We handle in excess of 14 million tonnes of 15 Input volumes volumes across the Group for rapid waste a year.
Our wide geographical spread That incoming waste volumes in response to market changes provides access to multiple markets.
the market may fall should macro economic ` Continued investment to secure new Improved economic environment has conditions reverse.
waste streams and volumes resulted in rising volumes.
` Market-facing customer-focused Risk direction: organisation Public opinion is shifting towards increased ` Major capital deployed only if backed by recycling rather than incineration.
long term contracts ` Business continuity planning in place for GDPR compliance completed on time.
16 ICT failure and cyber threat ICT and is tested ICT integration plans now fully developed That ICT failure and or cyber crime causes ` Assessment of ICT resilience conducted and pilot scheme underway.
business interruption or loss by insurers with high-quality result ` IT Director in place to deliver ICT Risk direction: leadership ` Development of greater centralisation of ICT systems to allow common risk approach ` Continued investment in upgraded systems and infrastructure FINANCIAL RISKS Renewi takes action to insure or hedge against Commodity price risk the most material financial risks.
Details of our Renewi is exposed to diesel price changes key policies for control of financial risks are: which are managed using forward contracts.
The Group manages other exposures to prices Interest rate risk of paper, plastics, metals, residual fuels and Renewi has continued to limit its exposure other recyclates associated with off-take to interest rate risk on core borrowings by through commercial contracting as they are using fixed rate retail bonds, fixed rate finance not commoditised.
leases, cross currency interest rate swaps and an interest rate cap.
At the end of March Credit risk 2018, circa 93% of core borrowings were fixed Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where or hedged.
Additionally, the PFI PPP noncounterparties are not able to meet their recourse floating rate borrowings are hedged obligations.
The Group has implemented for the duration of the contracts using interest the setting and monitoring of appropriate rate swaps entered into as part of financial customer credit limits.
Credit limits and close of the project.
outstanding receivables are reviewed monthly.
The Group has a policy to ensure that any Foreign exchange risk surplus cash balances are held by financial Renewi is exposed to foreign exchange risk institutions, meeting minimum acceptable for movements between the Euro, Canadian credit ratings.
The Group has limited transactional risk as the Groups subsidiaries Fraud risk conduct the majority of their business in their To mitigate the exposure to losses arising respective functional currencies.
Some risk from fraud committed on the Group or by Group employees, robust internal controls and arises in Euros on the export of processed financial procedures are reviewed and tested waste from the UK to Europe which is regularly.
managed through the use of forward exchange contracts.
The Group does not hedge its foreign currency exposures on the translation of profits into Sterling.
Assets denominated in Euros and Canadian Dollars are hedged by borrowings in the same currency to manage translational exposure.
com 78 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INTEGRATING OUR RISK COMMITTEE Our Risk Committee is a critical component of our risk management architecture.
The Committee: ` Produces and proposes risk management ` Drives consistency in approach, use of tools given in the heat diagram and table starting on page 74. processes and policies for consideration and risk appetite across Renewi and approval by our Audit Committee and Our Risk Committee continues to consist of Board ` Provides access to expertise in managing internal senior people from a wide spectrum risks, where appropriate, from across of specialisms from finance, commercial ` Ensures the Board approved Group Risk Renewi or from outside specialists and operations to environmental permitting, Management Framework is implemented insurance and health and safety disciplines.
and effective Following the formation of a new executive This broad composition ensures we capture team, integration and role changes we all of our potential risks and can rank them ` Promotes an appropriate risk culture in reconstituted our Risk Committee and revised effectively no matter what risk area they fall Renewi in which an appropriate awareness our risk registers through a number of risk into.
and management of risk in all its forms is assessment initiatives across the Group, considered by management in their daily its Divisions, certain specific functions and Future tasks for our Risk Committee include activities change projects.
the establishment of functional risk registers and processes, further cascading down the risk ` Supports the Renewi risk culture through We have merged existing risk policies, policies and appetite, development of Key Risk the delivery of risk training, sharing of frameworks and processes, developed our Indicators and a systematic contribution to a learnings and best practices and review of divisional key risks registers so they are aligned strong risk culture within Renewi.
risk failures with our operating structure and activities, and produced the structures which will allow us to ` Reviews selected risks from risk registers to practise effective risk management.
ensure consistency of risk appetite being borne and the mitigations in place In collaboration with the risk manager, operating Divisions and our Executive Toby Woolrych and Baukje Dreimuller ` Reviews occurrences of risk management Committee, the reconstituted risk committee Risk Committee Chairs failure to identify root cause, identify and refined and reviewed the top-line key risks share lessons learned to mitigate risk of register for our Audit Committee to review.
A repetition summary of this combined Group register is VIABILITY STATEMENT period of shutdown at our key Hazardous The Groups liquidity and financial In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Waste site.
headroom have all been assessed and UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board incorporated within the risk scenario has assessed the prospects of the Group The key assumptions made in Renewis long modelling.
Based on the consolidated over a longer period than 12 months and term financial model are: completion of financial impact of the sensitivity analysis has adopted a period of three years for the the synergy plans in the year ending March and associated mitigating actions that are assessment.
The Boards strategic planning 2020 together with steady market growth either in place or could be implemented, it horizon is five years.
However, the first three resulting in margin improvements, no portfolio has been demonstrated that the Group years of the plan were selected for the testing management and no change to the current broadly maintained adequate headroom in as this remains the key time horizon for the debt maturity profile.
the event of the scenarios occurring.
delivery of the integration and synergies following the recent merger with VGG.
For each scenario the Group has also Based on the results of this analysis, the identified the mitigation steps it would take Directors confirm they have a reasonable The Board assessed the principal risks to the to reduce the risk and performed the scenario expectation that the Group will be able to business as set out in the preceding pages and testing on that basis.
These mitigations continue in operation and meet its liabilities as concluded that four severe but plausible risk include the identification of structural cost they fall due over the period of assessment.
scenarios should be explicitly modelled.
The programmes, business continuity and scenario modelling included further challenges commercial effectiveness plans and deferral in the off-take markets together with of capital expenditure.
restrictions in front end pricing, the impact of a disruptive and hard Brexit and a sustained For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 79
