Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Our performance is subject to a number of risks the principal risks and factors impacting on them are set out in the table below.
The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the on Brexit is provided on page 44.
Currency fluctuations, principal risks facing the business.
trading arrangements, employment issues and other risks that become apparent over time will be monitored by the The full business implications of Brexit remain uncertain, Board, the executive risk committee and the Brexit steering which will be the case for some time.
The Board is closely group, and mitigation put in place where possible.
monitoring the situation as it develops.
Further commentary Strategic priorities see pages 12-14 for more information 1 People 2 Continued research 3 Efficient high-quality manufacturing 4 Global customer support 5 Focus on delivering solutions 6 Niche acquisitions and investments 1 Current trading levels and order book Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year Revenue growth is change Global market conditions The Group is expanding and diversifying its unpredictable and orders continue to highlight risks product range in order to maintain a worldfrom customers generally to growth and demand that leading position in its sales of metrology involve short lead-times can lead to fluctuating levels products.
Targeted investment in sales and of revenue.
marketing resources continues in order to with the outstanding support the breadth of the product offerings.
Whilst global investment order book at any time in production systems and The Group is applying its measurement being around one processes is expected to expertise to grow its healthcare and additive expand, future growth is months worth manufacturing business activities.
difficult to predict, especially of revenue value.
The Group retains a strong balance sheet and with such a short-term order has the ability to flex manufacturing resource Related strategic priorities: book.
This limited forward order levels and shift patterns.
visibility leaves the annual 2 4 5 6 revenue forecasts uncertain.
2 Research and development Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year The development of change Being at the leading edge of Patent and intellectual property generation is new products and new technology in metrology core to new product developments.
processes involves risk, and healthcare, there are R&D programmes are regularly reviewed such as development uncertainties whether new against milestones and, when necessary, developments will provide an timescales, meeting projects are cancelled.
the required technical Medium to long-term R&D strategies are specification and the monitored regularly by both the Board and the Executive Board, including reviews of the impact of alternative allocation of R&D resource to key projects.
Product development processes around Related strategic priorities: the Group are reviewed and aligned where possible to provide consistency 2 5 and efficiency.
New products involve beta testing at customers to ensure as much as possible that they will meet the needs of the market.
Market developments are closely monitored.
Enhanced collaboration and knowledgesharing between R&D teams.
34 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3 Supply chain management Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year Customer deliveries may change Inability to meet customer Production facilities are maintained with fire be threatened by a failure deliveries could result in loss of and flood risk in mind.
Critical production processes are replicated Related strategic priorities: at different locations where practical.
The Group is highly vertically integrated 3 providing increased control over many aspects of the supply chain.
The Group has the ability to flex manufacturing resource levels and shift patterns.
Regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers.
Stock policies are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Product quality is closely monitored.
4 Regulatory legislation for healthcare products Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year The expansion of the change Regulatory approval can be very Specialist legal and regulatory employees are Groups healthcare expensive and time-consuming.
in place to support the healthcare business.
business involves a This area is also very complex The Group has experience of healthcare significantly increased and there is a risk that the correct regulatory matters at Board level.
requirement to obtain Healthcare operations in the UK and France regulatory approval have ISO13485 certification for their quality management systems, with Ireland and other prior to the sale of subsidiary healthcare operations falling under these products.
the UK quality management system.
Related strategic priorities: 2 5 5 Defined benefit pension schemes Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year Investment returns and change Volatility in investment returns The investment strategy is managed by the actuarial valuations of the and actuarial assumptions pension scheme trustees who operate in line defined benefit pension can significantly affect the with a statement of investment principles and fund liabilities are subject defined benefitpension scheme take appropriate independent professional deficit, impacting on future advice when necessary.
to economic and social funding requirements.
A new recovery plan was agreed with the factors that are outside Trustees in June 2016 for the 2015 actuarial the control of the Group.
valuation based on funding to self-sufficiency.
Discussions with The Pension Regulator Related strategic priorities: are ongoing in relation to the timing of the 1 scheme funding.
Increased Decreased No change Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 35 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6 Exchange rate fluctuations Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year Fluctuating foreign change With 95% of revenue generated The Group enters into forward contracts in exchange rates may outside the UK, there is an order to hedge varying proportions of forecast affect the results of exposure to major currency US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen revenue.
fluctuations, mainly in respect Forward contracts which are ineffective for of the US Dollar, Euro and accounting purposes provide the protection Related strategic priorities: Japanese Yen.
Such fluctuations against rate changes that management could adversely impact both the intended when entering the contracts.
None Groups income statement and There is a monthly board review of currency balance sheet.
7 Cyber security threats Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year For the Group to operate change Reduced service to customers There is substantial resilience and back-up effectively it requires due to lack of reliable built into Group systems.
continuous access management information An IT security committee exists, comprising IT to timely and reliable putting the Group at a and business leadership.
Cyber risk and security is a regular topic Delay or impact on decision We seek to ensure for board discussion.
making through lack of continuous availability, availability of sound data or External penetration testing is utilised disruption in denial of service.
security and operation on an appropriate basis.
Loss of commercially sensitive ofinformation systems.
The Group operates central IT policies and or personal information in all aspects of information security.
Related strategic priorities: leading to implications including reputational damage, claims Regular monitoring of all Group systems takes 2 3 4 or fines.
place with regular reporting and analysis.
Theft of commercial or sensitive Operating systems are continuously updated information data or fraud causing and refreshed in line with current threats.
The Group employs a number of physical, logical and control measures to protect its information and systems.
E-learning courses are rolled out as required to all employees on all cyber risks.
The Group has put considerable resource into ensuring compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation and is well placed to handle any Subject Access Requests that arise.
36 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Viability statement The Board undertakes an annual review of the corporate expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based strategy, which includes medium-term financial forecasts on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, is the and an assessment of the major risks facing the business.
three-year period to 30th June 2021, taking account of In addition, current financial year forecasts are reviewed the Groups current position, financial forecasts, future regularly by the Board, underpinned by regular briefings prospects and the potential impact of the Principal risks from its business sectors and subsidiaries on progress.
and uncertainties documented in the Strategic report.
The corporate strategy provides the foundations for The Board believes that a three-year viability assessment monitoring of performance, budgets, risk and strategic period is appropriate as the timeframe is covered by the actions by the Board.
Groups corporate strategy, takes account of the Groups short order book and, together with the planning process The Board confirms that its assessment during the set out above, gives management and the Board sufficient, year ofthe principal risks facing the Group, including realistic visibility of the future in the context of the industry those thatwould threaten its business model, future and world economic environment.
performance, solvency and or liquidity, and which are set out in the Groups Principal risks and uncertainties on On the basis of the above and other matters considered pages 34 to 36, was robust.
In making the assessment, and reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board severe but plausible scenarios have been considered that has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able estimate the potential impact of the principal risks on the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they financial forecasts over the assessment period.
fall due over the period to 30th June 2021.
In assessing the Groups viability over the next three years, it is In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Governance recognised that all future assessments are subject to a Code, whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group level of uncertainty that increases for the latter part of the will not be viable over a longer period, the period over assessment period and that future outcomes cannot be which the Board considers it possible to form a reasonable guaranteed or predicted with any certainty.
Going concern for more information see page 53 For further explanation of our approach to risk management and internal control see pages 32 and 33 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 37
