60 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial review Principal risks RELX has established risk management practices that are processes are described in the Corporate Governance section.
embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the A description of the business and a discussion of factors affecting Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 by the Committee performance is set out in the Chief Executive Officers report and of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission the Business Review.
Treasury risks are further discussed in the COSO.
The principal risks facing the business, which have been Chief Financial Officers report and in note 18 to the consolidated assessed by the Audit Committee and Board, are described financial statements.
Our assessment of RELXs prospects and below.
The Directors confirm this process is robust and includes viability is on page 82.
The Data Resources risk has been consideration of risks, including emerging risks, that could expanded as a Data Resources and Data Privacy risk which threaten RELXs business models, future performance, solvency, combines elements previously described in the Data Resources liquidity or reputation and Cyber Security risks.
Given RELXs reduced exposure, net of mitigation, to Environmental risk, this is no longer classified It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our as a Principal Risk.
Our approach to managing corporate businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described responsibility, environmental and other non-financial risks below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not is set out in the Business Review and the separate Corporate materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial Responsibility Report.
Our risk management and internal control EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy Demand for our products and services may be adversely Our businesses are focused on professional markets which andmarket impacted by factors beyond our control, such as the have generally been more resilient in periods of economic conditions economic environment in the United States, Europe and downturn.
We deliver information solutions, many on other major economies, political uncertainties including the a subscription and recurring revenue basis, which are potential consequences of the United Kingdoms withdrawal important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
from the European Union under Article 50 of the Treaty of We operate diversified businesses in terms of sectors, Lisbon Brexit, acts of war and civil unrest as well as markets, customers, geographies and products and levels of government and private funding provided to services.
We have extended our position in long-term global academic and research institutions.
growth markets through organic new launches supported by the selective acquisition of small content and data sets.
We continue to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our strategy.
We continuously monitor economic and political developments to assess their impact on our strategy which is designed to mitigate these risks.
In response to specific uncertainties, such as Brexit, our businesses engage in scenario planning and develop contingency plans where relevant.
Intellectual Our products and services include and utilise intellectual We actively engage in developing and promoting the legal property property.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and other protection of intellectual property rights.
Our subscription rights intellectual property laws to establish and protect our contracts with customers contain provisions regarding the proprietary rights in this intellectual property.
There is a use of proprietary content.
We are vigilant as to the use of our risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, intellectual property and, as appropriate, take legal action invalidated or circumvented, which may impact demand to challenge illegal content distribution sources.
for and pricing of our products and services.
Copyright laws are subject to national legislative initiatives, as well as cross border initiatives such as those from the European Commission and increased judicial scrutiny in several jurisdictions in which we operate.
This creates additional challenges for us in protecting our proprietary rights in content delivered through the internet and electronic platforms.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Principal risks 61 EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Data Our businesses rely extensively upon content and data from We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
Data is obtained from public records, Where content is supplied to us by third parties, we aim to and data governmental authorities, customers and other information have contracts which provide mutual commercial benefit.
The disruption or loss of We also maintain an active dialogue with regulatory data sources, either because of data privacy laws, such as authorities on privacy and other data related issues, the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation and promote, with others, the responsible use of data.
GDPR, relating to internet communications, privacy and We have established data privacy principles, governance data protection, e-commerce, information governance and structures and control programmes designed to ensure data use of public records, or because data suppliers decide not privacy requirements are met.
We have put in place and test to supply them, may impose limits on our collection and use response plans to manage incidents where data privacy of certain kinds of information about individuals and our might be compromised.
We embed our data privacy ability to communicate such information effectively with principles in agreements with third parties.
We have assurance programmes to monitor compliance Compromise of data privacy, through a failure of our cyber and conduct training and awareness programmes.
security measures see Cyber security below, other data loss incidents or failure to comply with requirements for proper collection, storage and transmittal of data, by ourselves or our third-party service providers, may damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss, fines and penalties, litigation and increased regulation.
Paid Our Scientific, Technical & Medical STM primary research We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM subscriptions content, like that of most of our competitors, is sold largely community to better understand their needs and deliver on a paid subscription basis.
There is continued debate in value to them.
We are open to serving the STM community government, academic and library communities, which are under any payment model that can sustainably provide the principal customers for our STM content, regarding to researchers with the critical information tools that they what extent such content should be funded instead through need.
In particular, the number of articles we publish on an fees charged to authors or authors funders and or made author pays, open access basis is growing rapidly.
We focus freely available in some form after a period following on the integrity and quality of research through the editorial publication.
Some of these methods, if widely adopted, could and peer review process: we invest in efficient editorial and adversely affect our revenue from paid subscriptions.
distribution platforms and in innovation in platforms and tools to make content and data more accessible and actionable: and we develop our research systems to provide capabilities to manage different payment models.
We ensure vigilance on plagiarism and the long-term preservation of research findings.
STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Our businesses are dependent on the continued acceptance We are focused on the needs and economics of our acceptance by our customers of our products and services and the value customers.
We leverage user centred design and ofproducts placed on them.
Failure to meet evolving customer needs development methods and customer analytics and invest could impact demand for our products and services and in new and enhanced technologies to provide content and consequently adversely affect our revenue or the long-term innovative solutions that help them achieve better outcomes returns from our investment in electronic product and and enhance productivity.
Market Our businesses operate in highly competitive and dynamic We gain insights into our markets, evolving customers Disruption markets, and the means of delivering our products and needs, the potential application of new technologies and services, and the products and services themselves, business models, and the actions of competitors and continue to change in response to rapid technological disrupters.
These insights inform our market strategies innovations, legislative and regulatory changes, the entrance and operational priorities.
We continuously invest of new competitors and other factors.
Failure to anticipate significant resources in our products and services, and quickly adapt to these changes could impact the and the infrastructure to support them.
competitiveness of our products and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions We supplement our organic development with selected Acquisitions are made within the framework of our overall acquisitions.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated strategy, which emphasises organic development.
We have benefits such as revenue growth and or cost savings a well formulated process for reviewing and executing associated with these acquisitions this could adversely acquisitions and for managing the post-acquisition affect return on invested capital and financial condition integration.
This process is underpinned with clear strategic, or lead to an impairment of goodwill.
We closely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
62 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial review OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic platforms and We have established procedures for the protection of our and business networks, primarily the internet, for delivery of our products businesses and technology assets.
These include the resilience and services.
These could be adversely affected if our development and testing of business continuity plans, electronic delivery platforms, networks or supporting including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery infrastructure experience a significant failure, interruption systems, to reduce business disruption in the event of major or security breach.
technology or infrastructure failure, terrorism or adverse weather incidents.
Cyber Our businesses maintain online databases and platforms We have established security programmes with the aim of security delivering our products and services, which we rely on, ensuring that data is protected, our business infrastructures and provide data to third parties, including customers and continue to operate and that we comply with relevant service providers.
These databases and information are a legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements.
target for compromise and face a risk of unauthorised access We have governance mechanisms in place to design and and use by unauthorised parties.
monitor common policies and standards across our Our cyber security measures, and the measures used businesses.
by our third-party service providers, may not detect or We invest in appropriate technological and physical controls prevent all attempts to compromise our systems, which which are applied across the enterprise in a risk-based may jeopardise the security of the data we maintain or security programme which operates at the infrastructure, may disrupt our systems.
Failures of our cyber security application and user levels.
These controls include, but are measures could result in unauthorised access to our not limited to, infrastructure vulnerability management, systems, misappropriation of our or our users data, deletion application scanning and penetration testing, network or modification of stored information or other interruption segmentation, encryption and logging and monitoring.
As techniques used to obtain We provide regular training and communication initiatives unauthorised access to or to sabotage systems change to establish and maintain awareness of risks at all levels frequently and may not be known until launched against of our businesses.
We have appropriate incident response us or our third-party service providers, we may be unable plans to respond to threats and attacks.
We maintain to anticipate or implement adequate measures to protect appropriate information security policies and contractual against these attacks and our service providers and requirements for our businesses and run programmes customers may likewise be unable to do so.
monitoring the application of our data security policies by Compromises of our or our third-party service providers third-party service providers.
We use independent internal systems, or failure to comply with applicable legislation or and third-party auditors to test, evaluate, and help enhance regulatory or contractual requirements could adversely our procedures and controls.
affect our financial performance, damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss, fines and penalties, litigation and increased regulation.
Supply Chain Our organisational and operational structures depend on We select our vendors with care and establish contractual dependencies outsourced and offshored functions, including use of cloud service levels that we closely monitor, including through service providers.
Poor performance, failure or breach of key performance indicators and targeted supplier audits third parties to whom we have outsourced activities, could and security assessments.
We have developed business adversely affect our business performance, reputation and continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of a major financial condition.
We have well established management development and Talent The implementation and execution of our strategies and business plans depend on our ability to recruit, talent review programmes.
We monitor capability needs and remuneration schemes are tailored to attract and motivate motivate and retain skilled employees and management.
We compete globally and across business sectors for the best talent available at an appropriate level of cost.
We actively seek feedback from employees, which feeds into talented management and skilled individuals, particularly those with technology and data analytics capabilities.
An plans to enhance employee engagement and motivation.
Our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy creates a diverse inability to recruit, motivate or retain such people could adversely affect our business performance.
Failure to workforce and environment that respects individuals recruit and develop talent regardless of gender, race or and their contributions.
other characteristics could adversely affect our reputation and business performance.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Principal risks 63 FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, We have professional management of our pension schemes including local versions of the defined benefit type in the UK and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset allocation and the United States.
The assets and obligations associated and plan designs.
We review our funding requirements with those pension schemes are sensitive to changes in on a regular basis with the assistance of independent the market values of the schemes investments and the actuaries and ensure that the funding plans are appropriate.
market-related assumptions used to value scheme We seek to manage pension liabilities by reviewing pension liabilities.
Adverse changes to asset values, discount rates, benefits provided to staff as well as the structure of longevity assumptions or inflation could increase future scheme arrangements.
pension costs and funding requirements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally, and our profits are subject We maintain an open dialogue with tax authorities and to taxation in many different jurisdictions and at differing tax are vigilant in ensuring that we comply with current tax rates.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and legislation.
We have clear and consistent tax policies and Development OECD s reports on Base Erosion and Profit tax matters are dealt with by a professional tax function, Shifting, suggested a range of new approaches that national supported by external advisers.
As outlined in the Chief governments might adopt when taxing the activities of Financial Officers report on page 59 we engage with tax multinational enterprises.
The OECD continues to explore authorities and international organisations.
The principles options around the taxation of the digital economy.
As a result we adopt in our approach to tax matters can be found on our of the OECDs work and other international initiatives, tax website at www.
laws that currently apply to our businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently by them, and these changes could adversely affect our reported results.
Our approach to capital structure and funding are described Treasury The RELX consolidated financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling and are subject to movements in exchange in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 54 to 59.
The approach to the management of treasury risks is described rates on the translation of the financial information of businesses whose operational currencies are other than in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
The United States is our most important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could significantly affect our reported results.
We also earn revenues and incur costs in a range of other currencies, including the euro and the yen and significant fluctuations in these exchange rates could also significantly impact our reported results.
Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the availability and terms of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of our counterparties, currency exchange rates and inflation.
The majority of our outstanding debt instruments are, and any of our future debt instruments may be, publicly rated by independent rating agencies.
Our borrowing costs and access to capital may be adversely affected if the credit ratings assigned to our debt are downgraded.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a global provider of professional information solutions Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is provided to every to the STM, risk & business analytics, legal and exhibitions employee and is supported by training and communication.
markets we, our employees and major suppliers are It encompasses such topics as competing fairly, prohibiting expected to adhere to high standards of independence and corrupt business practices, promoting human rights and fair ethical conduct, including those related to anti-bribery and employment practices and encouraging open and principled anti-corruption, sanctions, promoting human rights and behaviour.
We have well-established processes for principled business conduct.
A breach of generally accepted monitoring, reporting and investigating instances of ethical business standards or applicable anti-bribery and unethical conduct.
Our major suppliers are required to anti-corruption, sanctions or competition statutes could adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
adversely affect our business performance, reputation and financial condition.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63 has been approved by the Board of RELX PLC.
By order of the Board Registered Office Henry Udow 1-3 Strand Company Secretary London 20 February 2019 WC2N 5JR 64 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 65 Governance In this section 66 Board Directors 68 RELX Business Leaders 70 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance 72 Corporate Governance Review 83 Report of the Nominations Committee 85 Directors Remuneration Report 106 Report of the Audit Committee 108 Directors Report
