Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 139 Notes to the Financial Statements C. Financing C1.
Financial risk management The Groups central treasury function manages cash, borrows on behalf of the Group, and provides finance to Group companies in their local currencies.
Treasury activity is governed by a Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The main financial risks faced by the Group are set out below.
a Liquidity risk The Group is committed to ensuring it has sufficient liquidity to meet its business needs, and appropriate reserves to cover operational underperformance or dislocation in the financial markets.
The Groups policy is to have headroom of unrestricted cash and available committed facilities of at least 150m, and the Treasury Committee manages financing requirements and associated headroom at least 12 months forward.
The Group has a Revolving Credit Facility RCF with 17 relationship banks and a committed bilateral term loan with another relationship bank see Note C6 for details.
All of these facilities contain covenants that require EBITDA: Net Interest to be at least 4.0:1.0 and that Net Debt: Adjusted EBITDA should be no greater than 3.5:1.0.
Compliance with financial and other covenants is reviewed regularly and financial covenants are reported to the lenders semi-annually in line with the requirements under the facilities.
The Group remains compliant with its covenants.
The Group targets a Standard & Poors S&P investment grade credit rating for debt issuance of BBB over the medium term.
In line with S&P liquidity ratio requirements, debt maturities are financed at least 12 months in advance using available cash or committed facilities, or by issuance of new debt.
Management maintains an active dialogue with S&P, as well as the Groups relationship banks, to ensure that any changes to the Groups financing and acquisition strategies are understood.
In August 2018, the Group up-sized its RCF to 600m plus an accordion of 200m, and extended its maturity to 2023 with two one-year extension options.
Available commitments of 580m under the RCF together with unrestricted cash of 58.4m gives the Group combined headroom of 638.4m at 31 December 2018 2017: 645.3m of combined headroom to meet the maturity of the September 2019 500m bond.
The Group has no other maturities falling due in 2019.
All of the Groups bonds issued under its Euro Medium-Term Note EMTN Programme, contain a coupon step-up which increases the coupon payable by 1.25% in the event that the Group is downgraded to BB or below sub-investment grade.
The Groups EMTNs may be called by their investors at par in the event of a change of control of the Group.
They may also be called within 120 days if the Groups debt is downgraded below investment grade, or if the rating is withdrawn and the rating agency confirms in writing, either publicly or to the Group or the Trustee, that the rating action occurred either wholly or in part due to a change of control.
b Credit risk The group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Sales are typically low-value, high-volume, spreading the risk across a large number of customers and geographies.
Policies are in place to ensure that credit sales are only made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
The Group operates in some territories where there is increased exposure to trade credit risks and in those territories the Group puts in place appropriate measures to manage its credit risk exposure.
In order to protect the liquid assets and funding relationships of the Group, management aims to maintain banking relationships with counterparties that carry a long-term credit rating of at least A-.
In countries where no banks are rated Aor above, balances are monitored monthly and kept to a minimum.
In addition, funds held with all counterparties are subject to limits.
All exposures are monitored daily and reported to the Treasury Committee each month.
The Group also monitors the credit worthiness of its lenders to ensure available commitments under its facilities are available as needed.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had a total of 10.2m of cash held on bank accounts with banks rated below Aby S&P.
The highest concentration with any single bank rated below Awas 2.9m.
c Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Groups worldwide operations generate profits and cash flows in foreign currencies.
Sales and purchases are typically denominated in the currency of the country in which they are transacted, and the Groups cross-border procurement is considered insignificant.
Sterling procurement and central costs mean that foreign currencies constitute more than 100% of Group adjusted operating profit at approximately 110%.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange risk is in relation to the translation of assets and liabilities, and the Group aims to hold debt in currencies in proportion to its forecast foreign currency profits and investments.
FX derivatives are used to manage foreign currency exposures in excess of 0.5m that are not covered by debt or assets in the same or another highly-correlated currency.
The Treasury Committee monitors foreign exchange exposures on a monthly basis.
Dealing in foreign exchange products is controlled by dealing mandates approved by the Treasury Committee and all FX transactions are covered by ISDA documentation.
The most significant foreign currency groups are euros and US dollars, which make up 45.0% and 27.7% of Group adjusted operating profit respectively.
At 31 December 2018 the Groups net debt was approximately 64% euro 2017: 66%, reflecting that it is the Groups principal cash flow exposure: and 39% US dollars 2017: 54%, reflecting the size of the US market and the Groups strong growth and investment in this region.
This is offset by 3% of cash held in other currencies.
The translation of the interest element of euro and US dollar debt provides a partial income statement offset to the translation of earnings.
The Group calculates the impact on the income statement and other comprehensive income of a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups principal foreign currency exposure is the euro.
A 10% movement in would result in a 14.4m increase decrease 2017: 13.9m in adjusted operating profit, offset by a 2.1m decrease increase 2017: 2.1m in interest payable.
For US dollars, a 10% movement in $ would result in a 10.3m increase decrease 2017: 8.8m in adjusted operating profit, offset by a 1.6m decrease increase 2017: 1.8m in interest payable.
Where possible, currency cash flows are used to settle liabilities in the same currency in preference to selling currency in the market.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
