42 Risks and uncertainties further investment in Information Security and data privacy to mitigate Risk management approach the risk of a successful cyber attack or loss of personal data: and The Groups overall risk management approach, described on pages 75 continued strong cash flow giving financial headroom to continue and 76, is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance to acquire businesses with good strategic fit.
atall levels of the Group that risks are properly identified and are being effectively managed.
This includes the provision of appropriate Areas where our risk profile has increased in 2018 include: mechanisms to ensure that issues and concerns relating to risk can be potential slowdown in the economies of some regions due to changes escalated up through the organisation effectively and confidentially.
in the economic cycle: The Groups business model has remained the same in 2018 as in 2017. difficulties in attracting staff in territories with economies close to full It incorporates a number of elements that moderate the risk profile of employment and others with political pressure to limit immigration: the Company, particularly as the portfolio accelerates its focus on Pest integration risk in relation to acquisitions both effective execution Control and Hygiene which together represent 85% of our total business.
of integration plans and avoiding local management distraction from delivering the business plans of the remainder of the business: and Low capital intensity and high portfolio retention rates: our categories the increased risk of rising interest rates impacting future debt cost.
exhibit strong defensive qualities, as density and efficiency gains are reflected in margin growth.
Identified risks Local market operations: the limited dependency on cross-border The principal risks most relevant to the Group are described in the table flows of people or products reduces the impact of geopolitical risks below and on pages 43 to 46, together with mitigating actions.
such as Brexit, and foreign exchange risk is muted since revenue is earned and costs are incurred in local currency.
Full details of our financial risks can be found in Note C1 on pages 139 The global nature and scale of the Groups operations limits exposure and 140.
The exact financial impact of one or more of our principal to the economic cycle in individual markets: the largest market, North risks materialising will depend on the precise operational impact of the America, represents 38% of Ongoing Revenue at CER, with no other risk, its interaction with other risks and whether mitigating actions are single market representing more than 13%.
successful in reducing the overall financial impact.
However, as a rule of thumb, a 1% decrease in revenue, if not mitigated at all, would have an Changes in risk profile of the Company in 2018 impact on operating profit and on operating cash flow of approximately We continue to monitor existing and emerging risks regularly in both 11m and 10m respectively.
theAudit Committee see pages 71 to 76 and the Group Risk Committee The Group is exposed to other risks and uncertainties related to see page 68, and take mitigating action as appropriate.
environmental, political, social, economic and employment factors in Areas where the risk profile of the business has improved in 2018 include: the territories in which we operate.
Additional risks and uncertainties continuity of senior management in roles, maintenance of corporate not presently known to management or deemed to be of lower knowledge and experience: materiality may, if they manifest themselves, have an adverse impact further roll-out of our target financial systems across the globe, on the Groups growth, profitability, cash flow and or net assets.
helping ensure standardisation of finance processes and improvement in the overall financial control environment: Principal risks Failure to deliver consistently high levels of service to the satisfaction of our Overall risk level customers Our business model depends on servicing the needs of our customers in line with internal high standards and to levels agreed in contracts.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 If our operatives are not sufficiently qualified, HR development processes including leadership and U delivered 1.2m online or do not have the right skills, or we fail to development training, performance management, reward learning views in 2018. innovate successfully, this may negatively and incentives: introduction of Employer of Choice.
MyRentokil platform now impact our ability to acquire or retain Regular tracking of customer satisfaction and the available in 34 countries.
customers, adversely impacting growth, perception of both customers and non-customers Better retention of sales profitability and cash flow.
of Rentokil Initial, benchmarked against competitors.
Dedicated Operational Excellence team to drive superior Employer of Choice being Industrial action in key operations customer service, safe working practices and establish rolled out and gaining could result in diminished customer key metrics.
service levels: if prolonged, it could Incentives for sales and service staff aligned closely Very few days lost to damage the Companys reputation and with strategic priorities, based on delivering improved industrial action, in line ability to secure or renew contracts.
Oversight of key industrial relations matters by Group In markets where overall employment rates HR Director and regular review by the Chief Executive are high we may have difficulty attracting for countries where industrial relations risk is elevated.
and retaining key management and In North America acceleration of IT replatforming and operational personnel.
integration of apps to help drive visibility of performance, improve customer satisfaction and operating efficiency.
KPIs used to monitor the risk State of Service pages 28 and 29 Sales and service colleague retention pages 28 and 29 Customer retention pages 28 and 29 NPS through regular Customer Voice Counts CVC exercise pages 28 and 29 Key: Low Medium High No change Increasing Reducing Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 43 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Failure to grow our business profitably in a changing macro-economic environment Overall risk level The Companys three businesses Pest Control, Hygiene and Protect & Enhance operate in a global macro-economic environment that is subject to uncertainty and volatility.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 Changes in the macro-economic Regular review of our capital allocation model to ensure Commodity prices remain environment could have a number of that scarce resources are directed to countries and volatile but no significant different impacts on the ability of the businesses with the most attractive prospects.
impact in 2018. business to grow profitably, to sustain Global Employer of Choice programme to ensure No significant regulatory recruitment and to deliver against targets.
focus on the key priorities of the organisation including changes in key markets.
recruiting and retaining critical talent and specialists in Brexit uncertainty and weak Examples include: all markets.
property market in UK Changes that impact on free movement Working with governments and regulators on adversely impacted Property of people such as Brexit and reduced implementation of new regulations.
appetite for immigration in the US may Monitoring of market pricing trends where available Acquired Cannon Hygiene make it more difficult to attract frontline and individual customer profitability to minimise margin and Mitie Pest business in colleagues and create wage inflation.
erosion: sales incentives increasingly prioritise margin UK, being kept separate Rises in commodity prices e. g. oil could and customer profitability.
raise the cost of delivering our services.
International Key Accounts team developing business North America business now Low-growth economies with inherent with multinational customers 18 at the end of 2018 across accounts for 38% of Ongoing cost inflation, where the Company has geographies to take advantage of the Companys unique Revenue at CER.
weak pricing power may make it difficult global capabilities.
France Workwear returned to maintain profitability.
Stock building to mitigate potential disruption from Brexit.
Growing market presence of Regular reviews of cost base and productivity Buy-in of UK defined benefit multinational competitors may increase programmes.
Group Procurement team tasked to deliver pension scheme as prethe cost of acquisitions and drive down economies of scale in IT, fleet, energy and logistics.
cursor to buy-out in 2020 prices, impacting profitability.
Use of robotics in back office functions to automate to fide-risk balance sheet.
Increased market presence by facilities manual administrative tasks in a cost effective way.
management companies may drive Regular monitoring of debtor days outstanding with down prices and increase compliance action taken against customers with overdue debts.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Restructuring costs 10m page 15 Customer retention pages 28 and 29 Revenue contribution from acquisitions page 15 Debtor days outstanding Group Net Operating Margin page 15 Service colleague retention pages 28 and 29 Online learning views page 52 Successor pipeline page 79 Failure to develop products and services that are tailored and relevant to local Overall risk level markets andmarket conditions We operate across markets that are at different stages in the economic cycle, at varying stages of market development and have different levels of market attractiveness.
We must be sufficiently agile to develop and deliver products and services that meet local market needs.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 If we are not able to adapt to local business Acquisition of targets with specific capabilities that Increased sales from and consumer needs, our existing address future changes in our markets.
innovations such as Lumnia, customers may choose not to renew Targeted investment in innovation to meet market and Agrilaser, Fruit Fly Ninja and contracts, or seek reductions in prices.
regulatory needs and defend against commoditisation.
This negatively impacts our ability to Category Boards to oversee and roll out innovations Queens Award for maintain or increase margins and cash flow.
Establishment of the Power Centre to drive innovation Roll out of digital tools Examples include: in products and services and provide enhanced training accelerating across all changes to the regulatory environment facilities for the Group.
PestConnect in that may ban certain products or service Investing in new digital platforms to provide improved use in 18 countries.
models from being used, such as marketing channels and opportunities for customers to permanent rodent baiting: and order or amend services overseen by Category Boards.
failure to develop products that are networked and capable of being monitored in real time.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Group Net Operating Margin page 15 Sales from specific innovations Website visitors page 52 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 44 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Failure to ensure business continuity in case of a material incident Overall risk level The business needs to have resilience to ensure business can continue if impacted by externally induced incidents, e. g. cyber attack, hurricane or terrorism.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 Failure to service our customers may All countries and units maintain regularly tested business Security governance affect our ability to retain those customers continuity plans BCPs and IT disaster recovery plans.
framework and standards and damage the Companys reputation.
Ongoing programme to transfer key data and applications continue to improve.
External This may negatively impact growth, from local servers to regional data centres with enhanced consultants used to identify profitability and cash flow.
most significant business Data encryption and implementation of AirWatch to continuity risks and put in Examples of incidents that could impact mitigate potential loss of business data.
place additional measures our ability to service customers include: Penetration testing on all systems at least annually to test where necessary.
a significant cyber-attack or IT failure external firewalls and address any identified weaknesses.
New IT security protocols which is not recovered quickly: Annual inspections of key sites by insurers, on a rotating being implemented.
fire or flood impacting our laundries basis, to identify potential risks.
GDPR compliance in Workwear or warehouses in Hygiene Procedures in place to ensure that potential industrial programme enhances and Pest, preventing goods from being disputes are quickly reported to Group HR Director.
security including extended available to our customers: Local plans to service customers from adjacent laundries use of encryption and industrial action by employees: branches if supply is interrupted.
restrictions by government or police Advancing shipments of goods from the UK to overseas New BCP model being rolled preventing access to customers businesses and holding additional stocks in border out.
property: and locations to mitigate any adverse impact of Brexit.
Brexit risks assessed and restrictions on our ability to import and plan put in place.
export goods to and from the UK due to border delays arising from Brexit.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Number of serious IT incidents and time taken to respond Actions arising from IT security self-assessments Inventory levels Breaches of laws or regulations including tax, competition and anti-trust laws Overall risk level As a responsible Company we aim to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to our businesses across the globe.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 Failure to comply with local laws covering Group Legal involvement in all acquisitions, including Significant long-standing anti-bribery and corruption, competition, advising on risk and regulatory issues.
litigations successfully employment, data privacy, or financial and Monitoring of online U training completion rates.
resolved during 2018, tax reporting requirements may result in Payroll audits carried out across all countries to ensure reducing risk of fines or fines or withdrawal of licence to operate, compliance with local employment and tax laws.
which could adversely impact growth, Tax Policy re-issued and approved by Board.
All The level of tax provisions profitability and cash flow.
significant tax planning opportunities have to be preare considered appropriate agreed with the Group Tax Director and Chief Financial and not materially changed The Company operates across many Officer with independent tax advice taken where from the level in prior year.
different tax jurisdictions and is subject necessary.
Regular review of tax exposures.
to periodic tax audits which sometimes Authority schedule in place and regularly reviewed.
challenge the basis on which local tax Group and local policies in place and regularly reviewed.
has been calculated and or withheld.
Requirement to report breaches in controls and or laws Successful challenges by local tax to Group General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
authorities may have an adverse impact Mandatory training on Code of Conduct and other core on profitability and cash flow.
compliance topics, with annual refreshers, to instil a highly principled culture of ethical behaviour.
New Supplier Code of Conduct developed for roll out in 2019.
All major business transactions or internal reorganisations are subject to a rigorous internal and external review.
A dedicated and experienced central tax department is involved in all tax audits.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Central monitoring of material litigation page 65 Tax provisions page 131 Compliance rates with key online training, e. g. Code of Conduct and competition law Key: Low Medium High No change Increasing Reducing Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 45 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Fraud, financial crime and loss or unintended release of personal data Overall risk level Collusion between individuals, both internal and external, could result in fraud if internal controls are not in place and working effectively.
The business holds personal data on employees, some customers and suppliers: unintended loss or release of such data may result in criminal sanctions.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 Loss of personal data of customers, Ongoing programme to ensure all businesses are GDPR compliance project suppliers or employees could, compliant with data privacy requirements including in included training across the if significant, result in regulatory Europe the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Group: no significant uplift intervention which may result in AirWatch and laptop encryption being implemented.
in data access requests: substantial fines and damage to the Mandatory online training by all senior employees for catalyst for linked IT security Companys reputation.
competition law, anti-bribery and corruption, information enhancements such as security and privacy, and conflicts of interest.
encryption and data loss Theft of Company assets including Compliance with Code of Conduct and other key policies prevention.
property, customer or employee affirmed by annual Letter of Assurance process.
Review of key financial information, or misstatement of financial Standardised financial control framework operating in all control framework, minor or other records via deliberate action by locations with a focus on risk prevention and mitigation: changes made.
employees or third parties may constitute framework defined centrally and independently assessed No major frauds identified fraud and result in financial loss to the at all material business units every year.
during 2018. business, damage to the Companys In most countries, card transactions are managed by reputation or fines by regulators.
regulated third parties to prevent data loss and ensure compliance with PCI-DSS regulations.
International confidential Speak Up hotline and email address, monitored by Internal Audit.
Significant frauds investigated by Internal Audit and lessons learned shared widely.
KPIs used to monitor the risk page 49 Compliance rates with key online training, e. g. Code of Conduct and competition law Compliance percentage for online training page 49 page 49 Completion rates for annual Letter of Assurance GDPR compliance in all key countries page 76 Monitoring of Speak Up and reported control incidents by Internal Audit Health, safety and the environment Overall risk level The Company has an obligation to ensure that colleagues, customers and other stakeholders remain safe, that the working environment is not detrimental to health and that we are aware ofand minimise any adverse impact on the environment.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 The Company operates in hazardous Robust health and safety H&S policies supplemented Review of hazardous process environments and situations, for example: by the SHE Golden Rules and technical policies address rules issued, including use of poisons and fumigants in higher risk and regulated activities, e. g. driving, working at new rules relating to use of Pest Control: height, fumigation or heat treatment.
Group technical and drones and laser pointers.
driving to and working at customers: safety standards often higher than regulatory requirements.
New electrical safety working at height: and H&S officers appointed in all jurisdictions, supported by guidance developed for exposure to needlestick injury dedicated central team.
roll out in 2019. bio-hazards from medical waste.
Mandatory training of all relevant employees in safe Safety Leadership working practices, including drivers and those working in Behaviours initiative for Non-compliance with internal policies hazardous environments, e. g. heat treatment or fumigation.
or industry regulations could lead to Focus on implementation of Group fumigation standards personal injury, substantial fines or in all new acquisitions.
penalties including withdrawal of licences H&S considered as first item at all Board and senior to operate, and reputational damage.
management meetings: review of standardised H&S KPIs.
Formal review of accidents and circulation of lessons Environmental risks may arise from former learned.
activities at sites currently or previously Monitoring energy-derived emissions and water usage operated by the Company.
including energy efficiency target of 20% reduction in energy intensity from 2016 baseline by 2020.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Lost time accidents pages 28 and 29 Audits of fumigation and heat treatment processes Working days lost pages 28 and 29 Total emissions page 51 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 46 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Failure to integrate acquisitions and execute disposals from continuing business Overall risk level The Company has a strategy that includes growth by acquisition, and has acquired over 180 companies in the past five years.
These companies need to be integrated quickly and efficiently to minimise potential impact on the acquired business and the existing business.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 If the Company fails to successfully Integration plans considered by Investment Committee as Successful carve out of integrate acquisitions into its existing part of acquisition approval process.
Material integration Central and Eastern Europe organisation structures, fails to deliver the activities managed during monthly performance reviews.
Hygiene and Workwear revenue and profit targets, or fails to deliver Dedicated project teams established for largest business to Haniel JV.
expected synergy savings, the business acquisitions and demergers, e. g. PCI in India and exIntegration of Rentokil PCI may not achieve the expected financial CWS business in Italy, with clear deliverables over three business in India is complex and operational benefits and adversely months, six months and one year.
Additional resources and running slightly behind impact growth, profitability and cash flow.
provided to US to support integration and replatforming.
Tried and tested induction programme for first 100 days Integration of ex-CWS Italy Business disposals also have to be for all acquisitions.
business on track, and managed efficiently to minimise risk to Continuity of management leadership in acquired performing well.
the businesses being disposed and the companies, where possible.
Acquisitions of Cannon residual business.
Use of transaction structures including deferred UK and the former Mitie consideration to mitigate deal risk.
Pest businesses under Group departments, e. g. Health & Safety, Legal, Insurance investigation by the CMA and IT, involved with acquisitions to drive integration and held separate pending plans and compliance with Group standards, especially final outcome.
Post-completion governance: formal post-acquisition review PAR of every acquisition by Investment Committee against original business plan within 18-24 months: Board post-investment review of acquisitions in aggregate every six months: Internal Audit review of acquisitions in new geographies within 12 months.
KPIs used to monitor the risk Post-acquisition reviews Integration plans 30 days, 100 days, 1 year Failure to mitigate against financial market risks Overall risk level Our business is exposed to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and settlement risk.
Impact should the risk materialise Actions taken by management to mitigate the risk Changes in2018 vs. 2017 If any of the above risks materialise, Financing policy in place to ensure that the Company has Increasing interest rate this may have a negative impact on sufficient financial headroom to finance operations and boltenvironment and credit profitability, cash flow and financial on acquisitions.
Commitment to target credit rating of BBB.
spreads, but still lower than statements, and may negatively impact Treasury policies that limit the use of foreign exchange and coupons on part of the financial ratios and credit ratings, impacting interest rate derivatives, set limits for financial counterparty Groups debt.
our ability to raise funds for acquisitions.
exposure, govern how financing is raised in bank and other Review of Group banks to debt capital markets and provide rules around treasury ensure appropriate spread related matters at operating company level.
Monthly reporting and monitoring of financial covenants and BBB rating retained.
rating agency metrics and compliance with treasury policies.
Monitoring of the impact of exchange rate movements on non-GBP profits and net debt.
Cash pooling and debt financing arrangement to match, as far as possible, currency availability demand across borders.
Revolving credit facility RCF increased to 600m to provide funding headroom for refinancing of 2019 bonds.
KPIs used to monitor the risk see Note C1 Financial risk management pages 139 and 140 Counterparty credit ratings Credit rating metrics Level of Group floating debt Un-hedged foreign exchange exposures Liquidity headroom Matching of currency net debt to underlying profitability Compliance with financial covenants Key: Low Medium High No change Increasing Reducing Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 Risks and uncertainties Viability statement In line with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the current the Directors set out below the basis on which they have assessed position of the Group and have taken into account the potential the viability of the Group, over what period the viability has been impact of the principal risks, described on pages 42 to 46, that could assessed and the Groups formal viability statement.
impact on the solvency and viability of the Group.
The Directors have taken account of the Groups liquidity position, its committed and In determining the appropriate time horizon over which to assess uncommitted banking facilities and its bonds issued under its Euro the viability of the Group, the Directors have determined that a threeMedium-Term Note EMTN Programme further details of which are set year period is appropriate: out in Note C1 of the consolidated financial statements.
With headroom it is consistent with the period reviewed by the Group Board in under its covenants and taking into account current credit metrics the the budgeting and strategic planning process: and Directors are confident in the Groups ability to raise new finance, if it is aligned with the typical duration of one to three years of required, assuming functioning capital markets.
both the customer and supplier contract periods entered into by the Group.
In undertaking its viability assessment, as a base case, the Directors used the agreed budget for 2019 and longer-term plans for 2020 and Although the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will 2021 which includes analysis of the forecast performance including not be viable over a longer time frame, because of the degree of the following assumptions: uncertainty, the period over which the Directors have a reasonable revenue and profit growth in line with the Groups medium-term expectation as to the Groups viability, is the three-year period to targets: 31 December 2021. no major changes to working capital: The Groups principal markets and strategy are described in detail capex reflecting revenue growth: in the Strategic Report pages 1 to 54.
In order to assess the viability M&A spend in line with recent years: of the Group the key factors affecting the Groups prospects are set no additional capital beyond current committed debt facilities: and out below: future dividend growth in line with current policy.
The Group is the leading global provider of Pest Control and In order to assess the Groups resilience, a number of different Hygiene services.
scenarios have been modelled to test compliance with financial The Group operates three core categories Pest Control, Hygiene covenants and ratings metrics.
These tests include: and Protect & Enhance and therefore has some protection from a scenario where a combination of the crystallisation of principal category specific issues.
risks results in no revenue growth over the period and a 20% The Group operates in 75 countries and therefore is relatively increase in working capital requirements: well protected from country or regional shocks.
The Groups a scenario where the crystallisation of principal risks results largest single country is the USA that contributes 30% of Ongoing in a prolonged downturn in trading performance resulting in a Operating Profit excluding restructuring costs and central and year-on-year reduction in profitability of 10%, with and without regional overheads at CER.
any mitigation: and The Group has a large, diverse customer base with no single a reverse stress test scenario caused by an unavoidable breach customer contributing greater than 1% of revenue.
of the Groups financial covenants.
A substantial proportion of revenue is derived from contract revenue typically one to three years in duration.
Whilst contracts In each scenario it is assumed that the Group is able to refinance its can be cancelled, this provides a level of downside protection debt maturities as they fall due, in line with recent experience.
In in the event of economic declines and typically provides time to the first two scenarios it was found that the Group was resilient and respond and react.
remained in compliance with its financial covenants, even with no The average initial contract duration is less than three years which mitigation.
The Directors have also considered the key potential provides the opportunity to renegotiate terms in the event of mitigating actions of reducing capital expenditure or expenditure external market changes and cost increases.
Most contracts are on acquisitions and ultimately restricting dividend payments.
subject to annual price increases.
Where mitigation was introduced, the requirement for financing to be Whilst the Group is exposed to regulatory changes, particularly in raised on debt maturity was reduced significantly.
In order to create Pest Control, these can provide an opportunity for the Group due a reverse stress testing scenario, the conditions were so severe that to the investments in innovation and the Groups ability to fund they were considered implausible.
investments to maintain compliance relative to our competitors.
Based on this assessment and having carefully considered the Groups We are not aware of any regulatory changes in the medium current standing and the risks and uncertainties referred to above, term that present a significant threat to any of the categories we in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have operate in.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The business is not capital intensive and the majority of capital operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year expenditure is correlated with revenue and so if revenue period ending 31 December 2021. decreased there would be a corresponding reduction in related capital expenditure.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
