Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties A description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced We recognise that the Group is exposed to risks wider than by the Group in 2018, together with the potential impact those listed, however, we have disclosed those that we and monitoring and mitigating activities is set out in the believe are likely to have the greatest impact on the Group table below.
delivering its strategic objectives and those that have been the subject of discussion at recent Board and Audit Committee meetings.
Change from Key risk and description Impact Changes in the year Monitoring and mitigation prior year Macroeconomic Substantially fewer housing Housing transactions in Monitoring of housing 1 environment market including leading transactions than the 2018 were down 2% year The Group derives almost norm may lead to a on year versus 2017 indicators and trends in 1 all its revenues from the.
reduction in the number ending the year at 1.2m UK and is therefore of Agency branches or Stable overall membership Continuing to provide the dependent on the New Home developments, numbers with a 2% fall in most significant and macroeconomic both of which are major Agency branches being effective exposure for conditions surrounding the determinant of the offset by a 12% rise in New customers brands and UK housing market and Groups revenue.
properties, be the largest consumer confidence In addition, a contraction in source of high quality ARPA was up 83 year on which impacts on property 2 the volume of transactions leads and offer value year to 1,005, reflecting transaction levels.
in the UK housing marketadding products and continued adoption of Specific considerations could lead to a reduction packages and help drive advertising products and resulting from the UKs in advertisers marketing operational efficiencies price rise activities.
decision to leave the EU budgets which could for our customers, have been outlined on reduce the demand for thereby embedding the page 28. the Groups property value of our membership.
Maintaining a flexible cost base that can respond to changing conditions.
Competitive environment Increased competition may Market share of the top C ommunication of the 2 The Group operates in a impact on Rightmoves four property portals has value of Rightmove competitive marketplace ability to grow revenue due seen a small increase to membership to 3 with attractive margins to the potential loss of: 76% with Rightmove advertisers.
and low barriers to entry.
continuing to have the audience: C ontinued investment This may result in largest and most engaged in our account advertisers: increased competition audience of any UK management teams demand for additional from existing competitors property portal.
to ensure we stay close advertising products.
or new entrants targeting to our customers and the Groups primary local markets and help revenue markets.
our customers run their businesses more efficiently.
Sustained marketing investment in the Rightmove brand.
S ustained investment and innovation in serving both home hunters and our customers.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 25 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties continued Change from Key risk and description Impact Changes in the year Monitoring and mitigation prior year New or disruptive Failing to innovate may Phase one of the Continual improvements 3 technologies and impact on Rightmoves Rightmove Tenant to our platforms including changing consumer ability to grow revenue due Passport was launched in ongoing investment in behaviours to the potential loss of: 2018.
This allows tenants mobile and tablet Rightmove operates in to pre-qualify themselves platforms.
audience engagement: a fast-moving online when sending a lead to Developing our product advertisers: marketplace.
Failure to agents by including their proposition to meet our demand for additional innovate or adopt new full requirements and a customers needs and advertising products.
technologies or failure simple affordability check.
to adapt to changing Large in-house customer business technology team with models and evolving culture of innovation.
consumer behaviour may Ongoing monitoring of impact the Groups ability consumer behaviour and to offer the best products annual Hackathons which and services to its allow employees to spend advertisers and the best time during work hours to consumer experience.
develop their own online property related ideas.
Regular contact with the start-up and prop-tech communities to stay abreast of innovations in the marketplace.
Cyber security and IT Any loss of website The enactment of the Disaster Recovery and 4 systems availability or theft or new EU General Data Business Continuity Plans The Group has a high misuse of data held within Protection Regulation in place, subject to regular dependency on the Groups databases and GDPR in May 2018 has review and testing.
technology and internal IT systems could result in: significantly increased Use of three data centres IT systems.
the maximum potential reputational damage to to load balance and financial impact of a In todays digital world the Group as a result of ensure optimal personal data breach.
there are increased risks loss of consumer and performance and associated with external customer confidence in Over the past year we have business continuity cyber attacks which could the Rightmove brand: and taken the opportunity to capability.
result in unavailability of review processes that financial loss arising from Regular backups our platforms.
involve data collection, potential penalties and of key data.
storage or processing A security breach such as fines.
Regular testing of the and updated or amended corruption or loss of key security of the IT systems them to ensure they meet data may disrupt the and platforms including GDPR requirements.
efficiency and functioning penetration testing and of the Groups day to day distributed denial of operations.
Ongoing investment in security systems.
Ongoing monitoring of external threats through updates from external specialists and collaboration with other online organisations.
Regular internal security training and spearphishing tests to minimise risk of social engineering attacks.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Change from Key risk and description Impact Changes in the year Monitoring and mitigation prior year Securing and retaining The inability to recruit and Our latest employee survey Ongoing succession 5 showed continued strong the right talent retain talented people could planning and development Our continued success is impact our ability to maintain levels of employee of future leaders.
our financial performance engagement with 91% of dependent on our ability to Payment of competitive attract, recruit, retain and and deliver growth.
Rightmovers thinking that reward, including a blend When key staff leave or Rightmove is a great place motivate our highly skilled of short and long-term workforce.
retire, there is a risk that to work.
incentives for senior knowledge or competitive management.
The ability for all employees to participate in the success of the Group through the SIP and SAYE schemes.
Regular staff communication and engagement.
Maintaining the culture of the Group, which generates significant staff loyalty.
Small increase in risk Risk unchanged 1 Source: HMRC transactions for the UK as published on 22 January 2019.
2 Revenue from Agency and New Home advertisers in a given month divided by the total number of advertisers during the month, measured as a monthly average over the year.
