Strategic report | Risk management Approach to risk management Risk management is reinforced by the Groups continuous The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is process to design and embed strong internal controls effectively managed across the Group.
The primary method across the business as we grow, particularly in relation to by which risks are monitored and managed is through the smaller other business areas.
The Groups internal control monthly Executive Committee meetings.
The subject of risk framework is aligned to a three lines of defence model.
is included on each monthly agenda and any significant new Operational management is the organisations first line risks or change in status to existing significant risks is of defence as they are primarily responsible for the direct discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
management of risk and ensuring that appropriate mitigating controls are in place and that they are operating The Group operates a cautious approach to risk and its effectively.
The second line is formed by the Groups internal risk appetite is relatively low.
The open culture which is compliance and oversight functions such as company embedded throughout Rightmove is such that objective secretariat, finance, tax, treasury and legal.
The third line views are made when assessing risks and internal controls, includes both internal and external audit reporting to the dialogue is encouraged, and decisions are not made until Audit Committee.
risks have been appropriately considered.
The Audit Committee receives and analyses regular On a bi-annual basis, risk is reviewed by operational reports from management and the outsourced internal management across each business area.
This review audit function on matters relating to risk and control and includes a detailed assessment of new and existing reviews the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action identified risks, the likelihood of each risk occurring and taken by management.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the potential impact, together with controls and mitigating the Board also considers the findings and recommendations procedures in place.
This information is combined to form a of its external auditor throughout the year in relation to the consolidated risk register which is reported to the Executive design and implementation of effective financial controls.
Committee for review and challenge, ahead of final review Further detail of these activities are included within the Audit and approval by the Board.
The Board reviewed the risk Committee report on pages 44 to 50. register at both the February 2018 and November 2018 Board meetings, with a particular focus on the principal risks identified and any new or emerging risks.
Risk management framework Board Audit Committee Executive Committee External audit and Internal controls outsourced internal and compliance audit activities Risk register and risk review Operational management 24 rightmove.
