Strategic report Risk management The geopolitical context remained unsettled during 2018, with rising trade tensions creating increased market volatility.
We are exposed to a variety of risks both threats We also continue to focus on managing risks resource nationalism and pressure from and opportunities that can affect our business relating to our relationships with governments, governments, communities and customers for performance, reputation and licence to operate communities and key customers and suppliers.
a greater share of the wealth that our business financially, operationally and in terms of Our partner-to-operate strategy supports the creates.
Related to this, we also see a tightening compliance.
Creating shareholder value is the creation and maintenance of mutually beneficial of scrutiny around foreign investments.
reward for taking and accepting risk.
Effective partnerships with key stakeholders, particularly management of risk is therefore critical to host governments.
In the medium term, we see both threats and whether we can achieve our strategic objectives.
opportunities in technological disruption from Our managed and non-managed joint-ventures, mining and processing automation to machine The risk landscape in 2018 particularly operations in places with higher learning and artificial intelligence.
We aim to use The geopolitical context remained unsettled sovereign risk, continue to need close monitoring these technologies to improve productivity in during 2018, with rising trade tensions creating and active management.
Our non-managed increasingly sophisticated markets, while managing increased market volatility.
We have, however, joint-venture portfolio is now better aligned the social implications of automation in partnership generally experienced a favourable market and with our strategic priorities and appetite for risk, with our host governments.
While there have been after the sale of our interest in the Grasberg mine inflationary cost pressures affecting the industry, in Indonesia.
And we are continuing to refine our In the longer term, we predict increasing demand we have focused on delivering continued portfolio for a future carbon-constrained world, for sustainable working practices and a growing operational efficiencies through our mine-towith the sale of our Australian coal assets.
need to manage environmental and other risks market productivity programme to defend our to our licence to operate, such as land reform.
Our solid cash flows, underpinned by You can see changes to our risk profile during Climate change represents perhaps the greatest strong prices and cash from divestments, have 2018 on the following page.
For more detail long-term threat to our business, but also brings further strengthened our balance sheet and on movements and the monitoring of these opportunities.
We will need to show resilience to decreased our liquidity risk.
We have also exposures, see pages 34 to 51 Business reviews the risks it poses physical, regulatory and market.
maintained a strong discipline around capital 76 to 141 the Directors report and the Notes to A low-carbon economy may lead to structural allocation: returning cash to shareholders and the 2018 financial statements on page 150. shifts such as a step-change in recycling, but it investing in high-quality long-term greenfield will also fuel higher demand for commodities like and brownfield projects.
Emerging risks copper and raw materials for batteries.
In the near term, we expect to face continued In 2018, we continued to enhance our controls macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty.
Already, societal expectations around water formanaging operational risks.
In particular, we The global economic cycle is expected to weaken and closure management are changing.
We are strengthening how we manage the risks of due to monetary policy normalisation, the fading have considerably enhanced our framework for major hazards through a Group-wide improvement impacts of the US stimulus and weakening managing water risk, developing a comprehensive programme, and are applying more rigorous demand in China.
We see the most significant Water Risk Profile, Group-wide water metric cyber-security controls to deal with the short-term risks to be the impact on market and Group water target.
We have also created evolvingand growing threat of cyber attacks sentiment of continuing global trade tensions, a centrally coordinated closure strategy and a andsecurityexposures.
the potential for a sharp and prolonged downward dedicated Closure team to provide strong lifecycle correction in global equities, and a worse-thanplanning and to oversee our growing activities Our trading and sales and marketing teams have expected slowdown in the Chinese economy.
related to closing and repurposing our sites.
continued to develop a more sophisticated market interface with the ongoing expansion of We are also mindful of the ongoing rise of our Commercial division in Singapore.
We are populism in many of the markets in which building a robust governance, risk and controls we operate.
This is likely to lead to increasing framework to support the Commercial team and to manage the strategic, financial and operational risks to which they are exposed.
com Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties exposure at a glance 2018 trend Considering the potential speed and degree of change possible in factors like Chinese demand, commodity prices and exchange rates, we have External Internal Internal and external set a three-year range for our long-term viability Increasing risk Sovereign risk Attracting and statement.
We feel this strikes the right balance or uncertainty China development retaining talent between longand short-term influences on pathway performance, and allows credible detailed forecasts.
Commodity prices We have undertaken robust stress-testing as part No change in risk Strategic Execution of Exploration and of the business planning process to confirm the or uncertainty partnerships acquisitions resources long-term viability of the business.
The variables anddivestments Operational excellence tested include commodity price and exchange Capital project Regulation and rate movements, and assumptions relating to development regulatory intervention production, political and stakeholder risks, acting Health, safety, both individually and in combination.
We analyse environment and severe but plausible risk levels well beyond those communities expected in the normal course of business.
Decreasing risk Liquidity or uncertainty The viability of the business under these scenarios remained sound, with a suite of management actions available to preserve Assessing our risks resilience, including accessing lines of credit, With the help of management, the board has reducing capital expenditure and changing levels carried out a robust assessment of the principal of shareholder returns.
risks of the business, as listed above.
They have also tested the Groups financial plans for each In summary, taking into account the Groups of these principal risks, and for a number of current position and principal risks, the directors severe but plausible scenarios related to have assessed the prospects of the business over certain principal and material risks appearing the next three years until 31 December 2021 at or around the sametime.
and have a reasonable expectation that we will be able to continue to operate and meet our We will continue to monitor the potential impacts liabilities as they fall due over that period.
of the UKs departure from the European Union as a result of the June 2016 referendum.
At the It is impossible to predict all risks and the moment, we foresee no material impacts from combinations in which they might appear.
this on our operations or business, although it There may be risks that do not seem material could well create volatility in equity markets at the moment, but which could turn out to be andcontribute to political instability in the UK material, particularly if they appear at or around andEurope.
Longer-term viability statement How we manage risk Our business planning processes include Underpinned by our risk policy and standards, preparing detailed financial plans for the next our approach to risk management and internal twoyears, as well as more strategic and higher control is aimed at embedding risk awareness level financial plans for the next five years.
in all decision-making, and a commitment to We develop our strategy and make capital managing risk proactively and effectively.
investmentdecisions based on an assessment This includes: ofcash flows over a multi-decade horizon.
We Identifying and evaluating threats and also regularly test our investment capacity to opportunities early.
make sure any capital commitments are in line Managing and preventing threats before with our capital allocation model.
This multi-year they materialise, and responding effectively approach to planning reflects our business model if they do.
of investing in and running long-life assets, and Actively pursuing opportunities to capture selling into commodity markets over which we value within agreed risk tolerances.
We make accountability for risk management Our planning includes modelling a series of very clear in our business this is a key macroeconomic scenarios and using a range performance area for line managers.
ofassumptions, including: Projections of economic growth and commodity Our Risk team supports the understanding and demand in major markets, primarily China.
management of risk at all levels of the business.
Commodity prices and exchange rates, They provide a framework for managing and whichare often correlated.
reporting material risks, escalating key issues to Potential new technology and productivity the Executive Committee and ultimately to the enhancements.
They also support the Risk Cost and supply parameters for our major inputs.
The schedule and cost of organic and inorganic growth programmes.
Risk management Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 65 Strategic report Risk management continued Our process for identifying, evaluating and The framework also defines the oversight managing material business risks is designed to responsibilities of the board and the Executive manage rather than eliminate threats where Committee.
Both are supported by our Risk appropriate, accepting a degree of risk to generate Management Committee and central support returns.
Certain threats, such as natural disasters, functions, such as Risk and Group Internal Audit, cannot be managed using internal controls, and to enable the effective identification, evaluation there is limited capacity in the international and management of risk across our business.
insurance markets to transfer such risks.
Our framework lays out a three lines of defence We have material investments in a number of approach to managing risks and controls: jointly controlled entities.
Where we do not have managerial control, we may be unable to ensure First line: employees and business leaders that management will comply with our policies ownrisks.
and standards, but we use what influence we have.
Second line: our central support functions Our risk management framework andRisk Management Committee control our The responsibility for identifying, evaluating risk framework and internal control systems.
and managing risks lies with all our employees and business leaders.
They operate within the Third line: Group Internal Audit assures our Group-wide framework to manage risks within internal control systems.
The key risk management responsibilities throughout the Group are outlined below.
Our risk management framework Oversight Board Determines the nature and extent of acceptable risk as we pursue our strategic objectives.
Confirms that managements risk limits reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept to achieveour strategic objectives.
Oversees the risk management process.
Board committees At least once a year, the Audit Committee monitors and reviews the maturity and effectiveness ofour riskmanagement and internal control systems.
The Audit and Sustainability Committees review regular reports from management on the  applied to any material business risks identified within the Committees scope.
Third line Group Internal Audit Provides independent and objective assurance that our risk management and internal control systems are adequate andeffective.
Second line Executive Committee Sets our risk strategy and assesses the risks inherent in key investments and in strategic, business orannual plans.
Risk Management Oversees our risk management framework to help identify significant risks to Group-level objectives Committee and to make sure we have effective risk management processes.
Risk function Coordinates and supports Group-level risk management activity and reporting.
Embeds risk management into core business processes, such as planning and capital allocation.
Builds risk management capability and a risk-aware culture throughout the Group.
Other central support Provide targeted expertise and support to risk, action and control owners.
functions and Develop and maintain specific controls, including policies, standards and procedures, to management committees supportthe effective management of material Group-level risk within the agreed limits.
Assure first line of defence compliance with controls.
First line Product groups and central Monitor material risks and track activities to manage risk within their own business activities, functions, executive escalatingwhen appropriate.
audit forums Consider risk and uncertainty in strategic and business planning and capital allocation proposals.
Product groups Identify, assess and manage risks in operations, functions and projects.
and businessunits Risk Community of Practice Supports alignment, consistency and continuous improvement of risk management.
