Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties outlined in this section reflect the inherent risks that could materially affect Rio Tinto or its ability tomeetits strategic objectives, either directly or by triggering a succession of events that in aggregate become material to the Group.
Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic and non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework defined by the Groups Risk standard.
Once identified, each principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed and monitored by the relevant internal experts and bythe Risk Management Committee and, as appropriate, by the relevant board committees and the board.
There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks currently not believed to be material which could turn out to be material.
A number of them, particularly those with longer-term potential impacts, are referred to in the sustainable development section of this Annual report on pages 52 to 63.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this Annual report and the cautionary statement on page 300.
Market risks Rio Tinto operates in global markets and accepts the impact of exchange rate movements and market-driven prices for our commodities, seeking premiums where possible.
Commodity prices: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Commodity prices, driven by demand and supply for the Groups A rise in commodity prices, or favourable exchange rate movements, products, vary outside of expectations over time.
generates more cash flow from operations, enabling the Group to pursue growth options or capital expansions, pay down debt and or increase Exchange rate variations and geopolitical issues may offset or returns to shareholders.
Capturing above-planned returns from commercial insights relating to Anticipating and responding to market movements is inherently market movements would deliver additional cash flow to the Group.
uncertain and outcomes may vary.
Threats Risk exposure 2018 trend Falling commodity prices, or adverse exchange rate movements, reduce cash flow, limiting profitability and shareholder returns.
These may trigger impairments and or impact rating agency metrics.
Extended subdued prices may reflect a longer-term fall in demand for the Groups products, Potential impact and the reduced earnings and cash flow streams resulting from this may Business model limit investment and or growth opportunities.
Future financial performance Solvency Failure to deliver planned returns from commercial insights would Liquidity negatively impact cash flows for the Group.
Financial market reputation China development pathway: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Chinas growth pathway could impact demand for the Groups Strong growth, positive policy decisions and reforms drive demand products outside of expectations.
for commodities, resulting in rising prices which may justify capital expansion and increased shareholder returns in the short to medium term.
Risk exposure 2018 trend Threats China is the largest market for our products, and Chinese demand is a strong driver, at times the dominant one, of the market price of the Potential impact commodities we produce.
An economic slowdown in China, and or a Business model material change in policy, could result in a slowdown in demand for Future financial performance our products and reduced earnings and cash flow for the Group.
Solvency Liquidity Mitigating actions include: Pursue low-cost production, allowing profitable supply throughout the commodity price cycle.
Maintain a diverse portfolio of commodities across a number of geographies.
Maintain global portfolio of customers and contracts.
Monitor multiple leading indicators and undertake detailed industry analysis to develop more accurate assumptions in our commodity price and exchange rate forecasting that is used for capital allocation and planning processes, and for commercial insights.
Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk management practices.
Closely coordinate market-facing sales and marketing and trading resources in the Group.
Apply strong governance reflecting relevant regulatory frameworks and jurisdictions.
Principal risks and uncertainties Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 67 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic risks Rio Tinto enforces disciplined capital allocation to the best returning opportunities organic and inorganic growth projects or returns to shareholders.
Execution of acquisitions and divestments: Opportunities inherent risk and uncertainty Proceeds realised from divested assets are greater than planned, allowing Rio Tintos ability to secure planned value by successfully more capital to be returned to shareholders or redeployed into higher executingdivestments and acquisitions may vary.
returning or more productive uses.
The Group is successful in acquiring businesses on acceptable terms that provide sustainable future cash flow Risk exposure 2018 trend and or future growth optionality.
Threats Divestment and acquisition activity incurs transaction costs that cannot be Potential impact recouped, or may result in value destruction by realising less than fair value Business model for divestments or paying more than fair value for acquisitions.
This could Future performance result in unforeseen pressure on the Groups cash position or reduce the Solvency Groups ability to expand operations.
The Group may also be liable for the Liquidity past acts or omissions of assets it has acquired that were unforeseen or Group reputation greater than anticipated at the time of acquisition.
The Group may also face liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour commitments or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
Capital project development: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities The Groups ability to deliver projects successfully may vary.
An ability to develop projects safely, on time and within budget enhances the Groups licence to operate and investor confidence.
Risk exposure 2018 trend Threats A delay or overrun in a project schedule could negatively impact theGroups profitability, cash flows, ability to repay project-specific Potential impact indebtedness, asset carrying values, growth aspirations and Future performance relationshipswith key stakeholders.
HSE&C Group reputation Solvency Liquidity Strategic partnerships: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Strategic partnerships play a material role in delivering the Groups Joint-ventures and partnerships offer opportunities to access resources, production, cash and market positioning, and these may not always increase shareholder returns, and reduce political and operational risks.
Threats Risk exposure 2018 trend Joint-venture partners may hinder growth by not agreeing to support investment decisions.
For non-managed operations, the decisions of the controlling partners may cause adverse impacts to the value of the Groups interest in the operation or to its reputation and may expose it to Potential impact unexpected financial liability.
Business model Future performance HSE&C Group reputation Mitigating actions include: Follow rigorous project approval and stage-gating our process, including Complete detailed, objective due diligence on all material divestments monitoring and status evaluation, as articulated in Project Evaluation and acquisitions.
Resource Business Development team appropriately supported by Ensure effective stakeholder management in project development.
Approach investments and partnerships with a view to long-term Involve business unit leaders early in process to recognise integration development of relationships rather than short-term .
planning and synergies, or separation threats and opportunities.
Maintain strong focus on contractor management.
Undertake post-investment reviews on divestments and acquisitions Actively participate within the governance structures of joint ventures to identify key learnings to embed into future initiatives.
topromote, where possible, alignment with the Groups policies and Consistently approach development of large-scale capital projects strategic priorities.
Undertake rigorous third-party due diligence and assurance.
com Strategic report Financial risk Rio Tinto maintains a strong balance sheet and liquidity position to preserve financial flexibility through the cycle.
Liquidity: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities External events and internal capital discipline may impact Group Favourable market conditions and strong internal capital discipline could liquidity.
increaseGroup liquidity and or balance sheet strength and allow the Group topursue investment or growth opportunities, pay down debt and or Risk exposure 2018 trend enhancereturns to shareholders.
Threats The Groups ability to raise sufficient funds for planned expenditure, such Potential impact as capital growth and or mergers and acquisitions, as well asthe ability to Future performance weather a major economic downturn, could be compromised by a weak Solvency balance sheet and or inadequate access toliquidity.
Liquidity Group reputation Mitigating actions include: Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk managementpractices.
Maintain a prudent gearing ratio and other financial metrics commensurate with a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Manage the liquidity and financing structure of the Group using forecasts and sensitivity analysis tools to actively monitor, determine and enableaccess to the appropriate level, sources and types of financing required.
Subject funds invested by the Group to credit limits and maturity profiles based on board-approved frameworks to promote diversification andmaintain appropriate liquidity.
Maintain accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Report financial performance monthly to senior management and the board.
Seek board approval of the financial strategy, long-term planning and cash flow forecasting.
Apply a shareholder returns policy which allows shareholder returns to adjust with the cycle.
Resources risks Rio Tinto invests materially to accurately identify new deposits and develop orebody knowledge, underpinning our operations and projects.
Exploration and resources: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities The success of the Groups exploration activity may vary.
In addition, The discovery of a new viable orebody can significantly improve future estimates of ore reserves are based on uncertain assumptions that, growth options.
ifchanged, could result in the need to restate ore reserves and mineplans.
The volume of ore in reported reserves resources is based on the geological, commercial andtechnical information available at the date of Risk exposure 2018 trend the report that is, by its nature, incomplete.
As new information comes to light, the economic viability of some ore reserves and mine plans can be restated upwards.
As a result, projects may be more successful and of longer duration than initially anticipated.
Potential impact Business model Threats Future performance A failure to discover new viable orebodies could undermine future Group reputation growthprospects.
The risk that new information comes to light or that operating conditions change means that the economic viability of some ore reserves and mine plans can be restated downwards.
As a result, projects may be less successful and of shorter duration than initially anticipated, and or the asset value may be impaired.
Mitigating actions include: Comply with the Groups resources and reserves standard.
Recruit and retain skilled and experienced exploration and evaluation personnel.
Provide stable funding for exploration activities.
Continually review the prospectivity of opportunities in the exploration portfolio and prioritise spend accordingly.
Utilise new technologies where appropriate.
Develop, leverage and manage third-party partnerships.
Coordinate orebody knowledge through active Group-wide leadership forum.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 69 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Health, safety, environment and community HSE&C risks Rio Tintos operations are inherently hazardous.
We manage responsibly to preserve our licence to operate and ensure our employees and contractors gohome safe and healthy.
HSE&C: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Our operations and projects are inherently hazardous with the Delivering leading health, safety, environment and communities potential to cause illness or injury, damage to the environment, performance is essential to our business success.
Meeting or exceeding disruption to a community or a threat to personal security.
ourcommitments in these areas contributes to sustainable development and underpins our continued access to resources, capital and a diverse Risk exposure 2018 trend workforce to sustain the organisation.
Good performance in closure and legacy management of closed sites canenhance our reputation and enable us to maintain access to land, Potential impact resources, people and capital, so we can continue to establish new Future performance projectswith the support of local communities.
HSE&C Group reputation Threats Failure to manage our health, safety, environment or community risks couldresult in a catastrophic event or other long-term damage which could in turn harm the Groups financial performance and licence to operate.
Recognised hazards and threats include, among others, underground operations, pit slope instability, tailings facilities, process safety, infrastructure, vector-borne and pandemic disease, chemicals, gases, vehicles and machinery, aviation, extreme natural environments, endangered floraorfauna, areas of cultural heritage significance, water supply stressand climate change.
Mitigating actions include: Continue focus on HSE&C as a core priority at all operations and projects, overseen by the Sustainability Committee.
Clearly define and ensure compliance with Group HSE&C strategy, policy and performance standards.
Regularly review and audit HSE&C processes, training and controls to promote and improve effectiveness at managed and where practicable non-managed operations.
Monitor monthly HSE&C performance at the Group level.
Report, investigate and share learnings from HSE&C incidents.
Build safety targets into personal performance metrics to incentivise safe behaviour and effective risk management see Remunerationreport.
Develop mutually beneficial partnerships with local communities and establish appropriate social performance targets.
Report annually on performance on greenhouse gas emissions, water, land use and rehabilitation, among others.
Focus on fatality elimination through implementation of a programme to verify safety risk controls.
com Strategic report Stakeholder risks Rio Tinto recognises the value of positive engagement with a range of stakeholders, and seeks to develop collaborative and mutually beneficial partnerships thoughour partner-to-operate strategy.
Sovereign risk: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities The Groups operations are located across a number of jurisdictions, Proactive engagement with governments, communities and which exposes the Group to a wide range of economic, political, otherstakeholders can increase access to new resources, support stable societal and regulatory environments.
and predictable investment frameworks and operational environments, and shape mutually beneficial policies and legal regulatory frameworks.
Risk exposure 2018 trend Threats Adverse actions by governments and others can result in operational project delays or loss of licence to operate.
Other potential actions can Potential impact include expropriation, changes in taxation, and export or foreign investment Business model restrictions, which may threaten the investment proposition, title, or Future performance carrying value of assets.
Legal frameworks with respect to policies such Group reputation as energy, climate change and mineral law may also change in a way that increases costs.
Mitigating actions include: Shape governance structures to ensure appropriate influence and engagement.
Participate in strategic partnerships or financing structures to moderate political risk.
Maintain geographically diverse portfolio to reduce concentration of exposure to changes in the particular locations.
Monitor jurisdictional, including sovereign, risks and take appropriate action.
Develop long-term relationships with a range of international and national stakeholders.
Comply with Group policies and standards which provide guidance concerning risk management, human rights, cyber threat, data privacy, businessintegrity and external communications.
Governance risks Rio Tinto employees operate in compliance with The way we work our global code of business conduct, the Group delegation of authorities and allGroup policies, standards and procedures.
Regulation and regulatory intervention: inherent risk Opportunities and uncertainty Good corporate citizens are acknowledged to operate to a high ethical The Groups reputation and regulatory licences are dependent standard, thus attracting talent and securing access to resources and uponappropriate business conduct and are threatened by actual or investment opportunities.
perceived breaches of law, reputation or our code of conduct.
Threats Risk exposure 2018 trend Fines may be imposed against Group companies for breaching anti-trust rules, anti-corruption legislation, sanctions or human rights violations orforother inappropriate business conduct.
Potential impact A serious allegation or formal investigation by increasingly connected Business model regulatory authorities regardless of ultimate finding could result in a loss Future performance in share price value and or assets or loss of business.
Other consequences Group reputation could include the criminal prosecution of individuals and or Group companies, imprisonment, fines, legal liabilities and reputational damage to the Group.
There may also be considerable cost and disruption in responding to allegations or investigations and related litigation, and in taking remedial action.
Mitigating actions include: Identify and meet our regulatory obligations and respond to emerging requirements.
Comply with Group policies, standards and procedures that provide guidance to our businesses and drive compliance with regulatory obligations.
Dedicate legal and compliance teams to assist Group businesses in complying with regulatory obligations and internal standards and procedures.
Maintain appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by training and awareness, to drive compliance with regulatory obligations.
Continue to develop and deploy training across relevant sectors of the workforce.
com 71 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operations, projects and people risks Rio Tinto seeks to achieve operational and commercial excellence, and to attract and retain the best people in the industry.
Operational excellence: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Excellence at our operations and projects is derived from high Improved productivity and innovation from new systems can decrease operational and human productivity and innovation, which requires costsand increase output, delivering additional cash flow.
quality people, processes and systems.
Development and retention of talent enhances productivity, financial Risk exposure 2018 trend andHSE&C outcomes.
Threats Business interruption may arise from a number of circumstances, including: Potential impact Operational difficulties throughout the value chain, such as extended Future performance industrial dispute, delayed development, bottlenecks or interruptions Liquidity to infrastructure for power, water and transportation.
HSE&C Operational failure such as a process safety incident, major pit slope, Group reputation dump or tailings water impoundment failure or underground incident.
Cyber breach incident affecting commercial and operational systems.
Natural disasters such as earthquakes, subsidence, drought, flood, fire and storm can impact mines, smelters, refineries and infrastructure installations.
Some of these risks are likely to increase through the impact of climate change.
Any of these events could result in a significant HSE&C incident, an interruption to operations, the inability to deliver products or a commercial loss.
Mitigating actions include: Preserve geographically diverse portfolio, limiting physical events disruptions to a specific business, single infrastructure or logistical event.
Comply with slope geotechnical, tailings management, underground mining and process safety technical and safety standards, supported by subject-matter experts and audit protocols, reducing the risk likelihood and consequence of operational failure.
Comply with the Acceptable use of information and electronic resources standard, supported by periodic reviews of IT infrastructure and security controls by dedicated in-house cyber-security team.
Operate under strong human resources and employee relations framework.
Undertake business resilience planning and preparedness exercises for execution of plans across all operations.
Attracting and retaining talent: inherent risk and uncertainty Opportunities Attracting and retaining talent as the company and industry evolves Leveraging the evolving company and market to attract a diverse and presents a constant challenge.
engaged workforce will deliver a competitive advantage to the Group.
Risk exposure 2018 trend Threats The inability to attract or retain key talent will constrain the Groups abilityto reach its goals within planned timeframes.
Potential impact Business model Future performance Group reputation Mitigating actions include: Continue to provide leadership and technical development opportunities.
Continue employee engagement programme and metrics.
Enhance focus on inclusion, diversity and wellbeing at all levels of the Group.
Maintain purpose, values and vision statements.
