252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 15 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Risk Management and Internal Control The Board sets the portfolio risk parameters within which The principal risks facing RIT are both financial and JRCM operates.
This involves an assessment of the operational.
The ongoing process for identifying, nature and level of risk within the portfolio using evaluating and managing these risks is the ultimate qualitative and quantitative methods.
Additional responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Risk information in relation to market risk, liquidity risk and Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken by credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7 Financial JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
Instruments, is shown in note 14 on pages 60 to 63.
As an investment company, RIT is exposed to financial Operational risks include those related to the legal risks inherent in its portfolio, which are primarily marketenvironment, regulation, taxation and other areas where related and common to any portfolio with significant internal or external factors could result in financial or exposure to equities and other assets.
These are managed by JRCM with regular reporting to, and review by, the Audit and Risk As described in the Investment Review, 2018 saw an Committee and the Board.
increase in market risk, with equity markets experiencing renewed volatility in Q1 and again, more significantly, in The Board is responsible for the Groups system of Q4.
Bond markets saw declines over the middle part of internal controls and it has delegated the supervision of the year, with a late rally as part of a year-end flight to the system to the Audit and Risk Committee.
As a UK company with global investments, systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Sterlings exchange rate is always a key focus made the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as more challenging during the year by the uncertain such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute directions of the Brexit process.
The Group has assessed assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
the potential impact of the UKs departure from the EU.
Further information is provided in the Audit and Risk Any associated risk is mitigated by the business Committee Report on pages 29 to 31. operations of your Company and Manager being predominantly UK-based, with no dependency on cross-border operations within the EU.
Furthermore, your Company has a broad and flexible investment mandate which allows it to take whatever action is considered appropriate in mitigating any attendant risks to the portfolio.
Principal Risks The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company as described below: Financial Risks Mitigation Investment Strategy Risk As an investment company, a key risk is that the The Board is responsible for monitoring the investment investment strategy, guided by the Investment Policy: strategy to ensure it is appropriate to meet the Corporate Objective.
The Directors receive a detailed monthly report To invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio from the Manager to enable them to monitor investment across a range of asset classes, both quoted and unquoted: performance, attribution and exposure.
They also receive a to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional managers in comprehensive investment report from the JRCM CIO in order to ensure access to the best external talent advance of the quarterly Board meetings.
The overall risk appetite is set by the Board, with portfolio does not deliver the Corporate Objective: risk managed by JRCM within prescribed limits.
This involves careful assessment of the nature and level of risk To deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving within the portfolio using qualitative and quantitative shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of a methods.
formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders increases in capital value in excess of the relevant indices over time.
The JRCM Investment Committee meets regularly to review overall investment performance, portfolio exposure and significant new investments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 15 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 16 Principal Risks & Viability Financial Risks Mitigation Market Risk RIT invests in a number of asset categories including The Group has a widely diversified investment portfolio stocks, equity funds, private investments, absolute return which significantly reduces the exposure to individual asset and credit, real assets, government bonds and derivatives.
Detailed portfolio valuations and exposure The portfolio is therefore exposed to the risk that the fair analysis are prepared regularly, and form the basis for the value of these investments will fluctuate because of ongoing risk management and investment decisions.
In changes in market prices.
addition, regular scenario analysis is undertaken to assess likely downside risks and sensitivity to broad market Consistent with the Investment Policy, the Group invests changes, as well as assessing the underlying correlations globally in assets denominated in currencies other than amongst the separate asset classes.
Sterling as well as adjusting currency exposure to either seek to hedge and or enhance returns.
This approach Exposure management is undertaken with a variety of exposes the portfolio to currency risk as a result of changes techniques including using equity index futures and options in exchange rates.
to hedge or to increase equity exposure depending on overall macroeconomic and market views.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the direct and indirect impact of changes in interest rates.
Currency exposure is managed via an overlay strategy, typically using a combination of currency forwards and or options to adjust the natural currency of the investments in order to achieve a desired net exposure.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will have difficulty in The Group manages its liquid resources to ensure sufficient meeting its obligations in respect of financial liabilities as cash is available to meet its expected commitments.
monitors the level of short-term funding, and balances the need for access to such funding and liquidity, with the longThe Group has significant investments in and commitments term funding needs of the Group, and the desire to achieve to direct private investments and funds which are investment returns.
Covenants embedded within the inherently illiquid.
In addition, the Group holds investments banking facilities and long-term notes are monitored on an with other third-party organisations which may require ongoing basis for compliance, and form part of the regular notice periods in order to be realised.
could, in theory, be drawn within minimal notice.
In addition, the Group may be required to provide additional In addition, existing cash reserves, as well as the significant margin to support derivative financial instruments.
liquidity that could be realised from the sale or redemption of portfolio investments, could be utilised to meet funding requirements if necessary.
As Depositary, BNP Paribas Securities Services BNP has responsibilities in overseeing the Companys cash flow.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial The majority of the exposure to credit risk within the instrument held by the Group will fail to meet an obligation Absolute Return and Credit portfolio is indirect exposure as which could result in a loss to the Group.
a result of positions held within funds managed externally.
These are typically diversified portfolios monitored by the Certain investments held within the Absolute Return and third-party managers themselves, as well as through Credit portfolio are exposed to credit risk, including in JRCMs ongoing portfolio management oversight.
relation to underlying positions held by funds.
Listed transactions are settled on a delivery versus payment Substantially all of the listed portfolio investments capable basis using a wide pool of brokers.
Cash holdings and of being held in safe custody, are held by BNP as custodian margin balances are also divided between a number of and depositary.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of BNP may different financial institutions, whose credit ratings are cause the Groups rights with respect to securities held by regularly monitored.
All assets held by the custodian are in fully segregated Unrealised profit on derivative financial instruments held by client accounts.
Other than where local market regulations counterparties is potentially exposed to credit risk in the do not permit it, these accounts are designated in RITs event of the insolvency of a broker counterparty.
The custodians most recent credit rating was A from Standard & Poors S&P.
16 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 17 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Operational Risks Mitigation Key Person Dependency In common with other self-managed investment trusts, This risk is closely monitored and managed by the Board investment decisions are made by a small number of key which has established procedures in place to deal with any individuals.
If for any reason the services of these related business disruption.
The potential impact is reduced individuals were to become unavailable, there could be a by the combination of an experienced Board of Directors significant impact on our business.
with distinguished backgrounds in business or finance, and experienced senior management within JRCM.
Legal & Regulatory Risk As an investment trust, RITs operations are subject to The Operational Risk Committee of JRCM provides wide ranging laws and regulations including in relation to oversight of all legal, regulatory and other operational risks.
the UK Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rules and This Committee reports key findings to the JRCM Executive associated Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules, Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
the Companies Act 2006, as well as continued compliance JRCM employs a legal counsel and a compliance manager with relevant tax legislation.
JRCM is authorised and as well as other personnel with experience of legal, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
In addition, specialist The financial services sector continues to experience external advisers are engaged in relation to complex or regulatory change at national and international levels.
Failure to act in accordance with these laws and regulations Co-investments alongside related entities are made on the could result in fines, censure or other losses including same terms.
Where necessary, co-investments and other taxation or reputational loss.
transactions are subject to review by the Conflicts As a result of the close relationship and regular coCommittee and or the FCA.
investment with entities associated with the Chairman, conflicts of interest may arise.
Operational Risk Operational risks are those arising from inadequate or failed Systems and control procedures are the subject of processes, people and systems or external factors.
continued development and regular review, for example, 2018 saw further development of JRCMs quantitative risk Key operational risks include reliance on third-party management framework.
Further details on internal controls suppliers, dealing errors, processing failures, pricing errors, can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on fraud, reliability of core systems and IT security issues.
Processes are in place to ensure the recruitment and ongoing training of appropriately skilled staff within key operational functions.
Suitable remuneration policies are in place to encourage staff retention and the delivery of the Group's objectives over the medium term.
Independent pricing sources are used where available and performance is subject to regular monitoring.
In relation to more subjective areas such as private investments and property, the valuations are estimated by experienced staff and specialist external valuers using industry standard approaches, with the final decisions taken by the independent Valuation Committee, and is subject to external audit as part of the year-end financial statements.
A business continuity and disaster recovery plan is maintained, and includes the ability to utilise an offsite facility in the event of any business disruption.
This was satisfactorily tested during the year.
Cyber security continues to receive an enhanced focus, with systems and processes designed to combat the ongoing risk developments in this area.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 17 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 18 Principal Risks & Viability Viability Statement The stress scenarios under which the loan covenants In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate would be breached involve severe equity market declines Governance Code Code, and as part of an ongoing as well as historically high levels of capital calls.
This programme of risk assessment, the Directors have theoretical outcome does not take into account the assessed the prospects of the Group, to the extent that Company's ability to adjust the portfolio composition to they are able, over a five-year period.
As the Company is avoid a breach, and to work with its lenders in order to a long-term investor, the Directors have chosen a fiveeither avert a breach, or minimise the consequences.
year period as this is viewed as sufficiently long term to With current gearing of 11%, and in the absence of either provide shareholders with a meaningful view, without a significant adverse change to the regulatory or taxation extending the period so far into the future as to environment, or to shareholder sentiment, it is difficult to undermine the exercise.
reasonably envisage a situation which would threaten the ongoing viability of the Company over the five-year time The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable frame.
expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years.
Going Concern Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters In making this assessment, the Directors have taken into considered in connection with the Viability Statement, consideration the principal risks and mitigants set out on and in particular what the Group considers its readily the preceding pages and the impact these might have on realisable securities and the liquidity balances which total the business model, future performance, solvency and 452 million, and the amounts that could be realised from liquidity.
In addition, the Directors reviewed the Groups the remainder of the portfolio, the Directors consider it current financial position and prospects, the composition appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing of the investment portfolio including the significant the financial statements.
holdings of liquidity and readily realisable securities, the level of outstanding capital commitments, the term The Strategic Report on pages 3 to 18 was approved by a structure and availability of borrowings, the ability to duly authorised Committee of the Board and signed on its satisfy the loan covenants and the ongoing costs of the behalf by: business.
As part of the approach, due consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in financial forecasts and, where applicable, reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the investment portfolio in stress situations including in relation to equity market declines, Andrew Jones currency and interest rate movements, and the level of Chief Financial Officer capital calls in respect of existing commitments.
J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited 18 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 04 03 2019 16:17 Page 19 Governance
