PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our risk management processes are dynamic and wil l continue to assess and prioritise Link to strategy Risk trend the risks related to accelerated growth and their impact on the principal Group risks Accelerated which are deta iled below.
These risks are the result of the robust, top down and Increasing growth 0 0 bottom up risk assessment process previously described.
These risks include those that wou ld threaten the Group's business model, fut ure performance, solvency or liquidity.
Strong No change margins 8 Sustainability Decreasing e 0 PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS Risk description and Strategic Summary of importance to Rotork priority mitigation and controls Risk trend Economic and market conditions A decline in government and private Prod uct development and innovation to address new markets and new sector confidence and spending will applications in existing markets.
lead to cancellations of expected 0 8 Geographic and end market diversification provides resilience to a projects or delays to existing reduction in any one area or market but may not fully mitigate a change expenditure commitments.
in the larger end markets.
This lower investment in Rotork's Increased focus on service offerings, to capitalise on increased demand traditional market sectors would for product maintenance.
result in a smaller addressable market, which in turn could lead to a reduction in revenue from that sector.
Increased competition on price or Rotork already has production or sales and service operations in many product offering leading to a loss low cost count ries.
of sales globally or market share.
0 0 Global strategic sourcing team secure lower prices for components.
R&D investment and organic product development, or acquisition of companies with new products, to maintain differentiation from t he competition both in terms of the quality of our products and the services we provide.
Increasing social and political Regular review of global markets considering social and political risks instability, including Brexit, and contingency plans and market exit strategies developed and results in both disruption and 0 implemented as appropriate.
0 increased protectionism in key Key Risk Indicator monitoring % of revenue from high risk markets geographic markets.
reported quarterly to t he Board.
Business disruption would impact The geographic spread of Rotork's operations and customers limits the our sales and might ultimately lead impact of any one market on the resu lts of the Group as a whole.
to loss of assets located in the affected region.
Group Treasury policy sets cash limits for overseas businesses, restricting our exposure to any one market.
The Treasury Committee assesses compliance with these limits.
A Brexit Committee has been set up and external support has been sought to consider the necessary response to Brexit risks and actions are underway.
Failure of an acquisition to deliver Forecast market conditions are considered during the due diligence the growth or synergies anticipated, process.
either due to unforeseen changes 0 8 Due diligence processes wi ll provide information to assist management in market conditions, or failure and minimise likelihood of unknown surprises.
to integrate an acquisition During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is prepared to manage effectively.
Significant financial underperformance could lead to the important init ial stages of integration.
an impairment write down of the Effective integration and commu nication of Rotork's policies and associated intangible assets.
Careful consideration and negotiation of acquisitions by senior management to ensure the purchase price represents value for money.
26 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk description and Strategic Summary of importance to Rotork priority mitigation and controls Risk trend Corporate social responsibility The nature of Rotork's core business Compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
and geographical locations involves Robust health and safety policy and training included in all staff potential risks to the health and 0 0 inductions, in addition to regular refresher training.
safety of our employees and other Regular health and safety audits, site checks and reporting.
Regular communications about accidents at work and visible KPls.
e Appropriate training is provided for known safety risks.
Third party provider of international support and travel advice in all markets and regions.
See Health and Safety Report on pages 46-47.
Failure of our staff or third parties Tone from the top, a 'no tolerance' culture to reinforce our high ethical who we do business with to comply standards and values.
with law or regulation or to uphold e 0 Commitment to compliance embodied in Rotork culture.
Cl our high ethical standards and values.
0 Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided to all relevant staff.
"::: ""' z We continue our programme of communication to, and education of, l z agents."
"m "" We have undertaken a Group wide review of our arrangements with all agents and distributors."
Use of WorldCheck for agents and acquisition targets before engaging in business relationships.
Availability and promotion of the Whistleblowing Policy and Hotline.
We are fully committed to reduce our environmental impact and comply with all legal and regulatory requirements.
We are aware of human rights and act in accordance with them.
"Product quality and reliability.. z l Major in field failure of a new or Extensive product design review process pre-launch reduces the risk of z existing Rotork product potentially product failures occurring in the field. """
leading to a product recall, major on- 0 8 V, Rotork has experience of launching many products and enhanced the site warranty programme or the loss process based on this experience.
E of an existing or potential customer.
Comprehensive set of quality control procedures over suppliers.
These m z.... include supplier visits, audits and a scorecard system to measure their V, performance.
Our global service coverage ensures that any product failure issues should be dealt with quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact.
Fitting and commissioning products wherever possible by Rotork engineers to ensure current operations.
Failure of a key supplier or tooling Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible provides mitigation failure at a supplier causing for key suppliers.
"0 "" disruption to manufacturing at a 0 :::: A Key Risk Indicator measures single sourced critical components and is... Rotork factory."
l reported quarterly to the Board.
"z - Maintaining safety stock levels sufficient to protect against short term z 0 disruption. ""'"
:::: Regular monitoring and replacement of our tooling at all suppliers reduces the risk of a tooling failure.
0 z ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk description and Strategic Summary of importance to Rotork priority mitigation and controls Risk trend IT security, continuity and system implementation Failure to provide, maintain Thorough business process reviews and use of flexible testing and update the systems and environments to address functional issues.
infrastructure required by the Rotork e 8 Post system implementation, each business is monitored.
Dedicated implementation resource provided by experienced Rotork Failure to protect Rotork operations, team.
sensitive or commercial data, technical specifications and financial Robust security systems are in place to monitor and protect the Rotork information from cyber-crime.
We continually review t he effectiveness of our key IT security controls, including Key Risk Indicators to monitor security compliance of PCs and servers.
Regular cyber-security and cyber-fraud awareness training and guidance.
A disaster recovery solution supported by third party service level agreements where applicable is in place for all critical systems.
Change management The Growth Acceleration Programme Growth Acceleration Programme workstreams are being managed and other change projects lead by a dedicated PMO, with a mix of Rotork and project management to business disruption or have 0 experience.
0 a negative effect on day-to-day There is a defined benefits tracking process to monitor outcomes against operations.
the initial objectives of projects, including monitoring any impact on day to-day operations.
