Risk factors Principal Risks and Uncertainties Additionally, parties may also fraudulently Groups ability to maintain effective internal Set out below are certain risk factors that attempt to induce employees, customers, third controls and governance frameworks.
In could adversely affect the Groups future party providers or other users who have particular, new governance frameworks have results, its financial condition and prospects access to the Groups systems to disclose recently been put into place throughout the and cause them to be materially different from sensitive information in order to gain access Group for certain Group entities, due to the what is forecast or expected and either to the Groups data or that of the Groups implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime directly or indirectly impact the value of its customers or employees.
Cybersecurity and and the resulting legal entity structure.
These risk factors are information security events can derive from effective management of operational risks is broadly categorised and should be read in human error, fraud or malice on the part of the critical to meeting customer service conjunction with the forward looking Groups employees or third parties, including expectations and retaining and attracting statements section, strategic report and the third party providers, or may result from customer business.
Although the Group has capital and risk management section of this accidental technological failure.
implemented risk controls and loss mitigation annual report, and should not be regarded as actions, and significant resources and a complete and comprehensive statement of In accordance with the EU General Data planning have been devoted to mitigate all potential risks and uncertainties facing the Protection Regulation GDPR, the Group is operational risk, there is uncertainty as to Group.
required to ensure it timely implements whether such actions will be effective in appropriate and effective organisational and controlling each of the operational risks faced Operational and IT resilience risk technological safeguards against by the Group.
The Group is subject to increasingly unauthorised or unlawful access to the data of sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks.
the Group, its customers and its employees.
The Groups operations are highly The Group is experiencing continued In order to meet this requirement, the Group dependent on its IT systems.
cyberattacks across the entire Group, with an relies on the effectiveness of its internal The Groups operations are highly dependent emerging trend of attacks against the Groups policies, controls and procedures to protect on the ability to process a very large number supply chain, re-enforcing the importance of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of of transactions efficiently and accurately while due diligence and close working with the third information held on its IT systems, networks complying with applicable laws and parties on which the Group relies.
The Group and devices as well as with third parties with regulations.
The proper functioning of the is reliant on technology, which is vulnerable to whom the Group interacts and a failure to Groups payment systems, financial and attacks, with cyberattacks increasing in terms monitor and manage data in accordance with sanctions controls, risk management, credit of frequency, sophistication, impact and the GDPR requirements may result in analysis and reporting, accounting, customer severity.
As cyberattacks evolve and become financial losses, regulatory fines and service and other IT systems, as well as the more sophisticated, the Group will be required investigations and associated reputational communication networks between its to invest additional resources to upgrade the damage.
In addition, whilst the Group takes branches and main data processing centres, security of its systems.
In 2018, the Group appropriate measures to prevent, detect and are critical to the Groups operations.
was subjected to a small but increasing number of Distributed Denial of Service minimise attacks, the Groups systems, and DDOS attacks, which are a pervasive and those of third party providers, are subject to Individually or collectively, any critical system significant threat to the global financial frequent cyberattacks.
failure, prolonged loss of service availability or services industry.
The Group fully mitigated material breach of data security could cause the impact of these attacks whilst sustaining The Group expects greater regulatory serious damage to the Groups ability to full availability of services for its customers.
engagement, supervision and enforcement in provide services to its customers, which could Hostile attempts are made by third parties to relation to its overall resilience to withstand IT result in significant compensation costs or gain access to and introduce malware and related disruption, either through a regulatory sanctions including fines resulting including ransomware into the Groups IT cyberattack or some other disruptive event.
from regulatory investigations or a breach of systems, and to exploit vulnerabilities.
The However, due to the Groups reliance on applicable regulations.
In particular, failures Group has information security controls in technology and the increasing sophistication, or breaches resulting in the loss or publication place, which are subject to review on a frequency and impact of cyberattacks, it is of confidential customer data could cause continuing basis, but there can be no likely that such attacks could have a material long-term damage to the Groups reputation assurance that such measures will prevent all DDOS attacks or other cyberattacks in the impact on the Group.
and could affect its regulatory approvals, future.
See also, The Groups operations are competitive position, business and brands, highly dependent on its IT systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the which could undermine its ability to attract and Groups businesses.
This risk is heightened as Any failure in the Groups cybersecurity Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting the Group continues to innovate and offer new policies, procedures or controls, may result in from inadequate or failed internal processes, digital solutions to its customers as a result of significant financial losses, major business procedures, people or systems, or from the trend towards online and mobile banking.
disruption, inability to deliver customer external events, including legal risks.
The services, or loss of data or other sensitive Group operates in many countries, offering a In 2018, the Group upgraded its IT systems information including as a result of an diverse range of products and services and technology and expects to continue to outage and may cause associated supported by 65,400 employees: it therefore make considerable investments to further reputational damage.
Any of these factors has complex and diverse operations.
As a simplify, upgrade and improve its IT and could increase costs including costs relating result, operational risks or losses can arise technology capabilities including migration to to notification of, or compensation for from a number of internal or external factors.
the Cloud to make them more cost-effective, customers, credit monitoring or card These risks are also present when the Group improve controls and procedures, strengthen reissuance, result in regulatory investigations relies on outside suppliers or vendors to cyber security, enhance digital services or sanctions being imposed or may affect the provide services to it or its customers, as is provided to its bank customers and improve Groups ability to retain and attract increasingly the case as the Group its competitive position.
Regulators in the UK, US and implements new technologies, innovates and investment and rationalisation initiatives fail to Europe continue to recognise cybersecurity as responds to regulatory and market changes.
achieve the expected results or prove to be an increasing systemic risk to the financial insufficient due to cost-challenges or sector and have highlighted the need for Operational risks continue to be heightened otherwise, this could negatively affect the financial institutions to improve their as a result of the Groups current costGroups operations, its reputation and ability monitoring and control of, and resilience reduction measures and conditions affecting to retain or grow its customer business or particularly of critical services to the financial services industry generally adversely impact its competitive position, cyberattacks, and to provide timely notification including Brexit and other geo-political thereby negatively impacting the Groups of them, as appropriate.
developments as well as the legal and financial position.
This may place significant pressure on the 253 Risk factors inappropriate use of data, outsourcing of minimal costs, may also significantly enhance The Group relies on attracting, retaining customer service and product delivery, the and accelerate the impact of damaging and developing senior management and possibility of alleged mis-selling of financial information and allegations.
skilled personnel, and is required to products and mishandling of customer maintain good employee relations.
Some of these risks have Although the Group has implemented a The Groups current and future success materialised in the past and ineffective Reputational Risk Policy to improve the depends on its ability to attract, retain and management and oversight of conduct risks identification, assessment and management develop highly skilled and qualified personnel, may lead to further remediation and regulatory of customers, transactions, products and including senior management, directors and intervention or enforcement.
The Groups issues which represent a reputational risk, the key employees, in a highly competitive labour businesses are also exposed to risks from Group cannot be certain that it will be market and under internal cost reduction employee misconduct including nonsuccessful in avoiding damage to its business pressures.
This entails risk, particularly in light compliance with policies and regulations, from reputational risk.
of heightened regulatory oversight of banks negligence or fraud including financial and the increasing scrutiny of, and in some crimes, any of which could result in Economic and political risk cases restrictions placed upon, employee regulatory fines or sanctions and serious Uncertainties surrounding the UKs compensation arrangements, in particular reputational or financial harm to the Group.
withdrawal from the European Union may those of banks in receipt of government adversely affect the Group.
support such as the Group, which may have The Group is seeking to embed a strong risk Following the EU Referendum in June 2016, an adverse effect on the Groups ability to culture across the organisation and has and pursuant to the exit process triggered hire, retain and engage well-qualified implemented policies and allocated new under Article 50 of the Treaty on European employees.
The market for skilled personnel resources across all levels of the organisation Union in March 2017, the UK is scheduled to is increasingly competitive, especially for to manage and mitigate conduct risk and leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
The terms of technology-focussed roles, thereby raising the expects to continue to invest in its risk a Brexit withdrawal agreement negotiated by cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled management framework.
However, such the UK Government were decisively voted personnel.
In addition, certain economic, efforts may not insulate the Group from future against by Parliament on 15 January 2019. market and regulatory conditions and political instances of misconduct and no assurance The UK Government and Parliament are developments including Brexit may reduce can be given that the Groups strategy and currently actively engaged in seeking to the pool of candidates for key management control framework will be effective.
Any failure determine the terms of this departure, and non-executive roles, including nonin the Groups risk management framework including any transition period, and the executive directors with the right skills, could negatively affect the Group and its resulting economic, trading and legal knowledge and experience, or increase the financial condition through reputational and relationships with both the EU and other number of departures of existing employees.
financial harm and may result in the inability to counterparties currently remain unclear and achieve its strategic objectives for its subject to significant uncertainty.
Many of the Groups employees in the UK, customers, employees and wider Republic of Ireland and continental Europe stakeholders.
As it currently stands, EU membership and all are represented by employee representative associated treaties will cease to apply at bodies, including trade unions.
Engagement The Groups operations are subject to 23:00 on 29 March 2019, unless some form of with its employees and such bodies is inherent reputational risk.
transitional arrangement encompassing those important to the Group in maintaining good Reputational risk relates to stakeholder and associated treaties is agreed or there is employee relations.
Any failure to do so could public perceptions of the Group arising from unanimous agreement amongst the UK, other impact the Groups ability to operate its an actual or perceived failure to meet EU member states and the European business effectively.
stakeholder expectations due to any events, Commission to extend the negotiation period.
behaviour, action or inaction by the Group, its A failure in the Groups risk management employees or those with whom the Group is The direct and indirect effects of the UKs exit framework could adversely affect the associated.
This includes brand damage, from the EU and the European Economic Group, including its ability to achieve its which may be detrimental to the Groups Area EEA are expected to affect many strategic objectives.
business, including its ability to build or aspects of the Groups business and Risk management is an integral part of all of sustain business relationships with customers, operating environment, including as described the Groups activities and includes the and may cause low employee morale, elsewhere in these risk factors, and may be definition and monitoring of the Groups risk regulatory censure or reduced access to, or material and or cause a near-term impact on appetite and reporting on the Groups risk an increase in the cost of, funding.
See also The Group faces exposure and the potential impact thereof on Reputational risk may arise whenever there is increased political and economic risks and the Groups financial condition.
Financial risk a material lapse in standards of integrity, uncertainty in the UK and global markets.
management is highly dependent on the use compliance, customer or operating efficiency and effectiveness of internal stress tests and and may adversely affect the Groups ability The longer term effects of Brexit on the models and ineffective risk management may attract and retain customers.
In particular, the Groups operating environment are difficult to arise from a wide variety of factors, including Groups ability to attract and retain customers predict, and are subject to wider global macrolack of transparency or incomplete risk and, in particular, corporate and retail economic trends and events, but may reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned depositors may be adversely affected by, significantly impact the Group and its incentives, lack of accountability control and amongst others: negative public opinion customers and counterparties who are governance, lack of consistency in risk resulting from the actual or perceived manner themselves dependent on trading with the EU monitoring and management or insufficient in which the Group conducts or modifies its or personnel from the EU and may result in, or challenges or assurance processes.
Failure business activities and operations, media be exacerbated by, periodic financial volatility to manage risks effectively could adversely coverage whether accurate or otherwise, and slower economic growth, in the UK in impact the Groups reputation or its employee misconduct, the Groups financial particular, but also in Republic of Ireland, relationship with its customers, shareholders performance, IT failures or cyberattacks, the Europe and potentially the global economy.
level of direct and indirect government support, or the actual or perceived practices in Significant uncertainty exists as to the The Groups operations are inherently the banking and financial industry in general, respective legal and regulatory arrangements exposed to conduct risks.
These include or a wide variety of other factors.
under which the Group and its subsidiaries business decisions, actions or incentives that will operate when the UK is no longer a are not responsive to or aligned with the Modern technologies, in particular online member of the EU.
See The Group is in the Groups customers needs or do not reflect the social networks and other broadcast tools process of seeking requisite permissions to Groups customer-focussed strategy, which facilitate communication with large implement its plans for continuity of business ineffective product management, unethical or audiences in short time frames and with impacted by the UKs departure from the EU.
254 Risk factors The legal and political uncertainty and any Additionally, to continue serving most of the conjunction with other mandatory or strategic actions taken as a result of this uncertainty, as Groups EEA customers, the Group has structural and organisational changes which well as new or amended rules, could have a repurposed the banking licence of its Dutch could adversely impact the Group.
significant impact on the Groups operations subsidiary, NatWest Markets N. V. NWM or legal entity structure, including attendant NV.
As announced on 6 December 2018, Actual or perceived difficult global economic restructuring costs, level of impairments, the Group has requested court permission for conditions can create challenging economic capital requirements, regulatory environment a FSMA transfer scheme to replicate the and market conditions and a difficult operating and tax implications and as a result may master trade documentation for NWM Plcs environment for the Groups businesses and adversely impact the Groups profitability, non-UK EEA customers and transfer certain its customers and counterparties, thereby competitive position, viability, business model existing transactions from NWM Plc to NWM affecting its financial performance.
Other transactions are expected to be transferred to NWM NV during 2019 for The outlook for the global economy over the The Group is seeking the requisite example certain transactions with Corporate medium-term remains uncertain due to a permissions to implement its plans for and Sovereign customers and larger EEA number of factors including: trade barriers and continuity of business impacted by the customers from NWM Plc, and certain the increased possibility of trade wars, UKs departure from the EU.
Western European corporate business from widespread political instability, an extended The Group is implementing plans designed to National Westminster Bank Plc.
The volume period of low inflation and low interest rates, continue its ability to clear euro payments and and pace of business transfers to NWM NV and global regional variations in the impact minimise the impact on the Groups ability to will depend on the terms and circumstances and responses to these factors.
Such serve non-UK EEA customers in the event of the UKs exit from the EU, as well as the conditions could be worsened by a number of that there is an immediate loss of access to specific contractual terms of the affected factors including political uncertainty or the European Single Market on 29 March products.
macro-economic deterioration in the 2019 or any alternative date with no Eurozone, China or the US, increased These changes to the Groups operating alternative arrangement for continuation of instability in the global financial system and model are costly and require further changes such activities under current rules also known concerns relating to further financial shocks or to its business operations and customer as Hard Brexit.
contagion for example, due to economic engagement.
The regulatory permissions from concerns in emerging markets, market the Dutch and German authorities are To ensure continued ability to clear Euro volatility or fluctuations in the value of the conditional in nature and will require on-going denominated payments, the Group is pound sterling, new or extended economic compliance with certain conditions, including finalising a third-country licence for the sanctions, volatility in commodity prices or maintaining minimum capital level and deposit Frankfurt branch National Westminster Bank concerns regarding sovereign debt.
This may balances as well as a defined local physical Plc NWB with the German regulator.
In be compounded by the ageing demographics presence going forward: such conditions may addition, the Group is working to satisfy the of the populations in the markets that the be subject to change in the future.
Maintaining conditions of the Deutsche Bundesbank Group serves, or rapid change to the these permissions and the Groups access to DBB for access to TARGET2 clearing and economic environment due to the adoption of the euro payment infrastructure will be settlement mechanisms.
Satisfying these DBB fundamental to its business going forward and technology and artificial intelligence.
Any of further changes to the Groups business conditions, which include a country legal the above developments could impact the operations may be required.
opinion, and accessing SEPA, Euro 1 and Group directly for example, as a result of TARGET2 will allow the Group through NWB credit losses or indirectly for example, by The Group faces increased political and Frankfurt branch to continue to clear crossimpacting global economic growth and economic risks and uncertainty in the UK border payments in euros.
The capacity to financial markets and the Groups customers and global markets.
process these euro payments is a and their banking needs.
In the UK, significant economic and political fundamental requirement for the daily uncertainty surrounds the terms of and timing operations and customers of all Group In addition, the Group is exposed to risks of Brexit.
See also, Uncertainties franchises, including Ulster Bank.
The value arising out of geopolitical events or political surrounding the UKs withdrawal from the of such payments is typically in excess of 50 developments, such as trade barriers, European Union may adversely affect the billion in any one day with more than 300,000 exchange controls, sanctions and other Group.
In addition, were there to be a transactions.
This capacity is also critical for measures taken by sovereign governments change of UK Government as a result of a management of the Groups eurothat may hinder economic or financial activity general election, the Group may face new denominated central bank cash balances of levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, risks as a result of a change in government around 23 billion.
NatWest Markets Plc military or diplomatic events, including policy, including more direct intervention by NWM Plc will use the NWB Frankfurt secession movements or the exit of other the UK Government in financial markets, the branch to clear its euro payments and has member states from the EU, armed conflict, regulation and ownership of public companies also applied for a third country license to pandemics and widespread public health and the extent to which the government maintain liquidity management and product crises, state and privately sponsored cyber exercises its rights as a shareholder of the settlement arrangements.
and terrorist acts or threats, and the Group.
This could affect, in particular, the responses to them by governments and structure, strategy and operations of the A draft license has recently been issued for markets, could negatively affect the business Group and may negatively impact the Groups NWB Frankfurt branch which the Group and performance of the Group.
operational performance and financial results.
Once in place, the third country licence branch approvals The value of the Groups financial instruments The Group faces additional political would each become effective when the UK may be materially affected by market risk, uncertainty as to how the Scottish leaves the EU and the current passporting including as a result of market fluctuations.
parliamentary process including, as a result arrangements cease to apply.
The Group Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and of any second Scottish independence expects to have received the requisite third disruptions in the credit markets may make it referendum may impact the Group.
RBSG country licenses and access to SEPA, Euro 1 extremely difficult to value certain of the and a number of other Group entities and TARGET2 ahead of the UKs departure Groups financial instruments, particularly including NWM Plc are headquartered and from the EU.
However, given the quantum of during periods of market displacement which incorporated in Scotland.
Any changes to affected payments and lack of short-term could cause a decline in the value of the Scotlands relationship with the UK or the EU contingency arrangements, in the event that Groups financial instruments, which may as an indirect result of Brexit or other such euro clearing capabilities were not in have an adverse effect on the Groups results developments would impact the environment place in time for a Hard Brexit or as required of operations in future periods, or inaccurate in which the Group and its subsidiaries in the future, it could have a material impacton carrying values for certain financial operate, and may require further changes to the Group and its customers.
the Groups structure, independently or in 255 Risk factors In addition, financial markets are susceptible climate change.
In October 2018, the Groups Group, could affect the prevailing market price to severe events evidenced by rapid prudential regulator, the PRA, published a for the outstanding ordinary shares of RBSG.
depreciation in asset values, which may be draft supervisory standard which sets forth an accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity.
expectation that regulated entities adopt a In addition, UKGI manages HM Treasurys Under these conditions, hedging and other Board-level strategic approach to managing shareholder relationship with RBSG and, although HM Treasury has indicated that it risk management strategies may not be as and mitigating the financial risks of climate intends to respect the commercial decisions of effective at mitigating trading losses as they change and embed the management of them the Group and that the Group will continue to would be under more normal market into their governance frameworks, subject to have its own independent board of directors conditions.
Moreover, under these conditions, existing prudential regulatory supervisory and management team determining its own market participants are particularly exposed to tools including stress testing and individual strategy, its position as a majority shareholder trading strategies employed by many market and systemic capital requirements.
Climate and UKGIs position as manager of this participants simultaneously and on a large risk is also subject to various legislative shareholding means that HM Treasury or scale, increasing the Groups counterparty actions and proposals by, among others, the UKGI could exercise a significant degree of risk.
The Groups risk management and European Commissions Sustainable Finance influence over, among other things, the monitoring processes seek to quantify and initiative that focuses on incorporating climate election of directors and appointment of senior mitigate the Groups exposure to more risk into its financial policy frameworks, management, the Groups capital strategy, extreme market moves.
However, severe including proposals e. g. through dividend policy, remuneration policy or the conduct of the Groups operations, and HM market events have historically been difficult amendments to MiFID II for institutional Treasurys approach depends on government to predict and the Group could realise investors including pension funds to policy, which could change, including as a significant losses if extreme market events consider and disclose climate risk criteria as result of a general election.
The manner in were to occur.
part of their investment decision, and also which HM Treasury or UKGI exercises HM proposals to consider changes to RWA Treasurys rights as majority shareholder The Group expects to face significant risks methodologies.
Furthermore, credit ratings could give rise to conflicts between the in connection with climate change and the agencies are increasingly taking into account interests of HM Treasury and the interests of transition to a low carbon economy.
environmental, social and governance ESG other shareholders, including as a result of a The risks associated with climate change are factors, including climate risk, as part of the change in government policy.
subject to rapidly increasing prudential and credit ratings analysis, as are investors in their regulatory, political and societal focus, both in investment decisions.
Continued low interest rates have the UK and internationally.
Embedding climate significantly affected and will continue to risk into the Groups risk framework in line affect the Groups business and results.
If the Group does not adequately embed with expected regulatory expectations, and Interest rate risk is significant for the Group, climate risk into its risk framework to adapting the Groups operation and business as monetary policy has been accommodative appropriately measure, manage and disclose strategy to address both the risks of climate in recent years, including as a result of certain the various financial and physical risks it faces change and the transition to a low carbon policies implemented by the Bank of England associated with climate change, or fails to economy are likely to have a significant and HM Treasury such as the Term Funding adapt its strategy and business model to the impact on the Group.
Scheme, which have helped to support changing regulatory requirements and market demand at a time of pronounced fiscal expectations on a timely basis, it may have a tightening and balance sheet repair.
Multilateral and UK Government undertakings material and adverse impact on the Groups However, there remains considerable to limit increases in carbon emissions in the level of business growth, its competitiveness, uncertainty as to the direction of interest rates near and medium term will require widespread profitability, prudential capital requirements, and pace of change, as set by the Bank of levels of adjustment across all sectors of the credit ratings, cost of funding, results of England and other major central banks.
economy, with some sectors such as operation and financial condition.
Continued sustained low or negative interest property, energy, infrastructure including rates could put pressure on the Groups transport and agriculture likely to be HM Treasury or UKGI on its behalf could interest margins and adversely affect the particularly impacted.
The nature and timing exercise a significant degree of influence Groups profitability and prospects.
In of the far-reaching commercial, technological over the Group and further offers or sales addition, a continued period of low interest and regulatory changes that this transition will of the Groups shares held by HM Treasury rates and flat yield curves has affected and entail are currently uncertain but the impact of may affect the price of securities issued by may continue to affect the Groups interest such changes may be disruptive, especially if the Group.
rate margin realised between lending and such changes do not occur in an orderly or In its November 2018 Autumn Budget, the UK borrowing costs.
timely manner or are not effective in reducing Government announced its intention to emissions sufficiently.
Furthermore, the nature continue the process of privatisation of RBSG Conversely, while increases in interest rates and timing of the manifestation of the physical and to carry out a programme of sales of may support Group income, sharp increases risks of climate change which include more RBSG ordinary shares with the objective of in interest rates could lead to generally extreme specific weather events such as selling all of its remaining shares in RBSG by weaker than expected growth, or even flooding and heat waves and longer term 2023-2024.
On 5 June 2018, the UK contracting GDP, reduced business shifts in climate are also uncertain, and their Government via HM Treasury and UK confidence, higher levels of unemployment or impact on the economy is predicted to be Government Investments Limited UKGI underemployment, adverse changes to levels more acute if carbon emissions are not disposed of approximately 7.7% of its stake in of inflation, and falling property prices in the reduced on a timely basis or to the requisite RBSG.
As at 31 December 2018, the UK markets in which the Group operates.
The potential impact on the economy Government held 62.3% of the issued includes, but is not limited to, lower GDP ordinary share capital of RBSG.
There can be Changes in foreign currency exchange growth, significant changes in asset prices no certainty as to the continuation of the sellrates may affect the Groups results and and profitability of industries, higher down process or the timing or extent of such financial position.
unemployment and the prevailing level of sell-downs which could result in a period of Although the Group is now principally a UK interest rates.
prolonged period of increased price volatility and ROI-focussed banking group, it is subject on the Groups ordinary shares.
On 6 to foreign exchange risk from capital deployed UK and international regulators that are February 2019, the Group obtained in the Groups foreign subsidiaries, branches actively seeking to develop new and existing shareholder approval to participate in certain and joint arrangements, and non-trading regulations directly and indirectly focussed on directed share buyback activities.
foreign exchange risk, including customer climate change and the associated financial Any offers or sale, or expectations relating to transactions and profits and losses that are in risks.
Such new regulations are being the timing thereof, of a substantial number of a currency other than the functional currency developed in parallel with an increasing ordinary shares by HM Treasury, or any of the transaction entity.
The Group also relies market focus on the risks associated with associated directed buyback activity by the on issuing securities in foreign currencies that 256 Risk factors assist in meeting the Groups minimum also fail to identify future opportunities or requirements for own funds and eligible There is no certainty that the Groups strategy derive benefits from disruptive technologies in liabilities MREL.
The Group maintains will be successfully executed, that the Group the context of rapid technological innovation, policies and procedures designed to manage will meet its targets and expectations or be in changing customer behaviour and growing the impact of exposures to fluctuations in a position to distribute capital to its regulatory demands, including the UK currency rates.
Nevertheless, changes in shareholders, or that the Group will be a initiative on Open Banking PSD2, resulting currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US viable, competitive or profitable banking in increased competition from both traditional dollar and euro-sterling rates, can adversely business.
banking businesses as well as new providers affect the value of assets, liabilities including of financial services, including technology the total amount of MREL eligible The Group operates in markets that are companies with strong brand recognition, that instruments, income, RWAs, capital base and highly competitive, with increasing may be able to develop financial services at a expenses and the reported earnings of the competitive pressures and technology lower cost base.
Groups UK and non-UK subsidiaries and may disruption.
affect the Groups reported consolidated The markets for UK financial services, and the Furthermore, the Groups competitors may be financial condition or its income from foreign other markets within which the Group better able to attract and retain customers and exchange dealing and may also require operates, are highly competitive, and the key employees and may have access to lower incremental MREL eligible instruments to be Group expects such competition to continue cost funding and or be able to attract deposits issued.
or intensify in response to customer on more favourable terms than the Group.
behaviour, technological changes including Although the Group invests in new Decisions of major central banks including by the growth of digital banking, competitor technologies and participates in industry and the Bank of England, the ECB and the US behaviour, new entrants to the market research led initiatives aimed at developing Federal Reserve and political or market including non-traditional financial services new technologies, such investments may be events including Brexit, which are outside of providers such as large retail or technology insufficient or ineffective, especially given the the Groups control, may lead to sharp and conglomerates, industry trends resulting in Groups focus on its cost savings targets, sudden variations in foreign exchange rates.
increased disaggregation or unbundling of which may limit additional investment in areas financial services or conversely the resuch as financial innovation and therefore Financial resilience risk intermediation of traditional banking services, could affect the Groups offering of innovative The Group may not meet its targets and be and the impact of regulatory actions and other products or technologies for delivering in a position to make discretionary capital factors.
In particular, developments in the products or services to customers and its distributions to its shareholders.
financial sector resulting from new banking, competitive position.
Furthermore, the As part of the Groups strategy, the Group has lending and payment solutions offered by development of innovative products depends become a principally UK and ROI-focussed rapidly evolving incumbents, challengers and on the Groups ability to produce underlying banking group and has set a number of new entrants, notably with respect to payment high quality data, failing which its ability to financial, capital and operational targets for services and products, and the introduction of offer innovative products may be the Group including in respect of: cost:income disruptive technology may impede the compromised.
ratios, cost reductions, CET1 ratio targets, Groups ability to grow or retain its market leverage ratio targets, funding plans and share and impact its revenues and If the Group is unable to offer competitive, requirements, reductions in RWAs and the profitability, particularly in its key UK retail attractive and innovative products that are timing thereof, employee engagement, banking segment.
These trends may be also profitable, it will lose market share, incur diversity and inclusion as well as catalysed by various regulatory and losses on some or all of its activities and lose environmental, social and customer competition policy interventions, particularly opportunities for growth.
In this context, the satisfaction targets and discretionary capital as a result of the UK initiative on Open Group is investing in the automation of certain distributions to shareholders.
Banking and other remedies imposed by the solutions and interactions within its customerCompetition and Markets Authority CMA facing businesses, including through artificial The Groups ability to meet its targets and to which are designed to further promote intelligence.
Such initiatives may result in successfully meet its strategy is subject to competition within retail banking, as well as operational, reputational and conduct risks if various internal and external factors and risks.
the  measures under the technology used is defective, or is not fully These include, but are not limited to, market, the Groups Alternative Remedies Package integrated into the Groups current solutions regulatory, macroeconomic and political see also, The cost of implementing the or does not deliver expected cost savings.
uncertainties, operational risks and risks Alternative Remedies Package could be more The investment in automated processes will relating to the Groups business model and onerous than anticipated.
likely also result in increased short-term costs strategy including emerging risks associated for the Group.
with ESG issues and litigation, governmental Increasingly many of the products and actions, investigations and regulatory matters.
services offered by the Group are, and will In addition, recent and future disposals and become, technology intensive, for example restructurings by the Group, cost-cutting A number of factors may impact the Groups B, Mettle, Esme, FreeAgent, APtimise and measures, as well as employee remuneration ability to maintain its current CET1 ratio target Path, some of the Groups recent fintech constraints, may also have an impact on its at circa 14% over the medium term and ventures.
The Groups ability to develop ability to compete effectively and intensified make discretionary capital distributions to digital solutions that comply with related competition from incumbents, challengers and shareholders, see also, The Group may not regulatory changes has become increasingly new entrants in the Groups core markets meet the prudential regulatory requirements important to retaining and growing the could affect the Groups ability to maintain for capital and MREL, or manage its capital Groups customer business in the UK.
Furthermore, continued effectively, which could trigger certain can be no certainty that the Groups consolidation in certain sectors of the financial management actions or recovery options.
innovation strategy which includes services industry could result in the Groups investment in its IT capability intended to remaining competitors gaining greater capital The Groups ability to meet its cost:income address the material increase in customer use and other resources, including the ability to ratio target and the planned reductions in its of online and mobile technology for banking offer a broader range of products and services annual underlying costs may vary as well as selective acquisitions, which carry and geographic diversity, or the emergence of considerably from year to year.
Furthermore, associated risks will be successful or that it new competitors.
the focus on meeting cost reduction targets will allow the Group to continue to grow such may result in limited investment in other areas services in the future.
Certain of the Groups The Group has significant exposure to which could affect the Groups long-term current or future competitors may be more counterparty and borrower risk.
product offering or competitive position and its successful in implementing innovative The Group has exposure to many different ability to meet its other targets, including technologies for delivering products or industries, customers and counterparties, and those related to customer satisfaction.
The Group may risks arising from actual or perceived changes 257 Risk factors in credit quality and the recoverability of financial institutions.
Any perceived lack of an increase in the quantum of RWAs in monies due from borrowers and other creditworthiness of a counterparty may lead to excess of that expected, including due to counterparties are inherent in a wide range of market-wide liquidity problems and losses for regulatory changes: the Groups businesses.
This systemic risk may also changes in prudential regulatory exposed to credit risk if a customer, borrower adversely affect financial intermediaries, such requirements including the Groups or counterparty defaults, or under IFRS 9, as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, Total Capital Requirement set by the suffers a sufficiently significant deterioration of securities firms and exchanges with which the PRA, including Pillar 2 requirements credit quality under SICR significant Group interacts on a daily basis.
See also, and regulatory buffers, as well as any increases in credit risk rules such that it The Group may not be able to adequately applicable scalars: and moves to Stage 2 for impairment calculation access sources of liquidity and funding.
double leverage and reduced purposes.
The Groups lending strategy and upstreaming of dividends from the associated processes may fail to identify or As a result, borrower and counterparty credit Groups subsidiaries as a result of the anticipate weaknesses or risks in a particular quality may cause accelerated impairment Bank of Englands and or the Groups sector, market or borrower category, or fail to charges under IFRS 9, increased repurchase evolving views on distribution of capital within groups and the financial adequately value physical or financial demands, higher costs, additional write-downs performance and condition of the collateral, which may result in an increase in and losses for the Group and an inability to Groups subsidiaries.
default rates for loans, which may, in turn, engage in routine funding transactions.
See also, A shortage of capital could in turn affect the Capital and risk management Credit Risk.
The Group may not meet the prudential Groups capital ratio, and or ability to make regulatory requirements for capital and capital distributions.
The credit quality of the Groups borrowers MREL, or manage its capital effectively, and other counterparties is impacted by which could trigger certain management In addition to regulatory capital, RBSG is prevailing economic and market conditions actions or recovery options.
required to maintain a set quantum of MREL and by the legal and regulatory landscape in The Group is required by regulators in the UK, set as a percentage of its RWAs.
MREL the UK and any deterioration in such the EU and other jurisdictions in which it comprises loss-absorbing senior funding and conditions or changes to legal or regulatory undertakes regulated activities to maintain regulatory capital instruments.
The Bank of landscapes could worsen borrower and adequate financial resources.
Adequate England has identified single point-of-entry as counterparty credit quality and consequently capital also gives the Group financial flexibility the preferred resolution strategy for the impact the Groups ability to enforce in the face of turbulence and uncertainty in the Group.
As a result, RBSG is the only Group contractual security rights.
See also, The global economy and specifically in its core UK entity that can externally issue securities that Group faces increased political and economic and European markets, as well as permitting count towards the Groups MREL risks and uncertainty in the UK and global the Group to make discretionary capital requirements, the proceeds of which can then markets.
In particular, developments relating distributions to shareholders.
be downstreamed to meet the internal MREL to Brexit, or the consequences thereof, may issuance requirements of its operating entities adversely impact credit quality in the UK, and As at 31 December 2018, the Groups CET1 and intermediate holding companies as the resulting negative economic outlook could ratio was 16.2% and the Group currently required.
The inability of the Group to reduce drive an increased level of credit impairments targets to maintain its CET1 ratio at circa 14% its RWAs in line with assumptions in its reflecting the more forward-looking nature of over the medium term.
The Groups target funding plans could result in failure to meet its IFRS 9. capital ratio is based on a combination of its MREL requirements.
expected regulatory requirements and internal Within the UK, the level of household modelling, including stress scenarios and If the Group is unable to raise the requisite indebtedness remains high although the pace managements and or the PRAs views on amount of regulatory capital or MREL, of credit growth has slowed during 2018.
The appropriate buffers above minimum operating downstream the proceeds of MREL to ability of such households to service their levels.
subsidiaries, as required, in the form of debts could be challenged by a period of high internal MREL, or to otherwise meet its unemployment or increased interest rates.
In The Groups current capital strategy is based regulatory capital, MREL and leverage particular, the Group may be affected by on: the expected accumulation of additional requirements, it may be exposed to increased volatility in property prices both in the capital through the accrual of profits over time: regulatory supervision or sanctions, loss of residential and commercial sectors including the planned reduction of its RWAs through investor confidence and constrained or more as a result of Brexit given that the Groups disposals and natural attrition: capital expensive funding and be unable to make mortgage loan portfolio as at 31 December management initiatives which focus on dividend payments on its ordinary shares or 2018, amounted to 165.1 billion, improving capital efficiency through improved maintain discretionary payments on capital representing 52% of the Groups total data and releasing excess capital trapped in instruments.
If property prices Group subsidiaries: and discretionary capital were to weaken this could lead to higher distributions.
If, under a stress scenario, the level of capital impairment charges, particularly if default or MREL falls outside of risk appetite, there rates consequently increase.
In addition, the A number of factors may impact the Groups are a range of recovery management actions Groups credit risk may be exacerbated if the ability to maintain its current CET1 ratio target focussed on risk reduction and mitigation collateral that it holds cannot be realised as a and achieve its capital strategy.
These that the Group could take to manage its result of market conditions or regulatory include, amongst other things: capital levels, which may not be sufficient to intervention or if it is liquidated at prices not restore adequate capital levels.
Under the EU sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan a depletion of its capital resources Bank Recovery and Resolution Framework or derivative exposure that is due to the through increased costs or liabilities, BRRD, as implemented in the UK, a breach Group.
This is most likely to occur during reduced profits or losses including as a of the Groups applicable capital or leverage periods of illiquidity or depressed asset result of extreme one-off incidents such requirements may trigger the application of valuations.
as cyber, fraud or conduct issues or, the Groups recovery plan to remediate a sustained periods of low or lower interest deficient capital position.
The Groups Concerns about, or a default by, a financial rates, reduced asset values resulting in regulator may request that the Group carry institution could lead to significant liquidity write-downs, impairments, changes in out certain capital management actions or, if problems and losses or defaults by other accounting policy, accounting charges or the Groups CET1 ratio falls below 7%, certain financial institutions, since the commercial foreign exchange movements: regulatory capital instruments issued by the and financial soundness of many financial a failure to reduce RWAs in accordance Group will be written-down or converted into institutions is closely related and interwithin the timeline contemplated by the equity and there may be an issue of additional dependent as a result of credit, trading, Groups capital plan: equity by the Group, which could result in the clearing and other relationships among these 258 Risk factors dilution of the Groups existing shareholders.
for the Group, reduce the Groups liquidity the Groups mandated stress testing.
In The success of such issuances will also be position and increase the cost of funding.
addition, the Group utilises models for dependent on favourable market conditions Rating agencies regularly review the RBSG valuations, credit approvals, calculation of and the Group may not be able to raise the and Group entity credit ratings, which could loan impairment charges on an IFRS 9 basis, amount of capital required on acceptable be negatively affected by a number of factors, financial reporting and for financial crime and terms or at all.
Separately, the Group may including political and regulatory fraud risk management.
The Groups models, address a shortage of capital by taking action developments, changes in rating and the parameters and assumptions on to reduce leverage exposure and or RWAs via methodologies, changes in the relative size of which they are based, are periodically asset or business disposals.
Such actions the loss-absorbing buffers protecting reviewed and updated to maximise their may, in turn, affect, among other things, the bondholders and depositors, a challenging accuracy.
Groups product offering, credit ratings, ability macroeconomic environment, the impact of to operate its businesses, pursue its current Brexit, a potential second Scottish Such models are inherently designed to be strategies and pursue strategic opportunities, independence referendum, further reductions predictive in nature.
Failure of these models, any of which may affect the underlying of the UKs sovereign credit rating, market including due to errors in model design or profitability of the Group and future growth uncertainty and the inability of the Group to inputs, to accurately reflect changes in the potential.
See also, The Group may become produce sustained profits.
micro and macroeconomic environment in subject to the application of UK statutory which the Group operates, to capture risks stabilisation or resolution powers which may Any reductions in the credit ratings of RBSG and exposures at the subsidiary level, to be result in, among other actions, the write-down or of certain Group entities for example, updated in line with the Groups current or conversion of certain of the Groups NWM Plc, including in particular downgrades business model or operations, or findings of securities, including its ordinary shares.
below investment grade, may affect the deficiencies by the Groups regulators Groups access to money markets, reduce the including as part of the Groups mandated The Group may not be able to adequately size of its deposit base and trigger additional stress testing may result in increased capital access sources of liquidity and funding.
collateral or other requirements in derivatives requirements or require management action.
The Group is required to access sources of contracts and other secured funding The Group may also face adverse liquidity and funding through retail and arrangements or the need to amend such consequences as a result of actions by wholesale deposits, as well as through the arrangements which could adversely affect management based on models that are poorly debt capital markets.
As at 31 December the Groups cost of funding, its access to developed, implemented or used, models that 2018, the Group held 384 billion in deposits.
capital markets and its capital instruments and are based on inaccurate or compromised data The level of deposits may fluctuate due to could limit the range of counterparties willing or as a result of the modelled outcome being factors outside the Groups control, such as a to enter into transactions with the Group and misunderstood, or by such information being loss of confidence including in individual therefore also adversely impact its competitive used for purposes for which it was not Group entities, increasing competitive position.
pressures for retail customer deposits or the reduction or cessation of deposits by foreign The Group may be adversely affected if it The Groups financial statements are wholesale depositors, which could result in a fails to meet the requirements of sensitive to the underlying accounting significant outflow of deposits within a short regulatory stress tests.
policies, judgements, estimates and period of time.
See also, The Group has The Group is subject to annual stress tests by assumptions.
significant exposure to counterparty and its regulator in the UK and is also subject to The preparation of financial statements borrower risk.
An inability to grow, or any stress tests by European regulators with requires management to make judgements, material decrease in, the Groups deposits respect to RBSG, NWM N. V. and Ulster Bank estimates and assumptions that affect the could, particularly if accompanied by one of Ireland DAC.
Stress tests are designed to reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, the other factors described above, materially assess the resilience of banks to potential expenses, exposures and RWAs.
Due to the affect the Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity adverse economic or financial developments inherent uncertainty in making estimates needs.
and ensure that they have robust, forwardparticularly those involving the use of looking capital planning processes that complex models, future results may differ As at 31 December 2018, the Groups liquidity account for the risks associated with their from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements, coverage ratio was 158%.
If its liquidity business profile.
If the stress tests reveal that assumptions and models take into account position were to come under stress, and if the a banks existing regulatory capital buffers are historical experience and other factors, Group is unable to raise funds through not sufficient to absorb the impact of the including market practice and expectations of deposits or in the debt capital markets on stress, then it is possible that the bank will future events that are believed to be acceptable terms or at all, its liquidity position need to take action to strengthen its capital reasonable under the circumstances.
could be adversely affected and it might be position.
unable to meet deposit withdrawals on The accounting policies deemed critical to the demand or at their contractual maturity, to Failure by the Group to meet the quantitative Groups results and financial position, based repay borrowings as they mature, to meet its and qualitative requirements of the stress upon materiality and significant judgements obligations under committed financing tests carried out by its regulators in the UK and estimates, which include loan impairment facilities, to comply with regulatory funding and elsewhere may result in the Groups provisions, are set out in Critical accounting requirements, to undertake certain capital regulators requiring the Group to generate policies and key sources of estimation and or debt management activities, or to fund additional capital, reputational damage, uncertainty on page 186.
New accounting new loans, investments and businesses.
The increased supervision and or regulatory standards and interpretations that have been Group may need to liquidate unencumbered sanctions, restrictions on capital distributions issued by the International Accounting assets to meet its liabilities, including and loss of investor confidence.
Standards Board but which have not yet been disposals of assets not previously identified adopted by the Group are discussed in for disposal to reduce its funding The Group could incur losses or be Accounting developments on page 186. commitments.
In a time of reduced liquidity, required to maintain higher levels of the Group may be unable to sell some of its capital as a result of limitations or failure Changes in accounting standards may assets, or may need to sell assets at of various models.
materially impact the Groups financial depressed prices, which in either case could Given the complexity of the Groups business, results.
negatively affect the Groups results.
strategy and capital requirements, the Group Changes in accounting standards or guidance relies on analytical models for a wide range of by accounting bodies or in the timing of their Any reduction in the credit rating assigned purposes, including to manage its business, implementation, whether immediate or to RBSG, any of its subsidiaries or any of assess the value of its assets and its risk foreseeable, could result in the Group having its respective debt securities could exposure, as well as to anticipate capital and to recognise additional liabilities on its balance adversely affect the availability of funding funding requirements including to facilitate sheet, or in further write-downs or 259 Risk factors impairments and could also significantly derivatives.
Any such adjustments or fair contractual arrangements in certain impact the financial results, condition and value changes may have a negative impact circumstances.
The Authorities are also prospects of the Group.
empowered by order to amend the law for the purpose of enabling the powers under the In January 2018, a new accounting standard The Groups results could be adversely SRR to be used effectively.
Such orders may for financial instruments IFRS 9 became affected if an event triggers the promulgate provisions with retrospective effective, which introduced impairment based recognition of a goodwill impairment.
on expected credit losses, rather than the The Group capitalises goodwill, which is incurred loss model previously applied under calculated as the excess of the cost of an Under the Banking Act, the Authorities are IAS 39.
The Group expects IFRS 9 to create acquisition over the net fair value of the generally required to have regard to specified earnings and capital volatility, and the Group identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent objectives in exercising the powers provided took a 101 million impairment charge at 30 liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is for by the Banking Act.
One of the objectives September 2018, reflecting the more recognised at cost less any accumulated which is required to be balanced as uncertain economic outlook.
As required by IFRS, the appropriate with the other specified Group tests goodwill for impairment at least objectives refers to the protection and The valuation of financial instruments, annually, or more frequently when events or enhancement of the stability of the financial including derivatives, measured at fair value circumstances indicate that it might be system of the UK.
Moreover, the no creditor can be subjective, in particular where models impaired.
worse off safeguard contained in the Banking are used which include unobservable inputs.
Act may not apply in relation to an application Generally, to establish the fair value of these An impairment test compares the recoverable of the separate write-down and conversion instruments, the Group relies on quoted amount the higher of the value in use and fair power relating to capital instruments under the market prices or, where the market for a value less cost to sell of an individual cash Banking Act, in circumstances where a financial instrument is not sufficiently credible, generating unit with its carrying value.
At 31 stabilisation power is not also used: holders of internal valuation models that utilise December 2018, the Group carried goodwill of debt instruments which are subject to the observable market data.
In certain 5.6 billion on its balance sheet.
The value in power may, however, have ordinary shares circumstances, the data for individual financial use and fair value of the Groups cashtransferred to or issued to them by way of instruments or classes of financial instruments generating units are affected by market compensation.
utilised by such valuation models may not be conditions and the economies in which the available or may become unavailable due to Group operates.
Uncertainty exists as to how the Authorities prevailing market conditions.
In such may exercise the powers granted to them circumstances, the Groups internal valuation Where the Group is required to recognise a under the Banking Act.
In addition, the models require the Group to make goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the determination that ordinary shares, securities assumptions, judgements and estimates to Groups income statement, but it has no effect and other obligations issued by the Group establish fair value, which are complex and on the Groups regulatory capital position.
may be subject to write-down, conversion or often relate to matters that are inherently bail-in as applicable is unpredictable and uncertain.
The Group may become subject to the may depend on factors outside of the Groups application of UK statutory stabilisation or control.
Moreover, the relevant provisions of The Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases with resolution powers which may result in, the Banking Act remain untested in practice.
effect from 1 January 2019 as disclosed in the among other actions, the write-down or However, if the Group is at or is approaching Accounting Policies.
This is expected to conversion of certain of the Groups the point of non-viability such that regulatory increase Other assets by 1.3 billion and securities, including its ordinary shares.
intervention is required, any exercise of the Other liabilities by 1.9 billion.
While adoption The Banking Act 2009, as amended Banking resolution regime powers by the Authorities of this standard has no effect on the Groups Act, implements the BRRD in the UK and may adversely affect holders of RBSGs cash flows, it will impact financial ratios which creates a special resolution regime SRR.
ordinary shares or other Group securities that may influence investors perception of the Under the SRR, HM Treasury, the Bank of fall within the scope of bail-in powers.
This financial condition of the Group.
England and the PRA and FCA together may result in various actions being Authorities are granted substantial powers undertaken in relation to the Group and any The value or effectiveness of any credit to resolve and stabilise UK-incorporated securities of the Group, including the writeprotection that the Group has purchased financial institutions.
Five stabilisation options down or conversion of certain of the Groups depends on the value of the underlying exist under the current SRR: i transfer of all securities.
There would also be a assets and the financial condition of the of the business of a relevant entity or the corresponding adverse effect on the market insurers and counterparties.
shares of the relevant entity to a private sector price of such securities.
The Group has some remaining credit purchaser: ii transfer of all or part of the exposure arising from over-the-counter business of the relevant entity to a bridge Legal, regulatory and conduct risk derivative contracts, mainly credit default bank wholly-owned by the Bank of England: The Groups businesses are subject to swaps CDSs, and other credit derivatives, iii transfer of part of the assets, rights or substantial regulation and oversight, each of which are carried at fair value.
The liabilities of the relevant entity to one or more which are constantly evolving and may fair value of these CDSs, as well as the asset management vehicles for management adversely affect the Group.
Groups exposure to the risk of default by the of the transferors assets, rights or liabilities: The Group is subject to extensive laws, underlying counterparties, depends on the iv the write-down, conversion, transfer, regulations, corporate governance practice valuation and the perceived credit risk of the modification, or suspension of the relevant and disclosure requirements, administrative instrument against which protection has been entitys equity, capital instruments and actions and policies in each jurisdiction in bought.
Many market counterparties have liabilities: and v temporary public ownership which it operates.
Many of these have been been adversely affected by their exposure to of the relevant entity.
These tools may be introduced or amended recently and are residential mortgage-linked and corporate applied to RBSG as the parent company or an subject to further material changes, which credit products, whether synthetic or affiliate where certain conditions are met may increase compliance and conduct risks.
otherwise, and their actual and perceived such as, whether the firm is failing or likely to The Group expects government and creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the fail, or whether it is reasonably likely that regulatory intervention in the financial services financial condition of these counterparties or action will be taken outside of resolution that industry to remain high for the foreseeable their actual or perceived creditworthiness will result in the firm no longer failing or being future.
deteriorates, the Group may record further likely to fail.
Moreover, the SRR provides for credit valuation adjustments on the credit modified insolvency and administration In recent years, regulators and governments protection bought from these counterparties procedures for relevant entities, and confers have focussed on reforming the prudential under the CDSs.
The Group also recognises ancillary powers on the Authorities, including regulation of the financial services industry any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit the power to modify or override certain and the manner in which the business of 260 Risk factors financial services is conducted.
Among quantity of regulatory capital to be held by other requirements or policies affecting the others, measures have included: enhanced the Group as well as liquidity and leverage Group and its profitability or product capital, liquidity and funding requirements, requirements, either on a solo, offering, including through the imposition implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, consolidated or subgroup level: of increased compliance obligations or implementation and strengthening of the changes to the design and implementation obligations which may lead to restrictions recovery and resolution framework applicable of national or supranational mandated on business growth, product offerings, or to financial institutions in the UK, the EU and recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes pricing.
the US, financial industry reforms including in or the implementation of additional or respect of MiFID II, enhanced data privacy conflicting loss-absorption requirements, Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in and IT resilience requirements, enhanced including those mandated under UK rules, their interpretation or enforcement, or the regulations in respect of the provision of the BRRD, MREL or by the Financial implementation of new laws, rules or investment services and activities, and Stability Boards FSB recommendations regulations, including contradictory or increased regulatory focus in certain areas, on total loss-absorbing capacity TLAC : conflicting laws, rules or regulations by key including conduct, consumer protection regulators or policymakers in different additional rules and regulatory initiatives regimes, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to comply and review relating to customer protection anti-tax evasion, payment systems, sanctions with such laws, rules and regulations, may and resolution of disputes and complaints, and anti-terrorism laws and regulations.
This adversely affect the Groups business and including increased focus by regulators has resulted in the Group facing greater results.
In addition, uncertainty and insufficient including the Financial Ombudsman regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and international regulatory coordination as Service on how institutions conduct other countries in which it operates.
enhanced supervisory standards are business, particularly with regard to the developed and implemented may adversely delivery of fair outcomes for customers Recent regulatory changes, proposed or affect the Groups ability to engage in effective and orderly transparent markets: future developments and heightened levels of business, capital and risk management rules and regulations relating to, and public and regulatory scrutiny in the UK, planning.
enforcement of, anti-corruption, antiEurope and the US have resulted in increased bribery, anti-money laundering, antiThe Group is subject to a number of legal, capital, funding and liquidity requirements, terrorism, sanctions, anti-tax evasion or regulatory and governmental actions and changes in the competitive landscape, other similar regimes: investigations including conduct-related changes in other regulatory requirements and reviews and redress projects, the increased operating costs, and have the imposition of additional restrictions on outcomes of which are inherently difficult impacted, and will continue to impact, product the Groups ability to compensate its to predict, and which could have an offerings and business models.
senior management and other employees adverse effect on the Group.
and increased responsibility and liability The Groups operations are diverse and In particular, the Group is required to comply rules applicable to senior and key complex and it operates in legal and with regulatory requirements in respect of the employees: regulatory environments that expose it to implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime rules relating to foreign ownership, potentially significant legal proceedings, and and to ensure operational continuity in expropriation, nationalisation and civil and criminal regulatory and governmental resolution: the steps required to ensure such confiscation of assets: actions.
The Group has settled a number of compliance entail significant costs, and also changes to corporate governance practice legal and regulatory actions over the past impose significant operational, legal and and disclosure requirements, senior several years but continues to be, and may in execution risk.
Serious consequences could manager responsibility, corporate the future be, involved in such actions in the arise should the Group be found to be nonstructures and conduct of business rules: US, the UK, Europe and other jurisdictions.
compliant with such regulatory requirements.
financial market infrastructure reforms Such changes may also result in an increased The legal and regulatory actions specifically establishing new rules applying to number of regulatory investigations and referred to below are, in the Groups view, the investment services, short selling, market proceedings and have increased the risks most significant legal and regulatory actions to abuse, derivatives markets and investment relating to the Groups ability to comply with which the Group is currently exposed.
funds: the applicable body of rules and regulations in However, the Group is also subject to a the manner and within the time frames increased attention to the protection and number of ongoing reviews, investigations required.
resilience of, and competition and and proceedings both formal and informal by innovation in, UK payment systems and governmental law enforcement and other Any of these developments including any developments relating to the UK initiative agencies and litigation proceedings, relating failure to comply with new rules and on Open Banking and the European to, among other matters, the offering of regulations could have a significant impact on directive on payment services: securities, conduct in the foreign exchange the Groups authorisations and licenses, the market, the setting of benchmark rates such new or increased regulations relating to products and services that the Group may as LIBOR and related derivatives trading, the customer data and privacy protection as offer, its reputation and the value of its assets, issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading well as IT controls and resilience, including the Groups operations or legal entity of fixed-income securities including the GDPR: structure, and the manner in which the Group government securities, product mis-selling, the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, conducts its business.
Areas in which, and customer mistreatment, anti-money levies or fees applicable to the Groups examples of where, governmental policies, laundering, antitrust and various other operations, such as the imposition of a regulatory and accounting changes and compliance issues.
Legal and regulatory financial transaction tax, changes in tax increased public and regulatory scrutiny could actions are subject to many uncertainties, and rates, changes in the scope and have an adverse impact some of which could their outcomes, including the timing, amount administration of the Bank Levy, increases be material on the Group include, but are not of fines or settlements or the form of any in the bank corporation tax surcharge in limited to, those set out above as well as the settlements, which may be material and in the UK, restrictions on the tax deductibility following: excess of any related provisions, are often of interest payments or further restrictions difficult to predict, particularly in the early imposed on the treatment of carry-forward general changes in government, central stages of a case or investigation, and the tax losses that reduce the value of Groups expectation for resolution may bank, regulatory or competition policy, or deferred tax assets and require increased change.
changes in regulatory regimes that may payments of tax: influence investor decisions in the markets laws and regulations in respect of climate In particular, the Group has for a number of in which the Group operates: change and sustainable finance including years been involved in conduct-related amendments to the framework or ESG considerations: and reviews and redress projects, including a requirements relating to the quality and review of certain historic customer 261 Risk factors connections in its former Global Restructuring market acceptance on the form of alternative These reviews raised significant concerns Group GRG, management of claims arising RFRs for different products, the legal about the effectiveness of competition in the from historic sales of payment protection mechanisms to effect transition cannot be retail banking sector.
The CMAs Retail insurance, and a review of tracker mortgage confirmed, and the impact cannot be Banking Market Order 2017 imposes products in the Republic of Ireland.
In relation determined nor any associated costs remedies primarily intended to make it easier to the GRG review, the Group established a accounted for.
The transition and for consumers and businesses to compare complaints process in November 2016, uncertainties around the timing and manner of personal current account PCA and SME overseen by an independent third party.
The transition to RFRs represent a number of risks bank products, increase the transparency of complaints process closed on 22 October for the Group, its customers and the financial price comparison between banks and amend 2018 for new complaints in the UK and, with services industry more widely.
These include PCA overdraft charging.
These remedies the exception of a small cohort of potential risks related to: legal risks as changes may impose additional compliance requirements complainants for whom there is an extended be required to documentation for new or on the Group and could, in aggregate, deadline, on 31 December 2018 for new existing transactions : financial risks which adversely impact the Groups competitive complaints in the Republic of Ireland.
An may arise from any changes in valuation of position, product offering and revenues.
additional provision of 50 million was taken financial instruments linked to benchmarks Adverse findings resulting from current or in Q4 2018, reflecting greater than predicted rates and may impact the Groups cost of future competition investigations may result in complaints volumes in the week leading up to funds and its risk management related the imposition of reforms or remedies which the closure of the complaints process.
In financial models : pricing risks such as may impact the competitive landscape in addition, the Group continues to handle changes to benchmark rates could impact which the Group operates or result in claims in relation to historic sales of payment pricing mechanisms on certain instruments : restrictions on mergers and consolidations protection insurance and took additional operational risks due to the potential within the financial sector.
provisions of 200 million in Q3 2018, requirement to adapt IT systems, trade The cost of implementing the Alternative reflecting increased complaint volumes as the reporting infrastructure and operational Remedies Package could be more onerous complaint deadline of 31 August 2019 processes : and conduct risks which may than anticipated.
In the Republic of Ireland, UBI relate to communication regarding the In connection with the implementation of the DAC, remains engaged in a review of the potential impact on customers, and Alternative Remedies Package regarding the treatment of customers who have been sold engagement with customers during the business previously described as Williams & mortgages with a tracker interest rate or with transition period.
Glyn, an independent body Independent a tracker interest rate entitlement.
A redress It is therefore currently difficult to determine to and compensation exercise is ongoing in Body has been established to administer the what extent the changes will affect the Group, respect of this matter.
See also, Litigation, Alternative Remedies Package.
The or the costs of implementing any relevant investigations and reviews of Note 27 on the implementation of the Alternative Remedies remedial action.
Uncertainty as to the nature consolidated accounts for details of these Package has involved costs for the Group, of such potential changes, alternative including but not limited to the funding matters.
The Group has dedicated resources reference rates or other reforms and as to the commitments of 425 million for the Capability in place to manage claims and complaints continuation of LIBOR or EURIBOR may and Innovation Fund and 350 million for the relating to the above and other conductadversely affect financial instruments using incentivised switching scheme, both being related matters.
Provisions taken in respect of LIBOR or EURIBOR as benchmarks.
The administered by the Independent Body.
such matters include the costs involved in implementation of any alternative RFRs may Implementation of the Alternative Remedies administering the various complaints be impossible or impracticable under the Package may involve additional costs for the processes.
Any failure to administer such existing terms of such financial instruments Group and may also divert resources from the processes adequately, or to handle individual and could have an adverse effect on the value Groups operations and jeopardise the complaints fairly or appropriately, could result of, return on and trading market for such delivery and implementation of other in further claims as well as the imposition of financial instruments additional measures or limitations on the significant plans and initiatives.
In addition, Groups operations, additional supervision by The Group operates in markets that are under the terms of the Alternative Remedies the Groups regulators, and loss of investor subject to intense scrutiny by the Package, the Independent Body may require confidence.
the Group to modify certain aspects of the There is significant oversight by competition Groups execution of the incentivised Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or authorities of the markets which the Group switching scheme, which could increase the future legal or regulatory actions, including operates in.
The competitive landscape for cost of implementation.
Furthermore, should conduct-related reviews or redress projects, banks and other financial institutions in the the uptake within the incentivised switching could result in restrictions or limitations on the UK, the rest of Europe and the US is rapidly scheme not be sufficient, the Independent Groups operations, and could adversely changing.
Recent regulatory and legal Body has the ability to extend the duration of impact the Groups capital position or its changes have and may continue to result in the scheme by up to twelve months, impose ability to meet regulatory capital adequacy new market participants and changed penalties of up to 50 million, and can compel requirements.
Failure to comply with competitive dynamics in certain key areas, the Group to extend the customer base to undertakings made by the Group to its such as in retail and SME banking in the UK which the scheme applies which may result in regulators may result in additional measures where the introduction of new entrants is prolonged periods of disruption to a wider or penalties being taken against the Group.
being actively encouraged by the UK portion of the Groups business.
The Group may not effectively manage the Government.
As a direct consequence of the incentivised transition of LIBOR and other IBOR rates The UK retail banking sector has been switching scheme which comprises part of to alternative risk free rates.
subjected to intense scrutiny by the UK the Alternative Remedies Package, the UK and international regulators are driving a competition authorities and by other bodies, Group will lose existing customers and transition from the use of interbank offer rates including the FCA and the Financial deposits, which in turn will have adverse IBORs, including LIBOR, to alternative risk Ombudsman Service, in recent years, impacts on the Groups business and free rates RFRs.
In the UK, the FCA has including with a number of reviews inquiries associated revenues and margins.
asserted that they will not compel LIBOR being carried out, including market reviews Furthermore, the capability and innovation submissions beyond 2021, thereby conducted by the CMA and its predecessor fund which also comprises part of the jeopardising its continued availability, and the Office of Fair Trading regarding SME Alternative Remedies Package is intended to have strongly urged market participants to banking and personal banking products and benefit eligible competitors and negatively transition to RFRs, as has the CFTC and services, the Independent Commission on impact the Groups competitive position.
To other regulators in the United States.
The Banking and the Parliamentary Commission support the incentivised switching initiative, Group has significant exposure to IBORs on Banking Standards.
upon request by an eligible bank, the Group primarily on its derivatives, commercial has agreed to grant those customers which lending and legacy securities.
Until there is 262 Risk factors have switched to eligible banks under the limitations on the Groups operations, accounting standards may reduce the incentivised switching scheme access to its additional supervision by the Groups recoverable amount of the recognised tax loss branch network for cash and cheque handling regulators, and loss of investor confidence.
deferred tax assets, amounting to 1.0 billion services, which may impact customer service as at 31 December 2018.
Changes to the Changes in tax legislation or failure to quality for the Groups own customers with treatment of certain deferred tax assets may generate future taxable profits may impact consequent competitive, financial and impact the Groups capital position.
In the recoverability of certain deferred tax reputational implications.
The implementation addition, the Groups interpretation or assets recognised by the Group.
of the incentivised switching scheme is also application of relevant tax laws may differ In accordance with IFRS, the Group has dependent on the engagement of the eligible from those of the relevant tax authorities and recognised deferred tax assets on losses banks with the incentivised switching scheme provisions are made for potential tax liabilities available to relieve future profits from tax only and the application of the eligible banks to that may arise on the basis of the amounts to the extent it is probable that they will be and approval by the Independent Body.
The expected to be paid to tax authorities.
The deferred tax assets are incentivised transfer of SME customers to amounts ultimately paid may differ materially quantified on the basis of current tax third party banks places reliance on those from the amounts provided depending on the legislation and accounting standards and are third parties to achieve satisfactory customer ultimate resolution of such matters.
subject to change in respect of the future outcomes which could give rise to reputational rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable damage to the Group if these are not profits and offsetting allowable losses.
Failure to generate sufficient future taxable A failure to comply with the terms of the profits or further changes in tax legislation Alternative Remedies Package could result in including with respect to rates of tax or the imposition of additional measures or 263
