Risk overview Prudent risk management is central to the successful delivery of the RBS strategy.
RBS operates an integrated robust, sustainable OFAC Sanctions was further enhanced in order to framework that facilitates compliance framework.
In March effectively align with the innovation effective risk management.
2018, the Federal Reserve Board also agenda.
The framework which is centred terminated a Cease & Desist Order around the embedding of a strong risk originally imposed in July 2011 in Continuity of service for customers culture ensures that the tools are relation to RBSs US operations.
also remained a key area of focus.
in place to identify and manage both A number of activities aimed at internal and external threats, including A memorandum of understanding minimising the impact of disruptive top and emerging risks.
Risk appetite, with the Trustees of the Group Pension events such as system outages on which defines the level and types of Fund, to align the scheme with the overall service were undertaken.
risk RBS is willing to accept, is set in UKs ring-fencing rules and the 2 These included preventative line with overall strategy and approved billion contribution made in October measures, control improvements and by the RBS Group board.
2018 significantly reduced the work to calibrate limits or triggers Groups exposure to pension risk.
for the most critical processes.
RBS An emphasis on prudent risk The contribution to the scheme continues to monitor and assess management has a key role in which could be followed by up to a diverse array of threats both positioning RBS to prepare for, and a further 1.5 billion of dividendexternal and internal as well as respond to, developments in the wider linked contributions facilitated a developing, strengthening or adapting competitive, economic and regulatory reduction in the risk profile of the fund, existing control capability to protect environment.
principally the sale of approximately continuity of service.
6 billion of quoted equity exposure All RBS employees share ownership and the purchase of further interest Brexit of the way risk is managed.
RBS maintained a consistent focus on risks arising as a result of uncertainties Progress in 2018 RBS continued to make progress related to the UKs planned exit from RBS continued to reduce risk and towards its aim of making risk simply the European Union.
Oversight of strengthen both the balance sheet part of the way colleagues work and planning for regulatory and legislative and the capital position in 2018.
In 2018 the risk culture action impacts as well as economic impacts continuing progress against the plan focused on building clarity, remained a critical part of forwardGroups strategic objectives, there developing capability and embedding looking risk management throughout was also a significant focus on a a standardised risk culture assessment the year.
This included stress testing number of key themes.
These included and reporting approach.
and scenario modelling as well as wider economic uncertainty relating capital planning.
In view of continued to the UKs exit from the European There was a continuing emphasis uncertainty, RBS is implementing Union, the accelerating evolution on refining risk appetite during the plans to ensure continuity of service of the technological landscape and year.
Significant work was done to for its customers in the event of regulatory change.
enhance the approach at both Group an immediate loss of access to the and subsidiary levels in advance of European Single Market.
This includes The final settlement with the US compliance with the UKs ring-fencing finalising a third-country licence for Department of Justice DoJ in rules.
Limits and triggers for material the Frankfurt branch of its National relation to the RBS Groups issuance risks were reviewed and refined as Westminster Bank subsidiary to and underwriting of US Residential part of the continuous improvement allow for continued clearing of euroMortgage-Backed Securities RMBS of the risk appetite framework.
during the period 2005 to 2007 and triggers were also set for material brought to an end a major legacy subsidiaries.
While the longer-term effects on the issue, leading to further improvement operating environment of the UKs exit of the risk profile.
From an operational risk are difficult to predict, consideration perspective, throughout 2018 has also been given to the potential In October 2018, the Federal there was a continued focus on the second and third order effects Reserve Board terminated a Cease control environment, ensuring that on the Group and its customers, & Desist Order originally imposed in RBS maintains a safe and secure including planning for the results of December 2013 in relation to historical approach to doing business.
periodic financial volatility and slower compliance with Office of Foreign economic growth.
Assets Control OFAC economic Oversight of the Groups sanctions regulations.
transformation to meet the evolving needs of customers as well as to The termination recognised RBSs address the changing economic, multi-year programme to establish a regulatory and technology landscapes 30 Risk-weighted assets RWAs RWAs reduced by 12.2 billion.
This was driven by decreases across credit and counterparty credit risk of 8.6 billion, market risk of 2.2 billion and a 1.4 billion decrease in operational risk as a result of the annual recalculation in Q1 2018.
The credit risk decrease was primarily due to reduced asset size resulting from repayments, partially offset by increases reflecting various loss given default LGD model changes.
Cyber Security Common Equity Tier 1 ratio RBS has a multi-layered defence The CET1 ratio increased by 30 basis points to 16.2% as a result of lower approach to cyber security and RWAs, 1,622 million attributable profit and the 30 basis point impact at 1 January 2018 on the implementation of IFRS9 partially offset by the continues to invest in its defences impact of the pension contribution in Q2 2018.
CET 1 capital reflects the as the external threat evolves.
In 2p interim dividend, the final dividend of 3.5p and the foreseeable 7.5p 2018, RBS continued to take part in special dividend paid to ordinary shareholders.
industry-wide initiatives to monitor and anticipate developments, identify Leverage ratios vulnerabilities and share best practice.
Both the CRR end-point and UK leverage ratios increased to 5.4% and 6.2% respectively as a result of reduced assets.
The average CRR leverage ratio and UK leverage ratios increased to 5.4% and Financial crime 6.2% respectively.
The financial crime threat continues to evolve in line with changes in Stress testing technology, the economy and wider In the Bank of England 2018 stress test, RBS met its CET1 capital society.
As risks relating to money requirements under the hypothetical adverse scenario.
The Groups laundering, terrorist financing, tax CET1 ratio was 9.6% at its lowest point well above the hurdle rate of 7.3%.
The Tier 1 leverage ratio remained above the minimum requirement evasion, sanctions, bribery and throughout the test.
In the European Banking Authority EBA 2018 stress corruption develop, understanding test, the low-point CET 1 ratio was 9.9% at 31 December 2019.
The low and responding to them appropriately point leverage ratio was 4.8% at 31 December 2018. remains a key area of focus.
In 2018, RBS continued its journey of Liquidity and funding improvement in relation to the policies, RBS maintained a robust liquidity and funding risk profile in 2018. processes and systems used to combat The liquidity portfolio increased 12 billion in 2018 to 198 billion and the liquidity coverage ratio and stressed coverage ratio were 158% financial crime.
RBS also maintained an and 154% at 31 December 2018, compared with 152% and 168% at emphasis on ensuring proportionate, 2017 respectively.
risk-focused customer due diligence standards were in place, particularly Litigation and conduct for higher-risk customer segments.
In Litigation and conduct costs of 1,282 million included a 1,207 million addition, improvements to the financial provision in relation to various investigations and litigation matters, crime control environment remained including additional provisions in respect of PPI, the FCA's review of RBSs treatment of SMEs and settlement of the US Department of Justice a key focus in accordance with the investigation into RBSs issuance and underwriting of US Residential evolving nature of the risk.
RBS is committed to ensuring it acts responsibly and ethically, both when pursuing its own business opportunities and when awarding business.
Consequently it has Climate risk RBS supports the recommendations embedded appropriate policies, The impact of multiple risks relating of the Financial Stability Boards Task mandatory procedures and controls to climate change continues to be Force on Climate-Related Financial to ensure its employees, and any assessed.
This includes physical risks Disclosures and has established a other parties it does business with, such as those resulting from extreme climate risk working group.
understand these obligations and weather events and a more unstable abide by them, whenever they act climate as well as economic and LIBOR transition for RBS.
Anti-bribery and corruption regulatory risks.
The UK regulators have reiterated the ABC training is mandatory for all intention to move from LIBOR to staff on an annual basis, with targeted In addition, RBS continues to focus on alternative interest-rate benchmarks training appropriate for certain roles.
risks arising as a result of government by the end of 2021.
A significant RBS considers ABC risk in its business undertakings to limit carbon emissions, number of transactions across the processes including, but not limited which will require adjustments in all industry reference LIBOR and, as a to, corporate donations, charitable sectors of the economy.
Though the result, the transition will be a major sponsorships, political activities and nature and timing of these transitional undertaking.
RBS is conducting risk commercial sponsorships.
Where risks remain uncertain, RBS classifies assessments of the likely impact appropriate, there is a requirement climate risk as an emerging threat across each of its franchises and the for ABC contract clauses in written and is integrating it into core risk Risk function will continue to provide agreements.
oversight as the programme develops.
The factors discussed on page 32 and elsewhere in this report should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing RBS.
Refer to the Risk Factors section.
31 Top and Emerging Risks RBS employs a continuous process for identifying and managing its top and emerging risks.
These are risks that could have a significant negative impact on RBSs ability to operate or meet its strategic objectives.
Risk Mitigation Operational and IT resilience - RBSs information technology systems are complex, making recovery from failure - A major investment programme has improved challenging.
As RBS continues to simplify - RBSs information technology systems are critical to the services it provides, with any and modernise infrastructure and applications, outages experienced in the banking sector widely publicised.
Cyber attacks continue system sustainability has improved.
to evolve in frequency, sophistication and severity.
There is a risk that a cyber attack - A major security programme has delivered damages RBSs ability to do business and or compromises data security.
control enhancements to mitigate the risk of - RBS faces increased operational risk as it makes changes to its structure and cyber attack.
RBS continues to invest in its operations to reduce its cost base.
RBS monitors people risk closely - There is a risk that RBS lacks sufficient capability or capacity at a senior level to and has plans in place to support retention of deliver, or adapt to, change.
key roles, with wider programmes supporting - Losses may arise from changes in the RBS business model due to ring-fencing or engagement and training.
such as the restructuring of NatWest Markets in light of ring fencing and Brexit.
- RBS continues to implement change in line with its - A breach in data privacy, either within RBS or in a third-party organisation, may project plans while assessing the implementation lead to negative impacts.
There is a risk that RBSs data strategy is not adequate for risks and mitigating where possible.
- There is a risk that the actions of a third-party supplier could negatively affect RBSs reputation or profitability.
Economic and political risk Risk Mitigation - RBS remains vulnerable to changes and uncertainty in the economic, political and - RBS has implemented plans to prepare for an legal environment.
Scenarios that could have a potentially material negative effect immediate loss of access to the European Single on RBS include the impact of the UKs exit from the European Union: changes in UK Market on 29 March 2019 a hard Brexit.
government and UK government policy: a second Scottish independence referendum: - RBS uses a range of complementary approaches a UK recession including significant falls in house prices : global financial volatility, a to inform strategic planning and risk mitigation protracted period of low interest rates in the UK, vulnerabilities in emerging market relating to a range of economic and political risks.
economies resulting in contagion in RBSs core markets, a Eurozone crisis or major These include robust risk assessment and dynamic geopolitical instability.
portfolio management in accordance with the risk - Accelerating climate change may lead to  climate-related appetite framework, the setting of prudent lending impacts on RBS and the wider economy.
criteria and, for specific market risks, structural hedging.
Stress testing and scenario planning is also used extensively.
- RBS is working to embed climate risk into its risk framework, and adapting its operation and business strategy to mitigate the risks of both climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy.
Risk Mitigation Financial resilience - RBSs target markets are highly competitive, which poses challenges in terms of - RBS continues to innovate including the achieving some strategic objectives.
Moreover, changes in technology, customer development of a number of digital initiatives behaviour and business models in these markets have accelerated.
designed to meet evolving customer needs and monitor the competitive environment as well as associated regulatory, technological and strategic developments in order to make adjustments as appropriate.
Legal regulatory and conduct risk Risk Mitigation - RBS expects government and regulatory intervention in the financial services industry - RBS considers and incorporates the implications to remain high for the foreseeable future, and also subject to increasing regulation in of proposed or potential regulatory activities in its new areas such as financial risks relating to climate change and artificial intelligence.
- RBS has for a number of years been involved in conduct-related reviews and - RBS has dedicated resources in place to manage redress projects, including a review of certain historical customer connections in claims and complaints relating to GRG.
its former Global Restructuring Group GRG.
RBS is likely to remain engaged in the - RBS has invested significant resources to meet management of GRG-related complaints until at least the end of 2020. the terms of the Alternative Remedies Package and - Implementation of the Alternative Remedies Package regarding the business manage the associated risks.
previously described as Williams & Glyn brings a range of risks for RBS including - Building a healthy culture is a core priority.
RBS significant costs, loss of customers deposits and associated execution risks.
continues to focus on creating a solid platform for - The impacts of past business conduct resulting in future litigation and conduct charges behavioural and cultural change.
RBS is involved in a number of investigations, including: ongoing - In addition, RBS continues to strengthen class action litigation, investigations into foreign exchange trading and rate-setting its control environment and the journey of activities, continuing LIBOR-related litigation and investigations, into the treatment improvement remains an ongoing area of focus.
of small and medium-sized business customers in financial difficulty, anti-money - A programme to determine the scale and scope of laundering, sanctions, mis-selling including mis-selling of payment protection insurance the impacts relating to the transition to alternative products.
Settlements may result in additional financial penalties, non-monetary risk-free rates is underway.
Activity to manage penalties or other consequences, which may be material.
the transition will take place within RBSs control - The transition from LIBOR and other IBOR rates to alternative risk-free rates may lead framework and in line with expected standards of to heightened legal, business and conduct risks.
32 At our AGM in May 2018 we announced new energy lending Climate related financial disclosures policies, meaning RBS will not provide project-specific finance to: Climate change presents both risks and opportunities to our business across our customers, operations and suppliers.
New coal fired power stations New thermal coal mines Oil sands projects Arctic oil projects The Board has governance oversight strategy to be a leading UK-focused Unsustainable vegetation or on climate via the Sustainable Banking banking service provider to personal peatland clearance projects Committee.
From 2019 this will be and business customers.
To help shared with the Board Risk Committee.
manage climate related risks around A Climate Change Working Group individual lending decisions, we use RBS will also not provide finance to: CCWG has been established with sector-specific Environmental, Social Mining companies generating the accountable executive being and Ethical risk policies refer to rbs.
more than 40% of their revenues the Chief Risk Officer.
The Power Generation, Mining from thermal coal a reduction responsible for addressing climateand Metals, Oil & Gas and Forestry, from 65%.
related regulation, risks, opportunities, Fisheries and Agribusiness policies Power companies generating more metrics and analysis.
Membership were updated in 2018 in relation to than 40% of their electricity from includes senior representatives climate-related risks.
To help us manage coal a reduction from 65%.
from Risk, Sustainable Banking, operational risks, we joined RE100, Corporate Governance, Regulatory committing to purchase 100% global Affairs and Legal.
Frontline business renewable energy by 2020. representatives will join in 2019.
The and non-domestic and agriculture Sustainable Energy Forum SEF also RBS uses a range of metrics and sectors as having particular exposure co-ordinates products and services that targets to assess our climate-related to climate risks and opportunities and help business and corporate customers financial impacts, including operational these equated to approximately 44% of to transition to a low carbon economy.
emissions figures, refer to the table total RBS exposures in 2018.
com, volumes of were calculated using Exposure at As part of our developing strategy sustainable energy sector financing, and Default EAD.
to address climate change, we are proportion of lending associated with helping to accelerate the transition to high carbon or high climate risk sectors.
We were recognised by InfraDeals as a low carbon economy by supporting Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions the leading lender to the UK renewables our customers and integrating climate are independently verified each year by sector by number of transactions change into core business decision an external auditor.
As at 31 December over the past ten years 2008- 2018. making.
To support this, RBS is currently 2018, our exposure to the Power and Between 2014 and 2018 we reduced our undertaking climate scenario analysis Oil & Gas sectors remains at 1.2% of our operational greenhouse gas emissions across our main lending portfolio.
The PRA report Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Business Travel Two scenarios are being considered: Transition in Thinking highlighted the by 49%, exceeding our Science Based a Business as Usual 3.7C rise and a energy, transport, property domestic Target of 45% by 2020.
The time frames used for analysis are aligned to RBS strategy: short 0-2 years, medium Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions 2014 2017 2018 Baseline 3-5 years and long 6-30 years.
Both physical and transitional risks are Location-based CO e emissions 2 496,249 312,731 252,340 being incorporated.
The results of the Scope 1, 2 & business travel tonnes analysis will inform future strategy and Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 30,695 25,578 29,959 2 focus areas for more in-depth climate Scope 2 Market-based CO e emissions 2 scenario analysis.
377,337 69,391 57,735 tonnes Scope 2 Location-based CO e 2 Climate risk management covers 360,201 219,979 166,179 emissions tonnes both physical and transitional risks.
Scope 3 CO e emissions from RBS employs a continuous process 2 105,352 67,174 56,203 business travel tonnes for identifying and managing top and Location-based CO e emissions per FTE emerging risks refer to page 32, 2 5.07 4.08 3.56 Scope 1, 2 & business travel tonnes including climate-related risks.
The nature and timing of the far-reaching Total energy use GWh 862 693 619 commercial, technological and regulatory changes the low carbon We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors transition will bring are currently Reports Regulations 2013.
To our knowledge there are no material omissions.
Independent limited assurance of uncertain, for our customers and total reported emissions in tonnes of CO2e, Scope 1, 2 and 3 location based emissions has been provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
Our reporting year runs from October 2017 to September 2018.
The impact of such changes fluorinated gas loss and fuel combustion in RBS premises vehicles.
Scope 2: Emissions from electricity, district may be disruptive, especially if such heating and district cooling used in RBS premises.
market-based emissions have been calculated using the GHG Protocol guidelines.
Scope 3: Emissions associated with business travel air, rail and road by RBS employees.
changes do not occur in an orderly or timely manner or are ineffective in These emissions are calculated using The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition 2004.
The emissions reporting boundary is defined as all entities and facilities either owned or reducing emissions sufficiently.
Emissions factors used are from UK Government Emissions Conversion Factors for these risks are significant and growing, Greenhouse Gas Company Reporting BEIS, 2018, CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion IEA, 2017 or from relevant local authorities as required.
For more information please see our website https: www.
com rbs sustainability they are not inconsistent with our responsible-business.
