Capital and risk management Page Effective governance, underpinned by the three lines of defence Presentation of information 89 model, is essential to ensure the right decisions are being made by Risk management framework the right people at the right time.
Governance includes regular and Introduction 89 transparent risk reporting as well as discussion and decision-making Risk culture 90 at senior management committees, which informs management Risk governance 91 strategies across the organisation.
Risk appetite 92 RBS aims to have the right tools in place to support effective risk Risk controls and limits 92 management.
Having the appropriate capability, people and Risk identification and measurement 92 infrastructure is central.
This is supported by a strong emphasis on Risk treatment and mitigation 92 systems, training and development to ensure threats are anticipated Risk assurance 93 and managed appropriately within the boundaries determined by the Model risk 93 agreed risk appetite.
Stress testing 93 Measurement, evaluation and transparency are also fundamental Capital, liquidity and funding risk elements of the framework, providing robust analysis of the Definitions, sources and key developments 97 materiality and likelihood of specific threats as well as supporting Capital, liquidity and funding management 98 understanding and communication of the financial and non-financial Minimum requirements 99 risks to which RBS is exposed.
Measurement 100 RBS has a strong focus on defining the control environment to Credit risk ensure the effective operation of policies and processes embedded Definition, sources and key developments 111 in the customer-facing businesses, thus facilitating the management Risk governance, appetite and controls 111 of the risks they take in the course of their day-to-day activities.
Risk identification and measurement 111 Risk models 112 RBS is able to absorb RBSs strategy is Risk mitigation 112 shocks and is prepared to informed and shaped by manage new, emerging and an understanding Risk assessment and monitoring 112 unforeseen risks of the risks it faces Banking activities 122 Trading activities 146 RBS identifies the RBS continually Stress & Business risks that arise as improves how risk is scenario Key IFRS 9 terms and differences 149 strategy a result of running managed, by taking analysis its business action where Market risk and delivering necessary its strategy Non-traded market risk 151 Risk Response identification Traded market risk 157 Pension risk 160 Risk RBS has the Control Compliance & conduct risk 160 culture Risk Defining the level appropriate definition & policies and controls appetite of risk which RBS effectiveness Financial crime 161 embedded in the is willing to accept business to Operational risk 161 manage the risks it takes Business risk 163 Measurement, evaluation & Governance transparency Reputational risk 164 Capability, people & Ensuring RBS RBS understands infrastructure is confident the right and communicates decisions are the financial and non-financial risks being taken, by the Presentation of information right people, at it is taking RBS has the tools and the right time Where indicated in the section headers, information in the Capital and capability to support risk management and risk management section pages 89 to 164 is within the scope of the decision-making across the organisation Independent auditors report.
Where a main section header, presented in bold, is marked as audited all sub sections are also audited.
RBS also has a strong focus on continually improving the way risk is Risk management framework managed, particularly in terms of how threats are anticipated or Introduction responded to, but also in terms of simplifying or enhancing existing RBS operates an integrated risk management framework, centred controls, policies and practice.
around the embedding of a strong risk culture, which is designed to achieve compliance with prudential and conduct obligations.
Each Essential to this is the ability to scan both the medium and long-term element of the risk management framework functions both individually horizon for risks.
Stress testing is used to quantify, evaluate and and as part of a larger continuum.
The framework ensures the tools understand the potential impact that changes to risks may have on the and capability are in place to facilitate risk management and decisionfinancial strength of RBS, including its capital position.
In turn, the making across the organisation.
results of stress tests can be used to inform and shape strategy.
RBSs strategy is informed and shaped by an understanding of the risk Given the evolving landscape, including the structural reform required landscape, including a range of significant risks and uncertainties in by the UKs ring-fencing requirements, in 2018 there was an emphasis the external economic, political and regulatory environment.
Identifying on enhancing both the risk culture and risk appetite elements of the these risks and understanding how they affect RBS informs risk framework as well as the interconnectivity between framework appetite and risk management practice.
Risk appetite, which is supported by a robust set of principles, policies and practices, defines our levels of tolerance for a variety of risks.
It is a key element of RBSs risk management framework and culture, providing a structured approach to risk-taking within agreed boundaries.
89 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued Training All RBS employees share ownership of the way risk is managed.
The Enabling employees to have the capabilities and confidence to businesses, the control and support functions, and Internal Audit work manage risk is core to RBSs learning strategy.
together to make sure business activities and policies are consistent RBS offers a wide range of risk learning, both technical and with risk appetite: following the three lines of defence model.
RBS behavioural, across the risk disciplines.
This training can be constantly monitors its risk profile against its defined risk appetite and mandatory, role-specific or for personal development.
limits, taking action when required to balance risk and return.
Code of Conduct The methodology for setting, governing and embedding risk appetite Aligned to RBSs values is the Code of Conduct.
The code provides across RBS is being further enhanced with the aim of simplifying guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the standards of current risk appetite processes and increasing alignment with strategic conduct that support the values.
It explains the effect of decisions that planning and external threat assessments.
are taken and describes the principles that must be followed.
Risk culture A strong risk culture is essential if RBS is to achieve its ambition to These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider build a truly customer-focused bank.
RBSs risk culture target is to business activities.
They focus on desired outcomes, with practical make risk simply part of the way that employees work and think.
guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy and actions.
The embedding of these principles facilitates sound decision-making Such a culture must be built on strong risk practices and appropriate and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
risk behaviours must be embedded throughout the organisation.
A simple decision-making guide the YES check has been To achieve this, RBS is focusing on leaders as role models and taking included in the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple set of five questions, action to build clarity, continuing to develop capability and motivate designed to ensure RBS values guide day-to-day decisions: employees to reach the required standards of risk culture behaviour.
Does what I am doing keep our customers and RBS safe and This includes: taking personal responsibility for understanding and secure?
proactively managing the risks associated with individual roles: Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with integrity?
respecting risk management and the part it plays in daily work: Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the outside?
understanding clearly the risks associated with individual roles: Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct required?
aligning decision-making to RBSs risk appetite: considering risk in all In five years time would others see this as a good way to work?
actions and decisions: escalating risks and issues early: taking action to mitigate risks: learning from mistakes and near-misses: challenging Each of the five questions is a prompt to think about how the situation others attitudes, ideas and actions: and reporting and communicating fits with RBS Groups values.
It ensures that employees can think risks transparently.
through decisions that do not have a clear answer, and guides their judgements.
RBSs target risk culture behaviours are embedded in Our Standards and are clearly aligned to the core values of serving customers, If conduct falls short of RBSs required standards, the accountability working together, doing the right thing and thinking long-term.
review process is used to assess how this should be reflected in pay These act as an effective basis for a strong risk culture because Our outcomes for those individuals concerned.
RBS-wide remuneration Standards are used for performance management, recruitment and policy ensures that the remuneration arrangements for all employees development.
reflect the principles and standards prescribed by the PRA rulebook and the FCA handbook.
Any employee falling short of the expected A risk culture measurement and reporting approach has been standards would also be subject to internal disciplinary policies and developed, enabling RBS to benchmark both internally and externally.
If appropriate, the relevant authority would be notified.
This allows RBS to assess progress in embedding its target risk culture where risk is simply part of the way staff work and think.
90 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued Risk governance Committee structure The diagram illustrates RBSs risk committee structure in 2018 and the main purposes of each committee.
RBS Group Board Executive Committee Reviews and approves the risk Manages and oversees all aspects appetite framework and risk appetite of RBSs business and operations.
targets for RBS Groups strategic risk objectives.
Group Board Risk Committee RBS Group Executive Risk Asset & Liability Management Pension Committee Committee Committee Provides oversight and advice on: current and potential future risk Acts on all material and or Considers the financial strategy, Oversees the effective exposures, and future risk strategy, enterprise-wide risk and control risk management, balance sheet management of the current and including determination of risk matters across the RBS Group.
future balance sheet in line with and remuneration and policy appetite and tolerance: and the Board-approved strategy and risk implications of the RBS Groups effectiveness of the risk management pension schemes.
Technical Asset & Liability ERC sub-committees Capital Management & Management Committee Stress Testing Committee Responsible for the establishment of risk policies as well as Responsible for setting the oversight of compliance for each relevant risk type.
In addition, they Reviews and challenges the limits, policies and controls are responsible for the approval of certain risk measures and end-to-end capital relating to financial balance recommendation of other measures to Group Board for approval.
It is sheet risks, including funding Includes Retail Credit Risk Committee, Wholesale Credit Risk the focal point for prudential and liquidity, intra-group Committee, Operational Risk Executive Committee, Financial Crime regulatory requests exposures, non-traded Risk Executive Committee, and Reputational Risk Committee.
regarding asset quality market risk and structural reviews and stress testing.
Risk management structure The diagram illustrates RBSs risk management structure in 2018 and key risk management responsibilities.
Leads Risk for RBS Group by defining and overseeing risk, conduct, compliance and financial crime strategies, to achieve a generative risk culture and support the Groups RBS Group Chief ambitions and strategy.
Defines overall Risk service provision requirements to enable Risk Officer delivery of Group strategies, including policies, governance, frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk culture and risk reporting.
Contributes to the development of strategy, transformation and culture as a member of Group Executive Committee.
Leads the NatWest Holdings Risk function by defining and delivering its risk, conduct, compliance and financial crime strategies and service propositions to support NatWest Holdings ambition, strategy and risk appetite, and is aligned to RBS Group strategy.
NatWest Holdings NatWest Holdings Responsibilities include policy, governance, frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk Chief Executive Chief Risk Officer culture and reporting.
Delivers risk services across the Group in line with service level agreements.
Contributes to NatWest Holdings strategy as a member of NatWest RBS Group Holdings Limited Executive Committee.
Chief Executive Leads the NatWest Markets Risk function by defining and delivering its risk, conduct, compliance and financial crime strategies and service propositions to support NatWest NatWest Markets NatWest Markets Markets ambition, strategy and risk appetite, and is aligned to RBS Group strategy.
Chief Executive Chief Risk Officer Responsibilities include policy, governance, frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk culture and reporting.
Contributes to NatWest Markets strategy as a member of NatWest Markets Executive Committee.
Leads the RBSI Risk function by defining and delivering its risk, conduct, compliance and financial crime strategies and service propositions to support RBSIs ambition, strategy RBSI RBSI and risk appetite, and is aligned to RBS Group strategy.
Responsibilities include policy, Chief Executive Chief Risk Officer governance, frameworks, oversight and challenge, risk culture and reporting.
Contributes to RBSI strategy as a member of RBSI Executive Committee.
Notes: 1 While separate roles, the individual undertaking the RBS Group Chief Executive role also performs the NatWest Holdings Chief Executive role.
2 The RBS Group Risk function is led by the RBS Group Chief Risk Officer.
The RBS Group Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the RBS Group Chief Executive and has a secondary reporting line to the chair of the Group Board Risk Committee as well as a right of access to the committee.
3 The NatWest Holdings Chief Risk Officer Chief Risk Officer, Ring-Fenced Bank reports directly to the RBS Group Chief Risk Officer and the NatWest Holdings Chief Executive, along with a secondary reporting line to the NatWest Holdings Board Risk Committee chair and right of access to the committee including the Deputy Chairman.
4 The NatWest Holdings Risk function provides risk management services across the RBS Group, including to the RBS Group Chief Risk Officer and where agreed to the NatWest Markets and RBSI Chief Risk Officers.
These services are managed, as appropriate, through service level agreements.
5 The NatWest Holdings Risk function is independent of the NatWest Holdings customer-facing franchises and support functions.
It provides oversight of risk management ensuring that risk exposures arising from management and business activities are adequately monitored and controlled.
The directors of Financial Risk & Analytics, Compliance & Conduct, Restructuring, Risk Policy & Frameworks and Operational Risk & Services as well as the Chief Financial Crime Officer, Chief Credit Officer, Deputy Chief Risk Officer and Head of Risk Strategy & Transformation report to the NatWest Holdings Chief Risk Officer.
The Director of Risk, Ulster Bank Ireland DAC and the Director of Compliance, Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, report to the Ulster Bank Ireland DAC Chief Executive: they also have a reporting line to the NatWest Holdings Chief Risk Officer.
6 The Chief Risk Officers for NatWest Markets and RBSI have dual reporting lines into the RBS Group Chief Risk Officer and the respective chief executives of their entities.
There are additional reporting lines to the NatWest Markets and RBSI Board Risk Committee chairs and a right of access to the committee.
91 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued Ensuring the framework remains effective as a strong control Three lines of defence environment for risk appetite.
RBS uses the three lines of defence model to articulate Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk across the organisation.
The three lines of defence model is adopted across the The Board approves the risk appetite framework annually.
industry to support the embedding of effective risk management and is expressed through a set of principles as outlined below.
All roles, Establishing risk appetite regardless of level, sit within one of these three lines.
Risk appetite is communicated across RBS through risk appetite First line of defence Management and supervision statements.
The risk appetite statements provide clarity on the scale The first line of defence encompasses most roles within RBS, and type of activities that can be undertaken in a manner that is easily including those in customer franchises, Technology and Services as conveyed to staff.
well as support functions such as Human Resources, Communications Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite & Marketing and Finance.
Responsibilities include: supported by risk limits and triggers that operate as a defence against Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk appetite, excessive risk-taking.
They are established at RBS-wide level for all the risks which exist in business areas and support functions.
strategic risks and material risks, and at legal entity, franchise, and Ensuring the business has effective mechanisms for identifying, function level for all other risks.
reporting and managing risk and controls.
The annual process of establishing risk appetite statements is Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk, balancing completed alongside the business and financial planning process.
This control, customer service and competitive advantage.
ensures plans and risk appetite are appropriately aligned.
Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced risk decisions and compliance with policy, laws and regulations.
The Board sets risk appetite for the most material risks to help ensure Second line of defence Oversight and control RBS is well placed to meet its priorities and long-term targets even The second line of defence is the Risk function as well as the policy under challenging economic environments.
It is the basis on which and control elements of Human Resources, Legal and the Finance RBS remains safe and sound while implementing its strategic business function.
Leading the articulation, design and development of risk culture and RBSs risk profile is frequently reviewed and monitored to ensure it appetite.
remains within appetite and that management focus is concentrated on Setting the standard for risk management across the Group.
all strategic risks, material risks and emerging risk issues.
Risk profile Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and controls.
relative to risk appetite is reported regularly to the Board and senior Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks are management.
being managed within risk appetite.
Risk controls and limits Providing expert advice to the first line on risk management, Risk controls and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk including the application of effective risk and control frameworks appetite approach and a key part of embedding risk appetite in day-toand the consideration of risk in decision-making.
A clear tolerance for material risk Providing senior executives with relevant management information types is set in alignment with business activities.
and reports, and escalating concerns where appropriate.
Third line of defence Internal Audit RBS policies directly support the qualitative aspects of risk appetite, Responsibilities include: helping to rebuild and maintain stakeholder confidence in RBSs risk Providing assurance to the Group Audit Committee on the control and governance.
Its integrated approach is designed to ensure appropriateness of the design and operational effectiveness of that appropriate controls, aligned to risk appetite, are set for each of governance, risk management and internal controls to monitor and the strategic and material risks it faces, with an effective assurance mitigate material risks.
process put in place to monitor and report on performance.
Engaging with management to provide perspectives, insights and Risk identification and measurement challenge in order to influence the building of a sustainable bank.
Risk identification and measurement within the risk management Providing independent assurance to the Financial Conduct process comprise: Authority, Prudential Regulation Authority, Central Bank of Ireland Regular assessment of the overall risk profile, incorporating market and other key jurisdictional regulators on specific risks and controls.
developments and trends, as well as external and internal factors.
Risk appetite Monitoring of the risks associated with lending and credit Risk appetite defines the level and types of risk RBS is willing to exposures.
accept, within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic objectives and Assessment of trading and non-trading portfolios.
It links the goals and priorities to risk management in a Review of potential risks in new business activities and processes.
way that guides and empowers staff to serve customers well and Analysis of potential risks in any complex and unusual business achieve financial targets.
For certain strategic risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of The financial and non-financial risks that RBS faces each day are risk the RBS Group can assume before breaching constraints detailed in the Risk Directory.
This provides a common risk language determined by regulatory capital and liquidity needs, the operational to ensure consistent terminology is used across RBS.
The Risk environment, and from a conduct perspective.
Articulating risk capacity Directory is subject to annual review.
This ensures that it continues to helps determine where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a provide a comprehensive and meaningful list of the inherent risks buffer between internal risk appetite and the Groups ultimate capacity within the businesses.
Risk treatment and mitigation Risk appetite framework Risk treatment and mitigation is an important aspect of ensuring that The risk appetite framework bolsters effective risk management by risk profile remains within risk appetite.
Risk mitigation strategies are promoting sound risk-taking through a structured approach, within discussed and agreed with the businesses.
When evaluating possible agreed boundaries.
It also ensures emerging risks and risk-taking strategies, costs and benefits, residual risks risks that are retained activities that would be out of appetite are identified, assessed, and secondary risks those caused by the risk mitigation actions are escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
Monitoring and review processes are in place to track results.
Early identification and effective management of changes in To facilitate this, a detailed annual review of the framework is carried legislation and regulation are critical to the successful mitigation of out.
The review includes: conduct risk.
The effects of all changes are managed to ensure timely Assessing the adequacy of the framework when compared to compliance readiness.
Changes assessed as having a high or internal and external expectations.
medium-high impact are managed closely.
92 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued Significant and emerging risks that may affect future results and performance are reviewed and monitored.
Action is taken to mitigate Model Risk Management potential risks as and when required.
In depth analysis is carried out, Model Risk Management performs independent model validation for including the stress testing of exposures relative to the risk.
It works with individual businesses and functions to monitor adherence to model risk standards, ensuring that models are Risk assurance developed and implemented appropriately and that their operational Assurance is carried out on targeted credit risk, market risk, environment is fit for purpose.
compliance and conduct risk and financial crime risk activities to provide assurance to both internal and external stakeholders including Model Risk Management performs reviews of relevant risk and pricing the Board, senior management, the customer-facing franchises, models in two instances: i for new models or amendments to existing Internal Audit and the Groups regulators.
Selected key controls are models and ii as part of its ongoing programme to assess the also reviewed.
Qualitative reviews are carried out to assess various performance of these models.
Model Risk Management reviews may risk aspects as appropriate, including: the quality of risk portfolios, the test and challenge the logic and conceptual soundness of the accuracy of the Basel model inputs and related probability of methodology, or the assumptions underlying a model.
Reviews may default loss given default classifications, the quality of risk also test whether or not all appropriate risks have been sufficiently management practices, policy compliance and adherence to risk captured as well as checking the accuracy and robustness of appetite.
This can include testing the Groups credit portfolios and calculations.
Based on the review and findings from Model Risk market risk exposures to assist in the early identification of emerging Management, RBSs model or risk committees consider whether a risks, as well as undertaking targeted reviews to examine specific model can be approved for use.
Models used for regulatory reporting issues.
may additionally require regulatory approval before implementation.
The adequacy and effectiveness of selected key controls owned and Model Risk Management reassesses the appropriateness of approved operated by the second line of defence are also tested with a risk models on a periodic basis.
Each periodic review begins with an particular focus on credit risk and market risk controls.
Based on the initial assessment, an internal model controls within the scope of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act governance committee will decide to re-ratify a model or to carry out 2002 as well as selected controls supporting risk data aggregation and additional work.
In the initial assessment, Model Risk Management reporting are also reviewed.
Assurance is carried out on Anti-Money assesses factors such as a change in the size or composition of the Laundering, Sanctions, and Anti-Bribery & Corruption processes and portfolio, market changes, the performance of or any amendments to controls.
This helps inform whether or not the financial crime control the model and the status of any outstanding issues or scheduled environment is adequate and effective and whether financial crime risk activities carried over from previous reviews.
Model Risk Management is appropriately identified, managed and mitigated.
The Risk also monitors the performance of RBSs portfolio of models to ensure Assurance Committee ensures a consistent and fair approach to all they appropriately capture underlying business rationale.
For more aspects of the second-line assurance review activities.
The committee information relating to market risk models and pricing models, refer to also monitors and validates the ongoing programme of reviews and page 159. tracks the remediation of the more material review actions.
Stress testing Model risk Stress testing capital management Model risk is the risk that a model is specified incorrectly not Stress testing is a key risk management tool and a fundamental achieving the objective for which it is designed, implemented component of RBSs approach to capital management.
It is used to incorrectly an error in translating the model specification into the quantify, evaluate and understand the potential impact of specified version actually used, or being used incorrectly correctly specified changes to risk factors on the financial strength of RBS, including its but applied inappropriately.
Stress testing includes: Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical future RBS uses a variety of models as part of its risk management process state to define changes in risk factors.
Key examples include the use of model outputs to Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact of an incremental support risk assessments in the credit approval process, ongoing change to one or more risk factors.
credit risk management, monitoring and reporting, as well as the The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages: calculation of risk-weighted assets.
Other examples include the use of Identify RBS-specific vulnerabilities and models to measure market risk exposures and calculate associated risks.
capital requirements, as well as for the valuation of positions.
The models used for stress-testing purposes also play a key role in Define Define and calibrate scenarios to examine ensuring RBS holds sufficient capital, even in stressed market scenarios risks and vulnerabilities.
Formal governance process to agree scenarios.
Key developments in 2018 In April 2018, the PRA set out its expectations on the model risk Translate scenarios into risk drivers.
management practices that should be adopted when using stress test Assess Assess impact to positions, income and models.
RBS has a strong focus on model risk management and, as a impact costs.
result, practices were reviewed and, where appropriate, work to Impact assessment captures input from enhance them in line with regulatory expectations continues.
RBS further invested in model risk management during 2018, Aggregate impacts into overall results.
particularly given business demand and the growing complexity of Calculate Results form part of risk management requirements, such as new regulation and AI.
This included the results and process.
specification of additional IT systems to enhance capability in this assess area.
Scenario results are used to inform RBSs implications business and capital plans.
Model Risk Governance Model Risk Governance is responsible for setting policy and providing Scenario results are analysed by subject a governance framework for all of RBSs models and related matter experts and appropriate management Develop and processes.
It is also responsible for defining and monitoring model risk actions are then developed.
agree appetite in conjunction with model owners and model users, Scenario results and management actions management monitoring the model risk profile and reporting on the model population are reviewed and agreed by senior actions as well as escalating issues to senior management, through the Model management through executive committees Risk Forum, and the respective franchise and function risk including Executive Risk Committee, Board committees.
Risk Committee and the Board.
93 Capital and risk management The examination of capital requirements under adverse economic and Risk management framework continued market conditions is assessed through stress testing.
Stress testing is used widely across RBS.
The diagram below summarises key areas of focus: The results of stress tests are not only used widely across RBS but also by the regulators to set specific capital buffers.
RBS takes part in Financial a number of stress tests run by regulatory authorities to test industryperformance wide vulnerabilities under crystallising global and domestic systemic Contingency assessment risks.
In 2018, RBS took part in the Bank of England and European planning & management actions Banking Authority stress tests.
Details are set out on page 93.
4 Risk Mitigation Under stress testing, IFRS 9 volatility can have a more material Capital impact.
This is because the peak-to-trough change in CET1 may be adequacy Early affected by the transitions from Stage 1 to Stage 2 in stress conditions.
warning RBS uses stress and the peak-to-trough movements to help assess 1 indicators the amount of CET1 capital it needs to hold in stress conditions, in Stress testing 3 Strategic accordance with the capital risk appetite framework.
Risk usage within Financial Identification & Capital RBS Planning Internal assessment of capital adequacy An internal assessment of material risks is carried out annually to Earnings enable an evaluation of the amount, type and distribution of capital Tail-risk volatility required to cover these risks.
This is referred to as the Internal Capital assessment 2 Risk Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The ICAAP consists of a Appetite point-in-time assessment of RBSs exposures and risks at the end of the financial year together with a forward-looking stress capital Sector review Business assessment.
The ICAAP is approved by the Board and submitted to vulnerabilities & credit limit setting the PRA.
analysis The ICAAP is used to form a view of capital adequacy separately to Specific areas that involve capital management include: the minimum regulatory requirements.
The ICAAP is used by the PRA Strategic financial and capital planning through assessing the to make an assessment of RBS-specific capital requirements through impact of sensitivities and scenarios on the capital plan and capital the Pillar 2 framework.
Risk appetite through gaining a better understanding of the drivers Capital allocation of and the underlying risks associated with risk appetite.
RBS has mechanisms to allocate capital across its legal entities and Risk identification through a better understanding of the risks that businesses which aim to optimise the utilisation of capital resources could potentially impact RBSs financial strength and capital taking into account applicable regulatory requirements, strategic and position.
business objectives and risk appetite.
The framework for allocating Risk mitigation through identifying actions that can be taken to capital is approved by the Asset & Liability Management Committee.
mitigate risks, or could be taken, in the event of adverse changes to the business or economic environment.
Risk mitigation is Governance substantially supplemented through RBSs recovery plan.
Capital management is subject to substantial review and governance.
Formal approval of capital management policies is either by the Asset Reverse stress testing is also carried out.
This examines & Liability Management Committee or by the Board on the circumstances that can lead to specific, defined outcomes such as recommendation of the Board Risk Committee.
Reverse stress testing allows RBS to examine potential vulnerabilities in its business model more fully.
The Board approves the capital plans, including those for key legal entities and businesses as well as the results of the stress tests Capital sufficiency going-concern forward-looking view relating to those capital plans.
With a view to ensuring that RBS and its operating subsidiaries maintain sufficient CET1 capital, going-concern capital requirements are assessed on a forward-looking basis including as part of the Stress testing liquidity annual budgeting process.
These assessments consider the resilience Liquidity risk monitoring and contingency planning of capital adequacy and leverage ratios under a range of hypothetical In implementing the liquidity risk management framework, a suite of future states.
The assessments incorporate assumptions regarding a tools is used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks on the balance range of regulatory and accounting aspects such as IFRS 9, taking sheet.
Limit frameworks are in place to control the level of liquidity risk, account of a number of factors including economic variables and asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations.
Liquidity risks are reviewed at significant legal entity and business In particular, assessments of capital requirements rely on forecasts of: levels daily, with performance reported to the Asset & Liability Future business performance given expectations of economic and Management Committee at least monthly.
Liquidity Condition market conditions over the forecast period.
Indicators are monitored daily which ensures any build-up of stress is Future business performance under adverse economic and market detected early and the response escalated appropriately through conditions over the forecast period.
A range of scenarios of recovery planning.
different severity may be examined.
Internal assessment of liquidity The examination of capital requirements under normal economic and Under the liquidity risk management framework, RBS undertakes the market conditions enables RBS to demonstrate how its projected Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
This includes business performance allows it to meet all internal and regulatory assessment of net stressed liquidity outflows.
RBS considers a range capital requirements as they arise over the plan horizon.
For example, of extreme but plausible stress scenarios on its liquidity position over RBS will assess its ability to issue loss-absorbing debt instruments in various time horizons, as outlined below.
sufficient quantity to meet regulatory timelines.
The cost of issuance will be factored into business performance metrics.
94 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued process of resolution is owned and implemented by the Bank of England as UK Resolution Authority.
Type Description The market perceives RBS to be suffering from a RBS has a multi-year programme of work through to 1 January 2022 Idiosyncratic severe stress event, which results in an immediate to ensure impediments to resolvability are removed and the regulatory scenario assumption of increased credit risk or concerns over resolution strategy could be executed.
Stress testing market risk A market stress event affecting all participants in a Non-traded market risk market through contagion, counterparty failure and Non-traded exposures are reported to the PRA on a quarterly basis as Market-wide other market risks.
RBS is affected under this part of the Stress Testing Data Framework.
The return provides the scenario scenario but no more severely than any other regulator with an overview of RBSs banking book interest rate participants with equivalent exposure.
exposure, providing detailed product information analysed by interest rate driver and other characteristics including accounting This scenario models the combined impact of an classification, currency and, counterparty type.
idiosyncratic and market stress occurring at once.
The combined scenario reflects the contingency that Combined Scenario analysis based on hypothetical adverse scenarios is a severe name-specific event occurs at RBS in scenario performed on non-traded exposures as part of the industry-wide Bank conjunction with a broader market stress, causing of England and European Banking Authority stress exercises.
In wider damage to the market and financial sector and addition, RBS produces its own internal scenario analysis as part of severely affecting funding markets and assets.
RBS uses the most severe combination of these to set the internal Non-traded market risk exposures which are not captured under Pillar stress testing scenario.
The results of this enable RBS to set its 1 are capitalised through the ICAAP.
The process covers the following internal liquidity risk appetite, which complements the regulatory risk types: gap risk, basis risk, credit spread risk, pipeline risk, liquidity coverage ratio requirement.
structural foreign exchange risk, prepayment risk and accounting volatility risk.
The ICAAP is completed with a combination of value and Stress testing recovery and resolution planning earnings measures.
The total non-traded market risk capital The RBS Group Recovery Plan explains how The Royal Bank of requirement is determined by adding the different charges for each Scotland Group plc RBSG and its subsidiaries as a consolidated sub risk type.
The ICAAP methodology captures at least ten years of group would identify and respond to a financial stress event and historical volatility, produced with 99% confidence level.
Methodologies restore its financial position to remain viable on an ongoing basis.
are reviewed by RBS Model Risk and the results are approved by the Technical Asset & Liability Management Committee.
The Recovery Plan ensures that risks which could delay the implementation of a recovery strategy are highlighted and preparations Traded market risk are made to minimise the impact of these risks.
Preparations RBS has RBS undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify taken include: vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of, or not captured in, developing a series of recovery indicators to provide early warning value-at-risk.
The calculated stresses measure the impact of changes of potential stress events in risk factors on the fair values of the trading and fair value through clarifying roles, responsibilities and escalation routes to minimise other comprehensive income portfolios.
uncertainty or delay RBS conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based developing a recovery playbook to provide a concise description of stress testing.
Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for the actions required during recovery internal management.
Using the historical simulation framework detailing a range of options to address different stress conditions employed for value-at-risk, the current portfolio is stressed using appointing dedicated option owners to reduce the risk of delay and historical data since 1 January 2005.
This methodology simulates the bandwidth concerns impact of the 99.9 percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor movements over the period, assuming variable holding The Recovery Plan is intended to enable RBS to maintain critical periods specific to the risk factors and the businesses.
services and products it provides to its customers its critical economic functions, maintain its important business lines core business lines Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework and and operate within risk appetite whilst restoring the banks financial their results are reported daily to senior management.
stress tests are carried out periodically as part of the bank-wide, crossrisk capital planning process.
The scenario narratives are translated The Recovery Plan is assessed for appropriateness on an ongoing into risk factor shocks using historical events and insights by basis and is updated annually, in line with regulatory requirements.
It is economists, risk managers and the first line.
reviewed and approved by the Board prior to submission to the PRA each year.
Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the capital plan presented to the Board.
The cross-risk capital planning Individual Recovery Plans have been prepared for NatWest Holdings process is conducted once a year, with a planning horizon of five Limited, NatWest Markets Plc, RBS International Holdings Limited, years.
The scenario narratives cover both regulatory scenarios and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC and NatWest Markets N. V. These plans macroeconomic scenarios identified by RBS.
reflect the structure and operations of the post-ring-fenced group and detail the recovery options, recovery indicators and escalation routes Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio for each entity to manage its own response to a financial stress.
and expresses its key vulnerabilities in terms of plausible, vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio would suffer material losses.
If RBS was assessed by the UK authorities as failing or likely to fail the These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or forwardauthorities have a wide range of powers to place RBS into Resolution.
Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for The UKs Special Resolution Regime places an obligation on banks to internal management information and is not subject to limits.
However, ensure they are resolvable.
Resolvability is a measure of how the results for relevant scenarios are reported to senior management effectively a set of actions could be taken to manage the failure of RBS, through execution of a preferred resolution strategy which the Group is Single Point of Entry Bail-in of the Group Hold Co.
The 95 Capital and risk management Risk management framework continued Regulatory stress testing In 2018, RBS took part in regulatory stress tests conducted by the Bank of England and the European Banking Authority.
The scenarios are hypothetical in nature and do not represent forecasts of RBSs future business or profitability.
The results of the regulatory stress tests are carefully assessed by RBS and form part of the wider risk management of RBS.
Bank of England stress test European Banking Authority stress test Designed to assess the resilience of major UK banks to Designed to evaluate the impact, over three years, of a tail risk events.
The severity of the test is related to general macro financial downturn.
policymakers assessments of risk levels across A static balance sheet assumption was made across the markets and regions.
period of stress and therefore mitigating actions such as The 2018 stress test examined the impact, over five balance sheet reduction, business growth and cost savings Scenario years, of deep simultaneous recessions in the UK and are not factored into the stress outcomes.
global economies, large falls in asset prices and a separate stress of misconduct costs.
The economic scenario in the test was more severe than the global financial crisis.
On an IFRS 9 transitional basis, the CET1 ratio The 2018 EBA stress test did not contain a pass fail reached a low point of 9.6%, significantly above the threshold.
On an IFRS 9 transitional basis, RBSs CET1 ratio under On an IFRS 9 non-transitional basis, the CET1 ratio the adverse scenario reached a low point of 9.9% reached a low point of 9.2%, significantly above the On an IFRS 9 non-transitional fully loaded basis, RBSs hurdle rate of 6.9%.
CET1 ratio under the adverse scenario reached a low On an IFRS 9 transitional basis, the Tier 1 leverage point of 9.48% ratio low point was projected to be 5.1% under stress, On an IFRS 9 transitional basis, RBSs leverage ratio significantly above the leverage ratio hurdle rate of under the adverse scenario reached a low point of 3.59%.
Results On an IFRS 9 nontransitional basis, the Tier 1 On an IFRS 9 non-transitional fully loaded basis the leverage ratio low-point was projected to be 4.8% leverage ratio under the adverse scenario reaches a low under stress, significantly above the leverage ratio point of 4.1% hurdle rate of 3.25%.
The stress was based on an end of 2017 balance sheet The stress was based on an end of 2017 balance starting position.
Since then, RBS has taken a number of sheet starting position.
Since then, RBS has taken a actions to further improve its capital position stress number of actions to further improve its capital resilience, including the continued reduction in certain position stress resilience, including the continued credit portfolios and the resolution of various litigation reduction in certain credit portfolios and the resolution cases and regulatory investigations.
of various litigation cases and regulatory investigations.
What does The 2018 Bank of England and European Banking Authority stress test results demonstrated that good progress has this mean?
been made in transforming the balance sheet to a safe and sustainable position.
96 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk Secondary liquid assets are eligible as collateral for local central Definitions bank liquidity facilities.
These assets include own-issued Capital consists of reserves and instruments issued that are available, securitisations or whole loans that are retained on balance sheet have a degree of permanency and are capable of absorbing losses.
A and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they may be number of strict conditions set by regulators must be satisfied to be converted into additional sources of liquidity at very short notice.
Funding Capital adequacy risk is the risk that there is or will be insufficient RBS maintains a diversified set of funding sources, including customer capital and other loss absorbing debt instruments to operate effectively deposits, wholesale deposits and term debt issuance.
RBS also including meeting minimum regulatory requirements, operating within retains access to central bank funding facilities.
Board approved risk appetite and supporting its strategic goals.
For further details on capital constituents and the regulatory framework covering capital, liquidity and funding requirements, please refer to the Liquidity consists of assets that can be readily converted to cash within RBS Pillar 3 Report 2018 on page 6.
For MREL refer to page 8. a short timeframe at a reliable value.
Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet financial obligations as and when they fall due.
Key developments in 2018 RBS continued to strengthen and fide-risk its capital position: CET1 Funding consists of on-balance sheet liabilities that are used to ratio remains ahead of the c14% target and increased by 30 basis provide cash to finance assets.
Funding risk is the risk of not points in the year to 16.2%.
The directors have recommended a maintaining a diversified, stable and cost-effective funding base.
final dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share, and a further special Liquidity and funding risks arise in a number of ways, including through dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share, which are both subject to the maturity transformation role that banks perform.
The risks are shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April dependent on factors such as: 2019.
Maturity profile: IFRS 9 adoption on 1 January 2018 favourably impacted CET1 by Composition of sources and uses of funding: 30 basis points.
RWAs reduced by 12.2 billion to 188.7 billion The quality and size of the liquidity portfolio: primarily driven by the legacy business in NatWest Markets, the Wholesale market conditions: and impact of capital initiatives in Commercial Banking and the impact Depositor and investor behaviour.
of the non-performing loan sale and improvement in credit metrics in Ulster Bank RoI.
Sources of risk CRR leverage ratio increased to 5.4% 2017 5.3%.
UK leverage Capital ratio improved to 6.2% 2017 6.1% in line with the balance sheet The eligibility of instruments and financial resources as regulatory reduction.
capital is laid down by applicable regulation.
Capital is categorised During the year the BOE published indicative data on the minimum under two tiers Tier 1 and Tier 2 according to the ability to absorb amount of loss-absorbing resources for the larger UK banks losses, degree of permanency and the ranking of absorbing losses on comprising MREL plus buffers.
RBS is expected to require losseither a going or gone concern basis.
There are three broad categories of capital across these two tiers: absorbing resources of 22.9% of RWAs by 1 January 2020, rising CET1 capital.
CET1 capital must be perpetual and capable of to 26.5% by 1 January 2022.
Total loss absorbing capital, based on unrestricted and immediate use to cover risks or losses as soon as RBSs interpretation of the rules and including the benefit of legacy these occur.
This includes ordinary shares issued and retained securities, was 30.7% of RWAs at 31 December 2018. earnings.
In 2018, RBSG plc issued approximately 7 billion MREL compliant Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital.
This is the second type of loss senior debt bringing the total MREL senior debt issues to absorbing capital and must be capable of absorbing losses on a approximately 16 billion relative to the end state 1 January 2022 going concern basis.
These instruments are either written down or requirements of approximately 24 billion.
These funds enabled converted into CET1 capital when a pre-specified CET1 ratio is RBSG plc to invest in 4.8 billion of NatWest Holdings MREL reached.
eligible issuance and 5.1 billion NWM plc eligible issuance in Tier 2 capital.
Tier 2 capital is the Groups supplementary capital December 2018. and provides loss absorption on a gone concern basis.
Tier 2 capital absorbs losses after Tier 1 capital.
It typically consists of During the year, RBS changed its approach to managing liquidity in subordinated debt securities with a minimum maturity of five years.
NatWest Markets left the UK DoLSub and now manages its liquidity on a stand-alone basis.
Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL The liquidity portfolio increased by 11 billion in 2018 to 198 In addition to capital, other specific loss absorbing instruments, including senior notes issued by the Group, may be used to cover billion, with primary liquidity increasing by 4 billion to 128 billion.
certain gone concern capital requirements which, in the EU, is referred The increase in primary liquidity is driven by increased customer to as MREL.
Gone concern refers to the situation in which resources surplus within NatWest Holdings, reduced funding requirement in must be available to enable an orderly resolution, in the event that the NatWest Markets and net term issuance, partially offset by Bank of England BoE deems that the Group has failed, or is likely to settlement of the payment to the US Department of Justice, fail.
contribution to the Group pension fund and Term Funding Scheme Liquidity TFS repayment.
Increase in secondary liquidity is driven primarily RBS maintains a prudent approach to the definition of liquidity by repayment of TFS, resulting in the return of previously resources.
RBS manages its liquidity to ensure it is always available encumbered assets.
when and where required, taking into account regulatory, legal and The rise in primary liquidity resulted in higher liquidity coverage other constraints.
Following ring-fencing legislation, liquidity is no ratio LCR of 158% 2017 152%.
The internal Stressed Outflow longer considered fungible across the Group and the liquidity portfolio coverage ratio decreased to 154% 2017 168% due to stress has been restructured during 2018 to reflect this.
Principal liquidity methodology changes and higher stressed behavioural outflows portfolios are maintained in the UK Domestic Liquidity Sub-Group UK over the three month horizon.
DoLSub primarily in NatWest Bank Plc, UBI DAC, NatWest Markets Plc, RBS International and NWM N. V..
Some disclosures in this The net stable funding ratio is 141% 2017 139% on estimated section where relevant are presented, on a consolidated basis, for comparable basis above the minimum target of 100%.
RBS, the UK DoLSub and on a solo basis for NatWest Markets plc.
The regulatory agenda continues to rapidly evolve in the UK, Europe and internationally.
RBS manages its capital, liquidity and Liquidity resources are divided into primary and secondary liquidity as follows: funding to meet both current and future regulatory requirements Primary liquid assets include cash and balances at central banks, whilst ensuring that we continue to serve customers well.
Treasury bills and other high quality government and US agency bonds.
97 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity risk management Capital management RBS manages its liquidity risk taking into account regulatory, legal and Capital management ensures that there is sufficient capital and other other constraints to ensure sufficient liquidity is available where loss absorbing instruments to operate effectively including meeting required to cover liquidity stresses.
The principal levels at which minimum regulatory requirements, operating within Board approved liquidity risk is managed are: risk appetite, maintaining its credit rating and supporting its strategic goals.
NatWest Holdings Group UK DoLSub Capital management is critical in supporting the businesses and is UBI DAC enacted through an end to end framework across businesses and the NatWest Markets legal entities.
Capital is managed both on a Group consolidated level, NatWest Markets Securities Inc. as well as at NatWest Holdings Group, NatWest Markets Plc, NatWest RBS International Markets NV, and RBS International levels.
In addition, NatWest NWM N. V. Holdings banking subsidiaries are also subject to the same principles, processes and management as the Group of which it is a part.
Note The UK DoLSub is PRA regulated and comprises RBSs four licensed that although the aforementioned entities are regulated in line with deposit taking UK banks: National Westminster Bank Plc, The Royal Basel III principles, local implementation of the framework differs Bank of Scotland plc, Coutts & Company and Ulster Bank Limited.
NatWest Markets Plc left the UK DoLSub during 2018 and now manages its own liquidity portfolio, as required by ring-fencing Capital planning is integrated into the Groups wider annual budgeting legislation.
process and is assessed and updated at least monthly.
Regular returns are submitted to the PRA which include a two year rolling RBS categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally managed forward view.
Other elements of capital management, including risk liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid assets.
The size appetite and stress testing, are set out on pages 92 and 93. of the liquidity portfolios are determined by referencing RBSs liquidity risk appetite.
RBS retains a prudent approach to setting the Capital plans are produced for the Group, its key composition of the liquidity portfolios, which is subject to internal operating entities and its businesses over a five policies applicable to all entities and limits over quality of counterparty, year planning horizon under expected and stress Produce maturity mix and currency mix.
Stressed capital plans are produced to capital support internal stress testing in the ICAAP for plans RBS International, NWM N. V. and UBI DAC hold locally managed regulatory purposes.
portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA Shorter term forecasts are developed frequently in rules.
response to actual performance, changes in internal and external business environment and to manage The liquidity value of the portfolio is determined by taking current risks and opportunities.
market prices and applying a discount or haircut, to give a liquidity Capital plans are developed to maintain capital of value that represents the amount of cash that can be generated by the sufficient quantity and quality to support the Groups asset.
business, its subsidiaries and strategic plans over Assess the planning horizon within approved risk appetite, capital Funding risk management as determined via stress testing, and minimum adequacy RBS manages funding risk through a comprehensive framework which regulatory requirements.
measures and monitors the funding risk on the balance sheet.
Capital resources and capital requirements are assessed across a defined planning horizon.
Asset and liability types broadly match.
Customer deposits provide Impact assessment captures input from across the more funding than customer loans utilise: repurchase agreements are Group including from businesses.
largely covered by reverse repurchase agreements: derivative assets Capital planning informs potential capital actions are broadly netted against derivative liabilities.
including buy backs, redemptions, dividends and new issuance to external investors or via internal transactions.
Inform Decisions on capital actions will be influenced by capital strategic and regulatory requirements, risk appetite, actions costs and prevailing market conditions.
As part of capital planning, RBS will monitor its portfolio of external capital securities and assess the optimal blend and most cost effective means of financing.
Capital planning is one of the tools that the Group uses to monitor and manage capital risk on a going and gone concern basis, including the risk of excessive leverage.
98 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Minimum requirements Capital adequacy ratios The Group is subject to minimum capital requirements relative to RWAs.
The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to RWAs that the Group is expected to have to meet once CRR is fully implemented by 1 January 2019.
These ratios apply at the consolidated group level.
Different minimum capital requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Minimum requirements Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Total capital System wide Pillar 1 minimum requirements 4.5% 6.0% 8.0% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1 Countercyclical capital buffer 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 2 G-SIB buffer 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 4 Bank specific Pillar 2A 2.0% 2.7% 3.6% 5 Total excluding PRA buffer 10.7% 12.9% 15.8% Notes: 1 The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB applied to UK designated assets is set by the Financial Policy Committee FPC.
The UK CCyB is currently 1.0% effective from November 2018.
The rate had previously increased from 0.0% to 0.5% effective June 2018.
The Republic of Ireland CCyB is currently 0.0%, the CBI have announced an increase to 1.0% effective July 2019.
Foreign exposures may be subject to different CCyB rates depending on the rate set in those jurisdictions.
Firm specific CCyB is based on a weighted average at CCyBs applicable to countries in which the Bank has exposures.
2 Globally systemically important banks G-SIBs, as designated by the Financial Stability Board FSB, are subject to an additional capital buffer of between 1% and 3.5%.
In November 2018 the FSB announced that RBS is no longer a GSIB.
From 1 January 2020, RBS will be released from this global buffer requirement.
3 The Group will be subject to a systemic risk buffer SRB of between 0% and 3%.
The SRB will apply from 1 January 2019 and will apply at the ring-fenced bank sub-group level rather than at the consolidated group level.
The RFB SRB may require the Group to hold a minimum amount of capital at the consolidated group level beyond the levels set out in the table above.
4 From 1 January 2015, UK banks have been required to meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and with balance with Additional Tier 1 and or Tier 2 capital.
Additional capital requirements under Pillar 2A may be specified by the PRA as a ratio or as an absolute value.
The table sets out an implied ratio to cover the full value of Pillar 2A requirements.
The PRA has recently determined that the Pillar 2A capital requirement for 2018 remains unchanged.
5 The Group may be subject to a PRA buffer requirement as set by the PRA.
The PRA buffer consists of two components: - A risk management and governance buffer that is set as a scalar of the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements.
The scalar could range between 10% and 40%.
- A buffer to cover stress risks informed by the results of the BoE concurrent stress testing results.
- The PRA requires that the level of this buffer is not publicly disclosed.
6 The capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer, the G-SIB buffer and systemic risk buffer where applicable make up the combined buffer.
If the Group fails to meet the combined buffer requirement, it is subject to restrictions on distributions on CET1 instruments, discretionary coupons on AT1 instruments and on payment of variable remuneration or discretionary pension benefits.
These restrictions are calculated by reference to the Groups Maximum Distributable Amount MDA.
Where a PRA buffer is applicable, the MDA trigger is below the PRA buffer and MDA restrictions are not automatically triggered if the Group fails to meet its PRA buffer.
The MDA is calculated as the amount of interim or year-end profits not yet incorporated into CET1 capital multiplied by a factor ranging from 0 to 0.6 depending on the size of the CET1 shortfall against the combined buffer.
Leverage ratios The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to leverage exposure under the PRA UK leverage framework that the Group must meet.
In November 2016, the European Commission published a package of legislative proposals CRR 2 for the adoption of a legally binding 3% of Tier 1 capital minimum leverage ratio with consideration of a leverage buffer ratio for G-SIBs once a final international agreement had been reached.
Different minimum requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Minimum ratio 2.4375% 3.2500% 1 Countercyclical leverage ratio buffer 0.2500% 0.2500% Additional leverage ratio buffer 0.3500% 0.3500% Total 3.0375% 3.8500% Note: 1 The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is set at 35% of the Groups CCyB.
As noted above the UK CCyB is currently 1.0% effective from November 2018.
On 3 October 2017 the PRA, via revised policy statement PS21 17, increased the Tier 1 leverage ratio requirement for UK banks by 25 basis points to 3.25% CET1 requirement of 2.4375%.
The PRA minimum leverage ratio requirement is supplemented with a G-SII additional leverage ratio buffer, currently 0.2625% under transitional arrangements 2017 0.175% increasing to 0.35% from 1 January 2019.
Liquidity and funding ratios The table below summarises the minimum requirements for key liquidity and funding metrics, under the relevant legislative framework.
Type From 1 January 2018 From 1 January 2019 Liquidity coverage ratio LCR 100% 100% 1 Net stable funding ratio NSFR N A N A Note: 1 In November 2016, the European Commission published its proposal for NSFR rules within the EU as part of its CRR2 package of regulatory reforms.
CRR2 NSFR is expected to become the regulatory requirement in future within the EU and the UK.
RBS has changed its policy on the NSFR to align with its interpretation of the CRR2 proposals with effect from 1 January 2018.
99 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Measurement Capital, risk-weighted assets and leverage: Key metrics The table below sets out the key Capital and Leverage ratios.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for both bases.
2 Based on the daily average of on-balance sheet items and three month-end average of off-balance sheet items 2017 three month-end average of both on and off-balance sheet items.
Liquidity key metrics The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by RBS.
2018 RBS UK DoLSub Liquidity coverage ratio 1 158% 153% Stressed outflow coverage 2 154% 147% Net stable funding ratio 3 141% 144% 2017 Liquidity coverage ratio 1 152% Stressed outflow coverage 2 168% Net stable funding ratio 3 132% Notes: 1 On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary regulatory liquidity standard.
It is a Pillar 1 metric to which the PRA apply Pillar 2 add-ons.
The published LCR excludes Pillar 2 add-ons.
RBS calculates the LCR using its own interpretations of the EU LCR Delegated Act, which may change over time and may not be fully comparable with those of other financial institutions.
2 RBS's stressed outflow coverage SOC is an internal measure calculated by reference to liquid assets as a percentage of net stressed contractual and behavioural outflows over three months under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both as per ILAAP.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
3 In November 2016, the European Commission published its proposal for NSFR rules within the EU as part of its CRR2 package of regulatory reforms.
The pro forma CRR2 NSFR at 31 December 2017 under CRR2 proposals is estimated to be 139%.
100 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Capital and leverage: Capital resources audited Capital, RWAs and capital adequacy ratios, on the basis of end-point Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and transitional rules, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
2018 2017 PRA PRA End-point transitional End-point transitional CRR basis basis CRR basis basis m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders equity 45,736 45,736 48,330 48,330 Preference shares - equity 496 496 2,565 2,565 Other equity instruments 4,058 4,058 4,058 4,058 41,182 41,182 41,707 41,707 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 405 405 90 90 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 394 394 287 287 Cash flow hedging reserve 191 191 227 227 Deferred tax assets 740 740 849 849 Prudential valuation adjustments 494 494 496 496 Goodwill and other intangible assets 6,616 6,616 6,543 6,543 Expected losses less impairments 654 654 1,286 1,286 Foreseeable ordinary and special dividends 1,326 1,326 Other regulatory adjustments 105 105 28 28 10,543 10,543 9,750 9,750 CET1 capital 30,639 30,639 31,957 31,957 Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 4,051 4,051 4,041 4,041 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 1,393 3,416 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties subject to phase out 140 140 AT1 capital 4,051 5,584 4,041 7,597 Tier 1 capital 34,690 36,223 35,998 39,554 Qualifying Tier 2 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 6,301 6,386 6,396 6,501 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 182 1,565 369 1,876 Tier 2 capital 6,483 7,951 6,765 8,377 Total regulatory capital 41,173 44,174 42,763 47,931 The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year.
CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total m m m m At 1 January 2018 31,957 4,041 6,765 42,763 Profit for the year 1,381 1,381 Own credit 315 315 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 77 77 Ordinary shares issued 135 135 Foreign exchange reserve 308 308 FVOCI reserves 88 88 Goodwill and intangibles deduction 73 73 Deferred tax assets 109 109 Prudential valuation adjustments 2 2 Expected loss less impairment 632 632 Pension contribution 1,476 1,476 Capital instruments issued 89 89 Net dated subordinated debt grandfathered instruments 537 537 Foreign exchange movements 734 334 400 Foreseeable ordinary and special dividends 1,326 1,326 Other movements 126 10 10 106 At 31 December 2018 30,639 4,051 6,483 41,173 101 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Leverage exposure The leverage exposure is based on the CRR Delegated Act.
End-point basis 1 2018 2017 Leverage exposure bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 88.9 98.3 Trading assets 75.1 86.0 Derivatives 133.3 160.8 Loans 318.0 321.6 Other assets 78.9 71.4 Total assets 694.2 738.1 Derivatives - netting and variation margin 141.3 161.7 - potential future exposures 42.1 49.4 Securities financing transactions gross up 2.1 2.3 Undrawn commitments analysis below 50.3 53.1 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 2.9 2.1 CRR Leverage exposure 644.5 679.1 Claims on central banks 85.0 92.0 UK leverage exposure 559.5 587.1 Notes: 1 Based on end-point CRR Tier 1 leverage exposure under the CRR Delegated Act.
2 The UK leverage ratio excludes central bank claims from the leverage exposure where deposits held are denominated in the same currency and of contractual maturity that is equal or longer than that of the central bank claims.
Weighted undrawn commitments The table below provides a breakdown of weighted undrawn commitments.
2018 2017 bn bn Unconditionally cancellable credit cards 2.0 2.1 Other unconditionally cancellable items 7.1 4.7 Unconditionally cancellable items 1 9.1 6.8 Undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled 1.7 1.8 Other off-balance sheet items with 20% credit conversion factor CCF 0.6 0.6 Items with a 20% CCF 2.3 2.4 Revolving credit risk facilities 27.1 27.0 Term loans 3.5 3.6 Mortgages 0.2 Other undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled & off-balance sheet 2.2 2.1 Items with a 50% CCF 33.0 32.7 Items with a 100% CCF 5.9 11.2 Total 50.3 53.1 Note: 1 Based on a 10% CCF.
102 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Loss absorbing capital The following table illustrates the components of estimated loss absorbing capital LAC in RBSG plc and operating subsidiaries and includes external issuances only.
The table is prepared on a transitional basis, including the benefit of regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies, to the extent they meet MREL criteria.
For further details regarding regulatory requirements in relation to MREL, refer to page 97.
The roll-off profile relating to senior debt and subordinated debt instruments is set out on the next page.
2 Regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies are included in the transitional LAC calculation, to the extent they meet the MREL criteria.
3 LAC value reflects RBSs interpretation of the Bank of Englands approach to setting a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL, published in June 2018.
MREL policy and requirements remain subject to further potential development, as such RBS estimated position remains subject to potential change.
Liabilities excluded from LAC include instruments with less than one year remaining to maturity, structured debt, operating company senior debt, and other instruments that do not meet the MREL criteria.
Includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities prior to incentive to redeem.
4 Corresponding shareholders equity was 45.7 billion 2017 - 48.3 billion.
5 Regulatory amounts reported for AT1, Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR.
103 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Roll-off profile The following table illustrates the roll-off profile and weighted average spreads of RBSs major wholesale funding programmes.
2 Based on first call date of instrument, however this does not indicate RBSs strategy on capital and funding management.
The table above does not include debt accounted Tier 1 instruments although those instruments form part of the total subordinated debt balance.
3 The weighted average spread reflects the average net funding cost to RBS and is calculated on an indicative basis.
4 The roll-off table is based on sterling-equivalent balance sheet values.
Risk-weighted assets The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year, by key drivers.
Counterparty Credit risk credit risk Market risk Operational risk Total RWAs bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2018 1 144.6 15.4 17.0 23.8 200.8 Foreign exchange movement 1.0 0.1 0.9 Business movements 11.3 0.9 1.4 1.4 15.0 Risk parameter changes 2 0.9 0.1 1.0 Methodology changes 0.2 0.2 Model updates 4.5 0.6 3.9 Other movements 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2018 137.9 13.6 14.8 22.4 188.7 Notes: 1 There was a 0.1 billion reduction in RWAs from 31 December 2017 to 1 January 2018 reflecting the day one impact of the adoption of IFRS 9.
2 Risk parameter changes relate to changes in credit quality metrics of customers and counterparties such as probability of default and loss given default as well as IRB model changes relating to counterparty credit risk in line with EBA Pillar 3 Guidelines.
104 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued RWAs by segment The chart below illustrates the concentration of risk-weighted assets by segment.
Group 100% Group % Credit Risk 80.3 Market Risk 7.8 OperationalRisk 11.9 UK PBB Ulster Bank RoI Commercial Banking Private Banking 23.9% 7.8% 35.7% 5.0% UK PBB % % %% 19.0 4.4 Credit Risk Credit Risk 7.3 Credit Risk 32.2 Credit Risk - Market Risk - Market Risk Market Risk-- - Market Risk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk 0.6 4.9 0.5 3.5 RBSInternational Natwest Capital Resolution Central items & other Williams & Glyn 4.2% 3.7% Markets 15.1% 0.1% 23.8% % % % Credit Risk 3.3 Credit Risk 14.0 Credit Risk 0.1 Market Risk - Market Risk 7.8 Market Risk OperationalRisk 2.0 0.4 OperationalRisk OperationalRisk The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR RWAs by segment during the year.
Key points Ulster Bank RoI RWAs reduced principally reflecting the impact of RWAs decreased by 12.2 billion excluding the day one impact of a non-performing loan sale and an improvement in credit metrics.
the adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018 primarily driven by the legacy RWAs in UK PBB increased mainly due to model updates and business in NatWest Markets, the impact of capital initiatives in movements in risk parameters.
Commercial Banking and Ulster Bank RoI asset sale.
These As part of the preparation for ICB ring-fencing, assets have reductions were partially offset by increases in UK PBB and RBSI.
transferred from UK PBB, Commercial Banking and Treasury into The decrease in NatWest Markets primarily driven by the legacy RBSI and NatWest Markets which are shown in other movements.
business, in addition to reductions in the core business.
Other movements also reflects NWM Securities Inc. being granted The reduction within Commercial Banking was due to active capital the regulatory waiver to use the AIRB approach to calculate its management, partially offset by the impact of model updates and counterparty credit risk capital requirements.
105 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity portfolio audited The table below shows the liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after discounts or haircuts applied to instruments by the Bank of England and other central banks.
Secondary liquidity comprises assets eligible for discount at central Banks but these do not form part of the liquid asset portfolio reported for regulatory LCR purposes or internal stressed outflow coverage purposes.
These include RBS International, NWM N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC who hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 UK DoLSub comprises RBSs four licensed deposit-taking UK banks within the ring-fenced bank: National Westminster Bank Plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
The reduction in the UK DoLSub liquidity balances during 2018 is driven by NatWest Markets and RBS International managing liquidity on a stand-alone basis, with NatWest Markets plc leaving the UK DoLSub during H2 2018 and RBS International building its own liquidity portfolio.
3 Comprises assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
106 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Funding sources audited The table below shows the carrying values of the principal funding sources based on contractual maturity.
Balance sheet captions include balances held at all classifications under IFRS 9 IAS 39 but excludes derivative cash collateral.
2 Includes 428 million 2017 - 691 million of HFT deposits included in trading liabilities and nil 2017 - 561 million of DFV deposits included in other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
3 Includes 267 million 2017 - 68 million of HFT deposits included in trading liabilities on the balance sheet.
Includes 14.0 billion 2017 - 19.0 billion relating to Term Funding Scheme participation and 1.8 billion 2017 - 1.8 billion relating to RBSs participation in central bank financing operations under the European Central Banks Targeted Long-term refinancing operations.
4 Includes 1,093 million 2017 - 543 million of HFT deposits included in trading liabilities and 7 million 2017 - 124 million of DFV deposits included in other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
5 Includes held-for-trading repos of 25,645 million 2017 - 28,363 million and amortised cost repos of 4,715 million 2017 - 10,058 million.
6 Eligible liabilities as defined in the Banking Act 2009 as amended from time to time that meet the eligibility criteria set out in the regulations, rules, policies, guidelines, or statements of the Bank of England including the Statement of Policy published by the Bank of England in June 2018.
The balance consist of 16 billion 2017 - 8 billion under debt securities in issue senior MREL and 7 billion 2017 - 8 billion under subordinated liabilities.
107 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Contractual maturity audited This table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity of RBSs banking activities, including hedging derivatives.
Trading activities comprising Mandatory fair value through profit or loss MFVTPL assets and held-for-trading HFT liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis due to their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
108 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Funding gap: maturity and segment analysis The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities reflects In its analysis to assess and manage asset and liability maturity gaps, the maturity transformation role banks perform, lending long-term but RBS determines the expected customer behaviour through qualitative mainly obtaining funding through short-term liabilities such as and quantitative techniques.
These incorporate observed customer customer deposits.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many behaviours over long periods of time.
This analysis is subject to liabilities show greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual governance through RBS ALCo Technical committee down to a maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate segment level.
deposits which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute The net behavioural funding surplus gap and contractual maturity stress.
analysis is set out below.
The net funding surplus in 2018 is concentrated in the longer dated Key points buckets, reflecting the stable characteristics of customer deposits The net customer funding surplus has increased by 5billion during and lending that is behaviourally shorter dated.
2018 to 49billion driven by 1billion deposit growth and 4billion lending reduction Customer deposits and customer loans are broadly matched from a behavioural perspective.
Encumbrance audited RBS categorises its assets into three broad groups, those that are: RBS evaluates the extent to which assets can be financed in a Already encumbered and used to support funding currently in place secured form encumbrance, but certain asset types lend themselves through own-asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities more readily to encumbrance.
The typical characteristics that support repurchase agreements.
encumbrance are an ability to pledge those assets to another Pre-positioned with central banks as part of funding schemes and counterparty or entity through operation of law without necessarily those encumbered under such schemes.
requiring prior notification, homogeneity, predictable and measurable Not currently encumbered.
In this category, RBS has in place an cash flows, and a consistent and uniform underwriting and collection enablement programme which seeks to identify assets capable of process.
Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card being encumbered and to identify the actions to facilitate such receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
encumbrance whilst not affecting customer relationships or servicing.
Programmes to manage the use of assets to support funding actively are established within UK DoLSub, UBI DAC and NatWest Markets Plc.
109 Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Balance sheet encumbrance audited The table shows the retained encumbered assets of the Group.
Derivatives and Reverse Repos are disclosed within the credit risk section on pages 147 and 148.
Encumbered as a result of transactions with Pre-positioned Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned counterparties other than central banks & encumbered with central banks Covered SFT, assets held debts & Derivatives at central Readily Other Cannot securitisations and similar 2 Total 3 banks 4 available available be used Total Total 2018 1 bn bn bn bn 5 bn 6 bn 7 bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 6.7 6.7 82.2 82.2 88.9 Trading assets 49.1 49.1 1.3 24.7 26.0 75.1 Derivatives 133.3 133.3 133.3 Settlement balances 2.9 2.9 2.9 Loans to banks - amortised cost 0.4 1.0 1.4 6.6 0.4 4.5 11.5 12.9 Loans to customers - amortised cost - residential mortgages - UK 7.1 7.1 110.1 20.9 11.5 32.4 149.6 - RoI 2.8 2.8 2.1 8.9 8.9 13.8 - credit cards 3.7 0.3 4.0 4.0 - personal loans 5.8 2.6 1.8 10.2 10.2 - other 2.4 2.4 4.8 4.9 2.3 91.0 24.5 117.8 127.5 Other financial assets 10.4 10.4 46.0 0.8 2.3 49.1 59.5 Intangible assets 6.6 6.6 6.6 Other assets 2.3 7.6 9.9 9.9 Total assets 12.7 69.6 82.3 117.1 176.4 110.2 208.2 494.8 694.2 2017 Total assets 13.7 69.9 83.6 113.1 180.0 118.6 242.8 541.4 738.1 Notes: 1 Covered debts and securitisations include securitisations, conduits, covered bonds and secured notes.
2 Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal banking operations.
Securities financing transactions SFT include collateral given to secure derivative liabilities.
3 Total assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks are those that have been pledged to provide security and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
4 Assets pre-positioned at the central banks include loans provided as security as part of funding schemes and those encumbered under such schemes.
5 Readily available for encumbrance: including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks but not pre-positioned: cash and high quality debt securities that form part of RBSs liquidity portfolio and unencumbered debt securities.
6 Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
7 Cannot be used includes: a Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
c Loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
d Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
8 In accordance with market practice, RBS employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
110 Capital and risk management Credit risk Risk appetite Definition RBSs approach to lending is governed by comprehensive credit risk Credit risk is the risk that customers fail to meet their contractual appetite frameworks.
The frameworks are closely monitored and obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
actions are taken to adapt lending criteria as appropriate.
Credit risk appetite aligns to the strategic risk appetite set by the Board, which The following disclosures in this section are audited: includes capital adequacy, earnings volatility, funding and liquidity, and stakeholder confidence.
The credit risk appetite frameworks have been Forbearance.
designed to reflect factors for example, strategic and emerging risks Impairment, provisioning and write-offs.
that influence the ability to operate within risk appetite.
Tools such as Transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. stress testing and economic capital are used to measure credit risk Key elements of IFRS 9 impairment provisions: volatility and develop links between the credit risk appetite frameworks o Economic loss drivers excluding economic parameters.
The frameworks are supported by a suite of o IFRS 9 credit risk modelling.
transaction acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters o Significant increase in credit risk.
within which franchises should operate.
Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis.
The Personal credit risk appetite framework sets limits that measure Banking activities except PDs and additional Stage 2 and Stage 3 and control the quality of both existing and new business for each analysis.
relevant franchise or business segment.
The actual performance of Trading activities.
each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and management action is taken where necessary.
The limits apply to a range of credit Sources of risk risk-related measures including expected loss at both portfolio and The principal sources of credit risk for RBS are lending, off-balance product level, projected credit default rates across products and the sheet products, derivatives and securities financing, and debt loan-to-value LTV ratio of the Personal mortgage portfolios.
RBS is also exposed to settlement risk through foreign exchange, trade finance and payments activities.
For Wholesale, the four formal frameworks used and their basis for classification are detailed in the following table.
Key developments in 2018 Asset quality AQ remained stable with 61% of the loan exposure Basis for classification and other financial assets rated AQ1-AQ4 1 January 2018 62% Framework Measure Other equating to an indicative investment rating of BBBor better.
Risk based on loss given default Single name New mortgage lending declined in 2018 32.8 billion compared to for a given probability of default concentration 33.9 billion in 2017.
The overall personal portfolio increased by 1.7 billion principally driven by growth of the mortgage portfolio.
Risk based on economic capital Sector and other qualitative factors While overall credit quality remained stable in the Wholesale Exposure portfolio, risk appetite was tightened in certain sectors where it was Probability of default of a sovereign Country considered appropriate based on leading indicator information.
and average loss given default IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which covers credit provisions, was Risk based on heightened risk Product and implemented with effect from 1 January 2018.
In line with characteristics asset class expectations, the new accounting standard resulted in an overall increase in provisions compared with the previous accounting standard IAS 39.
Further detail is provided later in the report.
Risk controls Impairment provisions totalled 3.4 billion at the year end Credit policy standards are in place for both the Wholesale and representing coverage on amortised cost loans excluding balances Personal portfolios.
They are expressed as a set of mandatory at central banks of 1.1%.
The ECL charge for the year was 398 million.
This reflected the relatively stable external environment.
Risk identification and measurement Credit stewardship Risk governance Risks are identified through relationship management and or credit Credit risk management activities include: stewardship of portfolios or customers.
Credit risk stewardship takes Defining credit risk appetite for the management of concentration place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with the initial risk and credit policy to establish the key risks in the process of approval.
It includes the application of credit assessment standards, providing credit and the controls that must be in place to mitigate credit risk mitigation and collateral, ensuring that credit documentation them.
is complete and appropriate, carrying out regular portfolio or customer Approving credit limits for customers.
reviews and problem debt identification and management.
Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk remains within the risk appetite set by the Board and that credit policy controls are being operated adequately and effectively.
The Chief Credit Officer, Ring-Fenced Bank, chairs the Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Committees.
These committees provide oversight of the aggregated RBS credit risk profile and review, recommend or approve risk appetite limits depending on their materiality within the appetite set by the RBS Board.
The Chief Credit Officer, Ring-Fenced Bank, also chairs provisions committees in PBB and CPB.
These committees review and approve individually assessed net expected credit losses ECLs above agreed approval thresholds and review and approve the adequacy of all portfolio level ECLs in the businesses.
Similar provisions committees operate in Ulster Bank RoI, NatWest Markets and RBSI.
111 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued In the Republic of Ireland, assets are revalued in line with the Central Risk models Bank of Ireland threshold requirements, which permits indexation for The output of credit risk models is used in the credit approval process lower value assets, but demands regular Red Book valuations for as well as for ongoing assessment, monitoring and reporting to distressed higher value assets.
The current indexed value of the inform risk appetite decisions.
These models are divided into different property is a component of the ECL provisioning calculation.
Where the calculation method is on an individual counterparty or account level, the models used will be probability of Counterparty credit risk default PD, loss given default LGD, or exposure at default EAD.
In addition to the credit risk management practices set out in this The economic capital model is used for credit risk appetite setting.
section, RBS mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both derivatives transactions and repurchase agreements through the use Asset quality of market standard documentation, enabling netting for credit risk All credit grades map to an asset quality scale, used for external management only and not for accounting purposes, and through financial reporting.
For Wholesale customers, a master grading scale collateralisation.
is used for internal management reporting across portfolios.
Amounts owed by RBS to a counterparty are netted against amounts Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be aggregated and the counterparty owes RBS, in accordance with relevant regulatory reported at differing levels of detail depending on stakeholder or and internal policies.
Netting is only applied if a netting agreement is in business requirements.
Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 place.
where the PD is less than 100% and non-performing loans as AQ10 or Stage 3 under IFRS 9 where the PD is 100%.
Risk assessment and monitoring Risk mitigation Practices for credit stewardship including credit assessment, Risk mitigation techniques, as set out in the appropriate credit policies, approval and monitoring as well as the identification and management are used in the management of credit portfolios across RBS.
These of problem debts differ between the Personal and Wholesale techniques mitigate credit concentrations in relation to an individual portfolios.
customer, a borrower group or a collection of related borrowers.
Personal Where possible, customer credit balances are netted against Personal customers are served through a lending approach that obligations.
Mitigation tools can include structuring a security interest entails making a large number of small-value loans.
To ensure that in a physical or financial asset, the use of credit derivatives including these lending decisions are made consistently, RBS analyses internal credit default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation credit information as well as external data supplied from credit structures, and the use of guarantees and similar instruments for reference agencies including historical debt servicing behaviour of example, credit insurance from related and third parties.
Property is customers with respect to both RBS and other lenders.
RBS then sets used to mitigate credit risk across a number of portfolios, in particular its lending rules accordingly, developing different rules for different residential mortgage lending and commercial real estate CRE.
The valuation methodologies for residential mortgage collateral and The process is then largely automated, with each customer receiving CRE are detailed below.
an individual credit score that reflects both internal and external behaviours and this score is compared with the lending rules set.
For Residential mortgages RBS takes collateral in the form of residential relatively high-value, complex personal loans, including some property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages.
RBS values residential mortgage lending, specialist credit managers make the final residential property during the loan underwriting process by either lending decisions.
These decisions are made within specified appraising properties individually or valuing them collectively using delegated authority limits that are issued dependent on the experience statistically valid models.
RBS updates residential property values of the individual.
quarterly using the relevant residential property index namely: Underwriting standards and portfolio performance are monitored on an Region Index used ongoing basis to ensure they remain adequate in the current market UK Halifax quarterly regional house price index environment and are not weakened materially to sustain growth.
Northern UK House Price Index published by the Land Ireland Registry Wholesale Republic Central Statistics Office residential property price Wholesale customers including corporates, banks and other financial of Ireland index institutions are grouped by industry sectors and geography as well as by product asset class and are managed on an individual basis.
The current indexed value of the property is a component of the ECL Consideration is given to identifying groups of individual customers provisioning calculation.
with sufficient inter-connectedness to merit assessment as a single risk.
Commercial real estate valuations RBS has a panel of chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography and property A credit assessment is carried out before credit facilities are made sectors in which RBS takes collateral.
Suitable valuers for particular available to customers.
The assessment process is dependent on the assets are contracted through a single service agreement to ensure complexity of the transaction.
consistency of quality and advice.
Valuations are commissioned when an asset is taken as security: a material increase in a facility is For lower risk transactions below specific thresholds, credit decisions requested: or a default event is anticipated or has occurred.
In the UK, can be approved through self-sanctioning within the business.
This an independent third-party market indexation is applied to update process is facilitated through an auto-decision making system, which external valuations once they are more than a year old and every three utilises scorecards, strategies and policy rules to provide a years a formal independent valuation is commissioned.
Such credit decisions must be within the approval authority of the relevant business sanctioner.
112 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Recoveries For all other transactions credit is only granted to customers following The Recoveries team will issue a notice of intention to default to the joint approval by an approver from the business and the credit risk customer and, if appropriate, a formal demand, while also registering function.
The joint business and credit approvers act within a the account with credit reference agencies where appropriate.
delegated approval authority under the Wholesale Credit Authorities Following this, the customers debt may then be placed with a thirdFramework Policy.
The level of delegated authority held by approvers party debt collection agency, or alternatively a solicitor, in order to is dependent on their experience and expertise with only a small agree an affordable repayment plan with the customer.
Exposures number of senior executives holding the highest approval authority.
subject to formal debt recovery are defaulted and categorised as Both business and credit approvers are accountable for the quality of Stage 3 impaired.
each decision taken, although the credit risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
Wholesale Early problem identification Transaction Acceptance Standards provide detailed transactional Each segment and sector has defined early warning indicators to lending and risk acceptance metrics and structuring guidance.
As identify customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase such, these standards provide a mechanism to manage risk appetite at monitoring if needed.
Early warning indicators may be internal, such as the customer transaction level and are supplementary to the a customers bank account activity, or external, such as a publiclyestablished credit risk appetite.
If early warning indicators show a customer is experiencing potential or actual difficulty, or if relationship managers or credit officers identify other signs of financial difficulty Credit grades PD and LGD are reviewed and if appropriate rethey may decide to classify the customer within the Risk of Credit Loss approved annually.
The review process assesses borrower framework.
performance, including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the adequacy of security: compliance with terms and Risk of Credit Loss framework conditions: and refinancing risk.
The framework focuses on Wholesale customers whose credit profiles A key aspect of credit risk stewardship is ensuring that, when signs of have deteriorated since origination.
Expert judgement is applied by customer stress are identified, appropriate debt management actions experienced credit risk officers to classify cases into categories that are applied.
reflect progressively deteriorating credit risk to RBS.
There are two classifications which apply to non-defaulted customers within the Problem debt management framework Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss.
For the Personal purposes of provisioning, all exposures subject to the framework are Early problem identification categorised as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime loss assessment.
The Pre-emptive triggers are in place to help identify customers that may framework also applies to those customers that have met RBSs be at risk of being in financial difficulty.
These triggers are both default criteria AQ10 exposures.
Defaulted exposures are internal, using RBS data and external information from credit reference categorised as Stage 3 impaired for provisioning purposes.
Pro-active contact is then made with the customer to establish if they require help with managing their finances.
By adopting Heightened Monitoring customers are performing customers that have this approach the aim is to prevent a customers financial position met certain characteristics, which have led to significant credit deteriorating which may then require intervention from the Collections deterioration.
Collectively, characteristics reflect circumstances that and Recoveries teams.
may affect the customers ability to meet repayment obligations.
Characteristics include trading issues, covenant breaches, material PD Personal customers experiencing financial difficulty are managed by downgrades and past due facilities.
If the Collections team is unable to provide appropriate support after discussing suitable options with the Heightened Monitoring customers require pre-emptive actions outside customer, management of that customer moves to the Recoveries the customers normal trading patterns to return or maintain their team.
If at any point in the Collections and Recoveries process, the facilities within RBSs current risk appetite prior to maturity.
customer is identified as being potentially vulnerable, the customer will be separated from the regular process and supported by a specialist Risk of Credit Loss customers are performing customers that have met team to ensure the customer receives appropriate support for their the criteria for Heightened Monitoring and also pose a risk of credit circumstances.
loss to RBS in the next 12 months should mitigating action not be taken or not be successful.
Collections When a customer exceeds an agreed limit or misses a regular monthly Once classified as either Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit payment the customer is contacted by RBS and requested to remedy Loss, a number of mandatory actions are taken in accordance with the position.
If the situation is not regularised then, where appropriate, policies.
Actions include a review of the customers credit grade, the Collections team will become more fully involved and the customer facility and security documentation and the valuation of security.
will be supported by skilled debt management staff who endeavour to Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and the size of the provide customers with bespoke solutions.
Solutions include shortexposure, the customer relationship strategy is reassessed by credit term account restructuring, refinance loans and forbearance which can officers, by specialist credit risk or relationship management units in include interest suspension and breathing space.
In the event that an the relevant business, or by Restructuring.
affordable sustainable agreement with a customer cannot be reached, the debt will transition to the Recoveries team.
For provisioning Agreed customer management strategies are regularly monitored by purposes, under IFRS 9, exposure to customers managed by the both the business and credit teams.
The largest Risk of Credit Loss Collections team is categorised as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime exposures are regularly reviewed by a Risk of Credit Loss Committee.
The committee members are experienced credit, business and restructuring specialists.
The purpose of the committee is to review In the Republic of Ireland, the relationship may pass to a specialist and challenge the strategies undertaken for customers that pose the support team prior to any transfer to recoveries, depending on the largest risk of credit loss to RBS.
outcome of customer financial assessment.
113 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Types of forbearance Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge Personal that may affect the customers ability to service its debt refer to In the Personal portfolio, forbearance may involve payment Heightened Monitoring characteristics.
Corrective actions may include concessions and loan rescheduling including extensions in granting a customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to contractual maturity, capitalisation of arrears and, in the Republic of approve a concession will be a function of specific appetite, the credit Ireland only, temporary interest-only conversions.
Forbearance is quality of the customer, the market environment and the loan structure granted principally to customers with mortgages and less frequently to and security.
All customers granted forbearance are classified customers with unsecured loans.
This includes instances where Heightened Monitoring as a minimum.
forbearance may be provided to customers with highly flexible mortgages.
Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: remove the customer from the Risk of Credit Loss framework, offer additional Wholesale lending and continue monitoring, transfer the relationship to In the Wholesale portfolio, forbearance may involve covenant waivers, Restructuring if appropriate, or exit the relationship.
amendments to margins, payment concessions and loan rescheduling including extensions in contractual maturity, capitalisation of arrears, The Risk of Credit Loss framework does not apply to problem debt and debt forgiveness or debt-for-equity swaps.
management for Business Banking customers in UK PBB.
These customers are, where necessary, managed by specialist problem debt Monitoring of forbearance management teams, depending on the size of exposure or by the Personal Business Banking recoveries team where a loan has been impaired.
For Personal portfolios, forborne loans are separated and regularly monitored and reported while the forbearance strategy is implemented, Restructuring until they exit forbearance.
For the Wholesale problem debt portfolio, customer relationships are mainly managed by the Restructuring team excluding customers Wholesale managed by UK PBB.
The purpose of Restructuring is to protect In the Wholesale portfolio, customer PDs and facility LGDs are reRBSs capital.
Where practicable, Restructuring does this by working assessed prior to finalising any forbearance arrangement.
The ultimate with corporate and commercial customers to support their turnaround outcome of a forbearance strategy is highly dependent on the and recovery strategies and enable them to return to mainstream cooperation of the borrower and a viable business or repayment banking.
Restructuring will always aim to recover capital in a fair and outcome.
Where forbearance is no longer appropriate, RBS will efficient manner.
consider other options such as the enforcement of security, insolvency proceedings or both, although these are options of last resort.
Specialists in Restructuring work with customers experiencing financial difficulties and showing signs of financial stress.
Throughout Provisioning for forbearance Restructurings involvement the mainstream relationship manager will Personal remain an integral part of the customer relationship, unless an exit The methodology used for provisioning in respect of Personal forborne strategy is deemed appropriate.
The objective is to find a mutually loans will differ depending on whether the loans are performing or nonacceptable solution, including restructuring of existing facilities, performing and which business is managing them due to local market repayment or refinancing.
Where a solvent outcome is not possible, insolvency may be Granting forbearance will only change the arrears status of the loan in considered as a last resort.
However, helping the customer return to specific circumstances, which can include capitalisation of principal financial health and restoring a normal banking relationship is always and interest in arrears, where the loan may be returned to the the preferred outcome.
performing book if the customer has demonstrated an ability to meet regular payments and is likely to continue to do so.
Forbearance audited Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the The loan would remain in forbearance for the defined probation period contractual terms of a loan debt in response to a customers financial and be subject to performance criteria.
These include making regular difficulties.
repayments and being less than 30 days past due.
Additionally for some forbearance types a loan may be transferred to The aim of forbearance is to support and restore the customer to the performing book if a customer makes payments that reduce loan financial health while minimising risk.
To ensure that forbearance is arrears below 90 days UK PBB collections function.
appropriate for the needs of the customer, minimum standards are applied when assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting For ECL provisioning, all forborne but performing exposures are forbearance.
categorised as Stage 2 and are subject to a lifetime loss provisioning assessment.
A loan debt may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary concession has been granted and circumstances warrant For non-performing forborne loans, the Stage 3 loss assessment another temporary or permanent revision of the loans terms.
process is the same as for non-forborne loans with the exception of Ulster Bank RoI, where forborne loans which result in an economic In the Personal portfolio, loans are considered forborne until they meet loss form a separate risk pool and are subjected to specific the exit criteria set out by the European Banking Authority.
include being classified as performing for two years since the last forbearance event, making regular repayments and the loan debt being less than 30 days past due.
Exit criteria are not currently applied for Wholesale portfolios.
114 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 audited Wholesale RBS implemented IFRS 9 with effect from 1 January 2018 with no Provisions for forborne loans are assessed in accordance with normal restatement of comparatives other than the Day One impact on provisioning policies.
The customers financial position and prospects implementation reflected in opening equity.
as well as the likely effect of the forbearance, including any concessions granted, and revised PD or LGD gradings are Cash flows and cash losses are unchanged by the change in considered in order to establish whether an impairment provision is impairment framework from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 has changed the required.
basis of loss calculation to expected loss forward-looking, as opposed to the incurred loss model under IAS 39, which focused only Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually assessed in on losses that had already occurred.
There are a number of changes most cases.
Performing loans subject to forbearance treatment are as well as judgements involved in measuring ECL.
New elements categorised as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime loss assessment.
include: Move from incurred loss model to expected loss model, including Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt exceeding all performing assets having 12-month ECL on origination 513 the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
This difference million increase in provision partly offset by the IAS 39 latent loss will lead to a customer being classified as non-performing.
In the case of non-performing forborne loans, an individual loan Determination of significant increase in credit risk this moves a impairment provision assessment generally takes place prior to subset of assets from a 12-month ECL Stage 1 to lifetime ECL forbearance being granted.
The amount of the loan impairment Stage 2 when credit risk has significantly increased since provision may change once the terms of the forbearance are known, origination 356 million increase in provision.
resulting in an additional provision charge or a release of the provision Change in scope of impaired assets Stage 3 73 million in the period the forbearance is granted.
increase in provision primarily reflecting assets that have defaulted but with expectation of full recovery under IAS 39.
The transfer of Wholesale loans from impaired to performing status Incorporation of forward-looking information, including multiple follows assessment by relationship managers and credit.
When no economic scenarios MES.
MES are assessed in order to identify further losses are anticipated and the customer is expected to meet non-linearity of losses in the portfolio 64 million increase in the loans revised terms, any provision is written-off or released and provision.
the balance of the loan returned to performing status.
This is not dependent on a specified time period and follows the credit risk managers assessment.
Impairment, provisioning and write-offs audited In the overall assessment of credit risk, impairment, provisioning and write-offs are used as key indicators of credit quality.
The new IFRS 9 impairment provisions accounting standard was implemented with effect from 1 January 2018.
Set out below is further detail regarding the impact of the transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 impairment provisioning, how key credit risk management activities link to IFRS 9 impairment provisioning and the key policy and modelling decisions that have been made in implementing IFRS 9 refer also to Accounting policy 14 and Note 14 on the consolidated accounts.
Total Key differences in moving from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 on impairment loss audited m 31 December 2017 - IAS 39 impairment provision 1 3,832 Removal of IAS 39 latent provision 390 IFRS 9 12 month ECL on Stage 1 and Stage 2 513 Increase in Stage 2 ECL to lifetime discounted 356 Stage 3 loss estimation EAD and LGD 73 Impact of MES 64 1 January 2018 - IFRS 9 ECL 4,448 Note: 1 Includes 3,814 million relating to loans, less 10 million on loans that were carried at fair value and 28 million relating to FVOCI and LAR debt securities.
Key points defaulted assets that did not carry a provision, reflecting the Overall provisions The overall provisioning requirement under expectation of full recovery under IAS 39.
IFRS 9 increased by 616 million a 16% increase relative to IAS UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI combined The exposures in these 39.
The main driver of the increase was the requirement to hold a two segments are primarily Personal.
The ECL provisioning minimum of 12 months of ECL on performing assets, increasing to requirement was 2.8 billion, an uplift of 384 million relative to the lifetime loss for assets that have exhibited a significant increase in IAS 39 provision.
This was driven by the higher provisioning credit risk.
requirement on performing assets, principally on the UK credit card Performing assets Compared with the latent loss provision held portfolio where provisions increased by 122 million 31% of the under IAS 39 of 390 million, the ECL requirement on performing total increase.
assets Stage 1 and Stage 2 more than doubled, increasing by CPB and NatWest Markets The assets are mainly Wholesale.
ECL provisioning requirement was 1.6 billion, an uplift of 222 million relative to IAS 39.
The uplift in Stage 3 assets of 83 million Non-performing assets The IFRS 9 provisioning requirement on non-performing assets in Stage 3 was less affected.
The ECL was principally driven by assets defaulted but with expectation of full requirement of 3.6 billion was 123 million 4% higher compared recovery under IAS 39. with IAS 39 impaired portfolio provisions of 3.4 billion principally on 115 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Economic loss drivers Key elements of IFRS 9 impairment provisions audited Introduction audited IFRS 9 introduced additional complexity into the determination of credit The portfolio segmentation and selection of economic loss drivers for impairment provisioning requirements.
However, the building blocks IFRS 9 follow closely the approach already used in stress testing.
To that deliver an ECL calculation already existed in RBS.
Existing Basel enable robust modelling the forecasting models for each portfolio models were used as a starting point in the construction of IFRS 9 segment defined by asset class and where relevant industry sector models, which also incorporate term extension and forward-looking and region are based on a selected, small number of economic information.
factors, typically two to four that best explain the temporal variations in portfolio loss rates.
The process to select economic loss drivers Five key areas may materially influence the measurement of credit involves empirical analysis and expert judgment.
impairment under IFRS 9 two of these relate to model build and The most material primary economic loss drivers for Personal three relate to their application: portfolios include national GDP, unemployment rate, House Price Model build: Index, and base rate for UK and Irish portfolios as relevant.
In addition o The determination of economic indicators that have most to some of these loss drivers, for Wholesale portfolios, world GDP is a influence on credit loss for each portfolio and the severity of primary loss driver.
impact this leverages existing stress testing mechanisms.
o The build of term structures to extend the determination of the Central base case economic scenario audited risk of loss beyond 12 months that will influence the impact of The internal base case scenario is the primary forward-looking lifetime loss for assets in Stage 2. economic information driving the calculation of ECL The same base Model application: case scenario is used for RBSs financial planning.
The key elements o The assessment of the significant increase in credit risk and of the current economic base case, which includes forecasts over a the formation of a framework capable of consistent application.
five year forecast horizon, are summarised as follows: o The determination of asset lifetimes that reflect behavioural United Kingdom The central scenario projects modest growth in characteristics while also representing management actions the UK economy, in line with the consensus outlook.
Brexit related and processes using historical data and experience.
uncertainty results in subdued confidence in the near term, placing it o The determination of a base case or central economic in the lower quartile of advanced economies.
Business investment scenario which has the most material impact of all forwardis weak at the start of the forecast, improving only gradually.
looking scenarios on the measurement of loss RBS uses Consumer spending rises steadily as households benefit from falling consensus forecasts to remove management bias.
inflation and rising wage growth, though it is a modest upturn.
The central scenario assumes slower job growth than seen in recent Policy elections and simplifications relating to IFRS 9 years, meaning unemployment edges up from its current historic In addition to the five key areas above, which are relevant from period lows.
House price growth slows, extending the current slowdown, to period, there was one further significant judgment that was made as before picking up to low single digit growth in later years.
Monetary a one-off exercise to support the Day One implementation: this was policy follows the market implied path for Bank of England base rate the application of the new IFRS 9 models to the determination of at the time the scenarios were set, therefore it is assumed only two origination date metrics.
Since it is not possible to determine the further base rate increases over the next five years.
economic forecasts and alternative scenarios going backwards in time Republic of Ireland The economy is expected to continue on its it is necessary to use a series of assumptions to enable this process.
positive trajectory with growth expected to revert closer to long run RBS assumed a flat economic forecast, for all dates historically.
There averages in the medium term.
Job growth is expected to moderate were some other less significant judgments, elections and with the unemployment remaining around 5%.
Meanwhile house simplification assumptions that informed the ECL process: these were price growth continues to moderate to a low single-digit pace.
As not seen as critical in determining the appropriate level of impairment always, a small open economy such as RoI remains very sensitive but represented choices taken by management across areas of to the global economic environment and expectations can change at estimation uncertainty.
The main examples of these are: short notice.
Models for example in the case of some low default portfolios, Basel parameter estimates have been applied for IFRS 9.
Use of the central base case in Personal Non-modelled portfolios certain portfolios have their Basel II In Personal the internal base case is directly used as the central capital requirement calculated under the standardised framework for scenario for the ECL calculations by feeding the forecasted economic regulatory purposes and do not have systematically modelled PDs, loss drivers into the respective PD and LGD models EADs and LGDs.
Under IFRS 9, they have bespoke treatments for Use of the central base case in Wholesale the identification of significant increase in credit risk and ECL As in Personal the primary input is the central base case scenario but provisions.
With respect to the latter, benchmark PDs, EADs and a further adjustment is applied to explicitly enforce a gradual reversion LGDs are used with the benchmarks being reviewed annually for to long run average credit cycle conditions from the first projected year appropriateness.
The main non-modelled portfolios are Private onwards.
Banking, RBSI personal and Lombard.
Discounting of future losses the ECL calculation is based on This adjustment process leverages the existing Wholesale credit expected future cash-flows.
These are discounted using the models framework that utilises Credit Cycle Indices CCI to measure effective interest rate for practical purposes, this is typically the point-in-time default rate conditions in a comprehensive set of applied at a portfolio level rather than being established and region industry groupings.
The CCI are constructed by summarising operated at an individual asset level.
market data based point-in-time PDs for all publicly listed entities in the Multiple economic scenarios MES it is the selection of the respective region industry grouping on a monthly frequency.
Positive central or base scenario that is most critical to the ECL calculation, CCI values indicate better than average conditions, i. e. low default independent of the method used to generate a range of alternative rates and a CCI value of zero indicates default rate conditions at long outcomes and their probabilities.
Different approaches to model run average levels.
The CCI can be interpreted as an aggregation of MES around the central scenario have all been found of low the primary economic loss drivers most relevant for each portfolio significance for the overall ECL impact.
The central base case scenario forecasts provided at the level of economic loss drivers are fed into the ECL calculations by first translating them into corresponding CCI forecasts for each portfolio segment and subsequently applying the aforementioned mean-reversion adjustment.
116 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Wholesale the approach to MES is a Monte Carlo method that Initially at transition, mean reversion was applied from year five involves simulating a large number of alternative scenarios around onwards.
Since H1 2018, mean reversion is applied from the first year the central scenario adjusted for mean reversion and averaging onwards.
The earlier application of the mean reversion adjustment was the losses and PD values for each individual scenario into introduced to account for two empirical observations.
Firstly historic unbiased expectations of losses ECL and PD.
credit loss rates in Wholesale portfolios show pronounced mean reversion behaviour and secondly, the accuracy of economic forecasts The simulation of alternative scenarios does not occur on the level of tends to drop significantly for horizons beyond one or two years.
the individual economic loss drivers but operates on the aggregate CCI described earlier.
Since the existing Wholesale credit models for Approach for MES audited PD and LGD were already built within the CCI framework the chosen The response of portfolio loss rates to changes in economic conditions Monte Carlo method provided a conceptually rigorous but still efficient is typically non-linear and asymmetric.
Therefore in order to approach to implement the MES requirement.
appropriately take account of the uncertainty in economic forecasts a range of MES are considered when calculating ECL.
The Monte Carlo MES approach increases Wholesale ECL for Stage 1 and Stage 2 by approximately 5% above the single, central scenario Personal the approach to MES is based on using a set of discrete outcomes.
No additional MES overlay was applied for Wholesale.
In addition to the central base case a further four bespoke scenarios are taken into account a base case upside For both Personal and Wholesale, the impact from MES is factored in and downside and an additional upside and downside.
The to account level PDs through scalars.
These MES-adjusted PDs are overall MES ECL is calculated as a probability weighted average used to assess whether a significant increase in credit risk has across all five scenarios.
Refer to the Probability weightings of occurred.
Key economic loss drivers average over the five year planning The ECL impact on the Personal portfolio arising from the application horizon 2019 to 2023 for 31 December 2018 and 2018 to 2022 for 1 of MES over the single, central base case is relatively low, and January 2018 in the most relevant planning cycle for the central following review by the Provisions Committee, overlays were agreed to base case and two upside and downside scenarios used for ECL ensure the expected effect of non-linearity of losses was appropriately modelling are set out below.
As at 31 December 2018, the value of the overlays was 26 million for UK PBB and 26 million for Ulster Bank RoI.
Economic parameters 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 Upside 2 Upside 1 Base case Downside 1 Downside 2 Upside 2 Upside 1 Base case Downside 1 Downside 2 UK % % % % % % % % % % GDP - change 2.6 2.3 1.7 1.5 1.1 2.2 1.9 1.7 1.5 1.3 Unemployment 3.3 3.8 5.0 5.6 6.9 5.0 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 House Price Inflation - change 4.3 3.3 1.7 1.1 0.5 4.2 3.4 3.1 2.9 2.7 Bank of England base rate 1.7 1.3 1.1 0.5 1.7 1.2 0.8 0.4 0.2 Republic of Ireland GDP - change 4.3 3.6 3.0 3.1 2.8 3.6 3.2 2.9 2.6 2.3 Unemployment 4.2 4.6 5.2 6.0 6.8 5.0 5.4 5.7 5.9 6.1 House Price Inflation - change 9.2 6.8 4.0 3.2 0.8 6.7 5.4 4.4 3.7 3.0 European Central Bank base rate 1.3 0.8 0.3 0.6 0.4 0.1 0.1 World GDP - change 3.6 3.2 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.9 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 Probability weight 12.8 17.0 30.0 25.6 14.6 5.0 15.0 60.0 15.0 5.0 Probability weightings of scenarios audited Probability assignment having established the relevant percentile RBSs approach to IFRS 9 MES in Personal involves selecting a points, probability weights are assigned to ensure that the scenarios suitable set of discrete scenarios to characterise the distribution of produce an unbiased result.
If the severity assessment step shows risks in the economic outlook and assigning appropriate probability the scenarios to be broadly symmetric, then this will result in a weights to those scenarios.
This has the following basic steps: symmetric probability weighting same probability weight above and Scenario selection for 2018 two upside and two downside below the base case, as was used in the first half of 2018.
However scenarios from Moodys inventory of scenarios were chosen.
The if the downsides are not as extreme as the upsides, then more aim is to obtain downside scenarios that are not as severe as stress probability weight is allocated to the downsides to ensure the tests, so typically have a severity of around one in ten and one in unbiasedness requirement is satisfied as was the case in the five of approximate likelihood, along with corresponding upsides.
This adjustment is made purely to restore Severity assessment having selected the most appropriate unbiasedness, not to address any relative skew in the distribution of scenarios their severity is then assessed based on the behaviour of risks in the economic outlook, which is dealt with through overlays UK GDP by calculating a variety of measures such as average GDP and covered in the section on UK economic uncertainty.
growth deviation from base and peak to trough falls in GDP.
These measures are compared against a set of 1,000 model runs and it is established what percentile in the distribution most closely corresponds with each scenario.
117 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Wholesale models UK economic uncertainty audited Wholesale PD models use the existing CCI based point-inRBSs 2018 results were prepared during the run up to the UK leaving time through-the-cycle framework to convert one-year regulatory PDs the European Union, a period of elevated uncertainty over the UK into point-in-time estimates that reflect current economic conditions economic outlook.
RBSs approach to capturing that elevated across a comprehensive set of region industry segments.
uncertainty is to apply an overlay to ECL.
Information is used from the One year point-in-time PDs are then extrapolated to multi-year PDs earnings volatility scenario that is part of the 2018 planning process using a conditional transition matrix approach.
The conditional and credit risk appetite setting.
Key elements include an alternative transition matrix approach allows the incorporation of forward-looking path the economy could take, being characterised as more severe information, provided in the form of yearly CCI projections, by than the Bank of Englands Disruptive Brexit scenario ACS but less adjusting the credit state transition probabilities according to projected, severe than the Disorderly Brexit scenario and then applying forward-looking changes of credit conditions in each region industry management judgement as to its likelihood.
The RBS-wide overlay of segment.
101 million booked in the third quarter of 2018 remained in place at the year end.
This results in forward-looking point-in-time PD term structures for each obligor from which the lifetime PD for a specific exposure can be IFRS 9 credit risk modelling audited calculated according to the exposures residual contractual maturity.
IFRS 9 introduced lifetime ECL for the measurement of credit impairment.
This required the development of new models or the LGD estimates enhancement of existing Basel models.
IFRS 9 ECLs are calculated The general approach for the IFRS 9 LGD models was to leverage the using a combination of: Basel LGD models with bespoke IFRS 9 adjustments to ensure Probability of default.
unbiased estimates, that is, the use of effective interest rate as the Loss given default.
discount rate and the removal of downturn calibration, indirect costs, Exposure at default.
other conservatism and regulatory floors.
In addition, lifetime PDs as at reporting date and at date of initial Personal recognition are used in the assessment of a significant increase in Forward-looking information has only been incorporated for the credit risk SICR criteria.
secured portfolios, where changes in property prices can be readily accommodated.
Analysis has indicated minimal impact for the other IFRS 9 ECL model design principles Personal portfolios.
For UBIDAC, a bespoke IFRS 9 LGD model is To meet IFRS 9 requirements for ECL estimation, PD, LGD and EAD used, reflecting its specific regional market.
used in the calculations must be: Unbiased material regulatory conservatism has been removed to Wholesale produce unbiased model estimates.
Current and forward-looking economic information is incorporated into Point-in-time recognise current economic conditions.
the LGD estimates using the existing CCI framework.
For low default Forward-looking incorporated into PD estimates and, where portfolios for example, sovereigns loss data is too scarce to appropriate, EAD and LGD estimates.
substantiate estimates that vary with systematic conditions.
Consequently, for these portfolios, LGD estimates are assumed to be For the life of the loan all models produce a term structure to allow a lifetime calculation for assets in Stage 2 and Stage 3. constant throughout the projection horizon.
EAD estimates IFRS 9 requires that at each reporting date, an entity shall assess Retail whether the credit risk on an account has increased significantly since The IFRS 9 Personal modelling approach for EAD is dependent on initial recognition.
Part of this assessment requires a comparison to be product type.
made between the current lifetime PD i. e. the current probability of Revolving products use the existing Basel models as a basis, with default over the remaining lifetime with the equivalent lifetime PD as appropriate adjustments incorporating a term structure based on determined at the date of initial recognition.
Amortising products use an amortising schedule, where a formula is For assets originated before IFRS 9 was introduced, comparable used to calculate the expected balance based on remaining terms lifetime origination PDs did not exist.
These have been retrospectively and interest rates.
created using the relevant model inputs applicable at initial recognition.
There is no EAD model for Personal loans.
Instead, debt flow i. e. Due to data availability, two practical measures have been taken: combined PD x EAD is directly modelled.
Where model inputs were not available at the point of initial recognition the earliest available robust metrics were used.
For Analysis has indicated that there is minimal impact on EAD arising instance, since Basel II was introduced in 2008, the earliest from changes in the economy for all Retail portfolios except available and reliable production Basel PDs range from between mortgages.
Therefore, forward-looking information is only incorporated December 2007 and April 2008 depending on the portfolio.
in the mortgage EAD model through forecast changes in interest Economic conditions at the date of initial recognition have been rates.
assumed to remain constant from that point forward.
Wholesale PD estimates For Wholesale, EAD values are estimated on the basis of credit Personal models conversion factor CCF models.
RBS have observed historic, realised Personal PD models use an Exogenous, Maturity and Vintage EMV CCF values to vary over time but there is no clear relationship approach to model default rates by taking into account EMV effects.
between the temporal changes in CCF and economic conditions.
RBS The EMV approach separates portfolio default risk trends into three attribute changes in CCFs to changes in exposure management components: vintage effects quality of new business over time, practices.
maturity effects changes in risk relating to time on book and exogenous effects changes in risk relating to changes in macro Therefore RBS does not include forward-looking economic information economic conditions.
This EMV methodology has been widely into projected CCF EAD.
To ensure CCF values reflect most recent adopted across the industry because it enables forward-looking exposure management practices, RBS update CCF coefficients in the information to be modelled separately by isolating exogenous or model frequently typically annually using the last five years of macroeconomic effects.
Forward-looking information is incorporated observed data.
by fitting an appropriate macroeconomic model, such as the relevant stress testing model to the exogenous component and utilising forecasts of the relevant macro-economic factors.
118 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued The criteria are based on a significant amount of empirical analysis Governance and post model adjustments and seek to meet three key objectives: The IFRS 9 PD, EAD and LGD models are subject to RBSs model Criteria effectiveness the criteria should be effective in identifying monitoring and governance frameworks, which include approving post significant credit deterioration and prospective default population.
model adjustments PMAs calculated to incorporate the most recent Stage 2 stability the criteria should not introduce unnecessary data available and made on a temporary basis ahead of the underlying volatility in the Stage 2 population.
model parameter changes being implemented.
These PMAs totalled Portfolio analysis the criteria should produce results which are approximately 60 million at the year end primarily in respect of PD intuitive when reported as part of the wider credit portfolio.
In addition, as at 31 December 2018, judgemental ECL overlays on the UK PBB mortgage portfolio totalled 30 million, Asset lifetimes audited including 15 million in respect of the repayment risk not captured in The choice of initial recognition and asset duration is another critical the models that a proportion of customers on interest only mortgages judgement in determining the quantum of lifetime losses that apply.
will not be able to repay the capital element of their loan at end of The date of initial recognition reflects the date that a transaction or term.
The overlay for interest only mortgages was based on an account was first recognised on the balance sheet: the PD analysis of recent experience on customer repayments pre and post recorded at that time provides the baseline used for subsequent end of term, and modelling that forward for maturities over the next ten determination of SICR.
These adjustments were over and above those covering For asset duration, the approach applied in line with IFRS 9 economic uncertainty and non-linearity of losses discussed above and requirements is: are also subject to over-sight and governance by the Provisions o Term lending the contractual maturity date, reduced for Committee.
behavioural trends where appropriate such as, expected prepayment and amortisation.
Significant increase in credit risk audited o Revolving facilities for Personal portfolios except credit Exposures that are considered significantly credit deteriorated since cards, asset duration is based on behavioural life and this is initial recognition are classified in Stage 2 and assessed for lifetime normally greater than contractual life which would typically be ECL measurement exposures not considered deteriorated carry a 12 overnight.
For Wholesale portfolios, asset duration is based month ECL.
RBS has adopted a framework to identify deterioration on annual counterparty review schedules and will be set to the based primarily on movements in probability of default supported by next review date.
The principles applied are consistent across In the case of credit cards, the most significant judgement is to reflect RBS and align to credit risk management practices.
the operational practice of card reissuance and the associated credit The framework comprises the following elements: assessment as enabling a formal re-origination trigger.
As a IFRS 9 lifetime PD assessment the primary driver on modelled consequence a capped lifetime approach of up to 36 months is used portfolios the assessment is based on the relative deterioration in on credit card balances.
If the approach was uncapped the ECL forward-looking lifetime PD and is assessed monthly.
To assess impact is estimated at less than 90 million, compared to 75 million at whether credit deterioration has occurred, the residual lifetime PD at transition, with the increase primarily reflecting refinements to criteria balance sheet date which PD is established at date of initial used to identify a significant increase in credit risk during the year.
recognition DOIR is compared to the current PD.
If the current lifetime PD exceeds the residual origination PD by more than a The approach reflects RBS practice of a credit-based review of threshold amount deterioration is assumed to have occurred and customers prior to credit card issuance and complies with IFRS 9. the exposure transferred to Stage 2 for a lifetime loss assessment.
Benchmarking information indicates that peer UK banks use For Wholesale, a doubling of PD would indicate a significant behavioural approaches in the main for credit card portfolios with increase in credit risk subject to a minimum PD uplift of 0.1%.
For average durations between three and ten years.
Across Europe Personal portfolios, the criteria varies by risk band, with lower risk durations are shorter and are, in some cases, as low as one year.
exposures needing to deteriorate more than higher risk exposures, as outlined in the following table: Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis audited Risk bandings based The recognition and measurement of ECL is highly complex and Personal on residual lifetime PD deterioration involves the use of significant judgement and estimation.
This includes risk bands PD calculated at DOIR threshold criteria the formulation and incorporation of multiple forward-looking economic Risk band A 0.762% PD@DOIR 1% conditions into ECL to meet the measurement objective of IFRS 9.
Risk band B 4.306% PD@DOIR 3% The ECL provision is sensitive to the model inputs and economic assumptions underlying the estimate.
Set out below is the impact of Risk band C 4.306% 1.7 x PD@DOIR some of the material sensitivities considered for 2018 year end reporting.
These ECL simulations are separate to the impact arising from MES as described earlier in this disclosure, which impacts are Qualitative high-risk backstops the PD assessment is embedded in the reported ECL.
Given the current benign environment complemented with the use of qualitative high-risk backstops to for impairments the focus is on downsides to the existing ECL further inform whether significant deterioration in lifetime risk of provision levels.
The qualitative high-risk backstop assessment includes the use of the mandatory 30 days past due backstop, as The focus of the simulations is on ECL provisioning requirements on prescribed by IFRS 9 guidance, and other features such as performing exposures in Stage 1 and Stage 2.
The simulations are run forbearance support, Wholesale exposures managed within the on a stand-alone basis and are independent of each other: the Risk of Credit Loss framework, and for Personal, adverse credit potential ECL uplifts reflect the simulated impact as at the year end bureau results.
As default is an observed event as at the balance Persistence Personal and Business Banking only the sheet date, Stage 3 provisions are not subject to the same level of persistence rule ensures that accounts which have met the criteria measurement uncertainty, and therefore have not been considered in for PD driven deterioration are still considered to be significantly this analysis.
The following common scenarios have been applied deteriorated for three months thereafter.
This additional rule across the key Personal and Wholesale portfolios: enhances the timeliness of capture in Stage 2.
It is a Personal methodology feature and is applied to PD driven deterioration only.
119 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued As reflected in the economic metrics in the following table, the Economic uncertainty simulating the impact arising from the Downside 2 scenario assumes a significant economic downturn Downside 2 scenario, which is one of the five discrete scenarios in the UK in 2019 running in to 2020 with recovery in the later used in the methodology for Personal MES.
In the simulation RBS years.
UK GDP turns negative in 2019 compared to the base have assumed that the economic macro variables associated with case assumption of continued growth, unemployment increases the Downside 2 scenario replace the existing base case economic and peaks at the end of 2020.
House prices fall in both 2019 and assumptions, giving them a 100% probability weighting for 2020 before starting to recover, and interest rates are assumed Personal and using the Monte Carlo approach in Wholesale to to be lower for longer.
An economic slowdown is also assumed simulate the impact of MES around the base case economic in the Republic of Ireland in 2019 and 2020. scenario.
For some portfolios this creates a significant impact on ECL, for others HPI across the main mortgage portfolios.
A univariate analysis using only HPI does not allow for the interdependence across the less so but on balance the impact is deemed reasonable.
In this other key primary loss drivers to be reflected in any ECL estimate.
simulation, it is assumed the existing modelled relationship between The simulated impact is based on 100% probability weighting to key economic variables and loss drivers holds good.
demonstrate the sensitivity of HPI on the central base case.
The Portfolio risk evaluation of the impact of a movement in one of the Downside 2 scenario above has house prices falling by a more key metrics, PD, simulating a relative 25% upward shift in PDs.
material amount, and also includes the impact of PD increases which are not captured under the HPI univariate simulation.
These common scenarios were complemented with two specific portfolio simulations: RBSs core criterion to identify a significant increase in credit risk is Wholesale portfolios simulating the impact of PDs moving founded on PD deterioration, as discussed above.
Under the upwards to the through-the-cycle TTC average from their current simulations, PDs increase and result in exposures moving from Stage point-in-time PIT estimate.
This simulation looks solely at PD 1 to Stage 2 contributing to the ECL uplift.
movements, potential movements in LGD rates have not been considered.
With the current benign economic conditions wholesale IFRS 9 PIT PDs are significantly lower than TTC PD.
This scenario shows the increase to ECL by immediately switching to TTC PDs providing an indication of long run average expectations.
IFRS 9 PDs have been used so there remains some differences to Basel TTC PDs where conservative assumptions are required, such as caps or floors, not permitted under the IFRS 9 best estimate approach.
120 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Economic sensitivity analysis Actual position at 31 December 2018 Common scenarios 3 Stage 1 and Stage 2 1 Downside 2 25% PD increase Discrete scenarios 3 of which in ECL Exposure in Exposure in HPI 4 TTC PD 5 Exposure in Exposure Stage 2 provision 2 Potential ECL uplift Stage 2 Potential ECL uplift Stage 2 potential ECL uplift Stage 2 bn % m m % % m % % m % % UK PBB 155.7 9.1 589.3 186.4 31.6 11.5 174.2 29.6 10.5 Of which: mortgages 137.7 7.3 80.9 5.5 6.8 7.3 Ulster Bank RoI Personal and business banking 12.8 11.9 100.0 60.5 60.5 24.5 24.4 24.4 17.3 Of which: mortgages 12.2 11.4 85.5 6.1 7.2 11.7 Wholesale 261.7 4.1 333.5 79.2 23.8 8.1 86.4 25.9 5.2 106.3 31.9 7.5 Total 430.2 6.1 1,022.8 326.1 31.9 9.8 285.0 27.9 7.5 Notes: 1 Reflects drawn exposure and ECL for all modelled exposure in scope for IFRS 9: in addition to loans this includes bonds, and cash.
For Personal exposures, this includes UK PBB including business banking, and also Ulster Bank RoI personal and business banking, the analysis excludes Personal exposures such as Private Banking and RBSI.
2 The ECL provision includes the ECL overlay taken in quarter 3 to recognise the elevated economic uncertainty in the UK in the period running up to the UK leaving the European Union.
3 All simulations are run on a stand-alone basis and are independent of each other, with the potential ECL uplift reflecting the simulated impact at the year end balance sheet date.
4 HPI is applied to the most material mortgage portfolios only, UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI.
5 TTC or long-run average PDs are applied to Wholesale portfolios only, excluding business banking exposures in PBB, the impact on which is included within the PBB portfolio for this analysis.
Key points Wholesale, the TTC PD scenario has the most significant impact on In the downside 2 scenario, the ECL requirement overall was ECL highlighting that reverting to long run average PDs is more simulated to increase by 326 million on stage 1 and 2 exposures severe than a 25% increase in PDs or a switch to a downside from the current level of 1,023 million.
Moving to TTC PDs requires an average PD uplift of the balance sheet ECL requirement as at 31 December 2018 and almost 40%.
assumes that the economic variables associated with the Downside The TTC PD and 25% PD increase scenarios see a significant ECL 2 scenario had been RBSs base case economic assumption at that uplift in the property portfolio which is not observed under the time.
Downside 2 scenario as under the Downside 2 scenario the For the UK PBB franchise, the simulated ECL uplift observed in the Wholesale PDs begin to revert to long run averages mean Downside 2 scenario was a little higher than under the 25% PD reversion after 12 months so do not fully capture the further increase, with similar seen in the percentage of exposures deterioration expected in the property portfolio in years 2 and 3. simulated to move to Stage 2.
Downside 2 scenario results in more corporate exposure moving to In the Downside 2 scenario, the Ulster Bank RoI simulated uplift Stage 2 than either the TTC PD or 25% PD increase scenarios.
The was more marked than on the other simulations reflecting the impact is more concentrated on shorter dated exposure, reflecting weight of mortgage assets in their personal lending portfolio, with the year 1 downturn, which has less of an impact on total ECL.
the adverse movement in house prices increasing the LGD.
A similar affect was observed on the UK PBB mortgage portfolio where the mortgage ECL was simulated to increase by just over 50%, and which impact is included within the overall PBB simulated result.
The percentage of exposures simulated to move into Stage 2 in the Downside 2 scenario is notably higher than under the 25% PD increase for the Ulster Bank RoI due to the combined impact of the macro-economic variables utilised for the simulation.
On the univariate HPI scenario, the impact of a 5% fall in house prices was relatively modest, the simulated impact was similar in both UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI.
The relationship between the required ECL and house price movements is expected to be nonlinear should the level of house prices reduce by more material amounts, with the rate of loss accelerating when prices fall by more than 10%.
Ulster Bank RoI also observed a modest increase in the percentage of exposures in Stage 2 reflecting small PD movements, whereas the UK PBB simulation was restricted to the LGD effect alone hence the percentage of assets in Stage 2 remained unchanged.
121 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities All the disclosures in this section are audited with the exception of Loans: 319.8 billion of which Stage 1 286.0 billion: Stage 2 26.1 Stage 2 analysis and Stage 3 vintage analysis.
billion and Stage 3 7.7 billion 1 January 2018 321.3 billion of which Stage 1 283.3 billion: Stage 2 26.8 billion and Stage 3 11.2 billion.
Introduction Other financial assets: 144.1 billion of which Stage 1 144.1 billion: This section covers the credit risk profile of RBSs banking activities.
Stage 2 nil and Stage 3 nil 1 January 2018 147.4 billion of which Exposures and credit risk measures presented as of and for year Stage 1 147.2 billion: Stage 2 0.2 billion and Stage 3 nil.
ended 31 December 2018 and at 1 January 2018 are on an IFRS 9 basis.
Exposures and credit risk measures as of and for the year Those assets outside the IFRS 9 ECL framework were as follows: ended 31 December 2017 are on an IAS 39 basis.
Settlement balances, items in the course of collection, cash balances and other non-credit risk assets of 4.9 billion.
These were Refer to Accounting policy 14 and Note 14 on the consolidated assessed as having no ECL unless there was evidence that they accounts for revisions to policies and critical judgements relating to were credit impaired.
Equity shares of 0.5 billion as not within the IFRS 9 ECL framework by definition.
Banking activities include a small number of portfolios that were Fair value adjustments on loans hedged by interest rate swaps, carried at fair value, the most significant of which was the lenderwhere the underlying loan was within the IFRS 9 ECL scope 0.9 option buyer-option portfolio of 0.5 billion 1 January 2018 2.0 billion.
The decrease in the portfolio reflected disposals and valuation Group-originated securitisations, where ECL was captured on the changes.
Commercial cards which operate in a similar manner to charge Financial instruments within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL cards, with balances repaid monthly via mandated direct debit with framework audited the underlying risk of loss captured within the customers linked Refer to Note 11 on the consolidated accounts for balance sheet current account of 0.4 billion.
analysis of financial assets that are classified as amortised cost AC or fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI, the Contingent liabilities and commitments starting point for IFRS 9 ECL framework assessment.
In addition to contingent liabilities and commitments disclosed in Note 27 on the consolidated accounts  limits, are Financial assets also included in the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework.
These are Of the total third party 471 billion AC and FVOCI balance gross of offset by 3.6 billion out of scope balances primarily related to facilities ECL, 463.9 billion or 98% was within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL that, if drawn, would not be classified as AC or FVOCI, or undrawn framework and comprised by stage: Stage 1 430.1 billion: Stage 2 limits relating to financial assets exclusions.
Total contingent liabilities 26.1 billion and Stage 3 7.7 billion 1 January 2018 468.8 billion including financial guarantees and commitments within IFRS 9 ECL of which Stage 1 430.5 billion: Stage 2 27.0 billion and Stage 3 scope of 168.9 billion comprised Stage 1 161.4 billion: Stage 2 6.9 11.3 billion.
Total assets within IFRS 9 ECL scope comprised the billion and Stage 3 0.6 billion.
following by balance sheet caption and stage: 122 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary segment analysis audited The table below summarises gross loans and ECL, by segment and stage, within the scope of the IFRS 9 ECL framework.
The comparative tables at 1 January 2018 include all financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9, including debt securities of 50.4 billion, of which 42.7 billion related to debt securities classified as FVOCI.
ECL on these debt securities at 1 January 2018 was 28 million, of which 4 million related to those classified as FVOCI.
2 ECL provisions are provisions on loan assets only.
Other ECL provisions not included, relate to cash, debt securities and contingent liabilities, and amount to 28 million, of which 5 million was FVOCI.
3 ECL provisions coverage is ECL provisions divided by loans amortised cost.
4 ECL charge balances in the above table include a 3 million charge related to other financial assets, of which a 1 million charge related to assets at FVOCI: and a 31 million release related to contingent liabilities.
The table below shows gross loans excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by segment on an IAS 39 basis.
Ulster Commercial Private Central items UK PBB Bank RoI Banking Banking RBSI NWM & other Total 2017 m m m m m m m m Gross loans to banks 500 2,447 697 109 29 7,490 4,992 16,264 Gross loans to customers 162,957 20,623 98,182 13,514 8,743 22,902 77 321,633 Risk elements in lending REIL 1,975 3,282 3,196 95 103 253 8,904 Provisions 1,280 1,131 1,162 32 35 174 3,814 REIL as a % of gross loans to customers 1.2 15.9 3.3 0.7 1.2 1.1 2.7 Provisions as a % of REIL 65 34 36 34 34 69 43 Provisions as a % of gross loans to customers 0.8 5.5 1.2 0.2 0.4 0.8 1.2 Impairment losses releases 235 60 362 6 3 137 1 530 Amounts written-off 572 124 335 4 6 167 2 1,210 123 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary segment analysis audited Key points Total ECL provisions have reduced since transition as a result Provision coverage remained stable in the Stage 1 population of reduced provisioning requirements on Stage 3 impaired and increased in Stage 2, with the uplift including the effect of assets, which reflected ongoing write-offs and debt sales, methodology refinements.
The Stage 3 provision coverage partially offset by increases in Stage 1 and Stage 2. reduced slightly including the effect of debt sales and underlying Stage 3 ECL provisions The reductions in the UK PBB business as usual movements.
business reflected a combination of business-as-usual write-offs The impairment charge for the year was 398 million.
This and debt sale activity.
For Ulster Bank RoI the significant reflected the relatively stable external environment.
reduction since transition was due to the sale of legacy impaired The reduction in the Commercial Banking portfolio reflected the mortgage portfolio debt.
In Commercial Banking and NatWest transfer of customers to RBSI and NWM as well as the Markets the reductions were mainly attributable to write-offs.
continued exit from legacy assets.
Stage 1 and Stage 2 The increase in Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL was driven by a number of factors.
These included an ECL uplift for economic uncertainty, which affected all businesses, model refinements, asset migrations from Stage 3 impaired and portfolio growth.
Segmental loans and impairment metrics audited The table below summarises gross loans and ECL provisions, by days past due, by segment and stage, within the scope of the ECL framework.
124 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Segmental loans and impairment metrics audited The table below summarises gross loans and ECL provisions coverage, by days past due, by segment and stage, within the scope of the ECL framework.
2 30 DPD 30 days past due, the mandatory 30 days past due backstop is prescribed by IFRS 9 for significant increase in credit risk.
3 ECL provisions on contingent liabilities and commitments are included within the Financial assets section so as not to distort ECL coverage ratios.
4 31 December 2018, 3 million of the write offs related to business banking portfolio in Ulster Bank RoI.
Key points Also in line with expectations, the majority of Stage 2 exposures The UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI franchises accounted for the vast were less than 30 days past due, since PD deterioration is the majority of Personal provisions.
In Ulster Bank RoI, Personal primary driver of credit deterioration.
provisions were primarily driven by Stage 3 impairments on the The differing cover rates between the Personal and Wholesale legacy mortgage book.
portfolios and across the business largely reflected differences The Commercial Banking business accounted for the majority of in asset mix, including security cover, and the differing impacts of Wholesale exposures.
Wholesale provisions in UK PBB reflected external environment events.
exposures to business banking customers and also the commercial businesses in RBS England & Wales NatWest Scotland.
On performing exposures Stage 1 and Stage 2, materially higher ECL provision was held in credit deteriorated Stage 2 exposures than in Stage 1, in line with expectations.
This was also reflected in provision coverage levels.
125 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary sector analysis audited The table below summarises financial assets and off-balance sheet exposures gross of ECL and related ECL provisions, impairment and past due by sector, asset quality and geographical region based on the country of operation of the customer.
For the notes to this table refer to the following page.
2 AQ bandings are based on Basel PDs.
3 At 31 December 2018, AQ10 includes 0.6 billion 31 December 2017 0.7 billion RoI mortgages which are not currently considered defaulted for capital calculation purposes for RoI but included in Stage 3.
4 30 DPD 30 days past due, the mandatory 30 days past due backstop as prescribed by the IFRS 9 guidance for significant increase in credit risk.
5 Days past due Personal products: at a high level, for amortising products, the number of days past due is derived from the arrears amount outstanding and the monthly repayment instalment.
For credit cards, it is based on payments missed, and for current accounts the number of continual days in excess of borrowing limit.
Wholesale products: the number of days past due for all products is the number of continual days in excess of borrowing limit.
6 At 1 January 2018, mortgages other than UK and RoI were reported within other personal but at 31 December 2018 they are reported separately.
127 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary sector analysis audited Wholesale forbearance The table below summarises Wholesale forbearance, Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss by sector.
Personal forbearance is disclosed on page 132.
FI Property Sovereigns Other corporate Total 2018 m m m m m Forbearance flow 14 305 2,247 2,566 Forbearance stock 15 477 2,756 3,248 Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss 100 503 16 4,145 4,764 2017 Forbearance flow 11 417 1,473 1,901 Forbearance stock 14 764 3,067 3,845 Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss 144 739 4,183 5,066 Risk elements in lending The table below summarises risk elements in lending by segment on an IAS 39 basis.
Ulster Central UK Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest items PBB RoI Banking Banking International Markets & other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 2,372 3,513 1,946 105 109 2,264 1 10,310 Inter segment transfers 1,384 1,384 Currency translation and other adjustments 123 5 86 1 43 Additions 1,227 550 1,590 28 62 98 14 3,569 Transfers between REIL and potential problem loans 152 10 2 7 8 129 Transfer to performing book 294 336 283 33 12 1 959 Repayments and disposals 606 444 1,116 32 41 468 13 2,720 Amounts written-off 572 124 335 4 6 167 2 1,210 At 31 December 2017 1,975 3,282 3,196 95 103 253 8,904 Provisions The table below summarises provisions by segment on an IAS 39 basis.
Ulster Central UK Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest items PBB RoI Banking Banking International Markets & other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 1,537 1,200 845 31 38 803 1 4,455 Inter segment transfers 293 293 Currency translation and other adjustments 8 7 27 26 Repayments and disposals 5 5 Amounts written-off 572 124 335 4 6 167 2 1,210 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 117 12 16 1 10 156 Charges releases to income statement 235 60 362 6 3 137 1 530 Unwind of discount 37 25 12 1 1 10 86 At 31 December 2017 1,280 1,131 1,162 32 35 174 3,814 128 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary sector analysis audited Key points Geography The majority of exposures in both the Personal and ECL provision by stage and coverage The weight of ECL by value Wholesale portfolios were in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
was in Stage 3 impaired, with similar seen in both Personal and Other exposures in Europe and the Rest of the World were mainly Wholesale.
Provision coverage was progressively higher by stage Wholesale.
Mortgages, the vast majority of which are in the UK, reflecting the lifetime nature of losses in both Stage 2 and Stage 3. accounted for more than half of the total exposure.
In the Personal portfolio, provision coverage was materially lower in Asset quality Measured against RBSs asset quality scale, 54% of mortgages relative to credit cards and other personal reflecting the lending exposure was rated in the AQ1-AQ4 bands at 31 December secured nature of the facilities.
This equated to an indicative investment rating of BBBor and enterprise value mitigated against losses in Stage 3. above.
Specifically 59% of Personal and 48% of Wholesale lending The ECL charge for the year was 398 million.
This reflected the exposure were in the AQ1-AQ4 category respectively.
Loans by stage 90% of exposures were in Stage 1, with 8% in Other financial assets by asset quality Consisting almost entirely Stage 2 significantly credit deteriorated.
Stage 3 assets, which align of cash and balances at central banks and debt securities, these to AQ10, represented 2% of total exposures.
In line with assets were mainly within the AQ1-AQ4 category.
expectations, the Personal portfolio had a higher proportion of Off-balance sheet exposures by asset quality For Personal unsecured lending assets in Stage 2 than the mortgage portfolio.
In exposures, undrawn exposures are reflective of available credit the Wholesale portfolio, the proportion of assets in Stage 2 was lines in credit cards and current accounts.
Additionally, the slightly lower than in Personal overall.
mortgage portfolio had undrawn exposure, where a formal offer has Loans Past due analysis Stage 2: the vast majority of assets been made to a customer but has not yet been drawn down.
There overall were not past due, with the Stage 2 classification driven is also a legacy portfolio of flexible mortgages where a customer primarily by changes in lifetime PD.
For further detail, refer to the has the right and ability to draw down further funds.
The asset Significant increase in credit risk section.
In mortgages, the majority quality distribution in mortgages is heavily weighted to the highest of assets past due by more than 180 days were in Ulster Bank RoI quality bands AQ1-AQ4, with credit card concentrated in the risk reflecting the legacy mortgage portfolio and the residual effects from bands AQ5-AQ8.
In Wholesale, 83% of undrawn exposure, relating the financial crisis.
In other personal, the relatively high rate of mainly to loan commitments, was in the AQ1-AQ4 category.
exposures past due by more than 90 days reflected the fact that Forbearance Completed forbearance flow in 2018 for Wholesale impaired assets can be held on balance sheet with commensurate was 2.6 billion compared to 1.9 billion in 2017.
Forbearance ECL provision for up to six years after default.
Similarly in the granted in the transport sector increased to 493 million from 54 Wholesale portfolio, impaired assets can be held on the balance million, mainly driven by a customer which has been restructured sheet for a significant period of time while restructuring and and moved to Stage 2 from Stage 3 during the year.
Forbearance recovery processes are concluded.
across the diverse services sector increased from 347 million to Weighted average 12 months PDs In Wholesale, Basel PDs, 763 million.
Of the forbearance that completed during the year, which are based on a through-the-cycle approach, tend to be higher 1.1 billion related to payment concessions 2017 1.4 billion and than point-in-time best estimate IFRS 9 PDs, reflecting the current 1.4 billion related to non-payment concessions 2017 0.5 state in the economic cycle, and also an element of conservatism in billion.
Forbearance stock reduced by 0.6 billion, from 3.8 billion the regulatory capital framework.
In Personal, the Basel PDs, which to 3.2 billion, driven by a decrease in forborne exposure in the are point-in-time estimates, tend to be higher also reflecting energy and resources, property and retail and leisure sectors.
conservatism, higher in mortgages than other products, and an Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss Exposure element of default rate under-prediction in the IFRS 9 PD models.
decreased from 5.1 billion at 31 December 2017, to 4.8 billion at This has been mitigated by ECL overlays of approximately 60 31 December 2018.
There was also a decrease in the number of million at the year end, pending model calibrations being customers classified as Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit implemented.
The IFRS 9 PD for credit cards was higher than the Loss during the year.
Despite the current economic uncertainty in Basel equivalent and reflected the relative sensitivity of the IFRS 9 the UK, the portfolio has remained stable.
model to forward-looking economic drivers.
ECL provision by geography In line with exposures by geography, the weight of ECL related to exposures in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The ECL in RoI was mainly Stage 3 provisions in the legacy Ulster Bank RoI mortgage portfolio.
129 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Portfolio summary sector analysis audited The table below summarises both current and potential exposure by geographical region on an IAS 39 basis.
2 Includes exposures to central governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities.
3 Rest of world RoW also includes supranationals such as the World Bank and exposure relating to ocean-going vessels which cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a country risk perspective.
Loan asset quality The table below summarises asset quality and impairments by banks and customers on an IAS 39 basis.
Impairment AQ1-AQ4 AQ5-AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Past due Impaired provision Total 2017 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Banks 27.7 2.6 30.3 Customers 226.8 109.6 2.8 0.7 6.4 7.4 3.8 349.9 Loan sector concentration The table below summarises gross loans to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector, on an IAS 39 basis.
Past due analysis The table below summarises loans amortised cost to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but were not considered impaired.
2017 2017 Number of days m By sector m Past due 1-29 days 3,535 Personal 3,731 Past due 30-59 days 902 Property and construction 667 Past due 60-89 days 456 Financial institution 24 Past due 90 days or more 1,481 Other corporate 1,952 6,374 6,374 130 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Credit risk enhancement and mitigation audited The table below summarises exposures of modelled portfolios within the scope of the ECL framework and related credit risk enhancement and mitigation CREM.
Excluded from this analysis are the non modelled portfolios, primarily Private Banking and RBSI mortgage portfolios, which are discussed in the Personal portfolio section, including loan-to-value ratios.
Refer to Policy elections and simplifications relating to IFRS 9 section for details on non-modelled portfolios.
2 Other collateral includes guarantees, charges over trade debtors as well as the amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through netting arrangements, mainly cash management pooling, which give RBS a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
3 RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans amortised cost to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant and equipment, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
RBS obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Collateral values are capped at the value of the loan.
4 On personal, Stage 3 mortgage exposures have relatively limited uncovered exposure reflecting the security held.
On unsecured credit cards and other personal borrowing, the residual uncovered amount reflects historical experience of continued cash recovery post default through on-going engagement with customers.
5 Stage 3 exposures post credit risk enhancement and mitigation in wholesale mainly represent enterprise value and the impact of written down collateral values: an individual assessment to determine ECL will consider multiple scenarios and in some instances allocate a probability weighting to a collateral value in excess of the written down value.
6 At 31 December 2018, 0.3 billion personal Stage 3 balances primarily relate to loan commitments, the draw down of which is effectively prohibited.
The table below summarises financial asset exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements, as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
Exposure Collateral 1 post credit Gross IFRS Carrying Balance sheet Real estate and other Credit mitigation and exposure offset 5 value 6 offset 7 Cash 2 Securities 3 Residential 4 Commercial 4 enhancement 8 enhancement 2017 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 98.4 98.4 98.4 Trading assets 118.6 32.6 86.0 0.3 32.5 53.2 Derivatives 177.9 17.1 160.8 128.3 20.3 5.9 6.3 Settlement balances 3.2 0.7 2.5 2.5 Loans - amortised cost 334.1 12.5 321.6 27.9 0.9 11.2 174.2 45.0 2.1 60.3 Other financial assets 52.0 52.0 0.1 51.9 Total third party gross of short positions 784.2 62.9 721.3 156.5 21.2 49.6 174.2 45.1 8.4 266.3 Short positions 28.5 28.5 28.5 Net of short positions 755.7 62.9 692.8 156.5 21.2 49.6 174.2 45.1 8.4 237.8 Notes: 1 RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
2 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
3 Represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
4 Property valuations are capped at the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes ships and plan and equipment collateral.
5 Relates to offset arrangements that comply with IFRS criteria and transactions cleared through and novated to central clearing houses, primarily London Clearing House LCH and US Government Securities Clearing Corporation.
During 2017 changes in the legal contracts with LCH and CME led to many derivatives cleared through that counterparty being settled to market each day rather than being collateralised as previously.
This led to the derecognition of the associated assets and liabilities.
6 The carrying value on the balance sheet represents the maximum exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
7 The amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through arrangements, such as master netting agreements and cash management pooling, which give RBS a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
8 Comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees against exposures.
131 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Personal portfolio audited Disclosures in the Personal portfolio section include drawn exposure gross of provisions.
Loan-to-value LTV ratios are split by stage under IFRS 9 at 31 December 2018 and by performing and non-performing status under IAS 39 at 31 December 2017.
2 31 December 2018 data was prepared under IFRS 9.
31 December 2017 data was prepared under IAS 39.
For UK PBB this excludes a non-material amount of provisions held on relatively small legacy portfolios.
3 Excludes loans that are commercial in nature, for example loans guaranteed by a company and commercial real estate lending to Personal customers.
4 The reduction in RBSI forbearance is due to reclassification.
132 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Key points Regional mortgage analysis For UK PBB, 42% of mortgage lending Overall The overall credit risk profile of the Personal portfolio, was in Greater London and the South East 31 December 2017 and its performance against credit risk appetite, remained 43%.
The level of exposure in this region remained broadly stable during 2018. unchanged, reflecting lower demand for buy-to-let properties as well as Total lending Total mortgage lending grew by 1.2 billion with mortgage redemptions.
The weighted average loan-to-value for these new lending partly offset by redemptions and repayments.
regions was 52% 31 December 2017 51% compared to an average New mortgage lending was lower than 2017.
stock and new business were closely monitored against agreed Interest rate profile As at 31 December 2018, 81% of customers in risk appetite parameters.
These included loan-to-value ratios, the UK PBB mortgage portfolio were on fixed rates 42% on five-year buy-to-let concentrations, new-build concentrations and credit deals.
In addition, 97% of all new mortgage completions in 2018 were quality.
Underwriting standards were maintained during the fixed rate mortgages 62% of which were five-year mortgages, as period.
customers sought to minimise the impact of potential rate rises.
Owner occupied and buy-to-let Most of the mortgage growth Provisions As expected, total ECL including ECL for unsecured was in the owner-occupied portfolio.
New mortgages in the lending generally increased under the IFRS 9 methodology buy-to-let portfolio remained subdued.
compared to provisions calculated under IAS 39.
The reduction in LTVs The mortgage portfolio loan-to-value ratio remained Ulster Bank RoI mortgage provisions was driven by a sale of legacy stable.
The improvement in Ulster Bank RoI reflected house impaired debt.
price recovery and the disposal of a portfolio of mortgages Other lending Total unsecured lending grew modestly in 2018, driven during the year, which also contributed to the reduction in the by growth in the PBB personal loan portfolio.
Overdraft balances have level of exposures in Stage 3. shown a modest decline year-on-year.
Interest only By value, the proportion of mortgages on Other lending asset quality Unsecured credit quality remained stable, interest only and mixed terms capital and interest only reflecting active portfolio management.
Credit standards and controls reduced, driven by fewer buy-to-let mortgages.
were tightened across all three unsecured products to ensure that higher risk customer performance remained within risk appetite.
Personal portfolio audited Mortgage LTV distribution by stage The table below summarises gross mortgage lending and related ECL by LTV band.
Mortgage lending not within the scope of IFRS 9 ECL reflected portfolios carried at fair value.
2 ECL provisions coverage is ECL provisions divided by drawn exposure.
Key point ECL coverage rates increase through the LTV bands with both UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI having only limited exposures in the highest LTV bands.
The relatively high coverage level in the lowest LTV band for UK PBB included the effect of time-discounting on expected recoveries.
Additionally, this also reflected the modelling approach that recognised an element of expected loss on mortgages that are not subject to formal repossession activity.
The sector is reviewed regularly at senior executive committees.
Reviews include portfolio credit quality, capital consumption and control frameworks.
All disclosures in the CRE section are based on current exposure gross of provisions and risk transfer.
Current exposure is defined as: loans: the amount drawn under a credit facility plus accrued interest: contingent obligations: the issued amount of the guarantee or letter of credit: derivatives - the mark to market value, netted where netting agreements exist and net of legally enforceable collateral.
2 Residential properties including houses, flats and student accommodation.
3 Office properties including offices in central business districts, regional headquarters and business parks.
4 Retail properties including high street retail, shopping centres, restaurants, bars and gyms.
5 Industrial properties including distribution centres, manufacturing and warehouses.
6 Mixed usage or other properties that do not fall within the other categories above.
Mixed generally relates to a mixture of retail office with residential.
135 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Commercial real estate CRE CRE LTV distribution by stage audited The table below summarises CRE current exposure and related ECL by LTV band.
2 The exposure in Stage 3 mainly related to legacy assets.
3 Includes exposures relating to non-modelled portfolios and other exposures carried at fair value, including derivatives.
4 ECL provisions coverage is ECL provisions divided by current exposure.
5 Relates mainly to business banking, rate risk management products and unsecured corporate lending.
The low Stage 3 ECL provisions coverage was driven by a single large exposure, which has been written down to the expected recoverable amount.
6 Relates to the development of commercial and residential properties.
LTV is not a meaningful measure for this type of lending activity.
Key points audited Economics Fundamentals such as rental incomes, property Overall The majority of the CRE portfolio was managed in the UK values and investor occupier demand for other commercial subwithin Commercial Banking, Private Banking and UK PBB.
The sectors appeared more robust, however, all are exposed to some remainder was managed in Ulster Bank RoI and NatWest Markets.
degree to the risk of a disorderly exit from the EU.
Conditions for the Business appetite and strategy remain aligned across the mainstream residential sector remained resilient, supported by segments.
mortgage availability and high levels of employment.
However, the 2018 trends Growth in the commercial property market slowed higher value end of the market was characterised by low transaction during 2018. volumes.
Performance varied widely by sub-sector with strong growth from Risk appetite Lending criteria for commercial real estate were at industrials contrasting with material decline in parts of the retail conservative levels, contributing to materially reduced leverage for sector.
new origination in London offices and parts of the retail sector.
Credit quality The CRE retail portfolio had a low default rate, with a limited number of new defaults.
The sub-sector was monitored on a regular basis and credit quality was in line with the wider CRE portfolio.
136 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited The ECL flow statements analyse the key elements that drive the Changes in risk parameters captures the reassessment of the movement of ECL and related income statement over the reporting ECL within a given stage, including any ECL overlays and residual income statement gains or losses at the point of write-off or period.
The key themes are: accounting write-down.
The flow statements capture the changes in ECL as well as the Other P&L only items includes any subsequent changes in the changes in related financial assets used in determining ECL.
value of written-down assets for example, fortuitous recoveries Exposures in this section may therefore differ from those reported in along with other direct write-off items such as direct recovery costs.
other tables in the credit risk section, principally in relation to Note: other P&L only items only affects the income statement and exposures in Stage 1 and Stage 2.
These differences do not have a does not impact the balance sheet ECL movements.
Amounts written-off represent the gross asset written-down Financial assets presented in the flow statements include treasury against accounts with ECL, including the net asset write-down for liquidity portfolios, comprising balances at central banks and debt debt sale activity.
securities, as well as loans.
Both modelled and non-modelled portfolios are included.
There were small amounts of ECL flows from Stage 3 to Stage 1 during the year.
This does not however indicate that accounts can Inter-Group transfers were a feature of the ECL flows during 2018 return from Stage 3 to Stage 1 directly.
On a similar basis, flows as a result of ring-fencing related changes.
These transfers had no from Stage 1 to Stage 3 were observed, however this also included impact at a RBS Group-wide level.
legitimate transfers due to unexpected default events.
The small Stage transfers for example, exposures moving from Stage 1 to number of write-offs in Stage 1 and 2 reflect the effect of portfolio Stage 2 these transfers are a key feature of the ECL movements, debt sales and also staging at the start of the analysis period.
with the net re-measurement cost of transitioning to a worse stage The impact of model changes during 2018 were not material at a being a primary driver of income statement charges for the period RBS Group-wide level or on the portfolios disclosed below.
likewise there is an ECL benefit for accounts improving stage.
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL Group total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 419,038 262 29,637 621 10,595 3,565 459,270 4,448 Currency translation and other adjustments 1,820 6 88 17 50 11 1,958 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 18,416 52 18,416 52 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 13,723 228 13,723 228 Transfers to Stage 3 1,205 3 1,837 108 3,042 111 Transfers from Stage 3 1,272 16 1,523 163 2,795 179 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 207 247 447 487 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 34 74 36 144 Other changes in net exposure 6,312 29 6,716 32 1,633 85 2,037 88 Other P&L only items - primarily fortuitous recoveries 1 3 149 145 Income statement releases charges 143 292 249 398 Amounts written-off 3 3 28 28 1,463 1,463 1,494 1,494 Other movements 1 6 94 101 At 31 December 2018 422,541 297 27,360 772 7,796 2,327 457,697 3,396 Net carrying amount 422,244 26,588 5,469 454,301 The following flow statements provide insight into the material portfolios underpinning the Group flow statements.
Personal The following flow statements are at a portfolio level.
UK PBB - mortgages At 1 January 2018 124,180 11 10,621 64 1,353 157 136,154 232 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 4,928 1 4,928 1 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 4,245 15 4,245 15 Transfers to Stage 3 61 327 5 388 5 Transfers from Stage 3 7 235 23 242 23 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 15 11 17 13 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 4 51 55 Other changes in net exposure 4,228 970 6 257 14 3,001 20 Other P&L only items 1 6 5 Income statement releases charges 14 9 48 43 Amounts written-off 1 1 26 26 27 27 Other movements 2 35 37 At 31 December 2018 127,671 10 10,241 74 1,216 132 139,128 216 Net carrying amount 127,661 10,167 1,084 138,912 Key points The increase in Stage 3 ECL changes in risk parameters reflected Overall ECL reduction was primarily driven by business-as-usual the monthly assessment of the loss requirement, capturing write-offs in Stage 3. underlying changes in risk and forward-looking assessments.
Stage 1 ECL levels remained steady despite portfolio growth during Write-off of any residual shortfall following the sale of a repossessed 2018 as a result of modest PD reduction, with Stage 2 ECL showing property typically occurs within five years, although this period can an increase as a result of some additional forward-looking be longer, reflecting the ongoing support for customers who engage provisions being taken during the year.
Transfers from Stage 3 back to the performing book were higher than those in Personal unsecured lending, due to the higher cure activity typically seen in mortgages.
137 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL UK PBB - credit cards m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 2,841 52 997 94 105 75 3,943 221 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 739 15 739 15 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 763 50 763 50 Transfers to Stage 3 42 1 88 20 130 21 Transfers from Stage 3 1 1 2 1 3 2 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 38 66 68 96 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 15 4 19 Other changes in net exposure 192 2 343 17 45 106 19 Other P&L only items 3 1 11 9 Income statement releases charges 48 82 53 87 Amounts written-off 4 4 81 81 85 85 Other movements 1 6 7 At 31 December 2018 2,632 36 1,226 118 106 71 3,964 225 Net carrying amount 2,596 1,108 35 3,739 Key points ECL transfers from Stage 3 back to the performing book were Overall ECL increased primarily due to increased levels of Stage 2 relatively small as expected.
inflows in the first half of the year.
This was the result of activity to The amounts in other P&L only items mainly reflected cash calibrate and refine the criteria used to identify significant increase recoveries after write-off.
These benefited the income statement in credit risk, with underlying performance stable.
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 were higher than in other Amounts written-off primarily represented charge-offs analogous personal portfolios, primarily due to the ECL assessment period to write-off which typically occurs after 12 missed payments, and being reset when cards are re-issued.
UK PBB - other personal unsecured At 1 January 2018 4,518 46 1,790 164 705 582 7,013 792 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 1,452 18 1,452 18 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 733 42 733 42 Transfers to Stage 3 51 1 182 50 233 51 Transfers from Stage 3 2 15 4 17 4 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 34 110 114 190 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 2 58 1 59 Other changes in net exposure 1,325 19 363 11 104 7 858 1 Other P&L only items - primarily fortuitous recoveries 42 42 Income statement releases charges 13 157 64 208 Amounts written-off 2 2 9 9 322 322 333 333 Other movements 3 19 22 At 31 December 2018 5,073 54 1,970 239 495 394 7,538 687 Net carrying amount 5,019 1,731 101 6,851 Key points The portfolio continued to experience cash recoveries after writeOverall ECL reduction was mainly driven by debt sale activity and off, reported in other P&L only items primarily fortuitous business-as-usual write-offs in Stage 3, both reflected in amounts recoveries.
This benefited the income statement without affecting written-off.
Increases in Stage 2 reflected the underlying performance of recent Write-off occurs once recovery activity with the customer has been new business growth maturing.
Additionally, the ECL overlay for concluded and there are no further recoveries expected, but no economic uncertainty contributed to the uplift captured in changes later than six years after default.
138 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL UK PBB - business banking m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 6,505 29 684 29 268 224 7,457 282 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 691 4 691 4 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 366 12 366 12 Transfers to Stage 3 35 1 63 8 98 9 Transfers from Stage 3 2 2 9 2 11 4 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 12 24 43 55 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 6 2 11 15 Other changes in net exposure 156 3 57 3 36 23 63 17 Other P&L only items 31 31 Income statement releases charges 15 29 22 8 Amounts written-off 1 1 84 84 85 85 Other movements 1 1 2 At 31 December 2018 6,303 22 897 43 235 153 7,435 218 Net carrying amount 6,281 854 82 7,217 Key points The portfolio continued to experience cash recoveries after writeOverall ECL reduction was mainly driven by business-as-usual off, reported in other P&L only items.
This benefited the income write-offs in Stage 3. statement without affecting ECL.
Stage 2 ECL did increase during the year as a result of net Stage 2 Write-off occurs once recovery activity with the customer has been inflows from Stage 1, partly driven by PD model refinements concluded and there are no further recoveries expected, but no throughout the year.
later than five years after default.
UK PBB - commercial At 1 January 2018 6,771 6 595 11 126 57 7,492 74 Currency translation and other adjustments 1 1 Inter-Group transfers 71 1 5 77 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 781 2 781 2 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 389 6 389 6 Transfers to Stage 3 16 70 1 86 1 Transfers from Stage 3 1 25 26 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 4 10 19 25 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 4 4 Other changes in net exposure 886 1 123 1 62 6 1,071 8 Other P&L only items 2 1 1 Income statement releases charges 3 10 14 21 Amounts written-off 27 27 27 27 Other movements 1 1 At 31 December 2018 5,408 9 818 15 92 43 6,318 67 Net carrying amount 5,399 803 49 6,251 Key point Overall ECL reduced slightly during the year, with some modest Stage 1 and Stage 2 ECL increases being more than offset by Stage 3 write-offs, which was the key driver of the overall income statement charge for 2018.
139 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL Ulster Bank RoI - mortgages m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 10,650 8 1,532 72 3,167 881 15,349 961 Currency translation and other adjustments 94 12 1 15 3 121 4 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 344 1 344 1 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 414 7 414 7 Transfers to Stage 3 32 124 8 156 8 Transfers from Stage 3 4 245 36 249 36 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 6 4 11 1 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 3 1 23 21 Other changes in net exposure 4 188 2 630 14 822 12 Other P&L only items 2 2 28 28 Income statement releases charges 5 5 30 20 Amounts written-off 13 13 322 322 335 335 Other movements 20 20 At 31 December 2018 10,782 11 1,394 75 2,137 516 14,313 602 Net carrying amount 10,771 1,319 1,621 13,711 Key points The overall ECL reduction was driven by reduced ECL in Stage The reduction in Stage 2 exposures resulted from the portfolio 3, which was subject to significant debt sale activity in 2018 debt sale and decreasing stock of exposures meeting the highapproximately 0.9 billion of gross exposures were sold during risk backstop criteria.
This reflected ongoing improvements in the the year.
In addition to the debt sale activity, the reduction in ECL in Stage Write-off generally occurs once the repossessed property has 3 reflected ongoing improvements in underlying portfolio been sold and there is a residual shortfall balance remaining performance.
outstanding which has been deemed irrecoverable.
Wholesale Commercial Banking At 1 January 2018 84,228 58 9,056 106 3,735 1,156 97,019 1,320 Currency translation and other adjustments 367 47 1 29 4 443 5 Inter-Group transfers 2,106 1 92 375 14 2,573 15 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 8,224 9 8,224 9 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 5,911 52 5,911 52 Transfers to Stage 3 881 938 13 1,819 13 Transfers from Stage 3 1,056 11 937 89 1,993 100 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 57 13 160 116 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 46 8 41 95 Other changes in net exposure 4,274 1 2,748 19 489 40 7,511 60 Other P&L only items 1 8 7 Income statement releases charges 12 3 153 144 Amounts written-off 460 460 460 460 Other movements 10 10 At 31 December 2018 76,077 99 8,575 140 2,266 742 86,918 981 Net carrying amount 75,978 8,435 1,524 85,937 Key points Inter-Group transfers reflected the impact of transfers completed ECL reduced over the course of 2018 as write-offs outweighed in preparation of ring-fencing.
The reductions in net exposure ECL charges.
were also related to ring-fencing changes, where short-term Stage 3 charges were mainly driven by a charge on new to borrowing was renewed in other franchises.
default exposures where the ECL can increase significantly Release in Stage 1 was driven by a reduction in ECL for following an individual assessment.
exposures transferring from Stage 2 and Stage 3, which Stage 1 and Stage 2 changes to risk parameters largely reflected previously had a lifetime ECL but are now assessed for 12 month the increase in ECL for economic uncertainty and a change to the ECL.
forward-looking modelling approach for point-in-time PDs, where PDs now revert to long-run average after one year rather than five years.
140 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL NatWest Markets 1 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 9,089 2 1,276 42 456 190 10,821 234 Currency translation and other adjustments 252 22 2 3 3 277 1 Inter-Group transfers 3,590 4 1 374 14 3,960 15 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 393 393 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 318 28 318 28 Transfers to Stage 3 3 3 Transfers from Stage 3 35 35 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 26 5 21 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 5 4 1 Other changes in net exposure 19,902 8 669 8 4 6 19,229 6 Other P&L only items - primarily fortuitous recoveries 64 64 Income statement releases charges 23 1 70 92 Amounts written-off 89 89 89 89 Other movements At 31 December 2018 32,758 7 732 14 708 112 34,198 133 Net carrying amount 32,751 718 596 34,065 Note: 1 Reflects NatWest Markets segments and include NWM N. V.. Key points The release in Stage 1 was driven by a reduction in ECL on Stage 3 financial assets include 166 million 1 January 2018 exposures transferring from Stage 2, which previously had a 105 million purchased or originated credit impaired POCI lifetime ECL but are now assessed for 12 month ECL.
No ECL impairment was held on these positions and a The increase in Stage 1 exposure was due to a combination of 61 million impairment recovery was recognised on these POCI transfers and short-term borrowing to governments and central assets during 2018 included in other P&L only items primarily banks which are now in NatWest Markets following changes in fortuitous recoveries.
Stage 1 and Stage 2 changes to risk parameters largely reflected The portfolio experienced fortuitous recoveries, reported in other the increase in ECL for economic uncertainty, and a change to P&L only items primarily fortuitous recoveries.
This benefited the forward-looking modelling approach for point-in-time PDs, the income statement without affecting ECL.
where PDs now revert to long run average after one year rather than five years.
Private Banking At 1 January 2018 13,046 18 412 9 300 27 13,758 54 Currency translation and other adjustments 12 1 2 13 2 Inter-Group transfers 23 23 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 270 1 270 1 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 92 2 92 2 Transfers to Stage 3 60 8 68 Transfers from Stage 3 7 1 8 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 2 3 1 2 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 3 2 1 4 Other changes in net exposure 1,100 65 1 121 2 914 3 Other P&L only items 1 1 Income statement releases 5 1 6 Amounts written-off 7 7 7 7 Other movements 1 1 At 31 December 2018 13,950 14 519 10 232 19 14,701 43 Net carrying amount 13,936 509 213 14,658 Key points Exposure increased in Stage 1 reflecting growth in the portfolio ECL reduced due to a combination of write-offs and impairment primarily mortgages driven with minimal ECL impact due to high releases.
The majority of the release was in Stage 1, due to a reduction in loss rates for Retail exposures.
141 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Flow statements audited Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Financial Financial Financial Financial assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL assets ECL RBS International m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 8,652 5 385 5 118 28 9,155 38 Currency translation and other adjustments 98 2 2 1 98 1 Inter-Group transfers 1,834 95 1,929 Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 299 299 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 340 5 340 5 Transfers to Stage 3 14 11 25 Transfers from Stage 3 190 4 194 Net re-measurement of ECL on stage transfer 4 2 2 Changes in risk parameters model inputs 2 2 Other changes in net exposure 15,948 156 155 1 15,947 1 Other P&L only items 1 1 1 1 Income statement releases charges 3 3 2 2 Amounts written-off 9 9 9 9 Other movements At 31 December 2018 26,749 6 276 4 95 17 27,120 27 Net carrying amount 26,743 272 78 27,093 Key points The increases in exposure were partly due to new lending, but The reduction in ECL was driven by write-offs and Stage 3 mainly due to the establishment of a liquidity portfolio across impairment releases, both of which are primarily in the Spanish central and correspondent banks and sovereign bond holdings.
These exposures were in Stage 1 with very low credit risk and contribute minimal ECL.
142 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Stage 2 decomposition arrears status and contributing factors The tables below summarise Stage 2 decomposition for the Personal and Wholesale portfolios.
Also in line with expectations, accounts exhibiting PD deterioration have a higher ECL coverage than accounts in Stage 2 for other reasons.
Property Corporate FI Other Total Loans ECL Loans ECL Loans ECL Loans ECL Loans ECL 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m m m Wholesale Currently in arrears 30 DPD 255 7 315 5 1 571 12 Currently up-to-date 1,622 32 8,438 195 473 7 22 10,555 234 - PD deterioration 924 23 5,564 138 281 6 8 6,777 167 - Up-to-date, PD persistence 57 1 170 5 4 231 6 - Other driver forbearance, RoCL etc.
Coverage can vary across categories or sectors reflecting the individual characteristics of the customer and exposure type.
High risk back-stops, for example, forbearance, adverse credit bureau, provide additional valuable discrimination particularly on mortgages.
2 Includes customers who have accessed payday lending, interest only mortgages past end of term, a small number of mortgage customers on a highly flexible mortgage significantly behind their outline repayment plan and customers breaching risk appetite thresholds for new business acquisition.
On the RoI mortgage portfolio, this reflected customers who remained in probation following the conclusion of forbearance support, exposures breaching risk appetite thresholds for new business acquisition and exposures classified as non-performing exposures under EBA requirements.
3 Includes customers where a PD assessment cannot be undertaken due to missing PDs.
Key point The primary driver of credit deterioration was PD, which including persistence, accounted for 62% of Stage 2.
The Risk of Credit Loss framework accounted for a further 21% highlighting the importance of expert judgement being used to identify deterioration.
143 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Stage 3 vintage analysis The table below provides estimated vintage analysis of the material Stage 3 portfolios totalling 87% of the Stage 3 loans of 7.7 billion.
UK PBB Ulster RoI 2018 mortgages mortgages Wholesale Stage 3 loans bn 1.2 2.1 3.4 Vintage time in default : 1 year 26% 7% 22% 1-3 years 21% 12% 19% 3-5 years 14% 14% 9% 5-10 years 35% 63% 50% 10 years 4% 4% 100% 100% 100% Key points Internal asset Mortgages The proportion of the Stage 3 defaulted population quality band Probability of default range Indicative S&P rating who have been in default for over five years reflected RBSs AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA support for customers in financial difficulty.
When customers continue to engage constructively with RBS making regular AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AA to AApayments, RBS continues to support them.
RBSs provisioning AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to A approach retains customers in Stage 3 for a life-time loss provisioning calculation even when their arrears status reverts to AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB to BBBbelow 90 days past due.
AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB Wholesale The value of Stage 3 loans that have been impaired for 5-10 years was mainly due to customers being in a protracted AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BBto B formal insolvency process or subject to litigation or a complaints process.
AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC Asset quality audited Asset quality analysis is based on internal asset quality ratings which AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C have ranges for the probability of default.
Customers are assigned AQ10 100% D credit grades, based on various credit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for the customer type.
All credit grades across The mapping to the S&P ratings is used by RBS as one of several RBS map to both an asset quality scale, used for external financial benchmarks for its wholesale portfolios, depending on customer type reporting, and a master grading scale for wholesale exposures used and the purpose of the benchmark.
The mapping is based on all for internal management reporting across portfolios.
The table that issuer types rated by S&P.
It should therefore be considered follows details the relationship between internal asset quality AQ illustrative and does not, for instance, indicate that exposures bands and external ratings published by Standard & Poors S&P, for reported against S&P ratings either have been or would be assigned illustrative purposes only.
This relationship is established by observing S&Ps default study statistics, notably the one year default those ratings if assessed by S&P.
In addition, the relationship is not relevant for retail portfolios, smaller corporate exposures or specialist rates for each S&P rating grade.
A degree of judgement is required to corporate segments given that S&P does not typically assign ratings relate the probability of default ranges associated with the master to such entities.
grading scale to these default rates given that, for example, the S&P published default rates do not increase uniformly by grade and the historical default rate is nil for the highest rating categories.
144 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Asset quality audited The table below summarises asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL by stage for the Personal portfolio.
Key points The majority of exposures were in AQ1-AQ4, with a significant ECL provisions coverage shows the expected trend with increased proportion in AQ5-AQ8.
As expected, mortgage exposures have a coverage in the poorer asset quality bands, and also by stage.
higher proportion in AQ1-AQ4 than unsecured borrowing.
The relatively high level of Stage 3 impaired assets AQ10 in RoI mortgages reflected their legacy mortgage portfolio and the residual effects from the financial crisis.
In other personal, the relatively high level of exposures in AQ10 reflected the fact that impaired assets can be held on balance sheet with commensurate ECL provision for up to six years after default.
145 Capital and risk management Credit risk Banking activities continued Asset quality audited The table below summarises asset quality bands of gross loans and ECL by stage for the Wholesale portfolio.
differed reflecting the diverse nature of differing sectors.
48% of Wholesale lending exposure was in the AQ1-AQ4 band.
Credit risk Trading activities This section covers the credit risk profile of RBSs trading activities.
Security funding transactions and collateral audited The table below captures securities funding transactions in NWM and Treasury.
All transactions that are outside netting arrangements are in NWM.
The master netting agreements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS 9.
A significant proportion more than 90% of the derivatives relate to trading activities in NatWest Markets, the table below also includes hedging derivatives in Treasury.
2 Transactions with certain counterparties with whom RBS has netting arrangements but collateral is not posted on a daily basis: certain transactions with specific terms that may not fall within netting and collateral arrangements: derivative positions in certain jurisdictions for example China where the collateral agreements are not deemed to be legally enforceable.
3 Transactions with securitisation vehicles and funds where collateral posting is contingent on RBSs external rating.
4 Mainly large corporates with whom RBS may have netting arrangements in place, but operational capability does not support collateral posting.
5 Sovereigns and supranational entities with one-way collateral agreements in their favour.
147 Capital and risk management Credit risk Trading activities continued Derivatives: settlement basis and central counterparties audited The table below summarises the derivative notional and fair value by trading and settlement method.
Notional Asset Liability Traded over the counter Traded on Settled Not settled Traded on Traded Traded on Traded recognised by central by central recognised over the recognised over the exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counter exchanges counter 2018 bn bn bn bn m m m m Interest rate 1,642 5,952 2,942 10,536 96,410 90,444 Exchange rate 4 3,422 3,426 36,545 38,230 Credit 16 16 346 208 Equity and commodity 1 1 48 15 Total 1,646 5,952 6,381 13,979 133,349 128,897 2017 Interest rate 1,506 7,400 3,110 12,016 120,945 112,160 Exchange rate 4 3,421 3,425 39,211 41,681 Credit 38 38 531 558 Equity and commodity 3 3 156 1 106 Total 1,510 7,400 6,572 15,482 160,843 1 154,505 Debt securities audited The table below summarises debt securities held at mandatory fair value through profit or loss by issuer as well as ratings based on the lowest of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
A significant proportion more than 95% of these positions are trading securities in NatWest Markets.
Exposures comprise loans and advances, including finance leases and instalment credit receivables, and other monetary assets, such as debt securities.
The geographical breakdown is based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of ultimate risk.
Cross border exposures include non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents but exclude exposures to local residents in local currencies.
The table below sets out cross border exposures greater than 0.5% of RBSs total assets.
place 100% probability of the following have taken place: default and an internal asset RBS considers that the customer is Assets that are defaulted are shown as credit quality grade of AQ10 were unlikely to pay its credit obligations impaired.
RBS uses 90 days past due as a classed as non-performing.
without recourse by the institution to consistent measure for default across all product actions such as realising security: classes.
The population of credit impaired Impaired financial assets were assets is broadly consistent with IAS 39, though The customer is past due more those for which there was measurement differs because of the application objective evidence that the than 90 days.
Assets that were categorised as amount or timing of future cash potential problems with no impairment provision flows had been adversely For Personal exposures, the definition are now categorised as Stage 3. impacted since initial of default may be applied at the level recognition.
of an individual credit facility rather than in relation to the total obligations of a borrower.
Probability of PD is the likelihood of default assessed on the Regulatory PDs adjusted to The likelihood that a customer will fail default PD prevailing economic conditions at the reporting point in time metrics were used to make full and timely repayment of date point in time, adjusted to take into account in the latent provision credit obligations over a one year time estimates of future economic conditions that are calculation.
likely to impact the risk of default: it will not equate to a long run average.
For Wholesale, PD models reflect losses that would arise through-thecycle: this represents a long run average view of default levels.
For Personal, the prevailing economic conditions at the reporting date pointin-time are used.
Significant A framework incorporating both quantitative and Not applicable.
increase in qualitative measures aligned to the Groups credit risk current risk management framework has been SICR established.
Credit deterioration will be a management decision, subject to approval by governing bodies such as the Provisions Committee.
The staging assessment requires a definition of when a SICR has occurred: this moves the loss calculation for financial assets from a 12 month horizon to a lifetime horizon.
Management has established an approach that is primarily informed by the increase in lifetime probability of default, with additional qualitative measures to account for assets where PD does not move, but a high risk factor is determined.
ForwardThe evaluation of future cash flows, the risk of Financial asset carrying values Not applicable.
looking and default and impairment loss should take into based upon the expectation of multiple account expectations of economic changes that future cash flows.
More than one outcome should be considered to ensure that the resulting estimation of impairment is not biased towards a particular expectation of economic growth.
149 Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Key IFRS 9 terms and differences to the prior IAS accounting standard and regulatory framework audited Attribute IFRS 9 IAS 39 Regulatory CRR Loss given LGD is a current assessment of the amount that Regulatory LGD values were An estimate of the amount that will default LGD will be recovered in the event of default, taking often used for calculating not be recovered in the event of account of future conditions.
It may occasionally collective and latent default, plus the cost of debt equate to the regulatory view albeit with provisions: bespoke LGDs collection activities and the delay in conservatism and downturn assumptions were also used.
LGD is a downturn generally removed.
based metric, representing a prudent view of recovery in adverse economic conditions.
Exposure at Expected balance sheet exposure at default.
It Based on the current drawn Models are used to provide estimates default EAD differs from the regulatory method as follows: balance plus future committed of credit facility utilisation at the time drawdowns.
of a customer default, recognising It includes the effect of amortisation: and that customers may make further It caps exposure at the contractual limit.
drawings on unused credit facilities prior to default or that exposures may increase due to market movements.
EAD cannot be lower than the reported balance sheet, but can be reduced by a legally enforceable netting agreement.
Date of initial The reference date used to assess a significant Not applicable for impairment Not applicable.
recognition increase in credit risk is as follows.
Term but defined as the date when lending: the date the facility became available to the entity becomes a party to the customer.
Wholesale revolving products: the the contractual provisions of date of the last substantive credit review the instrument.
typically annual or, if later, the date facility became available to the customer.
Retail Cards: the account opening date or, if later, the date the card was subject to a regular three year review or the date of any subsequent limit increases.
Current accounts overdrafts: the account opening date or, if later, the date of initial granting of overdraft facility or of limit increases.
Modification A modification occurs when the contractual cash Modification was not Not applicable.
flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or separately defined but otherwise modified and the renegotiation or accounting impact arose as an modification does not result in derecognition.
A EIR adjustment on changes modification requires immediate recognition in that were not derecognition or the income statement of any impact on the impairment events.
carrying value and effective interest rate EIR or examples of modification events include forbearance and distressed restructuring.
The financial impact is recognised in the income statement as an impairment release loss.
150 Capital and risk management Market risk Compliance with ring-fencing regulations resulted in the split of nonRBS is exposed to non-traded market risk through its banking activities traded market risk management responsibility for NatWest Holdings and to traded market risk through its trading activities.
Non-traded and and its subsidiaries from non-ring-fenced companies.
traded market risk exposures are managed separately.
As a result, Changes in accounting treatment under IFRS 9, which took effect each type of market risk is discussed separately.
The non-traded from 1 January 2018, had an impact on the way certain non-traded market risk section begins below.
The traded market risk section market risk exposures are calculated.
Some structured loans were begins on page 157. recognised at fair value through the profit and loss on transition to IFRS 9.
However, this exposure had declined by the end of the Pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer to page year, mainly due to asset disposals.
160 for more information on risk related to pensions.
Risk governance Non-traded market risk Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling Definition market risk arising from non-trading activities lies with the relevant Non-traded market risk is the risk to the value of assets or liabilities business.
Oversight is provided by the independent Risk function.
outside the trading book, or the risk to income, that arises from changes in market prices such as interest rates, foreign exchange Risk positions are reported monthly to the Executive Risk Committee rates and equity prices, or from changes in managed rates.
and quarterly to the Board Risk Committee, as well as to the Asset & Liability Management Committee monthly in the case of interest rate, The following disclosures in this section are audited: credit spread and accounting volatility risks and quarterly in the case of foreign exchange and equity risks.
Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk Equity risk.
Sources of risk Risk appetite RBSs non-traded market risk exposure is largely managed in line with RBSs qualitative appetite is set out in the non-traded market risk the following key categories: interest rate risk: credit spread risk: appetite statement.
foreign exchange risk: equity risk: and accounting volatility risk.
Its quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of value-at-risk VaR, Interest rate risk stressed value-at-risk SVaR, sensitivity and stress limits, and Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR arises from the provision to earnings-at-risk limits.
These limits comprise both board risk measures customers of a range of banking products with differing interest rate which are approved by the RBS Board on the recommendation of the characteristics.
When aggregated, these products form portfolios of Board Risk Committee and key risk measures, which are approved by assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity to changes in the Asset & Liability Management Committee.
Mismatches can give rise to volatility in net interest income as interest rates vary.
NTIRR comprises three primary The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business risk types: gap risk, basis risk and option risk.
plans, portfolio composition and the market and economic environments.
Credit spread risk Credit spread risk arises from the potential adverse economic impact To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS remains of a change in the spread between bond yields and swap rates, where within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels have been set the bond portfolios are accounted at fair value through equity.
Foreign exchange risk For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 92.
Non-traded foreign exchange risk arises from two main sources: Structural foreign exchange risk arises from the capital deployed Risk controls in foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint arrangements and related For information on risk controls, refer to page 92. currency funding where it differs from sterling.
Non-trading book foreign exchange risk arises from customer transactions and profits and losses that are in a currency other than Risk monitoring and mitigation the functional currency of the transacting operation.
Interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the following categories: Equity risk Gap risk arises from the timing of rate changes in non-trading Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and reserves book instruments.
The extent of gap risk depends on whether arising from changes in the values of equity positions.
Equity changes to the term structure of interest rates occur consistently exposures may arise through strategic acquisitions, venture capital across the yield curve parallel risk or differentially by period noninvestments and certain restructuring arrangements.
Basis risk captures the impact of relative changes in interest rates Accounting volatility risk for financial instruments that have similar tenors but are priced Accounting volatility risk arises when an exposure is accounted for at using different interest rate indices, or on the same interest rate amortised cost but economically hedged by a derivative that is indices but with different tenors.
accounted for at fair value.
Although this is not an economic risk, the Option risk arises from option derivative positions or from optional difference in accounting between the exposure and the hedge creates elements embedded in assets, liabilities and or off-balance sheet volatility in the income statement.
items, where RBS or its customer can alter the level and timing of their cash flows.
Option risk also includes pipeline risk.
Key developments in 2018 Interest rates rose in 2018 but remained low by historical standards.
Due to the long-term nature of many retail and commercial portfolios The UK base rate rose from 0.5% to 0.75% in August 2018.
The and their varied interest rate repricing characteristics and maturities five-year swap rate was 1.22% at 31 December 2018 compared to net interest income is likely to vary from period to period, even if 0.98% at 31 December 2017. interest rates remain the same.
New business originated in any period Sterling weakened against the US dollar and slightly against the will alter RBSs interest rate sensitivity if the resulting portfolio differs euro over the year.
The persistence of low interest rates and weaker sterling partly reflected uncertainty over Brexit.
151 Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued minimised where, for a given currency, the ratio of the structural open position to RWAs equals the CET1 ratio.
from portfolios originated in prior periods, depending on the extent to which exposure has been hedged.
To manage exposures within appetite, RBS aggregates its interest rate positions and hedges these The sensitivity of this ratio to exchange rates is monitored monthly and externally using cash and derivatives primarily interest rate swaps.
reported to the Asset & Liability Management Committee at least quarterly.
Foreign exchange exposures arising from customer Credit spread risk transactions are sold down by businesses on a regular basis in line with RBS policy.
RBSs bond portfolios primarily comprise high-quality securities maintained as a liquidity buffer to ensure RBS can continue to meet its obligations in the event that access to wholesale funding markets is Equity risk Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the income and restricted.
Additionally other high-quality bond portfolios are held for collateral purposes and to support payment systems.
reserves arising from changes in equity valuations.
Any such risk is identified prior to any investments and then mitigated through a framework of controls.
Credit spread risk is monitored daily through sensitivities and VaR measures.
The dealing authorities in place for the bond portfolios further mitigate the risk by imposing constraints by duration, asset Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are referred to the Acquisitions & Disposals Committee.
Once approved by class and credit rating.
Exposures and limit utilisations are reported to senior management on a daily basis.
the Acquisitions & Disposals Committee for execution, such transactions are referred for approval to the Board, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer or as Foreign exchange risk otherwise required.
Decisions to acquire or hold equity positions in the The only material non-traded open currency positions are the structural foreign exchange exposures arising from investments in non-trading book that are not of a strategic nature, such as customer restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with delegated foreign subsidiaries, branches and associates and their related authority under the credit approval framework.
These exposures are assessed and managed to predefined risk appetite levels under delegated authority from the Accounting volatility risk Asset & Liability Management Committee.
RBS seeks to limit the Accounting volatility can be mitigated through hedge accounting.
The potential volatility impact on its CET1 ratio from exchange rate movements by maintaining a structural open currency position.
Gains profit and loss impact of the derivatives can be mitigated by marking or losses arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas the exposure to market.
However, volatility will remain in cases where accounting rules mean that hedge accounting is not an option.
operations are recognised in equity reserves and reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising Accounting volatility risk is reported to the Asset & Liability from the retranslation of  RWAs.
Sensitivity is Management Committee monthly and capitalised as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
Risk measurement The market risk exposures arising as a result of RBSs retail and commercial banking activities are measured using a combination of valuebased metrics VaR and sensitivities and earnings-based metrics, as explained in greater detail for each of the exposure types discussed in this section.
The following table presents one-day internal banking book VaR at a 99% confidence level, split by risk type.
2 RBS benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Structural foreign exchange rate VaR peaked in H1 2018.
The VaR Key points audited measures the residual spot sensitivity of the CET1 ratio to On average, non-traded VaR remained broadly unchanged year on exchange rate movements.
CET1 ratio sensitivity to the sterling US year.
dollar exchange rate increased in May when foreign exchange rate The main component of the VaR is credit spread risk.
VaR peaked options were exercised to hedge additional US dollar liabilities that at year-end, mainly driven by higher volatility in credit spreads due were recognised when the agreement in principle with the US to economic uncertainty that affected the UK Gilts portfolio.
Department of Justice was reached.
Interest rate VaR peaked in January driven by the impact of transition to IFRS 9 on interest rate exposure in the structured loan portfolio.
It subsequently declined, driven by additional hedging put in place during H1 2018 and asset disposals during H2 2018.
152 Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Structural hedging RBS has the benefit of a significant pool of stable, non and low interest-bearing liabilities, principally comprising equity and money transmission accounts.
These balances are usually hedged, either by investing directly in longer-term fixed-rate assets such as fixed-rate mortgages or UK government Gilts or by using interest rate swaps, which are generally booked as cash flow hedges of floating-rate assets, in order to provide a consistent and predictable revenue stream.
After hedging the net interest rate exposure externally, RBS allocates income to equity or products in structural hedges by reference to the relevant interest rate swap curve.
Over time, this approach has provided a basis for stable income attribution to products and interest rate returns.
The programme aims to track a time series of medium-term swap rates, but the yield will be affected by changes in product volumes and RBSs capital composition.
The table below presents the incremental income allocation above three-month LIBOR, total income allocation including three-month LIBOR, the period end and average notional balances and the total yield including three-month LIBOR associated with the structural hedges managed by RBS.
2018 2017 Incremental Total Period end Average Total Incremental Total Period end Average Total income income notional notional yield income income notional notional yield m m bn bn % m m bn bn % Equity structural hedging 469 672 29 29 2.33 628 703 28 28 2.48 Product structural hedging 368 1,104 110 108 1.02 680 1,027 107 101 1.02 Other structural hedges 89 167 22 22 0.77 147 165 21 20 0.83 Total 926 1,943 161 159 1.22 1,455 1,895 156 149 1.27 Equity structural hedges refer to income allocated primarily to equity and reserves.
This includes NatWest Markets Plc and NatWest Holdings.
Product structural hedges refer to income allocated to customer products, for example current accounts, in NatWest Holdings.
Other structural hedges refer to hedges managed by the subsidiaries Private Banking, Ulster Bank Limited, UBIDAC and RBSI.
A significant proportion of Other structural hedges are euro-denominated.
The table below presents the incremental income associated with product structural hedges at segment level.
2018 2017 m m UK Personal & Business Banking 242 440 Commercial Banking 124 235 Other 2 5 Total 368 680 Key points The incremental income from the structural hedge was lower than Compliance with ring-fencing regulations during H2 2018 resulted in that in 2017 primarily due to the increase in three-month LIBOR a split of the equity structural hedge between NatWest Holdings and during 2018.
The overall yield of the hedge was relatively stable.
Approximately 6 billion of the equity hedge was Five-year and ten-year sterling swap rates at 31 December 2018 allocated to NWM Plc in 2018. were 1.22% and 1.35%, respectively.
Equity structural hedges Additionally, as a result of ring-fencing legislation, RBSI is not able amortise over ten years whilst product hedges amortise over five to hedge with NatWest Holdings.
Instead of placing hedges with years.
Other structural hedges also amortise over five years except NatWest Holdings Treasury, RBSI now hedges its structural a small proportion of RBSIs hedge which amortises over ten years.
exposure with bonds, primarily UK government Gilts.
153 Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Interest rate risk NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or It includes any mismatch between structural hedges and stable non earnings-based perspective, or a combination of the two.
Value-based and low interest-bearing liabilities such as equity and money approaches measure the change in value of the balance sheet assets transmission accounts as regards their interest rate repricing and liabilities over a longer timeframe, including all cash flows.
Earnings-based approaches measure the potential short-term generally one-year impact on the income statement of changes in Sensitivity of net interest earnings interest rates.
Net interest earnings are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates because changes to coupons on some customer products do not RBS uses VaR as its value-based approach and sensitivity of net always match changes in market rates of interest or central bank interest income NII as its earnings-based approach.
These two approaches provide different yet complementary views of Earnings sensitivity to rate movements is derived from a central the impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a point in time.
A simplified scenario is shown below The scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate based on the period-end balance sheet assuming that non-interest business assumptions and simulated modifications in customer rate variables remain constant.
Market-implied forward rates are used behaviour as interest rates change.
In contrast, the VaR approach to generate the base case earnings forecast, which is then subject to assumes static underlying positions and therefore does not provide a interest rate shocks.
The variance between the central forecast and dynamic measurement of interest rate risk.
In addition, while NII the shock gives an indication of underlying sensitivity to interest rate sensitivity calculations are measured to a 12-month horizon and thus movements.
provide a shorter-term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the VaR approach can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity analysis, in The sensitivity of net interest earnings table shows the expected particular the impact of duration and repricing risk on earnings beyond impact, over 12 months, to an immediate upward or downward change 12 months.
of 25 and 100 basis points to all interest rates.
Yield curves are expected to move in parallel though interest rates are assumed to floor Value-at-risk at zero per cent or, for euro rates, at the current negative rate.
VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income statement over a The main driver of earnings sensitivity relates to interest rate passspecified time horizon at a given confidence level.
through assumptions on customer products.
The scenario also captures the impact of the reinvestment of maturing structural hedges RBSs standard VaR metrics which assume a time horizon of one at higher or lower rates than the base-case earnings sensitivity and trading day and a confidence level of 99% are based on interest rate mismatches in the repricing dates of loans and deposits.
repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate moves are modelled using observations from the last 500 business days.
These incorporate However, reported sensitivities should not be considered a guide to customer products plus associated funding and hedging transactions future performance.
They do not capture potential management action as well as non-financial assets and liabilities.
Behavioural assumptions in response to sudden changes in the interest rate environment.
Actions that could reduce NII sensitivity and mitigate adverse impacts are changes in pricing strategies on customer loans and deposits as The non-traded interest rate risk VaR metrics for RBSs retail and well as hedging.
Management action may also be targeted at commercial banking activities are included in the banking book VaR stabilising total income taking into account non-interest income in table on page 153.
The VaR captures the risk resulting from addition to NII.
mismatches in the repricing dates of assets and liabilities.
Parallel shifts in yield curve 25 basis points -25 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points 2018 m m m m Euro 29 3 114 1 Sterling 152 201 651 717 US dollar 15 8 63 42 Other 1 2 2 3 Total 197 210 830 757 2017 Euro 13 8 53 11 Sterling 151 218 664 504 US dollar 14 13 58 49 Other 4 7 Total 178 243 775 571 Key point Net interest earnings sensitivity to a 100-basis-point downward shift in yield curves rose in 2018 compared to 2017.
In the shock scenarios, rates fell further at 31 December 2018 than at 31 December 2017 before hitting an assumed zero per cent floor on interest rates.
This was mainly due to rises in short-term cash rates since December 2017, which increased the impact of the rate shock.
This effect was not seen in the 25-basis-point downward shift as most rates remain above zero per cent after the interest rate shock.
154 Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued The tables below show the net interest earnings sensitivity on a one-year, two-year and three-year forward-looking basis to a parallel upward or downward shift in interest rates of 25 basis points.
The projection is a simplified sensitivity in which the balance sheet is assumed to be constant, with no change in customer behaviour or margin management strategy as a result of rate changes.
The benefit of structural hedges increases or decreases as maturing hedges are reinvested over the three-year period.
25 basis points parallel upward shift -25 basis points parallel downward shift Year 1 Year 2 1 Year 3 1 Year 1 Year 2 1 Year 3 1 2018 m m m m m m Structural hedges 32 98 170 32 98 167 Managed margin 2 150 171 170 177 189 163 Other 15 2 Total 197 269 340 210 287 330 2017 Structural hedges 33 100 171 33 99 171 Managed margin 2 153 170 178 220 137 121 Other 8 10 Total 178 270 349 243 236 292 Notes: 1 The projections for Year 2 and Year 3 consider only the main drivers of earnings sensitivity, namely structural hedging and margin management.
2 Primarily current accounts and savings accounts.
Sensitivity of fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements.
RBS holds most of the bonds in its liquidity portfolio at fair value.
Valuation changes that are not hedged or not in effective hedge accounting relationships are recognised in FVOCI reserves.
This is a component of credit spread risk.
Interest rate swaps are used to implement the structural hedging programme and also hedging of some personal and commercial lending portfolios, primarily fixed rate mortgages.
Generally these swaps are booked in hedge accounting relationships.
Changes in the valuation of swaps that are in effective cash flow hedge accounting relationships are recognised in cash flow hedge reserves.
The table below shows the sensitivity of FVOCI reserves and cash flow hedge reserves to a parallel shift in all rates.
In this analysis, interest rates have not been floored at zero.
Hedges are assumed to be fully effective.
Hedge ineffectiveness would be expected to result in a portion of the reserve gains or losses shown below being recognised in P&L instead of reserves.
Hedge ineffectiveness P&L is monitored and the effectiveness of cash flow and fair value hedge relationships are regularly tested in accordance with IFRS requirements.
Note that a movement in the FVOCI reserve would have an impact on CET1 capital but a movement in the cash flow hedge reserve would not be expected to do so.
Volatility in both reserves affects tangible net asset value.
25 basis points -25 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points 2018 m m m m FVOCI reserves 55 55 220 216 Cash flow hedge reserves 318 323 1,250 1,315 Total 373 378 1,470 1,531 2017 FVOCI reserves 41 42 164 167 Cash flow hedge reserves 443 448 1,744 1,819 Total 484 490 1,908 1,986 Key points The sensitivity of the cash flow hedge reserve to interest rate movements fell in 2018.
In part this reflected an increase in customer demand for longer fixed rates on mortgage products.
Customers increasingly opted to fix mortgage rates for five years.
This reduced the requirement for five-year interest rate swaps.
The increase in FVOCI reserve sensitivity was driven by the increase in the bonds held in liquidity portfolios due to the establishment of the NatWest Markets Plc liquid asset buffer as a result of ring-fencing implementation.
155 Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Foreign exchange risk audited The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures.
Net investments in Net Structural foreign Residual structural Net investments in Non-controlling foreign operations investment currency exposures Economic foreign currency foreign operations interests NCI 1 excluding NCI hedges pre-economic hedges hedges 2 exposures 2018 m m m m m m m US dollar 553 553 4 549 549 Euro 6,428 33 6,395 853 5,542 5,542 Other non-sterling 2,600 710 1,890 1,249 641 81 560 Total 9,581 743 8,838 2,106 6,732 630 6,102 2017 US dollar 766 766 14 752 752 Euro 7,160 61 7,099 342 6,757 2,224 4,533 Other non-sterling 2,493 645 1,848 930 918 453 465 Total 10,419 706 9,713 1,286 8,427 3,429 4,998 Notes: 1 Non-controlling interests NCI represents the structural foreign exchange exposure not attributable to owners equity.
2 Economic hedges of US dollar net investments in foreign operations represent US dollar equity securities that do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes.
They provide an offset to structural foreign exchange exposures to the extent that there are net assets in overseas operations available.
Economic hedges of other currency net investments in foreign operations represent monetary liabilities that are not booked as net investment hedges.
Key points Euro economic hedges reduced as a result of the redemption of The main driver of the reduction in structural foreign currency equity securities.
exposures was lower net investment in eurozone subsidiaries as a Changes in exchange rates affect equity in proportion to structural result of the 1.5 billion dividend paid by UBI DAC to NatWest foreign currency exposures.
At 31 December 2018, a 5% Holdings Limited during Q1 2018.
The reduction in US dollar strengthening in all foreign currencies against sterling results in a exposures reflected the impact of the agreement with the US 0.4 billion increase in equity reserves, while a 5% weakening in all Department of Justice in relation to RMBS conduct fines.
foreign currencies against sterling results in a 0.3 billion reduction in equity reserves.
Equity risk audited Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
If market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
The table below shows the balance sheet carrying value of non-traded book equity positions.
2018 2017 m m Exchange-traded equity 41 41 Private equity 303 243 Other 87 136 431 420 The exposures may take the form of i equity shares listed on a recognised exchange, ii private equity shares defined as unlisted equity shares with no observable market parameters or iii other unlisted equity shares.
2018 2017 m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 23 82 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital 153 60 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on FVOCI instruments only.
156 Capital and risk management Traded market risk Risk monitoring and mitigation Definition Traded market risk is identified and assessed by gathering, analysing, Traded market risk is the risk arising from changes in fair value on monitoring and reporting market risk information at desk, business, positions, assets, liabilities or commitments in trading portfolios as a franchise and RBS-wide levels.
Industry expertise, continued system developments and techniques such as stress testing are also used to result of fluctuations in market prices.
enhance the effectiveness of the identification and assessment of all The following disclosures in this section are audited: material market risks.
Traded VaR 1-day 99% Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A daily Sources of risk report summarising the position of exposures against limits at RBS, Traded market risk mainly arises from RBSs trading activities.
These franchise, business and desk levels is provided to senior management activities provide a range of financing, risk management and and market risk managers across the function.
Limit reporting is investment services to clients including corporations and financial supplemented with regulatory capital and stress testing information as institutions around the world.
From a market risk perspective, well as ad hoc reporting.
activities are focused on rates: currencies: securitised products: and traded credit.
RBS undertakes transactions in financial instruments A risk review of trading businesses is undertaken weekly with senior including debt securities, as well as securities financing and risk and front office staff.
This includes a review of profit and loss derivatives.
drivers, notable position concentrations and other positions of concern.
All material traded market risk resides in NatWest Markets.
The key Business profit and loss performance is monitored automatically categories are interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign currency through loss triggers which, if breached, require a remedial action plan price risk.
to be agreed between the Market Risk function and the business.
The loss triggers are set using both a fall-from-peak approach and an Trading activities may also give rise to counterparty credit risk.
In addition, regular updates on traded market risk further detail refer to the Credit risk section on page 111. positions are provided to the Executive Risk Committee and Board Key developments in 2018 Risk Committee.
Geopolitical risk resulted in periods of market volatility during the Risk measurement audited year.
This mainly related to threats of a trade war between China RBS uses VaR, SVaR and the incremental risk charge to measure and the US, elections in Italy and negotiations on a Brexit deal.
Risks that are not adequately captured by VaR or European interest rates remained at low levels, although the Bank SVaR are captured by the Risks Not In VaR RNIV framework to of England and US Federal Reserve continued raising rates.
ensure that RBS is adequately capitalised for market risk.
In addition, Traded VaR fluctuated throughout 2018, reflecting political stress testing is used to identify any vulnerabilities and potential losses developments and geopolitical risk, but remained broadly in excess of VaR and SVaR.
unchanged on an average basis compared to 2017.
The key inputs into these measurement methods are market data and Risk governance risk factor sensitivities.
Sensitivities refer to the changes in trade or Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling portfolio value that result from small changes in market parameters market risk arising from trading activities lies with the relevant trading that are subject to the market risk limit framework.
Oversight is provided by the Market Risk function.
Traded are used in place of sensitivities to capture the impact of large moves market risk positions are reported monthly to the Executive Risk in risk factors or the joint impact of two risk factors.
Committee and quarterly to the Board Risk Committee.
Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk management These methods have been designed to capture correlation effects and framework.
allow RBS to form an aggregated view of its traded market risk across risk types, markets and business lines while also taking into account Risk appetite the characteristics of each risk type.
RBSs qualitative appetite for traded market risk is set out in the traded market risk appetite statement.
Quantitative appetite is expressed in Value-at-risk terms of exposure limits.
The limit framework at RBS level comprises For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time horizon value-at-risk VaR and stressed value-at-risk SVaR.
More details on of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
these are provided on the following pages.
The internal VaR model which captures all trading book positions The limit framework at trading unit level also comprises additional including those products approved by the regulator is based on a metrics specific to the market risk exposures within its scope.
These historical simulation, utilising market data from the previous 500 days additional metrics aim to control various risk dimensions such as on an equally-weighted basis.
product type, exposure size, aged inventory, currency and tenor.
For The model also captures the potential impact of interest rate risk: each trading business, a document known as a dealing authority credit spread risk: foreign currency price risk: equity price risk: and compiles details of all applicable limits and trading restrictions.
The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business When simulating potential movements in such risk factors, a plans, portfolio composition and the market and economic combination of absolute, relative and rescaled returns is used.
To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS remains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels Testing of the performance and adequacy of the VaR model is done have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, action on a regular basis through the following processes: plans are developed by the relevant business and the Market Risk Back-testing Internal and regulatory back-testing is conducted on function and implemented.
For information on internal back-testing, refer to page 159.
For more detail on risk appetite, refer to page 92.
Ongoing model validation VaR model performance is assessed Risk controls both regularly and on an ad-hoc basis if market conditions or For information on risk controls, refer to page 92. portfolio profile change significantly.
Model Risk Management review As part of the model lifecycle, all risk models including the VaR model are independently reviewed to ensure the model is still fit for purpose given current market conditions and portfolio profile.
157 Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued One-day 99% traded internal VaR Traded VaR 1-day 99% The table below shows one-day 99% internal VaR for RBSs trading portfolios, split by exposure type.
Key points Although traded VaR fluctuated throughout 2018 as explained The peaks in January, May and July were largely related to bond earlier, it remained broadly unchanged year-on-year on both an syndication activity and, in the case of January, long euro rates.
158 Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued stripping out fees and commissions, brokerage, and additions to and VaR back-testing releases from reserves not directly related to market risk.
The main approach employed to assess the VaR models ongoing The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Actual P&L excluding any intra-day performance is back-testing, which counts the number of days when a activities.
loss exceeds the corresponding daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level.
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the Actual or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such an event Two types of profit and loss P&L are used in back-testing may be caused by a large market movement or may highlight issues comparisons: Actual P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
such as missing risk factors or inappropriate time series.
Any such The Actual P&L for a particular business day is the firms actual P&L in issues identified are analysed and addressed through appropriate respect of trading activities, including intraday activities, adjusted by remediation or development action.
Both Actual and Hypo back-testing exceptions are monitored.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for the 250-business-day period to 31 December 2018 for one-day 99% traded internal VaR compared with Actual and Hypo P&L for the major NatWest Markets businesses.
Back-testing exceptions Actual Hypo Rates 4 8 Currencies 4 Credit Key points The exceptions in the Currencies business were mainly due to Statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing exceptions 1% of the time over the 250-day period.
The exceptions in the Rates business were mainly driven by the increased volatility connected with large market movements due to political uncertainty in Italy and Spain.
Model validation Stressed VaR SVaR RBS uses a variety of models to manage and measure market risk.
As with VaR, the SVaR methodology produces estimates of the These include pricing models used for valuation of positions and risk potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a specified models for risk measurement and capital calculation purposes.
They time horizon, at a given confidence level.
SVaR is a VaR-based are developed and approved in NatWest Markets, with material measure using historical data from a one-year period of stressed models subject to independent review by Model Risk Management.
For further detail on the independent model validation carried out by Model Risk Management refer to page 93.
Information relating to A simulation of 99% VaR is run on the current portfolio for each 250- pricing and market risk models is presented below.
day period from 2005 to the current VaR date, moving forward one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst VaR outcome of the simulated Pricing models results.
Pricing models are developed by a dedicated first line team, in conjunction with the trading desk.
The models are used to value This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day positions for which prices are not directly observable as well as for the historical data set.
A time horizon of ten trading days is assumed with risk management of the portfolio.
Any pricing models that are used as a confidence level of 99%.
the basis for valuing portfolios and records are subject to approval and The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book positions.
oversight by asset-level modelled product review committees.
These committees comprise representatives of the trading, finance, market Period-end Period-end risk, model development and model review functions.
Approval 2018 2017 m m requires review and approval by these stakeholders as well as Model 10-day 99% traded internal SVaR 161 172 Risk Management.
Key point The review process includes the following steps: Traded SVaR remained broadly unchanged.
The committees prioritise models for review by Model Risk Management, considering the materiality of the risk booked against Risks not in VaR RNIVs the model and an assessment of the degree of model risk, which is The RNIV framework is used to identify and quantify market risks that the valuation uncertainty arising from the choice of modelling are not fully captured by the internal VaR and SVaR models.
Model Risk Management quantifies the model risk, which may RNIV calculations form an integral part of ongoing model and data include comparing the model outputs with those of alternative improvement efforts to capture all market risks in scope for model models developed by Model Risk Management.
The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are validated.
For quantitative disclosures on RNIVs, refer to the Market Risk section The conclusions of the review are used to inform risk limits and by the Finance function to inform model reserves.
Risk models Stress testing For information on stress testing, refer to page 93.
All model changes are approved through model governance committees at franchise level.
Changes to existing models are subject Incremental risk charge IRC to Model Risk Management review.
RBS follows regulatory guidance The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and default for assessing the materiality of extensions and changes to the internal events on the market value of instruments with embedded credit risk model approach for market risk.
In addition to Model Risk in particular, bonds and credit default swaps held in the trading book.
Managements independent oversight which provides additional It further captures basis risk between different instruments, maturities assurance that RBS holds appropriate capital for the market risk to and reference entities.
which it is exposed the model testing team monitors the model performance for market risk through back-testing and other processes.
159 Capital and risk management Pension risk Definition Pension obligation risk is the risk to RBS caused by its contractual or Risk monitoring and measurement other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension scheme whether Pension risk reports are submitted to the Executive Risk Committee established for its employees or those of a related company or and the Board Risk Committee four times a year in the Risk otherwise.
It is also the risk that RBS will make payments or other Management Quarterly Report.
contributions to, or with respect to, a pension scheme because of a moral obligation or because RBS considers that it needs to do so for RBS also undertakes stress tests and scenario analyses on its some other reason.
material defined benefit pension schemes each year.
These tests are also used to satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies such as the Bank Sources of risk of England.
The stress testing framework includes pension risk capital RBS has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit schemes calculations for the purposes of the Internal Capital Adequacy worldwide.
The Main section of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Assessment Process as well as additional stress tests for a number of Pension Fund the Main section is the largest source of pension risk internal management purposes.
with 43.8 billion of assets and 35.5 of liabilities at 31 December 2018 2017 44.7 billion assets and 37.9 billion liabilities.
Further The results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on RBSs detail on RBSs pension obligations, including sensitivities to the main balance sheet, income statement and capital position are incorporated risk factors, can be found in Note 5 on the consolidated accounts.
into the overall RBS stress test results.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates Risk mitigation and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity of The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest rate scheme members and legislation.
Pension scheme assets vary with risks, both by investing in suitable financial assets and by entering into changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main section also uses exchange rates, and equity and property prices.
RBS is exposed to the derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset risk that the schemes assets, together with future returns and classes and to manage risk within asset classes.
The contribution additional future contributions, are insufficient to meet liabilities as they made to the Main section also facilitated a 6 billion reduction in fall due.
In such circumstances, RBS could be obliged or might quoted equity exposure and an increase in interest rates and inflation choose to make additional contributions to the schemes, or be hedging in 2018. required to hold additional capital to mitigate this risk.
Compliance & conduct risk Key developments in 2018 Definition Compliance risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS towards A Memorandum of Understanding between RBS and the Trustee of customers fails to comply with laws, regulations, rules, standards and the Main section was reached in April 2018, which enabled RBS to codes of conduct.
Such a failure may lead to breaches of regulatory bring the pension scheme into alignment with ring-fencing rules and requirements, organisational standards or customer expectations and reduce exposure to pension risk.
could result in legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or RBS made a 2 billion contribution to the Main section in H2 2018 reputational damage.
and it was agreed this could be followed by up to a further 1.5 billion of dividend linked contributions to be paid from 2020, capped Conduct risk is the risk that the conduct of RBS and its subsidiaries at 500 million per year.
and its staff towards customers or in the markets in which it operates The contribution to the scheme facilitated a reduction in the risk leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes and results in profile of the fund, principally the sale of approximately 6 billion of reputational damage, financial loss or both.
quoted equity exposure and the purchase of further interest rate and inflation hedging.
Sources of risk Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of RBSs Risk governance relationships with its customers and arise from a variety of activities The Pension Committee is chaired by the RBS Chief Financial Officer.
including product design, marketing and sales, complaint handling, It receives its authority from the Group Executive Committee and staff training, and handling of confidential insider information.
As set formulates RBSs view of pension risk.
The Pension Committee is a out in Note 27 on the consolidated accounts, RBS and certain key component of RBSs approach to managing pension risk and it members of staff are party to legal proceedings and are subject to reviews and monitors risk management, asset strategy and financing investigation and other regulatory action in the UK, the US and other issues on behalf of RBS.
It also considers investment strategy jurisdictions.
Key developments in 2018 For further information on Risk governance, refer to page 91.
An enhanced compliance and conduct risk framework was developed, setting minimum standards for the management and Risk appetite measurement of compliance and conduct risks across RBS.
RBS maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in its pension funds.
RBS has an annually reviewed pension risk appetite statement Enhanced product monitoring and reporting was introduced.
incorporating defined metrics against which risk is measured.
RBS Controls, systems and processes were revised to ensure undertakes regular pension risk monitoring and reporting to the Board, compliance with the UKs ring-fencing rules.
the Board Risk Committee and the Pension Committee on the material PPI remediation continued in advance of the FCAs August 2019 pension schemes that RBS has an obligation to support.
deadline for claims refer to Note 20 on the consolidated accounts.
Work to address legacy GRG complaints continued.
The process Risk controls closed to new complaints in the UK on 22 October 2018.
A pension risk management framework is in place to provide formal Product and pricing continued to be simplified for new and existing controls for pension risk reporting, modelling, governance and stress customers.
A pension risk policy, which sits within the RBS policy framework, is also in place and is subject to associated framework Risk governance controls.
RBS defines appropriate standards of compliance and conduct and ensures adherence to those standards through its risk management framework.
160 Capital and risk management Compliance & conduct risk continued assessment: and improved monitoring controls and enhanced Risk appetite investigation processes the journey of improvement continues.
Risk appetite for compliance and conduct risks is set at Board level.
Risk governance RBS Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that legal Financial crime risk is principally governed through the Financial Crime entities, franchises and functions work within when pursuing their Risk Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial strategic objectives and business plans.
The committee reviews and, where appropriate, escalates material risks and issues to the Group Executive Risk Risk controls Committee and the Group Board Risk Committee.
RBS operates a range of controls to ensure its business is conducted in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements, as well as Risk appetite delivering good customer outcomes.
A suite of policies addressing RBS has no appetite to operate in an environment where systems and compliance and conduct risks set appropriate standards across RBS.
controls do not enable RBS to identify, assess, monitor, manage and Examples of these include the Complaints Management Policy, Client mitigate financial crime risk.
RBSs systems and controls must be Assets & Money Policy, and Product Lifecycle Policy as well as comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity policies relating to customers in vulnerable situations, cross-border of its businesses.
RBS has no tolerance to systematically or activities and market abuse.
Continuous monitoring and targeted repeatedly breach relevant financial crime regulations and laws.
assurance is undertaken, as appropriate.
Risk controls RBS operates a framework of preventative and detective controls Risk monitoring and measurement designed to ensure RBS mitigates the risk that it could facilitate Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed through financial crime.
These controls are supported by a suite of policies, continuous assessment and reporting to RBSs senior risk committees procedures and detailed instructions to ensure they operate effectively.
Risk monitoring and measurement The compliance and conduct risk framework facilitates the consistent Financial crime risks are identified and reported through continuous monitoring and measurement of compliance with laws and regulations risk management and regular monthly reporting to RBSs senior risk and the delivery of consistently good customer outcomes.
Quantitative and qualitative data is reviewed and assessed to measure whether financial crime risk is The first line of defence is responsible for effective risk identification, within the Groups risk appetite.
reporting and monitoring, with oversight, challenge and review by the second line.
Compliance and conduct risk management is also Risk mitigation integrated into RBSs strategic planning cycle.
Through the financial crime framework, RBS employs relevant policies, systems, processes and controls to mitigate financial crime risk.
This Risk mitigation would include the use of dedicated screening and monitoring controls Activity to mitigate the most-material compliance and conduct risks is to identify people, organisations, transactions and behaviours which carried out across RBS with specific areas of focus in the customermight require further investigation or other actions.
RBS ensures that facing franchises and legal entities.
Examples of mitigation include centralised expertise is available to detect and disrupt threats to the consideration of customer needs in business and product planning, Group and its customers.
Intelligence is shared with law enforcement, targeted training, complaints management, as well as independent regulators and government bodies to strengthen national and assurance activity.
Internal policies help support a strong customer international defences against those who would misuse the financial focus across RBS.
Independent assessments of compliance with system for criminal motives.
applicable regulations are also carried out at a legal entity level.
Operational risk Financial crime Definition Definition Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed Financial crime risk is the risk presented by criminal activity in the form internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
It arises of money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every aspect of the sanctions and tax evasion.
It does not include fraud risk management.
Sources of risk Sources of risk Financial crime risk may be presented if RBSs employees, customers Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, or third parties undertake or facilitate financial crime, or if RBSs systems, transactions and assets appropriately.
This can take the form products or services are used to facilitate such crime.
Financial crime of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or on time, risk is an inherent risk across all of RBSs lines of business.
the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of customer Key developments in 2018 data.
Fraud and theft as well as the increasing threat of cyber In March 2018, the Federal Reserve Board terminated a Cease & attacks are sources of operational risk, as is the impact of natural Desist Order originally imposed in July 2011 for financial crime and man-made disasters.
Operational risk can also arise from a failure compliance weaknesses identified across RBSs US businesses to account for changes in law or regulations or to take appropriate and concerns about the level of oversight that the RBS Board of measures to protect assets.
Directors had over large and complex US operations.
The termination of the Order followed a multi-year programme of work to establish an enhanced governance and oversight framework, risk management programme and compliance programme.
In October 2018, the Federal Reserve Board terminated a Cease & Desist Order originally imposed in December 2013.
The Order, which related to RBS Group and RBS plcs historical compliance with Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC economic sanctions regulations, was terminated following a multi-year programme of work to establish a robust, sustainable OFAC Sanctions compliance framework.
While the financial crime governance framework was strengthened during 2018 along with the introduction of enhanced control effectiveness assurance processes, enhancements to existing risk assessment models, the introduction of a new Anti-Tax Evasion risk 161 Capital and risk management Operational riskcontinued Key developments in 2018 Risk controls The Control Environment Certification CEC process is a half yearly Risk provided oversight of several bank-wide programmes including self-assessment by the CEOs of RBSs franchises and business units, the Transformation portfolio, structural reform, European as well as the heads of the support and control functions, providing a Commission EC State Aid obligations and Brexit preparations.
view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control Key corporate structural reform milestones were delivered, including environment in a consistent and comparable manner.
In line with ringthe implementation of the Financial Services Markets Act Part VII fencing requirements, from H2 2018 certificates were also produced and migration activities to separate the ring-fence bank from the non for the following legal entities: NatWest Holdings Limited: NatWest ring-fenced bank.
Markets Plc: The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited: Ulster RBS is well positioned to deliver the activities required to support Bank Ireland DAC: and Coutts and Co. the Business Banking Switch Scheme that is due to commence in 2019, as part of the Groups final EC State Aid obligation.
CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, including RBS has established an Innovation Risk Oversight team to provide financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as supporting bank-wide oversight of its innovation portfolio to help deliver safely risk management frameworks.
The CEC outcomes, including forwardand at pace.
looking assessments for the next two half-yearly cycles and progress RBS continued to review its well established incident management on control environment improvements, are reported to the Board, and coordination procedures to manage the persistent and evolving Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee.
They are also nature of information and cyber security risks.
Internal security improvement programmes and controls were developed and strengthened to protect RBS and its customers.
RBS The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the RBS Policy uses proactive threat management and intelligence processes to Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning internal identify, manage and mitigate credible threats.
control over financial reporting as referenced in the Compliance report on page 84, and certain requirements of the UK Corporate RBS continued to reduce and simplify its technology estate through Governance Code.
strategic investment and Technology transformation initiatives to limit opportunities for hackers and fraudsters.
Improvements in Risk monitoring and measurement capability were also made to the Security Operations Centre, Risk and control assessments are used across all business areas and strengthening controls to prevent data leakage, enhance malware support functions to identify and assess material operational and defences and management of user access to key systems.
conduct risks and key controls.
All risks and controls are mapped to The number of critical customer impacting incidents that RBS RBSs Risk Directory.
Risk assessments are refreshed at least experiences continues to reduce year-on-year.
There were 17 such annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture any emerging incidents in 2018 compared to 20 in 2017. risks, with associated trigger processes to ensure risks are reassessed Internal training programmes ensure all employees are aware of the at key periods of change.
threats facing RBS and remain vigilant to unauthorised attempts to access systems and data.
The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed and prioritised in line with risk appetite.
Controls are tested at the Risk governance appropriate frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and A strong operational risk management function is vital to support operate effectively.
RBSs ambitions to serve its customers better.
Improved management RBS uses the standardised approach to calculate its Pillar 1 of operational risk against defined appetite directly supports the operational risk capital requirement.
This is based on multiplying three strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder confidence and is vital years average historical gross income by coefficients set by the for stability and reputational integrity.
regulator based on business line.
As part of the wider Internal Capital The Operational Risk function, which is the second line of defence, Adequacy Assessment Process an operational risk economic capital delivers a robust operational risk management framework and culture model is used to assess Pillar 2A, which is a risk-sensitive add-on to across RBS.
The model uses historical loss data internal and external and forward-looking scenario analysis that is provided by Operational Risk The Operational Risk function is responsible for the execution and to provide a risk-sensitive view of RBSs P2A capital requirement.
continuous improvement of the operational risk management framework.
Scenario analysis is used to assess how extreme but plausible operational risks will affect RBS.
It provides a forward-looking basis for The Operational Risk Executive Committee OREC is responsible for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
reviewing operational risk exposure: identifying and assessing both Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for operational current and emerging material operational risks: reviewing and risk capital requirement figures.
monitoring the operational risk profile: and reviewing and approving material operational risk policy changes.
Event and loss data management The operational risk event and loss data management process Risk appetite ensures RBS captures and records operational risk financial and non Operational risk appetite supports effective management of material financial events that meet defined criteria.
Loss data is used for operational risks.
It expresses the level and types of operational risk regulatory and industry reporting and is included in capital modelling RBS is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives and when calculating economic capital for operational risk.
serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised process to all The Group-wide operational risk appetite statement encompasses the senior management, by way of a Group Notifiable Event Process.
full range of operational risks faced by its legal entities, franchises and functions.
A subset of the most material risk appetite measures are defined as board risk measures, which are those that, should the limit be breached, would impact on the ability to achieve business plans and threaten stakeholder confidence.
162 Capital and risk management Operational riskcontinued Percentage and value of events All financial impacts associated with an operational risk event are At 31 December 2018, events aligned to the clients, products and reported against the date they were recorded in RBSs financial business practices event category accounted for 98% of RBSs accounts.
A single event can result in multiple losses or recoveries operational risk losses compared to 93% in 2017.
The increase that may take time to crystallise.
Losses and recoveries with a financial reflected new or additional conduct-related provisions recorded during accounting date in 2018 may relate to events that occurred, or were 2018, most notably the US Department of Justice mortgage-backed identified in, prior years.
RBS purchases insurance against specific securities-related settlement.
losses and to comply with statutory or contractual requirements.
Value of events Volume of events 1 m Proportion Proportion 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fraud 19 28 1% 2% 74% 74% Clients, products and business practices 2 1,552 1,264 98% 93% 15% 12% Execution, delivery and process management 12 58 1% 4% 10% 9% Employment practices and workplace safety 1 5 1% 1% 5% 1,584 1,355 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes: 1 The calculation in the table above is based on the volume and value of events the proportion and cost of operational risk events to RBS where the associated loss is more than or equal to 10,000.
2 2017 losses have been restated from 732 million following finalisation of material MBS-related settlements.
Key developments in 2018 Operational resilience As part of its requirement by UK law to separate its everyday RBS manages and monitors operational resilience through its risk and banking services from its investment banking by 1 January 2019 control assessments methodology.
As challenges to operational known as ring-fencing RBS made a number of changes to the resilience become more demanding, given a hostile cyber environment way its business was structured.
Certain Personal & Business and a greater focus on serving customers through digital platforms, Banking businesses and Commercial Banking businesses of The RBS is working with supervisory authorities in the UK to ensure the Royal Bank of Scotland plc transferred to Adam & Company PLC provision of its products and services can be maintained regardless of and National Westminster Bank Plc.
The role of issuer under the the cause of disruption.
covered bond programme transferred to National Westminster This is underpinned by setting, monitoring and testing tolerances for Bank Plc.
"Adam & Company PLC was renamed ""The Royal Bank key business services, which define the amount of disruption that of Scotland plc"", and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc was renamed could be tolerated."
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc superseded the prior issuer former RBS plc in respect of Risk mitigation banknotes.
Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and detective controls, an integral step in the risk assessment methodology which RBS also restructured the NatWest Markets Plc former RBS plc determines residual risk exposure.
Control owners are accountable for capital structure.
The shares in NatWest Holdings Limited, which the design, execution, performance and maintenance of key controls.
owns the ring-fenced sub-group, were distributed to RBS.
This Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and tested for separated the ring-fenced sub-group from the non-ring-fenced effectiveness.
The results are monitored and, where a material change entities, as required by ring-fencing legislation.
RBS also in performance is identified, the associated risk is re-evaluated.
transferred the customer interest rate and foreign exchange Business risk derivatives business of National Westminster Bank Plc to NatWest Definition Markets Plc.
Business risk is the risk that RBS does not have a strategy that is RBS reached a civil settlement in principle with the US Department sufficiently well defined to provide clarity on its long-term ambitions to of Justice in relation its investigation into RBSs issuance and key internal and external stakeholders, or that it is not able to execute underwriting of US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities upon its chosen strategy as communicated to the market, regulators RMBS between 2005 and 2007, resulting in a 1.0 billion and other key stakeholders.
The risk is that RBS does not deliver its additional provision.
expected business performance which could give rise to a UK Government Investments Limited announced the successful deterioration in stakeholder trust and confidence and or a breach of completion of the disposal of part of HM Treasury's shareholding in regulatory thresholds.
RBS may not be able to execute its chosen The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, representing approximately strategy if there are material changes to RBSs internal or external 7.7% of the ordinary share capital of the Group.
shareholding in RBS now represents 62.3% of the Groups ordinary share capital.
Sources of risk Business risk arises as a result of RBSs exposure to the macroOn 17 April 2018 RBS agreed a Memorandum of Understanding economy including economic and political factors, the competitive MoU with the Trustees of the RBS Group Pension Fund in environment, regulatory and technological changes.
In addition, connection with the requirements of ring-fencing.
NatWest Markets internal factors such as the ability to deliver complex change, volatility Plc cannot continue to be a participant in the Main section and in sales volumes, input costs, and other operational risks affect RBSs separate arrangements are required for its employees.
Under the ability to execute its chosen strategic business plan as intended and MoU NatWest Bank made a contribution of 2 billion on 9 October thus contribute to business risk.
2018 to strengthen funding of the Main section in recognition of the changes in covenant.
163 Capital and risk management Business risk continued Key developments in 2018 RBS declared an interim ordinary dividend of 2 pence per share Metrics were reviewed and enhanced to help measure reputational the first since September 2008. risk across the Group.
Risk appetite positions for countries and sectors identified as Risk governance presenting heightened reputational risk continued to be reviewed The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk and for and strengthened.
approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic direction.
Risk governance RBSs strategic planning process is managed by Strategy and A reputational risk policy supports reputational risk management Corporate Development.
The Risk and Finance functions are key across RBS.
Reputational risk committees in PBB, CPB, RBSI, Ulster contributors to strategic planning.
Bank RoI and NatWest Markets review relevant issues at an individual Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk lies franchise or entity level, while the Group Reputational Risk Committee primarily with the franchises, with oversight by the Finance function.
which has delegated authority from the Executive Risk Committee The franchises are responsible for delivery of their business plans and opines on cases, issues, sectors and themes that represent a material the management of such factors as pricing, sales volumes, marketing reputational risk to the Group.
The Board Risk Committee oversees expenditure and other factors that can introduce volatility into earnings.
the identification and reporting of reputational risk.
The Sustainable Banking Committee has a specific focus on environmental, social and Risk appetite ethical issues.
Risk Appetite defines the level and types of risk it is willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives and business plans.
RBS Risk appetite articulates its appetite for business risk through the implementation of RBS manages and articulates its appetite for reputational risk through qualitative risk appetite statements and quantitative risk measures at a qualitative reputational risk appetite statement and quantitative franchise and function level.
These statements and measures help measures.
RBS seeks a continued improvement in the identification, determine the level and types of business risk RBS is willing to accept.
assessment and management of customers, transactions, products and issues that present a material reputational risk.
Risk controls For information on risk controls, refer to page 92.
Risk monitoring and measurement Business risk is identified and managed at the product and transaction Risk monitoring and measurement level.
Estimated revenue, costs and capital are key considerations in Primary reputational risk measures are in place to assess internal the design of any new product or in any new investment decision.
activity relating to the management of reputational risk, including Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every training.
A number of secondary risk measures including measures governance level within the organisation.
Each franchise monitors its also used in the management of operational, conduct and financial financial performance relative to plans and reports this on a regular risks are used to assess relevant external factors.
Quarterly reports basis to the finance directors of each franchise.
on performance against these measures are provided to the Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Risk mitigation RBS operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to identify Risk mitigation projected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, and ensures Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance appropriate actions are taken.
framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early identification, Reputational risk assessment and escalation of material issues.
Definition Reputational risk is the risk to RBSs public image from a failure to The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to originate meet stakeholders expectations in relation to performance, conduct or from historical and more recent conduct issues.
As a result, RBS has business profile.
Stakeholders include customers, investors, been the subject of investigations and reviews by a number of employees, suppliers, government, regulators, special interest and regulators and governmental authorities, some of which have resulted consumer groups, media and the general public.
in fines, settlements and public censure.
Refer to the Litigation, investigations and reviews section of Note 27 on the consolidated Sources of risk accounts.
Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees: customer activities and the sectors and countries in which they operate: provision of products and transactions: as well as operations and infrastructure.
