28 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has a sound risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood of risks arising and the consequences of them doing so, and subsequently manage the actions necessary in order to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels.
The Board reviews risks on an ongoing basis throughout the year.
Specifically the Board assesses the Groups principal risks through assessment of a risk register described below, taking the strength of the Groups control systems into account.
Risk overview The key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy are shown below and demonstrate the interaction between the Board and divisional The effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and management teams in ensuring effective risk management is applied across the uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of successfully delivering the Groups activities.
The Risk management and internal control section of the Audit Committee report on page 77 includes further information on the Any material control issues, serious accidents or major commercial, financial or specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate risks that could reputational issues, or the identification of new risks, are reported to the Board have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of and or Audit Committee as appropriate.
operations and for monitoring risk management and internal control systems.
Risk review process The Groups risk management framework provides a consistent methodology by which the businesses, divisions, the Group Executive and ultimately the Board A formalised process of risk identification is undertaken annually at a divisional assess the risks that the Group faces against a defined set of probability and level, assessing the impact of external and internal risks against a defined impact criteria.
set of probability and impact criteria.
These risks are evaluated in terms of their potential impact and likelihood, and mitigating actions are considered.
Risk management responsibilities Management then consolidates the divisional risk information at a Group level using risk registers, culminating in the Group risk assessment.
The Group The responsibility for risk management rests ultimately with the Board.
Executive reviews the Group risk assessment and considers relevant controls However, the approach is instilled in the Groups culture which encourages and other steps taken to mitigate the risks identified and the assurance effective collaboration.
The flat management structure means that the Group procedures in place over such controls.
There is a monitoring process for any Executive is actively involved in ensuring adherence to the Groups risk further actions arising from this review in order to reduce the levels of risk to management policies and procedures, including risk identification, evaluation acceptable levels.
The risk assessment is submitted for review and approval by and mitigation actions.
the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, THE governance, performance, BOARD internal controls and risk management Monitors compliance Reviews effectiveness with the Groups internal of the risk management control systems framework and internal Management GROUP controls on behalf of Engages with Internal AUDIT INTERNAL of the business EXECUTIVE the Board Controls Committee COMMITTEE AUDIT and delivery TEAM to ensure internal of strategy Oversees effectiveness controls and risk of the Groups internal management processes audit function operate effectively Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation actions and monitoring compliance with THE internal controls and procedures at the operational level of the business DIVISIONAL & BUSINESS Reviews the risk management framework to identify risk trends and recommend actions MANAGERS Oversight and delivery of project level risk management activities Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Strategic Report Risk heat map Polymer Physical Key Contaminated price risks customers supplies availability Funding Business Economic Integration of Competitors and financial interruption cycle acquisitions risks Environmental legislation developments Low Probability High The Board continues to monitor the potential risks such as: foreign exchange Risk profile volatility, an economic slowdown in the UK and the imposition of trade tariffs The Group operates in both packaging and non-packaging business associated with the decision for the UK to leave the European Union.
There is environments and across a number of geographies in which risks and still no clear view on the impact that the UK leaving the European Union uncertainties exist, not all of which are necessarily within the Groups control.
will have on the Groups operations.
The economic slowdown and exposure The risks identified in this Annual Report are those that were of most concern to foreign exchange volatility are already included in the principal risks.
to the business in the current year.
The principal risks identified as affecting the With respect to trade risks RPC is relatively well placed to deal with these as a Group are largely unchanged from the previous year, with the addition of one significant amount of its products are manufactured outside of the UK and its new principal risk regarding developments in packaging legislation and adverse remaining businesses can generally withstand periods of economic volatility due publicity regarding plastic waste on the environment.
The risk assessments to their robust market positions.
Therefore whilst the risk relating to trade tariffs relating to polymer price and availability as well as business interruption and the is considered to be a Group risk it is not currently thought to be a principal risk.
loss of essential supplies have reduced to low.
The directors have taken account of the Groups principal risks in assessing prospects when considering whether there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
Low Impact High 30 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED not shown below.
Accordingly this summary is not intended to be exhaustive.
Principal risks and uncertainties The categories of principal risks High, Medium, Low are unchanged from The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken to the previous year and changes in risk profile within these categories is mitigate such risks and uncertainties are summarised below.
In addition principal risks are linked to the Groups The risks identified do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face, as strategic objectives.
the Group risk register shows a number of lower categorised risks which are Assessment Area of risk Description of risk Mitigation change movement Polymer resin is the key raw The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer 1.
Polymer Risk: Medium price and material used in the manufacture price changes to its customers through contractual Change: Reducing availability of plastic products.
Polymer prices terms, providing an effective hedge against Remains a significant driver of margin can be volatile as they are impacted movements in polymer price albeit with a time lag.
variability for most of the Groups by changes in global supply and businesses.
The Group also continues to reduce its dependence demand, as well as tending to on individual polymer suppliers by adapting its follow the underlying price of oil.
Link to Strategy: manufacturing to convert a wider range of polymer n Organic growth In addition some sources of grades, which improves supply competitiveness and polymer supply are affected by mitigates against supply disruption.
plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in restricted availability.
Dependence The Group has long established There is a high degree of mutual dependency between Risk: Medium on key customers relationships with a number of the Group and its customers.
The Groups size, product Change: Stable key customers, with the top 20 range, geographical reach and the joint investment Competitor pressure and its impact accounting for c. 21% of revenue in often required to develop a product, means that onpricing remains unchanged in most 2017 18 2016 17: c. 25%.
The loss many customers would have difficulty in moving their end-markets.
of any one of these customers could business to an alternative supplier in the short-term.
Link to Strategy: adversely affect the Groups results The Group remains responsive to customer demands, in the short-term.
delivering high-quality products, providing excellent n Organic growth customer service and developing innovative products.
This approach ensures that customer retention is high and allows for new sales opportunities with customers.
Pricing and The markets for plastic packaging and The Group differentiates itself from its competitors by Risk: Medium competitive non-packaging markets in which the establishing long-term relationships with customers Change: Stable pressures Group operates, are very competitive.
through bespoke product development and investing in Competitor pressure and its impact This is particularly the case where new and innovative capabilities across a wide range onpricing remains unchanged in there has been consolidation or of conversion technologies.
In addition the Group has mostend-markets.
A continued focus on improved its competitive position by focusing on cost Link to Strategy: pricing from customers and the use of reduction, improving productivity and optimising its formalised tender processes leads to manufacturing footprint through its recent business n Organic growth pressure on margin and in some cases improvement programmes and business integration lost business, where customers have process.
the capability to switch supplier.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 Strategic Report Assessment Area of risk Description of risk Mitigation change movement The continued challenging economic The Group operates in a number of different markets 4.
Economic Risk: Medium environment and environment in the UK and Eurozone, product, geography, end customer or niches, which Change: Stable cyclical patterns as well as uncertainty in some serves to mitigate the effect of adverse conditions in any The Group remains responsive to in the plastic emerging markets, has impacted one particular sector.
cyclical trends in demand, to ensure packaging and demand for some products.
Other that overall returns are protected.
This The Group actively monitors the economic environments non-packaging factors, such as changes in consumer includes assessing the impact of the in which it operates and patterns of demand.
This markets preferences and packaging trends, also UK leaving the European Union.
enables action to reduce the impacts and respond by impact on demand.
incremental and structural changes to its operations Link to Strategy: where appropriate.
n Organic growth n Meaningful presence outside Europe 5.
Integration and Acquisitions require a focused The Group ensures appropriate resources are in place to Risk: Medium achievement business integration effort to deliver manage the integration of each acquisition, with regular Change: Stable of acquisition planned synergies which if not properly executive and Board progress reviews.
Any required The decrease in acquisition activity synergies managed or resourced could lead to a restructuring activities and benefits arising are closely in the current year has reduced failure to deliver value for the Group monitored through integration programmes.
the impact of this risk on Group from its Vision 2020 growth strategy.
Integration programmes are established to ensure that organisational change to management teams and Link to Strategy: acquired businesses is appropriately designed and n Consolidation in Europe executed.
n Meaningful presence outside Europe 6. Business Businesses face the potential risk of The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply Risk: Low interruption operations being affected by disruption are available where possible, and where a problem is Change: Reducing and the loss of due to loss of supply, failures with localised in many cases it is possible to manufacture or Recent increases in size of the Group essential supplies technology, industrial disputes and supply the product from another site within the Group.
lowers the potential impact of an physical damage arising from fire, Inaddition all businesses have established protocols and incident on any one site.
The loss procedures to ensure business continuity in the event of Link to Strategy: of essential services or supplies a major incident.
could have a significant impact on the n Organic growth Groups ability to service its customers.
Supply of faulty The Groups reputation as a business The Group employs strict control measures and Risk: Medium orcontaminated partner relies heavily on its ability externally accredited systems to ensure the safety and Change: Stable products to supply quality products on time quality of products that are manufactured.
The Group Reputational and financial risks and in full.
The supply of faulty or also has appropriate insurance in place to cover product associated with faulty supply remain contaminated products, especially liability.
within the food sector, could have serious consequences.
Link to Strategy: n Organic growth 32 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Assessment Area of risk Description of risk Mitigation change movement The possibility of fire represents a Manufacturing facilities and offices have sprinkler and 8.
Safeguarding Risk: Medium physical property significant physical risk to the Group or smoke detection systems in place together with other Change: Stable and our employees and the impact of a major catastrophe preventive measures.
The Groups Health & Safety focus of this nature could be considerable.
continues including newly acquired Health & Safety audits are regularly performed, in businesses to bring them to RPC The health and safety of our employees conjunction with internal and external specialists, to standards.
is the number one priority at all of drive sites to best practice.
Link to Strategy: n Organic growth 9.
Funding and Risks relate to the cost and availability The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies Risk: Medium financial risks of funding for the Groups businesses and procedures which are approved and monitored by Change: Stable as well as movements in interest rates the Board.
Recent equity and debt raised provides and foreign currency exchange rates.
the Group with considerable funding The Group negotiates funding needs in a timely manner The Group has a significant translation headroom, allowing it to continue with ensuring appropriate headroom on cash flow projections.
exposure to the euro, as the majority its Vision 2020 growth strategy and Funding tenures are obtained to mitigate availability risk.
of the Groups earnings and net assets withstand any temporary adversity in are reported in this currency.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates to trading performance.
give some stability to the interest rate charged each Link to Strategy: year.
Balance sheet translation exposure to foreign n Consolidation in Europe currencies is hedged by ensuring that borrowings are n Meaningful presence outside Europe denominated to match Group foreign currency net assets.
Any significant transactional exposures are managed using approved financial derivatives.
The Group are working closely with pan-European 10.
Developments Recent publicity has highlighted plastic Risk: Low in packaging waste impacting the environment as a industry groups to understand how they can support Change: Increasing legislation and resolution of the issues highlighted.
As a consequence Link to Strategy: adverse publicity the UK government has announced an n Consolidation in Europe In addition the Group is actively engaged with the regarding plastic intention to introduce a tax on single n Meaningful presence outside Europe UK Treasury and Department for Environment, Food waste on the use plastics and a plan to eliminate all and Rural Affairs DEFRA through plastic industry environment unnecessary plastic waste by 2042. organisations to understand positively influence developing legislation.
The Group already produces a significant amount of recyclable products and through innovation will continue to work with customers to meet any change in demands.
Key High Medium Low risk risk risk Increasing Stable Decreasing
