Managing the risks of our business is essential HOWWE to our long-term success and sustainability of MANAGE RISK the Group.
Our approach to risk is intended to protect the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Consideration of execution risk will be a key part of our Growth Acceleration Programme.
Essential to long-term success Managing business risks Risk management process As with all businesses, there are certain The risk management process is summarised as follows: risks and uncertainties that may impact Rotork's ability to achieve its objectives.
The assessment and management of risk is the responsibility of the Board, and the continuous improvement and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk management is a high priority for Rotork.
Managing the risks of our business is essential to the long-term success and sustainability of the Group and our 0 Top down risk assessment approach to risk is intended to protect the interests of shareholders and all stakeholders.
The risk management process is an established way of identifying and managing risk and is part of our governance framework as set out in 0 Quantify the net risk our Corporate Governance Statement, Ongoing see page 54. divisions and businesses The Board's role in risk management manage and involves promoting a risk-aware culture monitor risks that emphasises integrity at all levels of Identify risk mitigations business operations.
This includes: setting the Group's risk appetite in and controls 0 accordance with the Risk Appetite Framework RAF, as set out below: determining the principal risks: setting, maintaining and communicating the overall policies for risk management: and 0 Quantify the gross risk ensuring that risk management is embedded within the core processes of the Group.
Effective communication of policies and Risk identification, standards across our global locations is bottom up risk crucial to ensuring a consistent risk assessment management approach across the Group.
0 2018 has seen the continued development of the risk management framework, including further embedding of the risk appetite framework and technology to support the process.
22 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Major risks are first identified Stage 1 and The consolidated risk scores are used to considered by the divisional and Group determine which risks are most important at executives during their regular meetings.
a Group level and these are defined as our Each division values the gross likelihood and principal risks.
Each principal risk is impact of each risk Stage 2 on their ultimately owned by a member of the divisional business, assuming no specific Rotork Management Board.
Risks which are mitigations or controls.
Divisions then not considered to be principal risks, are consider the strength of mitigations and owned and managed by members of the controls in place for each risk Stage 3 Divisional or pie Boards.
The principal risks before giving a net likelihood and impact are set out on pages 26 to 28. score Stage 4.
There are a range of Top down risk potential impacts including financial, Risks are monitored, assured and reported assessment reputational and health and safety.
For in a number of ways Stage 6.
An example financial impacts, valuation limits are of each is below: Cl Ongoing risk tailored so that each division has an Monitoring - Divisional management mitigation reviews appropriate benchmark.
"and the Board monitor, manage and ""' z and controls testing reassess risk, maintaining risk registers z m Consolidated Group risks are formally as live documents. """
updated and presented to the Board at half Assurance - The work of internal audit year.
An annual Risk Assessment Workshop and others tests the effectiveness of is then facilitated by the risk function for mitigations and controls in relation to each division and the pie, to promote Rotork 's risks.
consistency and challenge to the bottom up Reporting - The quarterly Executive Risk process.
Once the Risk Assessment Summary reports KRls giving an Workshops are completed by each division, indication of how Rotork is being the risks are then consolidated at a Group affected by risks.
This consolidation process is subject to top down input and challenge from the Identified risks are discussed and the.
Rotork Management Board, Audit progress reviewed at both Rotork z Committee and Board Stage 5.
Management Board and Divisional Board z meetings during the year.
"Senior "" management, in association with the Board, meets twice a year to consider the Group E risk register and progress with mitigating m actions."
A further session is planned for z.... V, 2019, to consider emerging risks and their impact on Group strategy.
