Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risks The Governance section describes in detail how the Group manages its risk from the Group Board level, its respective sub-committees and throughout the organisation.
Further details can be found on pages 54-99.
The table below details each principal business risk, those aspects that would be impacted were the risk to materialise, our assessment of the current status of the risk and how the Group mitigates it.
Key Link to strategy Relative severity Change during the year Speed at which the risk could impact Winning in parcels High Increasing risk Fast: 6 months Defending letters Medium Decreasing risk Medium: 6-12 months Growing in new areas Low Stable Slow: 12 months 5 years Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk New Pension, Pay and Pipeline agreement and the risk of industrial action There is extensive trade union recognition in respect of our workforce in the UK with a strong and active trade union.
As Royal Mail Group continues to pursue the necessary efficiency programmes in order to remain competitive in the letters and parcels markets and implements the new Pensions, Pay and Pipeline agreement, there remains a risk of industrial action.
Industrial action There is a risk that one or more material disagreements The Agenda for Growth agreement developed jointly Our Agenda for Growth agreement with the CWU or disputes between the Group and its trade unions with the Communication Workers Union CWU provides a joint commitment to improved industrial could result in widespread localised or national represented a fundamental change in our relationship relations and to resolving disputes at pace and in a way industrial action.
with the CWU, and continues to promote stability in that is beneficial to both employees and Royal Mail.
Widespread localised or national industrial action Under the Agenda for Growth, there is a prescribed would cause material disruption to our business in the In February 2018, we announced the new Pensions, resolution process for disputes which requires trained UK and would be likely to result in an immediate and Pay and Pipeline agreement the agreement with the mediators nominated by and representing both the potentially ongoing significant loss of revenue for the CWU.
As part of the agreement, Royal Mail and the CWU CWU and the business.
This must be followed before Group.
It may also cause Royal Mail to fail to meet the have committed to a broad programme of operational any industrial action can take place.
Quality of Service targets prescribed by Ofcom, leading change, as well as pension reform, changes to pay and The Agenda for Growth agreement has legally binding to enforcement action and fines.
terms and conditions and a vision to achieve a 35-hour protections for the workforce in respect of future working week by 2022. job security and our employment model.
This can be The agreement requires a high level of operational rescinded in the event of national industrial action if change in an increasingly competitive market, which the appropriate dispute resolution processes have not may put additional strain on the stability of our been followed.
40 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Pension arrangements We recognise that pension benefits are important to We have closed the Royal Mail Pension Plan RMPP We are lobbying Government to make the necessary our people and that we need to continue to provide to future accrual in its previous Defined Benefit legislative and regulatory changes required to sustainable and affordable pensions arrangements form and introduced a Defined Benefit Cash Balance introduce the CDC pension scheme.
that are acceptable to our people and unions.
There is a risk that we may be unable to obtain Both this transitional arrangement and the CDC the necessary legislative changes to enable us scheme are expected to contain pension costs at to implement the UKs first Collective Defined about 400 million per annum.
Contribution CDC pension scheme as agreed with the CWU.
Efficiency Royal Mail must become more efficient and flexible In February 2018 we announced the agreement with The agreement creates a platform for Royal Mail and in order to compete effectively in the letter and parcel with the CWU.
As part of the agreement, Royal Mail CWU to work jointly together to rebuild confidence markets and grow revenue.
and the CWU have committed to a broad programme and trust, deliver change and pursue opportunities to of operational change, as well as pension reform, support growth and efficiency.
This includes trialling The success of our strategy relies on the effective changes to pay and terms and conditions and a vision new delivery methods, a new resource scheduling control of costs across all areas and the delivery of to achieve a 35-hour working week by 2022. system and automated hours data capture, as efficiency benefits.
well as progressing towards a shorter working We are continuing to see the positive impact week dependent on progress on efficiency and We continue to operate a tight balance between of our cost avoidance activities across the UK change initiatives.
achieving efficiency improvements whilst having business.
This has involved focus on our efficiency some of the highest service specifications of any performance in all areas, while providing quality The implementation of the agreement will be major country in Europe.
This requires careful service to our customers through our engaged underpinned by a rigorous programme comprising management of efficiency and Quality of Service.
Our cost avoidance programme achieved the initiatives within the agreement.
235 million of costs avoided in 2017-18, despite the The agreement also includes proposals for a series industrial relations environment.
of Forums that will allow us to work collaboratively with our unions to agree efficiency improvements However, the negotiation of fundamental changes to our pension and other terms and conditions and growth opportunities.
impacted productivity performance, which has fallen This includes a fundamental review of the pipeline below the lower range of our two to three per cent over three, five and seven years, an innovation forum target.
It also impacted progress in some business as well as a forum to monitor progress to move as usual transformation initiatives.
Coming out of a difficult industrial relations We exceeded our target on cost avoidance and have environment and given the scale of change over 200 projects and initiatives both in and outside underpinning the agreement, there is a risk we of the core operations, which underpin the cost will be unable to make the required short-term avoidance target of 230 million in 2018-19. business as usual and or programme level cost avoidance changes in a timely way consistent with We continue to scope additional cost avoidance the agreement.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 41 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Changes in market conditions and customer behaviour The industry sectors in which we operate remain highly competitive, with customers demanding more and our competitors responding quickly to these changing demands.
Customer expectations and Royal Mails responsiveness to market changes We expect addressed letter volumes excluding We have produced a guide, which highlights Changes in customer expectations, and changes in the markets in which the Group operates, could political parties election mailings to continue to key aspects of the new GDPR legislation when decline in the range of four six per cent per annum communicating and marketing to customers, impact the demand for our products and services.
For 2018-19, we expect to be at including how mail can help our customers thrive in There is a risk that our product offerings and the higher end of the range of decline for the full year a GDPR world.
We are also undertaking intervention customer experience may not adequately meet due to the impact of GDPR.
However, during 2018-19 activity with our largest posting customers and cold evolving customer expectations, or that we are the rate could move outside of this range for a period data providers.
unable to innovate or adapt our commercial and during the year.
operational activities fast enough to respond to During the year, we helped launch JIC MAIL Joint changes in the market.
GDPR may drive risk-averse behaviour, leading to Industry Committee to offer standardised data on a reduction in marketing mail volumes in 2018-19. mails reach and frequency of mailing demonstrating We expect the letters sector to remain in However, marketing mail does not fall within the more clearly to the market how consumers interact structural decline, in the medium-term, driven by scope of The Privacy and Electronic Communications with direct mail.
It is the first time that the mail e-substitution, lower GDP, the possible impact of Regulations PECR, which affect marketing by industry has had independent data to indicate GDPR and continuing business uncertainty.
electronic means, such as email and SMS.
The parcels sector is competitive and evolving.
There is a continuing requirement to invest in Competition in the UK domestic and international targeted growth and innovation to meet challenges in markets is intense, with competitors offering the marketplace, as well as reducing cost to ensure innovative solutions that include convenient, better price competitiveness.
We use continuous reliable delivery and return options, and improved in-depth market monitoring and research to track tracking services.
how well we match our customers expectations, including relative to our competitors, and to predict The UK has one of the most developed e-commerce volume trends.
Growth available in the addressable UK parcels market has been impacted We continue to invest and introduce, at pace, new by Amazon's activities.
Amazon is both a customer and improved products and services that enhance of and a competitor to the Group.
Capacity expansion customers online and delivery experience: and, in the sector continues to exert downward pressure expand our core offering to small and medium sized on prices.
We target investments that will extend our value chain offer and In the parcels business, disintermediation in online increase our presence in faster growing areas of the marketplaces may divert traffic to other carriers.
We are investing in new equipment to respond to both our sending and receiving customers evolving needs such as timely and accurate tracking information.
The agreement creates opportunities to implement initiatives such as later acceptance times.
Estimated delivery window, enhanced collection and returns options are also key initiatives that are underway.
42 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Economic and political environment Historically, there has been a correlation between The Board continues to monitor the economic Macroeconomic risk assessments are embedded economic conditions and the level of letter and B2B environment including possible implications within the monthly Letters forecasting processes.
Flat or adverse economic conditions of Brexit on the UK economy and the Groups The Group also has the following strategies in place: could impact our ability to maintain and grow operations.
Specific areas of focus include: revenue, either by reducing volumes or encouraging A cost avoidance programme to respond to Business uncertainty, with the recent slowdown customers to adopt cheaper products or formats for possible revenue headwinds.
in economic activity, is possibly an indicator that sending letters and parcels.
business customers will look to reduce costs and Business initiatives that are responding to The Labour Partys 2017 manifesto included a pledge compete aggressively for contracts, impacting fluid competitive pressures especially in the to bring a number of private companies, including letter volumes, in particular marketing mail.
Royal Mail, back into public ownership.
A decline in the value of Sterling, which impacts A possible, absorbable reduction in investment our International business in terms of the in the short-term to protect the cash and exchange rate effect on imports and exports and indebtedness position of the business.
through the impact of higher inflation resulting Risks associated with Brexit are continually from increases in the prices of UK imported monitored and material risks reported to senior goods and services.
Movements in the Sterling executives.
An internal working group has exchange rate could also result in higher import been established, comprising taxation, legal prices, increase terminal dues and impact and regulatory policy experts, to work with the domestic inflation rates leading to higher fuel and International business to update its Brexit scenario wage increases.
analysis as events unfold and new information The terms on which the UK leaves the becomes available.
EUs customs union and VAT territory.
We are working closely with Government to put in place Our International business is one of the largest systems to ensure the movement of cross-border third parties involved in the collection of tax parcels continues to operate effectively.
The UK and duties on behalf of HMRC.
Changes to Government explicitly referenced the importance of the customs arrangements could impact processing passage of small parcels via Royal Mail in the Customs procedures and charges for international Bill White Paper.
We are also engaging with Ofcom and mail, customer demand and the achievability the Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial of regulated Quality of Service standards for Strategy BEIS on the applicability of Quality of EU mail.
Service targets after the UK leaves the EU.
Economic growth in the Eurozone has shown signs of improvement but remains fragile in some countries Royal Mail engages regularly with politicians and notably Italy.
The Board will, however, continue policy makers, and closely monitors the potential to monitor this position in terms of the impact on impact of political and policy changes on the our international parcel volumes, including those Company.
The Company runs an extensive public handled by GLS.
affairs programme of engagement with politicians and policy makers.
We regularly demonstrate the We are closely monitoring the development of significant progress that the Company has made Labour Party policy on renationalisation.
Growing in new areas Our success in growing in new areas of business is Royal Mail Group is well positioned to grow in Our acquisitions are primarily delivered through a dependent on such factors as our continued ability new markets through its subsidiary, GLS.
It has a targeted and focused expansion of GLS geographic to identify new profitable and sustainable areas of replicable and scalable business model founded on footprint, investing behind a proven operating model business, implementing appropriate investments, the development of strong regional businesses.
with a track record of identification, integration and and having in place suitable structures to support optimisation of acquisitions over many years.
Through increasing its footprint and focusing on continued transformation of the business.
growth opportunities in areas such as the deferred We are also developing partnerships with retailers parcels space and B2C parcels market, GLS is and network partners to stimulate cross-border well positioned to support Royal Mail Groups volumes between the UK and Asia, as well as overall strategy.
working with China Post to provide Chinese and UK customers with faster delivery and We are continuing to seek opportunities to develop tracking services.
a broader revenue base and growth in the UK and overseas.
We also have a number of small-scale initiatives to seek new revenues, which leverage our existing assets.
As an example, during 2017 Royal Mail launched a third party fleet offering to the market providing maintenance solutions.
The agreement includes the establishment of a forum to assess new business opportunity ideas.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 43 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Regulatory and legislative environment The business operates in a regulated environment.
Changes in legal and regulatory requirements could impact our ability to meet our targets and goals.
Absence of a sustainability framework to sustain the USO USO finances are fragile.
The regulatory system Ofcom will continue to be focused on monitoring Royal We undertake extensive engagement with Ofcom applies some constraints to Royal Mails ability Mails efficiency.
It will build a detailed delivery cost across all workstreams, including the cost modelling to compete for traffic to support the costs of the model to help inform its view on how cost might change review and Second Class Safeguard cap consultation.
It imposes operational over time under different scenarios.
It will also be used We will provide comprehensive, evidence-led reports requirements not applied generally to the industry.
to review the allocation of Royal Mails delivery costs setting out our position.
These may impact our revenues and our ability between parcels and letters.
We are continuing to lobby BEIS and Ofcom to tackle to compete in the highly competitive sectors in emerging issues of USO sustainability.
We are Ofcom is due to consult on the level of the Second which we operate.
This could ultimately impact arguing for fundamental changes in the regulatory Class Safeguard cap.
The outcome could impact our our ability to deliver the Universal Service on a environment including: commercial flexibility.
greater focus on sustainability including We have been lobbying Ofcom to introduce through the prompt introduction of a proactive fundamental changes to the regulatory environment.
sustainability framework: and This includes a greater focus on sustainability.
Ofcom has not taken forward our proposal for a proactive a level playing field across the whole industry, sustainability framework.
It has also not taken forward including higher consumer protection standards the opportunity to raise consumer protection standards in parcels and lifting labour standards across the across the industry.
Competition Act investigation In January 2014, Royal Mail issued Contract Change Royal Mail is refuting all of the allegations.
This investigation remains a key agenda item on Notices CCNs under the terms of the access all updates to both the Royal Mail Board and Audit In its annual concurrency report published on 30 April, contract regime.
We are working closely the Competition and Markets Authority stated that with our external advisers at every stage of this Ofcom expects to make a decision in this case before In February 2014, Ofcom announced that they would investigation and our position remains that we have summer 2018.
However, Ofcom has not published a investigate some of these CCNs.
The opening of the been fully compliant with competition law.
We have formal timetable or provided any such timetable to investigation automatically suspended the CCNs that refuted in our written and oral representations all of Royal Mail.
were the subject of the investigation.
These CCNs the allegations that Ofcom has put forward, and we were therefore never implemented.
will continue to defend our case.
Ofcom issued a Statement of Objections in July 2015.
This statement sets out Ofcoms provisional view that Royal Mail breached competition law by engaging in conduct that amounted to unlawful discrimination against postal operators competing with Royal Mail in delivery.
Depending on the outcome of the Ofcom investigation and any appeal, Royal Mail may be fined.
Employment legislation and regulation Changes to laws and regulations relating to Recent case law has suggested that, in some We continue to monitor developments in case law employment including the interpretation and circumstances, regular overtime and commission relating to the application of the Working Time enforcement of those laws and regulations could, payments should form part of holiday pay Directive in respect of holiday pay calculations.
Based directly or indirectly, increase the Groups labour calculations.
The legal position remains unclear on our estimates of the potential financial impact, we costs.
Given the size of the Groups workforce, this as case law is still evolving in this area.
We have believe that we have made sufficient provision for any could have an adverse effect on the Group.
concluded an agreement with the trade union about historic liabilities that may arise.
initial steps to mitigate the concern about holiday pay We liaise with the CBI, HMRC and HM Treasury for part timers.
Further discussions are also planned to influence employment tax developments and on this subject.
minimise the impacts for Royal Mail as far as possible.
44 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Health, safety and wellbeing The way in which we conduct our business, despite The business has a large number of employees We are reviewing our Safety, Health and Environment Management System SHEMS to having a rigorous health and safety regime, can including seasonal staff and agency workers.
That is why It also operates a very large fleet, employs a large ensure that the Standards contained within it achieve legal compliance and adequately control our key the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, number of contractors and interacts extensively contractors, agency workers and members of with members of the public.
A large proportion of risk areas.
the public is of the utmost importance to us.
our employees spend most of their time working Operational implementation of the SHEMS is We acknowledge that there is a risk that a health and outdoors, on foot or driving, where the environment monitored via an annual audit programme and a safety incident or failure could result in the serious cannot be controlled.
Despite the very significant professional and independent SHE function is in injury, ill health or death of employees, contractors, focus on our peoples wellbeing, due to this wide place to provide advice, support and guidance on the agency workers or members of the public.
This reach and the number of people affected by the implementation of standards.
risk is a key focus for us, given the potential human businesss undertakings, the risk of serious harm to people cannot be totally mitigated.
impact and the corporate ramifications.
We are There is an annual SHE initiative and including it now in our Principal Risks to reflect its communications plan in place.
This is informed The potential fines for very large organisations major internal significance.
by a review of compliance data, risk data, KPI as defined by the Health and Safety Executive performance and legislative requirements.
Such an incident may lead to criminal prosecution or have greatly increased as a result of the Sentencing fines by the enforcing authority or civil action by the Guidelines health and safety breaches now have Employees have access to health and wellbeing injured party resulting in large financial losses and a much greater financial impact for the business.
assistance through our Feeling First Class website, reputational damage for the Group.
We acknowledge that every health and safety First Class Support helpline and Occupational incident has a human impact.
Similarly, inadequate arrangements for effectively managing the health and wellbeing of our An integrated Safety, Health and Environment SHE performance is discussed and reviewed by the employees could also lead to financial losses System was completed and deployed in 2017-18. board and senior leaders are committed to driving and reputational damage through increased We continue to work to ensure full and consistent full compliance to the SHE Management System.
sickness absence, lower productivity, civil action or implementation is achieved across all parts of criminal prosecution.
Major breach of information security, data protection regulation and or cyber-attack We are subject to a range of regulations, While no material losses related to cyber security As external threats become more sophisticated, and contractual compliance obligations, and customer or data breaches have been identified, given the the potential impact of service disruption increases, expectations around the governance and increasing sophistication and evolving nature of this we continue to invest in cyber security.
Recognising protection of various classes of data.
In common threat, and our reliance on technology and data for that this risk cannot be eliminated, we continuously with all major organisations, we are the potential operational and strategic purposes, we consider review our security enhancement and investment target of cyber-attacks that could threaten the cyber security and or a breach of data protection plans to reflect the changes in the threats we face.
confidentiality, integrity and availability of data in regulation a principal risk.
For GDPR we are undertaking activities across the our systems.
Group to work towards compliance.
This includes A cyber security incident could also trigger material protecting us from data breaches, managing service and or operational interruption.
information rights and managing our marketing permissions correctly.
A major breach of data protection regulation is also considered a risk that could result in financial and reputational damage, including loss of customer confidence.
Attracting and retaining senior management Our performance, operating results and future Voluntary turnover in senior management continues The Groups remuneration policy sets out that the growth depend on our ability to attract and retain at similar levels to previous years but remains a overall remuneration package should be sufficiently talent with the appropriate level of expertise.
competitive to attract, retain and motivate executives with the commercial experience to run a large, complex business in a highly challenging context.
We operate a succession planning process and have in place talent identification and development programmes.
Our succession planning enabled us to announce two major internal promotions in April 2018.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 45 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks The Directors have assessed the viability The key assumptions within the Groups term cost and cash actions which could of the Group as part of their ongoing risk financial forecasts include: mitigate the impact of the risks.
Mitigating management and monitoring processes.
actions included: Parcels revenue continues to grow in line The Directors have considered their with the addressable UK parcels market.
i reducing variable hours and cost stewardship responsibilities, previous of sales viability statements, the nature of the Addressed letter volumes continue to business and its investment and planning decline by between four and six per cent ii removing discretionary pay periods when making this assessment.
iii reducing our internal investment The key factors affecting the Groups No change in stated dividend policy.
iv suspending our acquisition programme prospects are: No change in capital structure given the Consideration was also given to the large Strategic focus on costs Group has a 500 million bond which fixed cost base required to deliver the expires in 2024 and a revolving credit Technology and innovation Universal Service Obligation in its current facility, the majority of which expires form.
The downside scenario was tested An engaged and motivated workforce in 2022. to determine whether the Group would Further details on these factors can be remain solvent.
Assessment of viability found on page 17.
The key assumptions within the projections We are pleased to have reached a were stress-tested with reference to risks While the Directors have no reason to ground-breaking agreement with the set out in the Principal Risks section on believe that the Group will not be viable CWU on pay, pensions and a number of pages 40-45 but focused on those that over the longer term, they consider the customer-focused operational changes.
could have a plausible and severe financial three financial years to March 2021 to The Royal Mail Pension Plan RMPP closed impact over the plan horizon.
be an appropriate planning time horizon to future accrual in its previous Defined to assess Royal Mails viability and to Benefit form from 31 March 2018 and Royal This year, the Directors considered: determine the probability and impact of our Mail and the CWU have committed to work i the potential impact of industrial action: principal risks.
This is the same time frame towards the introduction of a Collective Principal risk: Industrial Action as our existing medium-term planning Defined Contribution CDC scheme for cycle and therefore a period over which all employees.
This will be subject to ii deteriorating economic and market planning assumptions and the impact of necessary legislative changes being conditions which could result in letters strategic initiatives are scrutinised.
A Defined Benefit Lump Sum volume decline greater than our period also aligns with the performance Scheme will sit alongside it.
Transitional projected four to six per cent range criteria in our long-term incentive pension arrangements commenced on Principal risk: Economic and Political plans LTIP.
1 April 2018 and will continue until a CDC Environment and scheme can be established.
It is anticipated Business divisions prepare detailed annual iii increased competition in the UK parcels that the ongoing annual cash cost of forecasts for a 12 month period and sector.
Principal risk: Customer pensions to the Company will continue to project performance over three years with expectations and Royal Mails be around 400 million.
In making their reference to economic assumptions and responsiveness to market changes assessment of viability, the Directors strategic initiatives.
have assumed that future cash pension These risks were quantified to create a contributions remain around this level.
downside scenario that took into account the levels of committed capital and Viability Statement expenditure, as well as other short Based on the results of their analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2021.
46 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
