RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION Managing risk to achieve our goals Aiming to deliver consistently for our customers while achieving good long-term sustainable performance.
The Groups operating plan provides a platform for ensuring the business remains aligned with its strategic goals, including delivery of pro table growth while maintaining a robust capital base.
Risk takes an active role in challenging the plan, informed by economic projections, peer reviews, expert judgement experience and current risk assessments.
Risk also assesses the ability to deliver planned change activity and consider alignment with existing mitigation activities.
OUR APPETITE IN 2018 VIABILITY STATEMENT Our risk management and controls frameworks In accordance with the UK Corporate In addition, the Group, as part its Own Risk were created to ensure we identify, measure Governance Code, the Directors have and Solvency Assessment ORSA process, and manage risks in all parts of the Group performed a robust assessment of the uses Prudential Regulatory Authority stress before they adversely impact the business.
viability of the Group over an initial three tests to assess the capital resilience of the This information, together with the strength of year period and beyond after considering Group to a range of severe but plausible the Groups capital position, allows the Board the longer term risks to the prospects scenarios including a reverse stress test to set a risk strategy and appetite that articulates of the business and mitigating actions which includes a combination of insurance, the level of risk the Board is prepared to take that are in place.
These in delivering strategic objectives.
tests allow the Board to review and The Directors have determined that an initial Every effort is taken to manage risks within challenge the Risk Management strategy three year period is an appropriate basis appetite.
For principal risk areas, especially and consider potential mitigating actions.
to provide its viability statement as the financial risk and capital surplus measures, operational planning process focuses on The directors have also considered the this was achieved throughout the year and this period and is aligned to the short-tail prospects of the Group through review operational plans predict this will continue nature of insurance contracts that the of the longer term strategy as set in the within the three-year planning period.
Strategic Report on pages 01 to 43 and the From time to time, risks stray outside target, principal risks and uncertainties that are of especially operational risk types.
Where As part of assessing the Groups prospects a longer term nature set out on pages 40 targets are not met, action is taken to reliance is placed on the operational to 43, including the impact of Brexit.
In their manage them back to acceptable positions.
The Group prepares a judgement the potential impacts such as This year saw signi cant progress in three year operational plan and capital claims in ation and supplier disruption some key risk areas, including IT, cyber forecast along with sensitivity analysis in line would be covered by the circumstances and underwriting capability.
These forecasts envisaged under the stress test scenarios are subject to review and challenge by the detailed above.
Changes to risk management in 2018 Directors on at least an annual basis.
The UK customer risk approach was Based on the results of these reviews, the The three year cash ow forecast supports reviewed and enhanced with a new Directors have a reasonable expectation the Groups ability to sustain positive cash Customer Committee and a new risk that the Group will be able to continue in ows in its businesses through targeted appetite statement supported by key operation and meet its liabilities as they underwriting, portfolio and distribution risk indicators.
fall due over the three year period of actions, and to pay dividends as forecast.
As part of the annual risk appetite refresh, This is further supported by the Groups capital surplus targets were updated credit facilities and highly liquid investment to be considerate of capital quality, and portfolio which provide further sources of reputational risk measures were revised.
short term cash if needed.
Policies are reviewed annually, with IT, information security and reputation risk policies signi cantly revised in 2018.
New policies were introduced for pensions risk and customer risk.
40 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS EMERGING RISK MONITORING FUTURE THREATS EMERGED RISK NEAR TERM RISK MEDIUM-TERM RISK LONG-TERM RISK Cyber risk Financial market uncertainty Geopolitical tensions Climate change accelerates Emerging threats arise on a Volatile capital markets Geopolitical tensions could Climate Change trends have frequent basis, however there negatively impact on the result in new diplomatic, been recognised as a key remains a risk of increasing value of assets and potential economic, cyber or emerging risk for insurers capability of foreign powers increase capital requirements physical con icts.
for some time, however, the and organised crime to for market credit risk.
recent work of the IPCC has engineer severe attacks.
Longevity risk Critical infrastructure Longevity risk can arise with Terrorist organised Failure of critical infrastructure PPO and in relation to pensions Terrorist threats remain high.
impact on global communications, risks.
Several factors including Attacks could impact a large provision of power and or medical advances could shift number of our customers as telecommunications and GPS.
Global socio-political Autonomous machines Brexit uncertainty Autonomous machines are Risks exist associated with a Tensions over trade, US likely to change insurance disorderly Brexit with potential relations, Russia tensions needs and could have varying for economic shocks, capital and EU stability are all factors effects on frequency and impacts, claims in ation and that have signi cant social severity of losses.
Persistent or more extreme weather patterns A warming planet is resulting in more extreme weather with the potential for further worsening with more persistent Intergovernmental Panel patterns arising.
on Climate Change Themes: Political Economic Social environmental Technology and digital Risk management in action case studies Responding to climate change for our stakeholders Enhancing underwriting capability for the future In 2018, RSA actively engaged in the climate change debate through Underwriting and Risk work closely to understand current and future 1 membership of organisations such as ClimateWise, UN PSI and needs in relation to underwriting skills and capability.
Moreover, we chaired the CRO Forums Emerging Risk Canada focuses on further developing weather models and pricing Initiative, which resulted in the publication of a paper on insurance capabilities, and the UK initiated a long-term programme of work to industry implications.
We continued monitoring threats to and enhance data, portfolio management and pricing models.
Opportunities opportunities for our products, reinsurance and investments on to improve pro tability are taken in a coordinated and informed way, with behalf of customers and stakeholders.
We also quanti ed climate the UK taking the decision to exit certain segments and follow a more trends and took them into account in our weather assumptions and focused London Markets portfolio in 2019. reinsurance strategy.
The creation of a new ESG committee will maintain this momentum going forward.
1 United Nations Principles for Sustainable Insurance.
2 The CRO Forum is a group of professional risk managers from the insurance industry that focuses on developing and promoting industry best practice in risk management.
41 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH In a rapidly developing business environment we strive for best-in-class risk management in RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM order to protect our customers from loss and poor outcomes, while maximising shareholder risk-adjusted returns.
We leverage our core Risk Management System expertise in order to be selective in the risks underpins the Operational Planning Cycle we wish to retain, while ensuring we manage, mitigate and avoid risks we are not adequately rewarded for.
As a pure general insurer our key area of expertise is insuring property and casualty risks.
This means we can provide our customers with competitive products, while Board sets business serving them well and ensuring the risks we 1 strategy accept are collectively managed to maximise Board sets the business our long-term performance.
strategy which is incorporated in the three-year operational Risk culture culture of plan.
Risk Strategy provides ORSA reported accountability and openness 8 robust challenge of validity and to Board We consider the foundation of an effective achievability of plan.
Validated output from the risk management framework to be the model is reported to the Board, cultivation of a risk culture that promotes so that changes can be made accountability and openness a willingness to to the three-year operational admit mistakes and learn from the past, within plan to ensure the Group an organisation built on respect, integrity and remains in appetite.
Cycle will continue until the Board is a clear focus on customer and employee satis ed with the future plan.
At RSA, the senior management Board sets risk 2 team has been instrumental in setting the strategy and appetite right tone from the top, which is further Risk Strategy creates the underpinned by the Groups quarterly cultural overarching principles for health check and annual staff survey.
Model outputs setting the Risk Appetite 7 used in ORSA Indicators.
A key part of our culture is ensuring our The internal model is run regularly customers are at the heart of all we do, and throughout the year in order to our staff are passionate about achieving good assess the risks impacting the customer outcomes.
We give considerable Group and determines how much attention to ensuring our customers are capital the Group needs to hold to treated fairly.
remain solvent even after a major stress event s, which forms part of the ORSA process.
Policies guide on managing Risk management in action case studies 3 risks within appetite Comprehensive policy suite sets the required business processes and controls to Managing risk to good Model outputs checked and 6 deliver the operational plan customer outcomes used in business decisions within appetite.
Robust control Following a best practice review, we decided Output from the model is sense testing used to identify risks to strengthen governance over customer checked against non-modelled stress out of appetite.
risk and achievement of good customer and scenario events to ensure it outcomes, to ensure appropriate oversight provides a reliable basis for making informed by insightful MI.
A new UK business decisions, including capital Customer Committee was established and planning, reinsurance purchase, a new risk appetite statement implemented, performance analysis and pricing.
Monitor appetite supported by redeveloped management 4 and action tracking information.
These new arrangements will be Regional Risk and Control further monitored and enhanced as we learn Committees track actions from the experiences gained from across Risk assessment for risks outside appetite, the Group and from our customers.
5 and update internal model and escalate to local and Signi cant changes in risk Group boards.
assessments are considered by the Internal Model Governance Committee and, where appropriate, the Groups internal model is updated.
42 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS KEY RISKS AND MITIGANTS Solvency II and Solvency 1 Capital Requirement SCR BREAKDOWN OF GROUP SCR BY RISK DRIVER M Insurers are required to calculate the level of capital 90 340 needed based on their unique risk pro le under the 820 Solvency II regulatory regime.
For RSA, this is calculated 140 using our own internal model and is a key component 500 of the annual Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA.
RSA also publishes its Solvency and Financial 80 700 1,800 Condition Report SFCR annually, which contains 240 440 extensive information on how RSA manages its risks 600 and exposures and reports the financial position of 1,100 the Company using Solvency II valuation principles.
In 2018 enhancements were made to the internal 710 model to better re ect the dependencies between certain risks, together with improvements in overall model governance and model validation.
A Group level major model change application is anticipated in 2019 re ecting these changes and the Group SCR already includes allowances for the expected impact.
A model application has also been submitted in respect of our Scandinavian entities to mitigate the risk of moving to Standard Formula in the event of a hard Brexit.
This has no impact on the modelled Group SCR.
1 As per 2017 SFCR published May 2018.
KEY RISKS AND EXPOSURES KEY MITIGANTS AND CONTROLS COMMENTARY Catastrophe risk Our reinsurance programme signi cantly reduces our exposure Consistent with our strategy and to catastrophe risks, with historical losses being well covered by appetite of retaining risks that reside Arises from the risk of large natural disasters, our programme.
The programme is designed to cover at least within our core expertise, where we are with our main exposure being to North European 1-in-200-year events.
able to maximise risk-adjusted returns, windstorms and Canadian earthquakes.
our Solvency II Capital Requirement Reserving risk Reserves are reviewed and challenged at the Group SCR primarily comprises insuranceReserving Committee meeting which is attended by the related risks, including higher than This is the risk that the Groups estimate of future Group Chief Actuary, CRO, CUO, CFO and CEO.
anticipated underwriting losses, large claims is insuf cient.
Longer tail-lines of business retained catastrophe losses and present more uncertainty on the size and timing The reserve assurance programme has independently veri ed deterioration in our stock of reserves of payments, with our largest exposure being 90% of the Groups net reserves over a three-year period.
the Swedish Personal Lines including motor.
Claims case reserves are prudently set and reviewed The risk includes legislative changes, While our investment strategy remains at quarterly case reserving committees.
deliberately conservative, we continue to look for opportunities to increase Underwriting and claims risk Controlled through well-fide ned risk appetite statements returns through the purchase of less which are rigorously monitored at quarterly portfolio reviews, This is the risk that underwritten business is less liquid high-quality assets as we are with remediation action taken where deemed necessary.
pro table than planned due to insuf cient pricing able to match the cash ow pro le and setting of claims case reserves.
Key exposures Brexit risks to in ation and supply chain delays are being against that of our liabilities.
arise from large portfolios where claims trends are monitored and we are ready to respond.
Another key SCR risk arises from slow to emerge, such as UK Commercial and Marine.
Extensive control validation and assurance activities performed the Groups fide ned bene t pension over underwriting pricing and claims.
Although these schemes are well funded 95% at the latest Market, credit and currency risk RSA adopts a prudent investment strategy with the investment triennial review, under the Solvency II portfolio favouring high-quality xed income bonds.
This is the risk to our insurance funds arising from rules we are required to hold suf cient movements in macroeconomic variables, including RSA ensures assets are closely duration and currency capital to withstand a 1-in-200-year widening credit spreads, uctuating bond yields matched with insurance liabilities to hedge volatility.
For more information on the and currency uctuations.
Investment positions are regularly monitored to ensure limits pension schemes, see note 38 of remain within appetite.
Asset Managers positioning assets to minimise Brexit risk Management of operational risk where possible.
is key to servicing and supporting our customers, as well as an SCR Pension risk Funding assets are well matched to liabilities in the pension driver.
Cyber remains one of our key schemes, including the use of swap arrangements.
We face longevity and in particular market-related operational risks.
The last few years risks, which arise from our fide ned bene t pension The tri-annual valuation process is complete and a new have seen the volume, nature and schemes.
The largest exposures arise from credit long-term fide-risking plan has been agreed.
capabilities of would-be attackers spread and equity movements, although these Possible market impacts of Brexit are examined and well increase signi cantly, meaning the are partly hedged by offsetting movements in the understood with a speci c focus on Pension risk.
In response, Insurance Investment Fund.
RSA has been investing heavily in our technology and capability to counter Operational risk Operational risk processes and procedures are in place, such threats and building employee including incident management.
This risk relates to customer and or reputational awareness through brie ngs and damage arising from operational failures such as Control Validation and Assurance review control effectiveness.
These efforts continue at IT system failure.
New UK Cyber Strategy has been developed.
pace driven by a refreshed Group Cyber Strategy.
IT risks remain a key focus, especially cyber threat.
43 Underwriting Reserve Catastrophe Diversi cation within insurance risk Total Insurance Risk Pension Market and currency Credit Operational Other Diversi cation with other risks Expected future costs and pro ts Total SCR
