22 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE Framework Audit and Risk Committee The Board is responsible for prudent The Group operates a joint Audit and oversight of the Groups business and financial Risk Committee which allows for effective operations, ensuring that they are conducted monitoring and management of the Groups in accordance with sound business principles exposure to risk as well as assurance through and with applicable laws and regulations, and the Internal Audit function, oversight of ensure fair customer outcomes.
This includes external audit and oversight of the Groups responsibility to articulate and monitor compliance function.
A separate Committee adherence to the Boards appetite for report can be found on pages 40 to 43 of this exposure to all risk types.
The Board also Annual Report.
ensures that measures are in place to provide Internal Audit independent and objective assurance on the The Groups Internal Audit function, which effective identification and management of is outsourced to BDO, provides independent, risk and on the effectiveness of the internal objective assurance on the internal control controls in place to mitigate those risks.
environment, focusing on the design and The Board has set a robust risk management operating effectiveness of the governance strategy and framework as an integral element processes, risk management procedures, in its pursuit of business objectives and in the internal control and information systems.
fulfilment of its obligations to shareholders, The Head of Internal Audit reports to the regulators, customers and staff.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Groups risk management framework is Operating management proportionate to the risks that we face.
Our The Groups Senior Management Team assessment of risk is not static: we continually assumes primary responsibility for the reassess the risk environment in which the day-to-day risks that it takes in the pursuit Group operates and ensure that we maintain of our business objectives, and for adherence appropriate mitigation in order to remain to risk management practices, processes within our risk appetite.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 23 Risk appetite The Group has adopted a straightforward Risk area Risk appetite risk appetite reflective of its continued strategic focus on generating returns Strategic and The Group aims to operate a simple governance structure, with clear through underwriting activity while limiting governance reporting lines and direct accountability.
The Group complies fully exposure to all other areas of risk.
The with the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR and Group considers risk in the context of Solvency II SII rules which provide for an adequate framework to the core elements of its Solvency Capital manage the firms risk in this regard.
In following these rules, the Group Requirement calculation, which are ensures those setting strategy are fit and proper and that the Board is summarised in the table to the right.
Insurance risk The Group acknowledges that accepting underwriting risk is core underwriting to its business.
The Group does, however, aim to ensure that the only material risk accepted by the firm is pure pricing risk and that this risk is kept within an acceptable tolerance.
Underwriting risk is managed in particular with reference to the Groups pricing and claims management activity, and through prudent use of reinsurance.
The Group recognises that the reserves held in respect of incurred claims require a significant degree of judgement, and aims in all circumstances to hold reserves in accordance with the appropriate accounting or regulatory framework.
The Group aims to calculate its reserves on a consistent basis over time.
Counterparty The Group minimises counterparty risk where possible and monitors the stability and performance of brokers closely.
Sabre does acknowledge that in allowing brokers credit terms, there will always be some residual degree of counterparty default risk.
Sabre also accepts a degree of default risk on its direct instalment policies, however the rate of default must remain acceptable in the context of the interest rate gains on such policies.
The Group aims to hold all material exposures with strongly rated counterparties and to diversify such exposure where possible.
Primarily, this relates to the Groups management of its exposure to reinsurers.
Operational In general, the Group attempts to minimise operational risk across the business through close monitoring of key risk areas including IT and systems, people, regulatory exposure, financial crime, taxation and accounting.
The Group aims to comply fully with all applicable laws and regulation, including General Data Protection Requirements GDPR.
Supply chain management is seen as key to ensuring operation risk is minimised, particularly where processes are outsourced to a third party.
The risk of fraud or error is considered to be pervasive across all business areas, and as such all processes are developed in such a way as to minimise exposure to such risks.
Market The Groups investment approach is to maintain suitable levels of liquidity: to preserve the capital: and to invest in low risk stable investments that attract a coupon that is sufficient to meet any deterioration in the capital value.
Proper regard is given to the credit standing of custodians and counterparties.
Capital The Group aims to retain sufficient capital such that in all reasonably management foreseeable scenarios it will hold regulatory capital in excess of its Solvency Capital Requirement.
The Board currently considers that this is achieved through maintaining a regulatory capital surplus of 140% to 160%.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL Key elements Description Mitigation RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Underwriting risk The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust assessment of the Failure to price risks The Group operates a highly Pricing principal risks and uncertainties that the effectively can result sophisticated pricing model which is Group faces this includes those that threaten in worse than expected built upon fully tested scientific principles.
the business model, future performance, loss ratios or significant The model is updated only when solvency or liquidity of the Group.
unexpected changes sufficient data has been collected and in volumes of analysed to support such a change.
Set out in the table to the right is an overview business written.
of the principal risks we believe could threaten Management continually monitors the our strategy, performance and reputation and market for pricing developments, but the actions we are taking to respond to and prioritises maintenance of strong margins mitigate those risks.
over the volume of business written.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed Claims A consistent approach to The Group ensures that all claims staff the current risk environment, including the management the management of claims are appropriately trained in the Sabre evolving legal and regulatory framework is essential for the accurate way of managing claims, ensuring a fair around data protection and potential consumer pricing of policies based outcome for both the claimant and the harm in pricing.
The Committee has also upon claims experience Group.
Sabre ensures that the projected considered the evolving claims environment.
and is key to limiting volume of claims which will be handled All such risks are appropriately captured in the the indemnity cost of by the business is not in excess of the existing risk framework, therefore there have such claims.
capacity of skilled claims handlers been no significant changes to the risk profile available to the Claims Team.
Reserving Inappropriate estimation There is a consistent and cautious The Directors consider underwriting activity of the ultimate cost of approach to reserving with a risk appetite to present the most material risk to the Group, claims incurred can lead to hold a margin above the actuarial best in particular the estimation risk of reserving to corrections in future estimate.
The Groups actuarial function and the ability to price premium correctly.
periods which could have analyses and projects historical claims a detrimental impact on the development data and uses a number Groups capital position and of actuarial techniques to both test and profitability.
In addition, incorrect reserving can lead independent external actuaries assess to errors in the pricing of the adequacy of the Groups reserves.
new policies due to a poor view of the profitability of business already written.
Large losses A small number of random Reinsurance is purchased on an very large claims could have excess-of-loss basis to limit the impact a significant impact on the of individually large losses and short-term profitability and catastrophic events.
capital position of the Group.
Reinsurance Should reinsurance become The Group ensures that pricing decisions unavailable at an acceptable are taken on the basis that the gross cost, the Groups profit loss ratio should be preserved in the would become considerably long-term, such that reinsurers achieve more volatile and its capital satisfactory returns through their position would suffer.
This ensures the greatest possible appetite for reinsurers to renew with Sabre.
Sabre maintains an open and transparent relationship with all reinsurers on its panel.
The financial security of reinsurers is considered when selecting panel members and reviewed on a regular basis.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 25 Key elements Description Mitigation Market and counterparty risk The Group invests primarily in UK Government securities The investment portfolio is relatively short term, limiting Interest rate and is therefore exposed to the impact of interest rate the impact of interest rate movements on profit.
The movements on the value of these investments.
maturity profile of these investments is designed to match the pattern of outgoing claims payments, such that on a Solvency II basis the impact of any movement in interest rates is mitigated by a converse movement in the value of claims liabilities, which are discounted on the regulatory balance sheet.
Default The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk in The Group invests primarily in UK Government securities, four main areas: investment assets, amounts due from which carry an extremely low risk of default.
customers, amounts due from brokers and amounts The Group operates a robust programme of credit due from reinsurers.
Failure to recover funds due from control and performs due diligence on broker partners counterparties could result in write-offs which would as relationships are entered into and continually through reduce profit and damage the Groups capital position.
the life of those relationships.
Similarly, excess exposure to poorly rated counterparties can increase Sabres capital requirement.
Liquidity Inadequate monitoring of liquidity could result The Group maintains sufficient cash reserves at all times in the inability to meet liabilities as they fall due.
to meet its best estimate of short-term liabilities and monitors this position continually.
While the Group considers its investment portfolio to be actively traded and therefore liquid, it ensures that the maturity of its investment portfolio is matched to its ongoing cash requirement.
Capital management Should the Group fail to maintain adequate solvency The Group has strong governance in place to monitor its Solvency capital, this could result in regulatory intervention which solvency position on a continual basis, including forecast position may limit profitability or the ability of the Group to solvency and scenario testing, primarily as part of the distribute capital.
Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA process.
The Group ensures that key elements of judgement, such as reserving, are reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and undergo appropriate independent scrutiny.
Strategic and governance Description The Board must set an appropriate strategy which delivers The Group operates appropriate corporate governance, value to stakeholders while maintaining the financial and as described in the Governance Report on pages 36 to 39. operational stability of the Group.
Management must Through this, the Board maintains oversight of management implement this strategy in a timely and effective manner.
and the Groups performance and financial position.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 26 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Key elements Description Mitigation Operational risk The Group operates solely within the UK motor insurance The Group monitors the impact of its pricing decisions on the Insurance market.
The ability to sell policies at an appropriate margin volume of business written and has close relationships with key market is therefore impacted by new entrants offering discounted broker partners and other industry bodies.
The Groups strategy exposure policies or irrational behaviour by existing participants.
to maintain profitability over volume dictates that extreme corrective action will not be taken during any short-term reductions in market prices caused by competitor activity.
Regulatory The Group is subject to a number of regulatory regimes, The Group has an extremely low appetite for accepting any including prudential regulation by the Prudential Regulation risk other than that which relates to the underwriting of its Authority PRA and conduct regulation through the insurance policies, and therefore its decision-making reflects Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
This regulation this in relation to conduct risk and other regulatory matters.
dictates elements of the Groups operational activity The Group operates a simple risk framework which is such as the manner in which customers are treated approved by the Board.
The Group monitors legal and and the recruitment and development of employees.
regulatory developments in the UK and closely monitors its exposure to regulatory risk.
Our culture ensures the interests of our customers and their fair treatment are paramount.
Legal The Group operates within the UK and is therefore The Group has established a robust risk and control primarily subject to the requirements of UK law.
Further framework and sets the clear objective to minimise the to those regulatory and data protection laws discussed risk of non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
separately, the Group is exposed to employment law, Companies Act legislation and tax law.
IT systems The Group operates bespoke IT systems and is reliant The Group operates a small number of key systems which and on the accurate recording, storage and recall of data.
are overseen by a highly experienced team of bespoke infrastructure Failure of these systems could result in the business systems specialists.
A robust backup and recovery plan being unable to price or process new business, is in place to ensure continuity of systems in the event or manage claims effectively.
IT systems are supported by a third party and hosted The Group has sought to avoid any identifiable single points in external data centres.
This creates a dependency of failure, and maintains fail over solutions for all key services.
IT security Loss of data, including personal data, could lead to The Group addresses issues such as the GDPR significant financial or reputational detriment.
Theft of proactively, establishing working groups which report the Groups Intellectual Property could impact the ability to the Executive Committee where required.
The Group of the Group to compete in the market.
This is an area takes a zero-tolerance approach to the risk of loss of of increasingly complex regulation, including the personal data or its own Intellectual Property and has General Data Protection Requirements GDPR.
a framework of system-level and other operational controls to ensure it is appropriately safeguarded.
Financial Financial crime, whether internal or external, could result Ownership and management of operational risks sit with crime in material loss of assets and significant reputational risk.
the first line business functions.
While substantial internal Financial crime can include misappropriation of assets controls are in place to mitigate the risk of financial crime, or fraudulent activity designed to misrepresent the the Group considers its culture and tone from the top financial performance or position of the Company.
to be key in limiting both awareness of external crime and the occurrence of internal financial crime.
Outsourcing The use of outsourced functions in routine operations, The Group monitors its outsourced operations such as customer services, exposes the Group to closely, through regular audits and monitoring of key the practices and procedures prevalent at the performance metrics.
Distribution While the Group accesses the market through almost The Group monitors its exposure to its broker partners all brokers within the UK, much of its business is written on a continual basis and continually reviews the financial through a relatively small number of large brokers.
stability and solvency of its larger brokers.
It is therefore exposed to the failure of those brokers.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 27 VIABILITY STATEMENT Assessing viability Consideration of longer-term viability In making their assessment, the Board The assessment of principal risks facing the Audit and Risk Committee took into account the potential impact Company and robust downside sensitivity The Board has considered the Groups of the principal risks that could prevent analysis leads the Board to a reasonable financial status and viability on a regular the Company from achieving its strategic expectation that the Company will remain basis as part of its programme to monitor objectives.
The assessment was based viable, continue in operation and meet its and manage risk.
In accordance with provision on the Groups ORSA, which brings together liabilities as they become due over the C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code managements view of current and emerging Viability Period through to 31 December 2021.
2016, the Directors have assessed the Groups risks with scenario-based analysis and reverse prospects and viability for the three-year stress testing to form a conclusion as to the period to 31 December 2021 the Viability financial stability of the Group.
Period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact Consideration was also given to a number of the principal risks.
of other individual risks and events.
In the Boards estimation these events would not The assessment period of three years has plausibly occur to a level of materiality that been chosen as it is in line with our business would endanger the Companys viability.
This is consistent with the time horizon projected for most scenarios Conclusion assessed through the Groups ORSA process.
Based on the consolidated financial impact The cyclical nature of the motor insurance of the sensitivity analysis and associated market means that projecting for periods longer mitigating internal controls and risk than three years creates material uncertainty.
management actions, as described in detail for each principal risk, the Directors concluded that the Group will be able to operate within its solvency capital appetite and maintain sufficient liquid investments and cash reserves to meet its funding needs over the Viability Period.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
