PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing our risk profile In FY18 we launched the Sage Business Cloud, providing a single point of focus Principal risks forour business as we accelerated into the cloud.
As our strategic focus shifted to The Board and the Audit and Risk the cloud, we evolved our principal risks to drive even greater strategic alignment, Committee carried out a robust and visibility and risk ownership across the business.
We increased the cadence of risk ongoing assessment of the principal reporting and enhanced access to real-time risk information to further support the risks facing the Company throughout organisation in making risk informed decisions.
This assessment considered those risks that would threaten Sages We continued to mature our risk management and control environment, which business model, future performance, included launching the Sage Governance, Risk and Compliance tool, which supports solvency or liquidity, and ensured that the business to grow the right way.
During the year we ingrained risk ownership the risks continued to align with our across the Company and continued to embed our three lines of defence model.
As a result, the principal risks evolved to reflect the Effect of Brexit changes within the strategy, simplifying Although uncertainty remains as to the outcome of the Brexit negotiations between the risk appetite statements, and the UK and EU, the Group has adopted an approach that we believe will allow us to focusing on those metrics that would manage the risks Brexit brings.
These risks could include: not only signal current performance, but also act to identify any emerging issues Changes in market access that impact how we transact intra-Group operations, in the management of the principalrisks.
share data, manage tax and foreign exchange exposures, and manage our intellectual property Changes in people-specific rules and regulations that could impact the international mobility of our colleagues At present, the Group does not currently foresee any adverse material impact on day to day operations.
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT FY17 Principal Risk FY18 Principal Risks Commentary Business Model Delivery Innovation Evolved to focus on the capacity and capability of colleagues to execute on our SaaS strategy, and to empower our Colleague Success colleagues to be innovative in delivering on outcomes.
Values and Behaviours Licence Model Transition Understanding To accelerate value from subscription through the use of the CustomerNeeds Sage Business Cloud, it is critical that our customers success isat the forefront of everything we do.
Route to Market Customer Success Market Intelligence Understanding Expanded to reflect moving beyond simply understanding CustomerNeeds ourmarkets to focusing on understanding the needs of ourcustomers, allowing us to tailor our route to market Route to Market andapproach to innovation to deliver the right products Innovation to the market at the right time, using the right means.
Competitive Positioning Understanding The risks have evolved to align innovation and customer and Product Development CustomerNeeds success to our product strategy, to deliver the right cloud products to the right markets to satisfy the needs of current Product Strategy and future customers.
Customer Success Innovation Brand Understanding Our Brand risk has been absorbed within a number of CustomerNeeds refreshedrisks focused on understanding our customers needs and putting them at the centre of what we do, in order Product Strategy tomaximise new customer acquisition and retention through Route to Market the delivery ofproducts and services that provide an excellent customerexperience.
Customer Success Partner and Alliances Route to Market In recognising that Sages ecosystem includes an extensive range of third parties, that support, maintain and deliver our Third Party Reliance products and services, we have amalgamated partners and alliances with other third parties to better reflect and manage the extent of this reliance.
Third Party Reliance Third Party Reliance Given our increasing reliance on third parties to deliver and support our products and services, this risk has evolved to Sustainable Processes reflect both their importance and the necessary alignment andControls withour current and future process and control requirements.
Supporting Control Innovation The movement of this risk represents a focus on applying Environment sustainable and repeatable end-to-end business processes, Sustainable Processes and supported by appropriate innovation and automation, which Controls delivers a consistent and efficient experience to colleagues andcustomers.
Information Management Information as an Asset In addition to the management and protection of information and Protection assets from both internal and external threats, we have evolved including Cyber this risk to reflect the value derived from the appropriate use and management of data.
Legal and Regulatory Sustainable Processes We have evolved these risks to support ownership of Legal Framework andControls andRegulatory risks across Sage, driven through compliant process, systems and products, and in support of our aim of Values and Behaviours a100% compliance culture.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 s t t e e s e e h e f k k f t r i n r i l i l a w a r s r o m o u m o r e f f g b e g e s s h e a h r r r s t S o e t e PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The Board monitors the risk environment, FY18 principal risks and aligned strategic pillars and reviews the relevance and appropriateness of the principal risks Strategic pillar Principal risk Strategic pillar throughout the year in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committee.
These risksare proactively managed by executive Understanding Customer Needs risk owners, supported by Sage Risk, with progress to plan tracked on an ongoing Product Strategy basis.
Local and regional engagement is also undertaken to support the collective Innovation actions required to manage these principal risks and to enable the identification and escalation of any local risks as appropriate.
Route to Market Principal risks are also formally reported to Customer Success the Global Risk Committee, alongside any escalated local risks.
We manage risk in Third Party Reliance linewith our risk management policy and approach, as set out in Risk Management Sustainable Processes and Controls on page 70.
In FY18 we monitored and reported against our principal risks.
These risks are mapped against the strategic Colleague Success pillars they support, as set out in the tablebelow.
Values and Behaviours Information as an Asset As detailed in the following table, a range of measures are in place, being deployed or developed, to manage and mitigate our principal risks.
Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Understanding Improving risk environment Customer Needs If we fail to understand the Sage is the leader in key global Brand health surveys are used to provide products and services our markets, and we can use this uswith an understanding of customer current and future customers position to gather valuable insights perception of the Sage brand and its need to be successful, into what our current and future products, which we use to inform and theywillfind alternative customers want and need.
It can enhance our market offerings solutionproviders.
also help us to better understand A Market and Competitive Intelligence the strengths and weaknesses of team is established to provide insights STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT our products and services, and thatSage uses to win in the market.
better position those products A product re-naming exercise was andservices to meet the needs of completed to simplify the purpose our current and future customers.
ofeachproduct, and assist with  By understanding the specific Ongoing refinement and improvement needs of these customer groups ofmarket data through feedback from ineach country and region, we will thebusiness be better positioned to efficiently manage our products, marketing In progress: efforts and support services.
This in By providing ISVs with access to the Sage turn will allow us to maximise our Developer Platform, we gain additional return on investment, and retain insights into customer needs that are able aloyal customer and partner to be met through the development of baseover the long term.
bespoke solutions 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
i f n n e m m n y i i o n o o t g g i t t O t i n n c s s u i i u a u n l n C o p C n n a v i i C e W W R s t t s e e e h e h k k f t t r n i r i l w a w a r s o o m o u m r r f b g e g e s h e h r r r s o t e o t STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Static risk environment Product Strategy If we fail to develop and manage A key component of Sages A licensing model transition strategy a prioritized strategy for our transition to a SaaS company is isinplace, anchored on the Sage products that is aligned with thedelivery of cloud-connected BusinessCloud ourgoals and delivers against and cloud-native products.
Sage Business Cloud is available in United customer needs, there is a Kingdom and Ireland, North America, To achieve this, we will need to significant financial risk that France and Spain execute on a prioritised product customers will go elsewhere.
Recent cloud-native products Sage Intacct strategy that moves our product and Sage People are available in Sage portfolio to cloud-native solutions.
STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT Business Cloud in North America This may include a transitional A Product Marketing team oversees period of cloud-connected competitive positioning and product products, with a clear path to the development to align products with cloud-native products our current theneeds of our customers and future customers desire.
In progress: Product rationalisation and prioritisation exercise is being conducted to ensure that native cloud products are delivered in line with customer expectations Static risk environment Innovation If we fail to encourage and As Sage transitions into a SaaS Market intelligence surveys identify sustain the innovation that is business powered by a subscription marketopportunities required to create disruptive licence model, we must be able to Integration of the Pegg chat bot with technologies, processes and rapidly deploy new innovations to SageAccounting, to enhance the product services, we will fail to deliver our customers and partners.
This experience using artificial intelligence onour commercial goals.
innovation could relate to new Prioritised product development based technologies or services, or could oncustomer for life roadmaps, with the STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT represent a new way of working development of innovative solutions that with Sage.
meet the identified needs of our customers In progress: Innovation will require us to Simple, smart and open technology address how we encourage strategy to provide API and microservices innovation across our people, through a Sage Developer Platform process and technology, and Strategic acquisition and collaboration howwe make this innovation tocomplement and enable sustainable.
By building innovation  into our collective DNA, we can Platform Services delivered to Sage empower our colleagues to Business Cloud to enhance value improve the customer experience, proposition for cloud adoption and drive efficiencies in how we Development of an incubation deliver our products and services.
frameworkto guide how Sage By strategically investing in interactswith its innovation partners platforms and relationships, we Enhancement of the Pegg AI capability, canalso harness the innovation andincreased use of machine learning ofour partners.
By providing tosupport new areas and operations opportunities for our partners to interact with our products we can drive scalable growth and improve the customerexperience.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 i f f m n n n i y i y o o g t g t i t t i i n n s c c i i u u a a n n l C o p p n n v a a i i e C C W W R t t e e e h k f k t r r i l w a a r o m m o r f g e e s h h r r o t t e PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Static risk environment Route to Market If we fail to identify, develop and By offering our current and Market data and intelligence is maintain a blend of channels to potential customers the right disseminated internally to support decision market, our ability to sell and information on the right products makers in the best routes to market support the right products and and services at the right time, we Dedicated colleagues are in place to services to the right customers can maximise the value we can support partners, and to help manage at the right time is reduced.
obtain from our marketing and thegrowth of targeted channels customer engagement activities.
New routes to market are being opened STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: through our partnerships with Payment This can shorten our sales and Banking technology providers cycle, and ensure that customer retention is improved.
It can also In progress: use new products and services, The Sage Partner Programme has been such as payments and banking moved into the marketing organisation to technologies, to draw new drive increased alignment of the indirect customers into the Sage family.
channel to market Static risk environment Customer Success If we fail to align front and If Sage is to become a true SaaS A Product Delivery team develops and backoffice activities to deliver business, we must maintain a sharp delivers those products needed by our the best possible customer focus on the relationship we have customers to support their success experience, including the with our customers, constantly Battlecards are in place for key products cloud-based products our focusing on delivering the inall countries, setting out the strengths customers need to be products, services and experiences and weaknesses of competitors and successful, we will not be able our customers need to be theirproducts toachieve sustainable growth.
Ifwe do not do this, Defined customer for life roadmaps they will likely find another provider areinplace, detailing how products fit STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: who does givethem these things.
together, any interdependencies, and Conversely, ifwe do these things migration pathways for current and well these customers will stay with potential customers Sage, increasing their lifetime Continuous Net Promoter Score NPS value, becoming our greatest surveying allows Sage to identify customer marketingadvocates.
challenges rapidly, and respond in a timely manner to emerging trends While Sage is renowned for its In progress: quality customer support, a focus A data-driven Customer Success on customer success requires Framework is being piloted in Northern more proactive engagement Europe.
This framework is designed to aswell.
By proactively helping enhance the customer experience and customers to recognise and fully ensure that Sage is better positioned to realise the value of Sages products meet the current and future needs of we can help increase the value of thecustomer these relationships over time, and The results of this pilot will be used to reduce the likelihood of customer enhance the Framework as it is rolled loss.
By aligning our people, outto other major markets processes and technology with this focus in mind, all Sage colleagues can help support our customers tobe successful and in turn drive increased financial performance.
64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
f n m n i y i o g t g t i n n c s i i a u n n C p n n a i i C W W s t e s h e h k t t n r i w w a s o o u m r e r b g g g e e a h r r s o S o t STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Static risk environment Third Party Reliance If we fail to develop, manage and Sage has an increasing reliance on Dedicated colleagues are in place to maintain relationships with third a relatively small number of critical support partners, and to help manage parties that are critical to the third-party providers that support thegrowth of targeted channels delivery of our products and the delivery of our products to our Standardised implementation plans for services, we could suffer customers.
Any interruption in Sage products that facilitate efficient significant reputational these services or relationships partner implementation andfinancial damage.
could have a profound impact on A specialised Procurement function Sages reputation in the market and supports the business with the selection STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: could result in significant financial ofstrategic third-party suppliers and liabilities and losses.
negotiation of contracts Clear roles and responsibilities for Equally, Sage has an extensive colleagues are outlined in the Procurement network of sales partners critical Lifecycle Policy and Procedures, which toour profile in the market.
includes delegated levels of authority Carefully selecting, managing and forinvestment approval supporting these partners is critical to how we grow our business, as In progress: well as ensuring that we only Rationalisation of targeted channels is engage with those people and continuing to focus on value-add activities organisations that share Sages Managed growth of the API estate, values and aspirations.
including enhanced product development that enables access by third party As Sage continues its transition APIdevelopers into a SaaS business, this will Transition of the Sage Partner Programme likelysplit into two risks.
The first of into the Marketing function to drive these will focus on our key supplier increased alignment of all product dependencies, while the second andservice offerings will consider the risks specifically associated with our partner relationships.
Improving risk environment Sustainable Processes and Controls If we fail to apply sustainable Sage operates in multiple Established Global and Regional Risk and repeatable end-to-end geographies and market Committees oversee the risk and business processes and segmentswhich require internalcontrol environment, and controls, we will not be able sustainable processes to set the tone-from-the-top todeliver against our goals.
The Sage Governance, Risk and Compliance Byconsistently delivering the GRC technology solution automates STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: rightoutcome fromits business activity, and provides a consolidated view processes each and every time, of risk, compliance and control environment Sage is able to efficiently and The Sage Compliance Hub provides a one effectively deliver animproved stop repository and alert mechanism for customer experience.
the organisation, simplifying how Sage colleagues interact with and manage By embedding a common theircompliance obligations businesscontrol framework that Shared Service Centres SSCs are prioritises processes, technology established in Newcastle, Johannesburg and ownership, the organisation and Atlanta, enabling the implementation can focus on delivering the right of consistent and standardised systems outcomes at the right time.
and processes Bysimplifying our control Policy Approval Committee is in place to environment, we can also drive supervise and approve policies within the animproved focus on those Sage-wide policy suite outcomes that help support Sages business control framework customer success, in turn helping isstarting to drive standardisation of to sustain our subscription growth.
practiceand process across the business In progress: Plans for migration of remaining country General Ledgers into Sage Enterprise Management are in place The Business Control Framework continues to be built out as a way of supporting the One Sage approach to control The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 i f f n n e y i y o n t g t i t i O i n c c u i a a l n p o p n a a v i C C e W R t e h h k t t r w w a o o m r e e r g g g g e a a h r r S o S o t PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Static risk environment Colleague Success If we fail to ensure we have As Sage transitions into a SaaS Roles and vacancies are benchmarked colleagues with the critical skills, business, the capacity, knowledge inthe market to ensure appropriate capabilities and capacity we and leadership skills we need will remuneration need to deliver on our strategy, change.
Sage will not only need to Job descriptions provide criteria aligned we will not be successful.
attract the talent and experience with our SaaS strategy against which new we will need to help navigate hires and internal transfers are assessed STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: thischange, we will also need Continued the rollout of our Sage Business toprovide an environment Cloud People solution to enhance wherecolleagues can develop colleague experience tomeet these new expectations.
Sage Save and Share scheme opened for a second year, with over 25% of colleagues By empowering colleagues and now invested leaders to make decisions, be The performance management process innovative, and be bold in delivering identifies training and development needs on our commitments, Sage will be for colleagues that supports their ability able to create an attractive working todeliver against the strategy environment.
By addressing drivers Fully embedded Sage Learning and of colleague turnover, and deployed the Leading at Sage training embracing the values of successful programme for all managers within SaaS businesses, Sage can thebusiness to develop leaders increase colleague engagement and create an aligned workforce.
In progress: An Employee Value Proposition isbeingdeveloped to drive a consistentexperience for colleagues Focused efforts are being developed toaddress regional retention drivers Introducing the L. E. A. D. programme to enhance our approach to performance management and focus on future development Improving risk environment Values and Behaviours If we do not fully empower The development of a shared Code of Conduct communicated to ourcolleagues in line with behavioural competency that allcolleagues, and subject to annual ourshared values, we will fail encourages colleagues to think certification todevelop the behavioural small and act big will be critical Alignment of personal objectives across competencies required to be inSages successful transition Sage, with direct cascade from the CEO asuccessful SaaS business.
Devolution Formal assessment against personal ofdecision making, and the objectives for each colleague as part of STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: acceptance of accountability for established performance management these decisions, will need to go process, which also considers personal hand in hand as the organisation application of Sages Values and Behaviours develops and sustains its shared Core eLearning modules have been rolled values and behaviours, and out across the enterprise, with annual develops a true SaaS culture.
refresher training Whistleblowing and Incident Reporting Sage will also need to create a mechanisms are in place to allow issues culture of empowered leaders that tobe formally reported, and investigated support the development of ideas, All colleagues are empowered to take up to and that provides colleagues with five paid Sage Foundation days each year, asafe environment that allows to support charities and provide forhonest disclosures and philanthropic support to the community discussions.
Such a trusting and In progress: empowered environment can Transitioning compliance training helpsustain innovation, enhance into role-based education as a way of customer service and drive the supporting colleagues to apply expected engagement that results in values and behaviours increased market share.
Sage Compliance is undertaking work tomeasure and monitor the ethics and compliance culture at Sage using relevant operational metrics 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
f f e n e y i y n n t g t O i O i n c c i a a n p p n a a i C C W s t s e e k n r i a s u m e b g e e a h s S t STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Improving risk environment Information as an Asset If we fail to manage, protect and Information is the life blood of a Accountability is established within both maximise the value of our data, SaaS business it tells us how OneIT and Product for all internal and we will not be able to realise the wecreate revenue, how we can external data being processed by Sage.
full potential of our assets.
improve the customer experience, Sage Chief Information Security Officer and how we can meet our oversees information security, with a STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT: obligations and commitments.
network of Information Security Officers Analysed using manual and that directly support the business machine learning, it provides us The Chief Data Protection Officer with the intelligence we need to supported by a Data Governance forum runand build our business.
oversees information protection for Sage A network of country-level data champions Protecting the confidentiality, help support the business to embed Sage integrity and accessibility of this practices across the organisation, with data is table stakes for a dataparticular focus on the GDPR requirements driven business, and failure to do so that came into effect this year can have significant financial and Formal certification schemes are regulatory consequences in the maintained, across appropriate parts of the General Data Protection Regulation business, and include internal and external GDPR era.
In addition, we also validation of compliance need to use data efficiently Secure coding standards are in place andeffectively to drive improved forthe development of new code business performance.
Structured and ad-hoc IT Internal Audit activity is undertaken by Sage Assurance against an agreed plan, and reported to management and the Audit and RiskCommittee The Sage information security policy suitewas reviewed and updated to reflectchanges in industry best practice An organisation-wide GDPR project oversees those actions required to achievecompliance An incident management framework is in place, which includes rating of incidents and requirements for notification and escalation, and online incident reporting toSage Risk All colleagues are required to undertake awareness training for information management and data protection, withafocus on the GDPR requirements.
Colleagues who frequently handle personal data also undertake role-based training In progress: Information Security Risk Management Methodology continues to be deployed to provide objective risk information on our assets and systems The principal risks are assessed as presenting the greatest threat to the successful delivery of Sages strategy.
For this reason, they are used as the basis for challenging, and establishing, our financial viability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 i n e n i n o g i O t n i u n l o n v i e W R PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED arelatively high degree of predictability, particularly as the VIABILITY STATEMENT business continues its transition to the subscription model.
The viability period Projections beyond this period become less reliable given the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate inherent uncertainty of technology and market developments.
Governance Code, the Directors set out how they have assessed the Groups prospects, the period covered by The assessment process and key assumptions theassessment and the Groups formal viability statement.
The assessment of the Groups prospects is based on its strategy and associated principal risks.
These are reviewed The Directors assess the prospects of the Group taking into bythe Board and the Audit and Risk Committee at least account various factors including the Groups current position, annually, and are a foundation for the Groups strategic plan.
the nature of its business, its business model and strategy, The financial forecasts contained in the plan make certain itsprincipal risks, its liquidity analysis based on net debt assumptions about the uptake of subscription services and andavailable debt facilities and its expected performance.
the acceptable performance of the core revenue streams and Expected performance reflects the Groups focus on market segments.
They assume that debt instalments are paid generating recurring revenue through software subscriptions.
as they fall due, although the Groups main debt facilities are The viability statement sets out how the Directors have not due for renewal within the period of the assessment.
reached a conclusion on the Groups ability to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
The viability assessment The Groups viability has been assessed by stress testing the The viability periods plan using sensitivity analysis.
To achieve this, management reviewed the principal risks and considered which might The Directors have reviewed the period used for the threaten the Groups viability.
It was determined that none of assessment and determined that a three-year period the individual risks would in isolation compromise the Groups remainedsuitable.
This period aligns our viability statement viability, and so a number of different severe scenarios were with our planning time horizon for our three-year strategic considered where principal risks arose in combination.
planand is appropriate given the nature and investment cycle of a technology business.
Cash flows over this period have The scenarios considered to be the most plausible and significant in performing the assessment of viability and the combination of principal risks involved were as follows: Description of scenario Principal risks involved Malicious data breach impacting EU data Competitive Advantage 1 Approach to Market The deliberate targeting of data relating to EU data by malicious or Customer Success criminalactors.
This scenario considers the impacts on both customer data, Ecosystem as well as on Sage colleague data as it impacts data confidentiality, integrity Control Environment and availability.
Information Management andProtection Two accidental data breaches in a major market Competitive Advantage 2 Approach to Market Two accidental releases of customer or colleague data within a major Customer Success market within a short period of time.
This scenario considers the impacts Ecosystem onboth customer data, as well as on Sage colleague data as it impacts data Control Environment confidentiality, integrity and availability.
Values and Behaviours Information Management and Protection Legal breaches by Sage or an associated third party Approach to Market 3 Ecosystem Sage or a third party, acting on Sages behalf, fails to comply with legal Control Environment obligations relating to sanctions, anti-money laundering, bribery and Values and Behaviours corruption or modern slavery.
Collapse in subscription NCA in core markets Competitive Advantage 4 Approach to Market A reduction in the perceived competitiveness of Sages subscription Customer Success products by customers, resulting in an adverse impact on ARR growth 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
The monetary impact of each scenario was estimated by a cross functional group of senior leaders, including representatives from Finance, Risk, IT, Product Marketing and Legal, who evaluated the possible consequences, primarily through reducing revenues and net cash inflows.
These impacts were based on similar events in the public domain and internal estimates.
As set out in the Audit and Risk Committees report on page 97, the Directors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management, IS YOUR TEAM and also reviewed the results of reverse stress testing performed to provide an illustration of the reduction in revenue TOO BUSY that would be required to break the Groups covenants or exhaust all available cash.
TO GET ANY WORK In the event that scenarios such asthose tested were to occur, management would have a number DONE?
ofoptions available to maintain the Groups financial position including cost BE SAGE.
reduction measures, the arrangement of additional financing and a review of the sustainability of the dividend policy.
Confirmation of longer-term viability Based on the assessment explained above, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meetits liabilities, as they fall due, forthe next three years, that is, until 30 September 2021.
