NET DEBT AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE CONTINUED 14 Financial instruments continued 14.5 Hedge accounting Accounting policy A proportion of the Groups external US Dollar denominated borrowings, and the total of its Euro-denominated borrowings, are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US and Eurozone.
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
On disposal of the net investment, the foreign exchange gains and losses on the hedging instrument are recycled to the income statement from equity.
The fair values of the Groups external US Dollar and Euro-denominated borrowings designated as a hedge at 30 September 2018 were USD 468m and EUR 88m 2017: USD 562m and EUR 128m.
These borrowings were used to hedge the Groups exposure to the USD and EUR foreign exchange risk on its investments in subsidiaries in the US and Eurozone.
In the prior year, on disposal of the North American Payments business, an exchange difference of 32m related to hedge instruments was recycled through the income statement in proportion to the disposed net investment.
14.6 Financial risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus equity are to safeguard our ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while optimising returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it with respect to changes in economic conditions and our strategic objectives.
The Group has set a long-term minimum leverage target of 1x net debt to EBITDA and will work to maintain this going forward.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing cash resources required to meet business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has committed facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Treasury function has responsibility for optimising the level of cash across the business.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Board-approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits and borrowings.
The Groups borrowings comprise principally US private placement loan notes which are at fixed interest rates, and the bank revolving credit facility, which is subject to floating interest rates.
At 30 September 2018, the Group had 272m 2017: 231m of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and deposits are fixed when management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2018, the Groups borrowings comprised US private placement loan notes of 497m 2017: 522m, which have an average fixed interest rate of 3.31% 2017: 3.26% : and unsecured bank loans of 416m 2017: 429m, comprising mainly the bank revolving credit facility, which have an average fixed interest rate of 2.1% 2017: 1.5%.
188 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
