RISK MANAGEMENT ANOTHER TOOL TO HELP US ACHIEVE OUR AMBITION The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management activities.
These activities reflect financial, operational and compliance considerations, and are designed to support the business to successfully achieve itsoperational and strategic objectives.
Our risk management strategy provides parameters for the successful management of risk and provides our leaders with the scope to successfully deliver the business strategy in the most efficient way possible.
improve practices and processes, and How we identify risk How we manage risk then help embed ownership within Our risk identification process follows a Our risk management framework thebusiness.
dual approach, which seeks to identify: enables us to identify, evaluate, analyse, manage and mitigate those risks which During 2018, Sage Risk focused on strategic risks using a top down threaten the successful achievement supporting the enablement of risk approach, with the principal risks ofour business strategy and objectives.
The representing the risks that most Risks are owned and managed within team has dedicated resources in Europe, threaten delivery of our strategy: and thebusiness, and formally reviewed on Africa, Asia, North America and Latin aquarterly basis through the Global and operational risks using a bottom America who support the business and Regional Risk Committees, which are up approach at the country and functions in the management of both described on pages 72 and 73.
These risks most operational and strategic risks.
The completed the deployment of the Sage threaten local business activity.
responsibilities of each Risk colleague Governance, Risk and Compliance GRC continue to include their specific tool in 2018 which supports the business Higher-rated local risks are escalated geographic scope, as well as supporting to maintain visibility of its current risk inline with the Risk Management principal risk owners to manage their exposure, andthe status of its risk Policytothe Regional andGlobal risks.
The Sage Risk team also manages management activities.
This tool enables RiskCommittees, which provides the organisations corporate insurance Sage Risk toprovide ongoing guidance, organisational visibility to emerging risks.
programme, ensuring that global support and challenge to the business andlocal insurance placements are on the management of risks to our appropriate for the risk exposure and in Our risk appetite strategy andoperations.
It is also used line with the organisations risk appetite.
Our risk appetite reflects our ability to support Sage Compliance efforts ordesire to accept a certain level of across the business, including hosting Continuing training implemented in riskinorder to achieve our strategy.
the Sage Compliance Hub, which 2017, Sage Risk provided compulsory Werecognise that eliminating risk is provides a one-stop shop for Sage training for colleagues on Risk often not feasible or desirable, so by colleagues to manage and interact Management and Incident Management.
defining our risk appetite we support withthe business control framework.
In July 2018, Sage Risk launched a single ourleadersto manage risk within The Sage GRC tool also supports the global incident reporting portal, which acceptableboundaries.
development of the Sage Assurance simplified the incident reporting process risk-based audit plan, and will be used for all colleagues, and helped streamline All identified risks are measured on an totrack any actions identified through our ability to respond to emerging inherent and residual risk basis using a assurance activity.
threats as part of a One Sage approach.
pre-determined scoring matrix as set out in our Risk Management Policy.
In addition to its business as usual risk management activities, Sage Risk also Each principal risk is monitored against support the business in a number of defined appetite statements and other key projects or reviews each year.
These statements In 2018, this included supporting Sages and metrics are evaluated throughout readiness preparations for the General the year to ensure they remain aligned Data Protection Regulations, and the with our strategic objectives and enhancement of the business control withinan acceptable risk tolerance framework.
Sage Risk worked to critically forthe Group.
review activities and collaboratively 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Values and Behaviours The Board recognises that values and Our Three Lines of Defence behaviours underpin the effectiveness Sages Three Lines of Defence approachensures accountability ofSages risk management, and andtransparencyby setting out the rolesand responsibilities of theoperation of an effective allcolleagues when it comes to the management ofrisk.
The model and its effective operation support a strong control Sages Values and Behaviours set out environment with best in class Governance, Risk and Control how our strategy should be executed.
Our Code of Conduct supports and reinforces these values and behaviours, and sets clear expectations across Sage for compliance with ethical standards.
Behaviour forms a significant part of our colleague performance management process, and in FY18 was identified andmanaged as a principal risk.
As previously stated, our three lines 1 3 ofdefence model also articulates clearroles and responsibilities for ALL SAGE ASSURANCE 2 COLLEAGUES allcolleagues, and establishes SAGE RISK accountability for individual actions AND SAGE anddecisions.
It also describes how COMPLIANCE appropriate challenge and assurance Identify, Own, Independent isprovided over business activities, Operate and Objective including the ethical conduct of ouroperations.
Guide, Support, Challenge During 2018 we commenced the transformation of our compliance training into innovative, engaging role-based education programmes To promote this model Sage Compliance has grown and embedded its tailored to meet the specific learning activities, to support the business in continuing to develop the internal objectives of targeted stakeholder control framework, assist our aim of a 100% compliance culture and ensure groups.
We seek to equip colleagues that we continue to embrace our values and behaviours.
In 2018, Sage Risk with knowledge relevant to their role and Sage Compliance continued to work together to maximise the that is consistent with Sage values and guidance, support and challenge being provided to the business.
behaviours, and supports accountability and decision making.
In addition, thecontinued development of a standardised business control framework will provide additional guidance and direction on these expected ways of working.
Our values Measure Assess Our risk Customers first management process Velocity Innovate Mitigate Evaluate Do the right thing Make a difference More on page 42 The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Executive Committee Risk governance The Executive Committee is responsible for the stewardship of the risk The Board management approach.
It develops the strategy and oversees delivery of related operational plans, whilst managing the associated risk.
Each principal risk is also owned by an assigned member of the Executive Committee.
We operate a formal Audit & Risk Executive governance structure Global Risk Committee Committee Committee tomanage risk.
The Global Risk Committee is chaired Vice bythe Chief Executive Officer, and has President, responsibility for providing direction and Risk and support to Sage Risk in transforming and Assurance embedding risk across Sage.
It meets quarterly and seeks to: Establish clear governance and Global Risk accountability for risk, and any Committee associated remediation activities: Sage Risk Provide direction to regions and countries, including the creation anddeployment of common methodologies and practices: Provide a point of escalation: Regional Risk Drive the consideration of risk Committees indecision making: Drive the inclusion of riskmanagement into : Board Audit and Risk Committee Oversee cultural change: The Board has overall responsibility for The Audit and Risk Committee supports risk management and establishing the the Board in setting the Groups risk Enable the Group to effectively Groups risk appetite.
It monitors the risk appetite and ensuring that processes operate as One Sage: environment, and reviews the relevance are in place to identify, manage and Review and approve defined and appropriateness of the principal mitigate the Groups principal risks.
At policies:and risks to the business.
each meeting, the committee reviews Provide the Board and Audit and Risk the principal risks and their associated Committee with sufficient effective appetite statements and metrics, information to enable them to toassess whether they continue to discharge their risk reporting berelevant, effective and aligned to requirements.
theachievement of Sages strategic objectives, and within an acceptable The Global Risk Committees tolerance for the Group.
The committee membership includes representatives also monitors the effectiveness of the from across the business and all key control environment through the review support functions.
The Chairman of the of Internal Audit reports from Sage Audit and Risk Committee may attend Assurance and consideration of relevant any meeting asdesired.
reporting from management, Sage Risk, Sage Compliance and the external auditor.
Further information on the committees activity in 2018 is set outinthe Report of the Audit and Risk Committee section on pages 92 to 100.
72 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Regional Risk Committees Sage Risk Risk management and FY18 saw changes in how risks were Sage Risk supports the effective internal controls formally reported and managed at operation of the Regional Risk theregional level.
Four Regional Committees, and provides guidance, The Board retains overall responsibility RiskCommittees were operational support and challenge to the business to for setting Sages risk appetite and throughout FY18 in Africa-Middle East, effectively manage risk.
Led by the Risk forrisk management and internal Asia-Australia, North America and Director, the team continues to leverage controlsystems.
Reflecting the need for local and global relationships to support greater differentiation in the European business activities.
Sage Risk also works In accordance with section C. 2.3 of region, in April the Europe Regional closely with Sage Compliance as a theCode, the Board is responsible RiskCommittee was replaced with four second line partner to improve controls forreviewing their effectiveness separate Regional Risk Committees and behaviours across the enterprise, andconfirms that: inNorthern Europe, Central Europe, and allow Sage to operate and grow There is an ongoing process Southern Europe and Iberia.
Each within its risk appetite.
foridentifying, evaluating and committee met four times during FY18.
managing the principal risks Sage Compliance The Regional Risk Committee meetings faced by the Company: Sage Compliance provides guidance, occur in advance of the Global Risk The systems have been in place for support and challenge to the business Committee.
This supports the operation the year under review and up to the todrive excellence in governance and of the Global Risk Committee and the date of approval of the Annual Report control, enhance business control management of principal and local and Accounts: frameworks and monitor and guide riskswithin each region.
In addition to colleague engagement on compliance They are regularly reviewed by the managing identified local risks, these related matters to reinforce Sage values Board: and regional committees also monitor and behaviours, supporting our ambition thedeployment of risk management The systems accord with the FRC of a 100% compliance culture.
Led by the activities throughout the countries guidance on risk management, Compliance Director, it continues to within their regions, monitor the internal control and related develop its capability to ensure it is realisation of risks through reported financialand business reporting.
incidents within their regions, and provide risk escalation and reporting.
There were no instances of significant control failing or weakness in the year.
Sage Assurance Vice President VP Sage Assurance is led by the Assurance You can read more about our risk RiskandAssurance Director, and its purpose and activities management and internal controls are set out in Internal Audit section of The VP Risk and Assurance is systems in our Strategic Report on the Audit and Risk Committee report responsible for the second and third pages 3 to 53 and the associated work onpages 98 and 99. lineof defence functions, namely ofthe Audit and Risk Committee on SageRisk, Sage Compliance and Sage pages 92 to 100.
The VP Risk and Assurance isresponsible for the facilitation and implementation of the risk management approach across Sage, including the consolidation of risk reports from the Regional Risk Committees, and the Directors approval of the Strategic Report provision of appropriate risk reporting from Sage Risk for the Global Risk Our 2018 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 73, Committee, the Audit and Risk has been reviewed and approved by the Board Committee, and the Executive Committee.
The VP Risk and of Directors on 20th November 2018.
Assuranceattends the quarterly Auditand Risk Committee meetings andregularly meets with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee outside of these meetings.
Steve Hare Chief Executive Officer The Sage Group plc.
