Strategic Report Risk Management As a regulated provider of fiduciary and administration services, riskmanagementisat the core of the Groups day-to-day activities.
Overview reviewing regularly and approving the parameters used in these measures and the methodology adopted: and setting As a regulated provider of fiduciary and administration services, a standard for the accurate and timely monitoring of large rigorous and consistent risk management is at the core of the exposures and certain risk types of critical importance.
Whilst the Group recognises the need to take risks in order to achieve its corporate strategies, it The Risk Committees membership comprises of three does so in a controlled, efficient and well informed way, guided Non-executive Directors, including the Chair of the Audit by the right level of risk expertise, adequate controls, meaningful Committee.
The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer data and robust business policies.
SANNEs Enterprise-wide Risk CRCOhasastanding invitation to attend all meetings.
Management Framework ERMF is designed to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report the key risks - the framework sets out The Group follows industry standards for risk management and SANNEs risk strategy, appetite and minimum standards for the governance arrangements and it adopts the three lines of defence Groups global operations.
model, which sees the business split into three defined control areas: First, Second and Third Lines of Defence.
This section of the report explains in more detail objectives and responsibilities for SANNEs risk management framework including 1st Line of Defence: the operational management how it has been strengthened over the past reporting period.
ofthebusiness SANNEs First Line teams retain the responsibility for the identification, management, monitoring and reporting of all risks Risk management at SANNE across all of their processes as well as operating an effective SANNEs risk management framework is in place to ensure that control environment that takes into account Group policy there is: requirements and adheres to minimum agreed standards.
a strong risk awareness culture where tone is set from the top, 1st Line of Defence is owned and led by the Chief Commercial so that the Group is able to identify, assess and manage the key Officer and the Chief Operating Officer.
risks to the business and, by doing so, support the execution ofbusiness strategy: 2nd Line of Defence: minimum standards, compliance and oversight clearly defined risk responsibilities and accountabilities, The 2nd Line of Defence has the responsibility for, on a global basis, promoting well-informed risk-taking behaviour: defining minimum control requirements, setting and monitoring an appropriate balance between cost of control and risk adherence to Group policies and for overseeing how the business management, whilst also operating within the defined risk iscontrolling its operations within the risk appetite set by the appetite: and Group.
2nd Line also retains the responsibility for local compliance teams, conducting independent assurance work, horizon scanning a suitable basis upon which the Board can validate and delivering risk education to all staff.
theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management and internalcontrols.
2nd Line of Defence is owned and led by the CRCO.
3rd Line of Defence: internal audit Responsibility The Board has overall accountability for setting SANNEs risk The 3rd Line of Defence is independent from day-to-day business appetite and ensuring any risks that could impact on the delivery operations and has the responsibility for providing assurance of the of the Groups corporate strategies are identified, understood effectiveness of governance arrangements, policies and internal andmanaged effectively: to do this, the Board delegates controls being operated by both the 1st and 2nd Lines.
oversightof the risk and control environment to the Risk 3rd Line of Defence is owned and led by the Head of Internal Audit, Committee, which inturn is responsible for: with oversight from the Chair of the Audit Committee.
keeping under review the Companys overall risk assessment Notwithstanding the above framework, all employees have processes that inform the Boards decision making, ensuring responsibility for quality control and general risk management both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used: and activities, including the need to understand and adhere to policiesand procedures.
indd 34 08 04 2019 11:49:56 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Improvements to the risk management approach Risk appetite There was a strong focus throughout 2018 on strengthening In determining its risk appetite, the Group has defined the levels SANNEs internal controls framework following the Groups ofrisk it is willing to take in the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
rapid organic and inorganic growth seen in recent years, whilst This has been articulated as a Risk Appetite Statement with recognising the benefits in operating a risk management framework appetite set for each of the Level 2 categories within the Group that is responsive to business priorities.
Highlights from the work Risk Register.
For each Level 2 risk category, the risk appetite undertaken in this area include: iscompared against the associated residual risk to identify ongoing focus on promoting and cultivating a stronger riskareasoffocus.
aware culture: standardisation of minimum requirements across the Group: Principal Risks focus on developing risk appetite and risk tolerance levels in The risks from the Group Risk Register are discussed, debated alignment with SANNEs corporate strategies: andchallenged, firstly by senior management and Executive Directors, and then by the Risk Committee, with a view significant extension of resource and capability across all 3 topresenting the key risks to the Board.
The Board has agreed Lines of Defence, increasing oversight and control activities: thatthe top risks will be presented in the Annual Report and and Accounts as the Principal Risks.
more integrated risk reporting through enhanced management information, insight and trend analysis: and through a combination of qualitative and quantitative measures.
Assessment of Principal Risks and uncertainties Using the described approach, the Board is able to confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Principal Risks Risk assessment and uncertainties facing the Group including those that would The Group reviews and monitors risk exposures closely, threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or considering the potential impact and any management actions liquidity.
Included on page 71 is the viability statement, which has required to mitigate the impact of emerging issues and potential been prepared with the assessment of these Principal Risks and future events.
The Group Risk Register is the principal tool for uncertainties in mind.
monitoring risks which are classified in a strict hierarchy see table on the next page.
The highest level Level 1 identifies five risk categories: Business Model & Strategy, Operational, People, Business Risk Assessments Regulatory and Financial.
The next level Level 2 contains 27 risk global and jurisdictional targets categories and the final level Level 3 carries the detailed risks SANNEs Business Risk Assessment Framework is a key tool themselves which are captured and maintained across the Group.
within the Groups risk management framework.
Underpinned by SANNEs risk appetite, the framework evaluates the adequacy Each Level 2 and Level 3 risk is rated by assessing the likelihood and effectiveness of SANNEs internal controls.
Global, and a of its occurrence over the next three years and the potential number of jurisdictional, assessments were completed in 2018 associated impact.
A scoring is given to each risk which is then and the outcome included a consolidated view of existing risk used in conjunction with an assessment of the internal control exposures supported by agreed risk appetite statements and environment or other mitigations to derive a residual risk score.
any remediation work required to strengthen existing control environments.
SANNEs jurisdictional Business Risk Assessments will continueinto 2019.
indd 35 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Strategic Report Risk Management Level 1 Risk Category Level 2 Risk Category Principal Risk Business Model & Strategy Yes Strategy Corporate Governance Risk Management Acquisition Due Diligence Yes Acquisition Integration Competitor Yes Client Concentration Fiduciary Operational Process Yes Business Change Yes Business Continuity Technology Insurance Outsourcing & Third Parties Physical Security Property Security Cyber Security Yes Data Management Yes Legal People Staff Culture, Ethics & Behaviour Staff Resources Yes Regulatory Regulatory Change Yes Listing Rules Compliance Yes Financial Crime Yes Financial Working Capital Impairment Yes Accounting & Reporting Errors Income 36 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 36 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Business Model & Strategy Direction of change: During the period the Group has seen steady progress with the integration of more recent acquisitions.
SANNE has experienced a number of years of strong growth, both organically and inorganically, and therefore a number of projects including strengthening the 3 Lines of Defence model and enhancing minimum internal standards as mentioned on pages 34 and 35, have continued throughout 2018 to enhance the business model and keep on building stronger foundations for future sustainable growth.
Risk Description Key Mitigants and Controls Acquisition Due Diligence Risk Robust due diligence process including 3rd party assessments by top accounting and law firms, prior to recommendations to The risk that inadequate due diligence of future acquisitions made the Board.
by the Group give rise to unidentified liabilities or unintended consequences and or acquisitions made by the Group are poorly Governance and challenge from independent Non-executive integrated, due to inadequate planning, lack of management Directors.
oversight or lack of resources.
Committees set up to manage integration processes in line with SANNEs acquisition integration framework.
Competitor Risk Strong pricing and bespoke business offerings driven by expert industry and client base knowledge.
Risk of declining business revenue or margins by failing to invest Investment in product development capability.
in SANNEs infrastructure or innovate to react to external market conditions.
Overarching Executive Committee and Board review of digital technology investment.
Strategy Risk Regular review of business strategy.
Governance framework to escalate strategy and appetite Risk of poor strategic business decisions, and or poor execution, issues.
including poor communication, inadequate resources or a failure to respond to changing market conditions.
Executive Committee and Board review and governance, including monthly financial and risk reporting.
indd 37 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Strategic Report Risk Management Operational Direction of change: Continued acquisitions and strong growth in client numbers and staffing has meant increased inherent operational risk exposures for the Group, as anticipated in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
These risks have been mitigated, and a number ofoperational projects and business change initiatives continue to further strengthen the control environment in this respect.
Risk Description Key Mitigants and Controls Business Change Risk Dedicated and skilled change management resource.
Overarching governance of business critical change Risk of failure to effectively plan, design, communicate or programmes by Executive Committee and Change execute internal change in a timely manner, leading to resistance, &Investment Committee.
Horizon Scanning enabling early identification of upstream changes which may impact business operations.
Cyber Security Risk Dedicated team responsible for Information Security.
Staff Training & Awareness programme schedule, Risk that SANNEs systems, data or services are not protected withmandatory training to all staff.
from a cyber-attack leading to confidential data being obtained or services being unavailable.
Policies and procedures in place.
Third Party Management Assessments and contract reviews.
InfoSec and cyber tools to support staff in managing exposure to cyber risk.
Process Risk Enhanced governance, structure and awareness through a Group framework that supports the creation and Risk of errors, inconsistent or untimely application of critical implementation of minimum standards.
processes leading to customer dissatisfaction or failure to meet Continued development and documenting of procedures.
First Line of Defence Control Testing programme.
Continued centralisation of critical processes, enabling standardisation and improving effectiveness.
Data Management Risk Dedicated team in place responsible for Data Protection, including a Global Data Protection Officer DPO.
Risk of an inability to identify, maintain and protect data within Staff Training & Awareness programme schedule, agreed quality parameters, impacting delivery against strategic withmandatory training to all staff.
objectives and regulatory and legal obligations.
Data Protection Data Flow Mapping.
Mapping and understanding of applicable regulatory and legalobligations.
indd 38 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com People Direction of change: In key jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the fund and corporate administration employment market is increasingly competitive, which, along with the Groups continuing organic growth, can lead to difficulties in attracting and retaining the best resources.
Initiatives to create and develop knowledge hubs across the organisation are ongoing, and will help to mitigate this risk over the medium-term.
With a new senior leadership team now in place, we continue to progress towards developing more centres of excellence tosupport our staff.
Risk Description Key Mitigants and Controls Staff Resourcing Risk Investment in training with established industry bodies such as ACCA, ICAEW and ICSA, alongside regulatory training, coaching Risk of failure to attract, retain or engage staff, leading to and mentoring.
insufficient capacity and or capability, undermining business Established Remuneration Committee for Executive Directors.
Enhanced Employee Value proposition through market monitoring, remuneration benchmarking and performance management and bonus structure.
Increased focus on succession planning.
indd 39 08 04 2019 11:49:57 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Strategic Report Risk Management Regulatory Direction of change: The Group remains exposed to the political regulatory risks associated with Brexit and continues to monitor ongoing developments as the 2019 deadline approaches.
Regulatory Compliance risk is in part correlated to business model, operational and staff risk, recognising that as the Group becomes larger and more diverse, the risk of an omission or error increases leading to possible regulatory sanction.
This increasing risk is being mitigated by various projects, in particular the strengthening of the 3 Lines of Defence model and including an increase in assurance and oversight activity.
Risk Description Key Mitigants and Controls Regulatory Change Risk Brexit Committee in place to consider, assess and monitor risks and opportunities.
Risk of failure to identify, assess, communicate and execute Active dialogue with regulators, governmental and industry mandatory regulatory changes to our policies, processes bodies supported by a regulatory liaison policy framework.
Horizon scanning process enabling early identification of upstream regulatory and legislative changes which may impactSANNE.
Jurisdictional oversight by Compliance and increased level ofmonitoring activity.
Compliance Risk Compliance monitoring plans established in each jurisdiction assessing compliance with local requirements.
Risk of failure to identify non-compliance to mandatory regulatory Issues management policy established requiring incidents requirements and or provide timely, accurate and complete to be escalated to jurisdictional and Group governance reports and required disclosures.
Regulatory liaison policy detailing the requirements of notification of material events to local regulators licensees.
Employee awareness campaigns embedding knowledge relating to timely escalation of incidents, breaches and errors.
Financial Crime Risk Financial Crime controls and procedures in place.
Manual and automated name screening for sanctions, Risk of inadequate policies, procedures, controls and technology Politically Exposed Persons PEPs and adverse information.
to identify, assess and manage Financial Crime Risks, leading to SANNE being exposed to, and used for, criminal activity.
Financial Crime Risk governance structure with Group and jurisdictional subject matter expert support.
Centralised KYC Data to manage and identify risks.
All transactions subject to approval process and subject tosign-off.
Financial Direction of change: Given the number of acquisitions made by the Group in recent years, there are significant intangible assets including goodwill on the balance sheet.
Risk Description Key Mitigants and Controls Impairment Risk Director led due diligence with 3rd party assessments by top accounting and law firms.
Risk of recoverable amounts being below the value of assets, Impairment testing and attestations per accountancy rules.
including intangible assets e. g. goodwill, due to a decline in value following acquisition.
Ongoing monitoring against performance expectations andtargets.
Focus on delivering strategic and financial benefits from acquired businesses.
