Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Risks and uncertainties facing the business The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
Risk management is recognised as an integral part of the Groups activities.
Risk assessments to ensure that these are effective.
Group Identifying and managing our risks are incorporated into risk registers at policies and delegated authority levels set The Board determines the Groups appetite Group and business level, which evolve to by the Board provide the basis against for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, reflect the reduction increase in identified which risks are reviewed and escalated and the level of risk that can be taken by risks and the emergence of new risks.
to the appropriate level within the Group, the Group and its operating companies.
Where it is considered that a risk can be up to and including the Board, for review Savills businesses worldwide are mitigated further to the benefit of the and confirmation.
responsible for executing their activities business, responsibilities are assigned in accordance with the risk appetite set by We have a clear framework for identifying and action plans are agreed.
the Board, complemented by the Code and managing risk, both at an operational of Conduct, Group policies and delegated The Group Director of Risk & Assurance and strategic level.
Our risk identification authority limits.
facilitates the risk assessment and and mitigation processes have been evaluation process with Group and designed to be appropriate to the Risk is assessed across the Group using a regional business unit management on ever-changing environments in which systematic risk management model behalf of the Board and challenges risk we operate.
covering both external and internal factors findings and the internal control framework and the potential impact and likelihood of The following chart summarises our business risk management structure.
PLC BOARD Review and confirmation Review and confirmation by the Board.
PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE Process Risks and mitigation reviewed by Audit Committee after validation by the Group Risk Committee and GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Executive Boards Committees.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Ongoing review and control There is ongoing review of the risks and the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Review and assessment Group Director of Risk & Assurance consolidates the operating companies, functional and Group risks GROUP RISK to compile the Groups key risks.
Any significant programme project risks are also considered.
HEADS OF HEADS OF GROUP FUNCTIONS OPERATING COMPANIES Key risks: Key risks: Heads of Group functions Heads of operating identify the key risks and companies create a register develop mitigation actions of their top risks and mitigation actions 24 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Monthly quarterly finance and Roles and responsibilities Principal risks performance reviews The Board continuously reviews the The Directors have carried out a robust Groups key risks and is supported in the Group Risk Committee assessment of the principal risks facing discharge of this responsibility by various the Company including those that Monitor the application of risk appetite committees, specifically the Audit would threaten its business model, and the effectiveness of risk Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Group Risk Our consideration of the key risks and Committee and Board also consider the The risk management roles and uncertainties relating to the Groups Groups overall risk appetite in the responsibilities of the Board, its operations, along with their potential context of the negative impact that the Committees, and business management impact and the mitigations in place, is set Group can sustain before it risks the are set out below, and all of these out below.
There may be other risks and Groups continued ability to trade responsibilities have been met during uncertainties besides those listed below the year.
which may also adversely affect the Group Actions and its performance.
Board Review of risk management and found in the Audit Committee Report on assurance activities and processes Responsibilities pages 57 to 62.
Subsidiary Executive Committees In summary, our principal risks are: Responsibilities Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving its strategic objectives 1.
Country macro-economic risks, Responsibilities particularly the impacts of Brexit in the Establish the Groups systems of risk Responsible for risk management and UK and or a global economic downturn management and internal control internal control systems within their regions businesses The Audit Committee supports the Board 2.
Achieving the right market positioning by monitoring risk and reviewing the Monitoring the discharge of their in response to the needs of our clients effectiveness of internal controls, including responsibilities by operating companies 3.
Recruitment and retention of highsystems to identify, assess, manage and calibre staff monitor risks.
Actions Review key risks and mitigation plans 4.
Reputational and brand risk Actions Review results of assurance activities Receive regular reports on Internal and 5.
Legal risk External Audit and other assurance Escalate key risks to Group 6.
Failure or significant interruption to IT activities management and Group Executive or systems causing disruption to client plc Boards Receive regular risk updates from service the businesses 4.
Heads of the Group functions and 7. Business conduct Determine the nature and extent of the operating companies principal Group risks and assess the Responsibilities 8.
Changes in the regulatory environment effectiveness of mitigating actions regulatory breaches Maintain an effective system of risk Annually review the effectiveness management and internal control within of risk management and internal 9.
Acquisition integration risk their function operating company control systems Actions Approve the Group risk management policy Regularly review operational, project, functional and strategic risks 2.
Group Executive Board Review mitigation plans Responsibilities Plan, execute and report on assurance Strategic leadership of the Groups activities as required by region or Group operations The Groups overall risk management Ensure that the Groups risk framework is further enhanced by the management and other policies are contributions of specialist committees, for implemented and embedded example, IT security.
Where appropriate, Monitor that appropriate actions are certain businesses also have their own taken to manage strategic risks and key risk committees.
risks arising within the risk appetite of the Board Savills continuously reviews and enhances its risk management process and seeks Consider emerging risks in the context advice from independent advisers of the Groups strategic objectives where applicable.
Approve Group Policies 25 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Risk Description Mitigation Global market conditions are The strength of Savills business and brand and the Country macrocurrently volatile, with economic focus on client service.
1 uncertainty in some sectors and economic risks, Our strategy of diversifying our service offering markets, particularly the UK pending and geographic spread mitigates the impact on the particularly the the outcomes of Brexit and Asia business of economic downturns and weak market in the light of US China tariffs.
conditions in specific geographies, but these factors impacts of Brexit Group earnings and or our financial cannot entirely mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
To condition could be adversely affected in the UK and or a manage these risks, we continually focus on our cost by these and other macro-economic base and seek to improve operational efficiencies.
Savills operates in a number of countries where the Contingency plans are in place to enable us to downturn transactional business is the largest respond quickly to market information and economic component and thereby increases trends.
Continual monitoring of market conditions the level of economic risk.
and market changes against our Group strategy, Change from 2017 supported by the reforecasting and reporting in all Increase There is a currency risk from of our businesses, are key to our ability to respond operating in a large number Strategic objective: rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
Geographic diversification The actual impacts of Brexit remain unclear, but Financial strength we are monitoring developments closely: Impact assessments covering a range of risks such as HR matters, purchases of goods from the EU, the imposition of withholding taxes by EU countries and VAT changes have been carried out and appropriate plans put in place where required.
Certain changes may present business opportunities for Savills.
Our exposure to countries with economies which are currently weak is balanced by our business in more stable markets.
When considering new market entry we undertake due diligence including the impact assessment of political and economic issues in that particular country.
We manage currency risk in local operations through natural hedging and matching revenue and costs in the same currency.
The markets in which we operate are To remain competitive in all markets, we continue Achieving the right highly competitive.
Competition could to promote and differentiate our strengths whilst 2 lead to a reduction in market share focusing on providing the quality of service that our market positioning and or a decline in revenue.
in response to the is on retaining existing clients as well We continue to invest in the development of client as engaging with new clients.
Our relationships globally and associated systems digital needs of our clients service offering continuously evolves technology to support our client service offering.
and improves to meet the changing needs of our clients.
Change from 2017 No change Strategic objective: Business diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Geographical diversification Commitment to clients We recognise that the future success We continue to invest in the development of Recruitment and of our business is dependent on our people and our training and development 3 attracting, developing, motivating programmes across the businesses.
retention of and retaining people of the highest Our partnership style culture and profit-sharing high-calibre staff quality.
approach to remuneration is combined with selective use of share-based and other rewards to incentivise Change from 2017 and retain our best people for the long-term benefit No change of the Group.
Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients 26 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Description Mitigation Savills is a strong brand with an We recognise that our brand strength is vital to Reputational excellent reputation in the markets maintaining market share in established and new 4 in which we operate.
A brand management programme is in and brand risk reputation could be damaged as a place to ensure the brands positioning and identity is result of negative media coverage.
Our social media Change from 2017 We recognise the need to maintain policy is supported by guidance and training as well as this reputation by ensuring the quality ongoing monitoring.
All external statements have to No change of the service we provide.
Strategic objective: We recognise that the quality of the service we offer Strength in Residential and is vital to maintaining the brand.
We have in place Commercial markets Commitment policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of to clients continuous improvement.
The Group has well established corporate social responsibility programmes.
Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual The Group has a range of policies in place including Legal risk obligations to clients could subject client acceptance, legal and regulatory compliance, 5 the Group to action and or claims procurement, contractor management and valuation.
The adverse outcome of We have Best Practice groups, policies, procedures No change such actions claims could negatively and training which are designed to deliver the relevant impact our reputation, financial contractual obligations and thereby mitigate against Strategic objective: condition and or the results of our Financial strength Commitment the risk of such actions claims being made and where businesses.
For example: such claims occur, to limit liability, particularly in to clients in accepting client engagements, relation to consultancy services such as valuations.
Group companies may be subject to Such policies are regularly reviewed.
Failure to The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance satisfy these obligations could result to respond to and mitigate the Groups financial in claims being made against the exposure to such claims.
relevant operating Company As described below, our strong emphasis on in our Property Management appropriate business conduct by all our employees, business, we may be responsible for contractors and associates further mitigates this risk.
appointing third party contractors that provide construction and engineering services.
Failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the operating companies in our valuation consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of properties.
Major failures in our IT systems Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built Failure or significant may result in client service being into our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is set up so 6 interrupted or data being lost far as is reasonably practical to prevent unauthorised interruption to our IT corrupted causing damage to our access and reduce the likelihood and impact of a systems causing reputation and consequential client successful attack.
Our data centres are accredited to international disruption to client There is a risk that an attack on information security standards.
service our infrastructure by a malicious Business continuity and disaster recovery plans individual or group could be are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot successful and impact the availability Change from 2017 be mitigated.
No change We are continuously reviewing our resilience to cyber Strategic objective: security attacks due to the constant threat.
Financial strength Commitment to clients 27 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Risk Description Mitigation We operate in international markets that may We have programmes to promote Business conduct present business conduct-related risks involving, compliance with our Code of Conduct, 7 for example, fraud, bribery or corruption.
particularly in areas of higher risk such as procurement.
Change from 2017 Failure by the Group and its employees to observe No change the highest standards of integrity and conduct We have a zero tolerance approach to in dealing with clients, suppliers and other breaches of our Code of Conduct.
Strategic objective: Business diversification stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal penalties, regulatory sanction, debarring and or Geographical diversification Commitment to clients reputational damage.
We are required to meet a broad range of Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out Changes in the regulatory compliance requirements in each of the our standards for professional, regulatory, 8 markets in which we operate.
For example: statutory compliance and business conduct, is regulatory reviewed regularly.
Some of our operations have regulatory licences environment To support this Framework each business has In the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA its own regulatory and statutory compliance regulates the conduct of Savills Capital Advisors resources who monitor regulatory Change from 2017 and, both generally and in relation to the developments and maintain the internal Increase Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, processes and controls required to fulfil our Savills Investment Management, and the insurance Strategic objective: compliance obligations.
intermediary services provided to clients by Savills Commitment to clients UK: our businesses are regulated by The Royal Our compliance environment, at all levels, Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS is subject to regular review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
Savills Investment Management entities are variously regulated by the Bank of Italy, FCA in Japan, BaFin in Germany and CSSF in Luxembourg Various countries, corporate entities and individuals are subject to financial sanctions, which require continuous monitoring in response to global events.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputation damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Environmental reporting requirements place data-gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other listed companies.
Our current priorities are on achieving readiness for the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
The structuring and integration of acquisitions is We apply the Group acquisitions policy Acquisition critical to realising the benefits sought.
People, and procedures and use professional 9 systems and processes are key components.
advisers in the due diligence process, and integration risk allocate responsibility and accountability to individuals for integration.
Post-acquisition Change from 2017 reporting keeps the Board aware of progress No change against plan.
Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Financial strength 28
