Key risks and mitigations Risk management culture focused onintegrity and good conduct We are exposed to a variety of risks as a result of our business activities.
Effective risk management is a core competence and we actively monitor the potential impact of current and emerging risks.
We place significant focus on the integrity and good conduct of employees and doing the right thing for our stakeholders.
Our risk management framework is underpinned by a strong control culture with clear oversight responsibilities.
Managing risk Lines of defence The Board is accountable for risk and oversight of the risk The first line of defence against undesirable outcomes is the management process.
It assesses the most significant risks facing the business functions themselves and the line managers across Asset business and also uses quantitative exposure measures, such as Management, Wealth Management and Infrastructure.
Heads of each stress tests, where appropriate to understand the potential impact on business area take the lead role with respect to identifying potential the business.
Non-executive oversight of the risk management risks in their area and implementing and maintaining appropriate process with respect to standards of integrity, risk management and controls to manage these risks.
internal control is exercised through the Audit and Risk Committee, Line management is supplemented by the control and oversight more details of which are on page 62. functions, including Group Risk, Compliance, Legal, Governance, It is the responsibility of all employees to uphold the control culture Finance, Tax and Human Resources, which constitute the second line of Schroders.
We embed risk management within all areas of the of defence.
The compliance monitoring programme reviews the business at a Group and legal entity level.
The Group Chief Executive effective operation of relevant key processes against and Group Management Committee GMC, as the principal executive regulatory requirements.
committee, have responsibility for regularly reviewing the key risks we Internal Audit provides retrospective, independent assurance over the face.
This includes ensuring that their respective business areas in all operation of controls and forms the third line of defence.
The internal legal entities are monitoring and reporting relevant risks and controls.
audit programme includes reviews of risk management processes and They are also responsible for monitoring individual behaviours, recommendations to improve the control environment, supplemented ensuring that they mirror the culture and core values of the business.
by external assurance from the Groups auditors.
The team also The executive oversight of risk is delegated by the Group Chief carries out thematic compliance monitoring work.
Executive to the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
The CFO has responsibility for the risk and control framework of the Group.
Lines of defence Independent monitoring and reporting of risks and controls at a Overview Group and legal entity level is supported by the Group Head of Risk.
The CFO chairs the Group Risk Committee GRC, which meets ten External independent assurance times a year.
The GRC supports the CFO and the GMC in discharging their risk management responsibilities.
The committee is attended by Three lines of defence the heads of the control functions Group Risk, Compliance, Legal and rd 3 line: Internal Internal Audit along with chief operating officers from across the Group Group Audit independent assurance business and senior managers from Distribution, Product and Wealth Risk Management and Risk Committee Committee Committee Management.
Other GMC members regularly attend.
The GRC reviews and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk nd management framework, including relevant policies and limits.
It also 2 line: Control and oversight functions reviews trends and current exposures to our key risks and considers issues as they arise.
The GRC and the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee WMARC, details of which are on page 62, receive st reports relating to the risk profile of Wealth Management.
1 line: Business operations and support Our Business Issues and Conflicts Committee supports the GRC and GMC in identifying and managing conflicts that may arise from time to We maintain comprehensive insurance cover with a broad range time in our diversified business.
ofpolicies covering a number ofinsurable events.
40 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 W r i h s k a Strategic report t a i f s t e t r h c e o r n e t r s o i d l s u ?
l s y e e s k s e r c u o o r e p r a s s t a e i h n W n i W h s p l u a a b t c c e o t n o t r m o i l t s i g d a t o 2018 developments Management of our key risks has remained a priority throughout A number of thematic investment risk reviews were conducted to 2018.
In particular, we have focused onembedding our risk support the oversight and challenge of risk taking.
These included framework within the businesses we have acquired and new business themes such as consideration of active risk levels, performance relationships we have established.
We have also managed the risks relative to benchmarks and fund liquidity.
involved in transitioning to our new front office technology platform.
As an integral part of the corporate investment process, Group Risk worked alongside business teams performing due diligence on Specific initiatives were undertaken that covered a wide range opportunities to assess the risks.
ofactivities across the Group and are covered below: Group Risk has worked to integrate the risk framework across Group Risk has been actively and extensively engaged in the newbusiness areas, including Schroder Adveq, Benchmark Capital implementation of our strategic projects: notably our new front and Algonquin.
This included the deployment of policies, alignment office technology platform, our move to a new London of governance and escalation, and reporting across various headquarters, transition to S3 a new virtual desktop technology legalentities.
and in establishing material new business relationships with Lloyds Ongoing monitoring of our risk appetite measures and metrics was Banking Group.
In certain areas these were enhanced, most notably in Our Operational Risk teams have supported the implementation the ongoing priority of information security, which is overseen by of our new front office technology platform across each of our our Information Security Risk Oversight Committee.
global locations, so that risks are clearly assessed, understood and The Audit and Risk Committee reviews a comprehensive dashboard controlled by management.
Where necessary, action plans to of metrics for key risks on a quarterly basis.
mitigate risk were formulated and put into action.
Further work has been undertaken to assess model risk and to The design and implementation of our new front office technology manage user-developed tools to reduce risks from changes platform has improved our capabilities in the management and to software.
It has provided a broad suite of integrated metrics that can be monitored centrally on a more A new approach was developed to assess the risks when wedeploy frequent basis.
Group Risk deployed portfolio-level stress testing robots as part of our robotics program.
across our client mandates and funds, which allows us to develop a The risk and control assessment RCA process continues to be a key better understanding of how our client portfolios perform under part of our risk management framework and is summarised in the adverse market conditions relative to their portfolio objectives.
In 2018, we completed an upgrade of our technology to manage our operational risk framework, including RCAs, issues, events and data loss management.
Risk and control assessment process Risk and control assessment Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 e t w h e e h r a i s v k ?
i h m e r p e a c n t t Key risks and mitigations continued Stress testing is performed on the Groups business plan, Viability statement which considers the impact of a number of the Groups key risks crystallising over the assessment period.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The severe but plausible stress scenario applied to the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the key business plan include the following factors which, where risks facing the Group and expect that Schroders plc will relevant, use assumptions more severe than the regulatory continue to be viable for at least the next five years.
stress scenario required by the Prudential Regulation Authority: Assessment of prospects A five-year period to December 2023 is in line with the Outflows of our AUMA, or deterioration in the value of our Groups strategic business planning and forecasting period.
AUMA, asaresult of a market downturn, foreign The Groups strategic and financial planning process exchange movements or poor investment performance: includes a detailed review of the business model and key a more severe decline in net operating revenue margins planning assumptions.
It is led by the Group Chief Executive reducing projected revenues, together with an increase in and Chief Financial Officer in conjunction with management the ratio of total costs tonet income: and teams, with the one-year outlook most recently updated in the impact of a material operational risk event which March 2019.
Notwithstanding the five-year viability horizon, could lead toreputational damage and outflows of the business plan addresses the longer term headwinds that our AUMA.
the business currently expects to face, to ensure that the business model adapts to the changing environment.
The Thestress scenarios are consistent with those used in the business plan is based on the Groups strategy, which is Groups consolidated Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment summarised on pages 14-15.
Process and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Key assumptions underpinning our financial planning process include AUMA growth from both markets and net Having reviewed the results of the stress scenario, the new business: changes to net operating revenue margins Directors have concluded that the Group would have owing to changes in business mix, planned business activity sufficient capital and liquid resources in the above scenario and industry-wide margin pressures: and additional costs and that the Groups ongoing viability would be sustained.
comprising the expected total compensation cost ratio and In drawing this conclusion, the business model would be non-compensation costs including those arising from the able to adapt to the changes in capital and liquid resources.
Groups continued investment intechnology, increased The stress scenario assumptions include maintaining the accommodation costs and costs driven by regulatory Groups dividend policy but this and other commitments requirements.
would be reassessed if the circumstances determined this to be necessary over the longer term.
Progress against financial budgets and key objectives are reviewed throughout the year by both the Directors and the It is possible that a stress event could be more severe or GMC, along with periodic reviews of the capital and come sooner and have a greater impact than we have dividend policies.
Actions are available that may reduce the impact of more severe scenarios, but these have not Assessment of viability been considered in this viability statement.
The assessment of the Groups viability requires the Directors to consider the principal risks that could affect the The Directors current, reasonable expectation is that Group, which are outlined on the following pages.
The Schroders plc will beable to continue in operation, meeting Directors review the key risks regularly and consider the its liabilities as they fall due, overaviability horizon of at options available to the Group to mitigate these risks so as least five years.
The Boards five-year viability and longerto ensure the ongoing viability of the Group is sustained.
term assessment isbased on information known today.
Key risks Assessment of key risks We have identified 22 key risks across strategic, business, operational The Group determines which key risks it considers to be heightened, and financial instrument risk categories, asshown on the for example those that are more costly if they materialise.
undertake further work to manage these actively.
When considering these risks, we also take account of the objectives of regulators These risks have been assessed in light of the current environment, toensure market integrity, appropriate consumer protection and taking into consideration the views of subject matter experts and risk promotion of competition within the industry.
The diagram onthe owners within the firm, geo-political risks that may impact our clients, following page illustrates therelative likelihood and impact of our market conditions and the ability of our employees to operate in local risks and is an outcome ofour assessments.
Regulatory sentiment, changes within the business and threats with uncertain impact, probability and timeframe We remain vigilant in considering the impact ofBrexit on our business could impact the Group.
Wecontinuously monitor internal and model and have described this further at the end of this section.
external environments to identify new and emerging risks.
Wethen analyse each risk and, ifneeded, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
42 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic risks Operational risks Reporting on our 1 10 Changing investor requirements Conduct and regulatory risk materialrisks 2 11 Fee attrition Third-party service provider risk The diagram below shows our 3 12 Business model disruption Information security risk key risks.
The horizontal axis illustrates the impact ofa key 4 13 Market returns Process risk risk if it were tomaterialise and the vertical axis illustrates the 5 14 Regulatory landscape change Fraud risk likelihood of this occurring.
The 15 Technology risk Business risks scales of each axis are set on a relative basis between each risk 16 Legal risk 6 Reputational risk and are based on the 17 Tax risk 7 Investment performance risk residual risks.
18 People and employment practices risk 8 Product risk The risks that we consider to have either a higher likelihood 9 Business concentration risk Financial instrument risks ofimpacting the organisation, orwith a higher likelihood of 19 Credit risk occurring, are shown above the 20 Market risk diagonal line.
Details of how we manage our risks are described 21 Risk of insufficient capital in the tables on the 22 Liquidity risk following pages.
Financial instrument risks are considered in note 19 of the financial statements.
Risk impact matrix, based on residual risk assessment after controls 2 3 1 18 4 13 17 6 11 15 10 19 7 5 16 8 12 20 9 14 21 22 Low Medium High Impact Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Likelihood Low Medium High Key risks and mitigations continued Key risks Strategic risks Impact for Schroders: These risks relate to our strategy and the environment in which we operate.
The impact of these risks, if not carefully managed, is to lower our AUMA and the income we therefore receive.
Our business plans seek to address these risks by responding to the challenges faced and growing our assets and earnings.
Higher-rated key risks How we manage this 1 Changing investor requirements Client requirements are evolving rapidly.
Failing to adapt or We have a dedicated Product and Solutions function that focuses evolve our business model and product range to reflect ondeveloping our product strategy.
We continue to expand our changing investor requirements could lead to a drop in AUMA.
capabilities into new areas, including private assets, and commit This includes index-tracking strategies, such as passive funds.
seed capital to developing solutions.
We carefully manage our cost base to reflect our clients changing asset allocation requirements.
2 Fee attrition Continued reduction of fees due to the current market We are increasing our focus on solutions and outcome-oriented environment and pricing pressures and a move towards strategies and private assets, which diversify our fee income.
vertical integration could impact our revenues.
We are also increasingly diversifying our product offering, supporting long-term profitability.
3 Business model disruption Our business model could be disrupted by a range of external We are increasing our effort to deliver efficiencies and insights factors including technology advancements, product evolution through technology.
Digital initiatives are in progress to improve and market participants.
Good progress in managing this risk client experience, engagement and servicing.
We are investing in has lowered the impact.
our technology platform to support scalability, agility in our productoffering and our expanding private assets and .
4 Market returns Our income is derived from the assets we manage and We have diversified income streams across a range of markets to administer.
Falling markets could reduce AUMA and cause a fall mitigate falling markets in any one area.
Lower-rated key risk How we manage this 5 Regulatory landscape change The risk that we do not respond appropriately to regulatory Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, Legal changes such as MiFID II, BEAR, GDPR or SM&CR, or other and Public Policy teams.
We engage with regulators globally on events such as Brexit.
potential or planned regulatory changes and in response to Brexit.
Business risks Impact for Schroders: In executing our strategy, a number of key risks arise that could impact our ability to attract and retain clients.
By evolving our product offering and delivering investment performance, we have the best opportunity to be selected by clients when allocating assets.
A failure to achieve this could lead to a decrease in AUMA.
Higher-rated key risks How we manage this 6 Reputational risk This may arise from poor conduct, judgement or risk events We consider reputational risks when initiating changes to due to weaknesses in systems or controls.
The reputation of our strategy or operating model and maintain high standards Schroders can be impacted by any of our key risks.
7 Investment performance risk There is a risk that portfolios may not meet their investment We have clearly defined investment processes designed to meet objectives or that there is a failure to deliver consistent investment targets within stated parameters, which are subject to performance.
Lower-rated key risks How we manage this 8 Product risk There is a risk that our product offering is not suitably Our dedicated Product and Solutions function focuses on strategy, diversified, or does not provide access to strategies that will innovation and changing investor requirements.
help investors to meet their objectives.
9 Business concentration risk Insufficient diversification in distribution channels, products, We have a broad range and scale of products, distribution and clients, markets, or income streams could pose a risk to investment channels and our development of strategic relationships our business.
and acquisitions enables further diversification of income streams.
44 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Operational risks Impact for Schroders: Operational risks are inherent in all activities and processes.
They exist in the normal course of business and are heightened when we undertake changes to our organisation.
When operational risk events occur, this may affect our clients and our ability to serve them.
We may be liable for financial losses or fines, which could affect our business performance and may weaken our standing with stakeholders.
Higher-rated key risks How we manage this 10 Conduct and regulatory risk The risk of inappropriate conduct, conflicts management We promote a strong compliance culture and seek to maintain good practice or behaviour impacting on client outcomes, or of failing relationships with our regulators.
We also encourage appropriate to respond appropriately to regulatory changes.
conduct via our conduct risk framework and culture assessment, supported by compliance monitoring and surveillance programmes.
11 Third-party service provider risk The risk that suppliers may not meet their agreed service We have policies in place to govern our approach to appointing, level terms.
managing and reviewing third-party providers.
1 12 Information security risk The risk that our technology is compromised or inadequate, Formal governance of information security cyber risks exists resulting in the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our across the three lines of defence and is monitored by the data or Schroders services being negatively impacted.
Information Security Risk Oversight Committee.
2 13 Process risk The risk of failure of significant business processes, such as Our key business processes are regularly reviewed and the risks mandate compliance, client suitability checks, financial crime assessed through the RCA process.
When we undertake change, risk management and asset pricing.
such as acquisitions, we assess new processes that may arise.
Lower-rated key risks How we manage this 14 Fraud risk Fraud could arise from any attempt to defraud the firm or our Controls are in place, which are assessed as part of the RCA process.
clients by circumventing our processes and controls.
We have applied particular focus to our payment processes.
15 Technology risk A change or failure in technology could pose a risk to the Policies and technical standards are deployed, together with robust integrity or availability of the services we offer.
project and change management processes, which cover the assessment of business requirements, risk and scalability.
16 Legal risk The risk that we, our clients, suppliers or other third parties fail Our policies and procedures consider legal risk as part of their to meet or record legal or regulatory obligations.
We have an escalation process for the areas of material risk and our Legal function supports our employees and the business.
17 Tax risk We and the funds we manage are exposed to tax compliance Our tax strategy sets out our approach to managing our tax affairs, and reporting risks, which include the submission of late or underpinned by a governance framework and supported by the inaccurate tax returns.
We have further reviewed the impact Tax function, which works with management and advisers to and updated our risk position.
monitor our position and relevant tax changes.
18 People and employment practices risk The inability to attract, retain or develop key employees We have competitive remuneration and retention plans and tosupport our business or maintain high standards in builddepth and strength in our workforce.
We have sustainable employment practices.
succession and employee development processes and recruit selectively through our entry-level and experienced hire programmes.
2 Change risk has been removed.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Key risks and mitigations continued Financial instrument risks Impact for Schroders: We face market, credit, liquidity and capital risks from the instruments we manage as part of our AUM, as well as those arising from holding investments where we act as principal.
The impact of financial instrument risks on our business may negatively affect our earnings or ability to invest in our business.
Lower-rated key risks How we manage this 19 Credit risk Exposure to counterparty risk from clients, principal investment We assess counterparty creditworthiness and set limits for both holdings and in the assets we manage.
Our wealth principal and agency counterparties.
In Wealth Management, management lending activities also face credit riskexposure.
credit risk is monitored and managed against approved limits and where collateral is taken.
20 Market risk Market movements may cause a fall in the value of principal The Group Capital Committee GCC regularly reviews all principal investments and a decline in the value of our proprietary assets.
assets held for investment or seed capital purposes.
The Groups seed capital investments are hedged in respect of market risk and currency risk, where practical.
The Wealth Management Executive Committee monitors and manages market risk in the Groups Wealth Management business.
21 Risk of insufficient capital The risk that the Group is unable to support its strategic The Group and its legal subsidiaries maintain an appropriate level of business objectives due to its minimum regulatory capital capital, including a significant buffer over the minimum regulatory requirements.
capital requirements, which allows us to conduct business and invest in new business opportunities as they arise.
22 Liquidity risk The inability to meet our contractual or payment obligations in The GCC reviews the Groups liquidity needs, considering the current a timely manner and, in relation to client portfolios, the inability liquidity position, future cash flows, regulatory requirements and to sell the underlying investments for full value or at all.
The Wealth Management Executive Committee monitors and manages liquidity risk in the Groups banking businesses.
We have established processes to assess and monitor the liquidity risk profile of funds on an ongoing basis.
46 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our business model and Brexit On 29 March 2017, the British government gave notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty that the UK would leave the European Union EU on 29 March 2019.
Negotiations continue but uncertainty remains and there is a range of possible outcomes and timeframes for many aspects of the UKs exit from the EU.
Uncertainty with respect to the terms on which the UK will leave the EU has impacted some of the markets in which we invest our clients assets.
We have taken this into account as events have developed over the year, particularly with respect to European-invested strategies with a UK weighting, and have made adjustments accordingly.
Schroders is well-positioned to manage the challenges that arise as a result of Brexit.
Our diversified business model and significant presence in the EU27 mean that we are well-placed to continue to service our clients and grow our business.
We have a long-standing commitment to continental Europe, with a substantial presence involving more than 750 employees across nine offices.
In Luxembourg, we have around 250 employees in a wide range of functions and from there distribute funds across borders within the EU as well as more widely around the world.
We have also obtained additional permissions to ensure we can continue to offer services, including segregated mandates, to European institutional clients where they wish, or need, to contract with an EU27 entity.
We delegate portfolio management to a number of jurisdictions including the UK and welcomed the announcements by the UK and other European regulators that they had agreed the necessary cooperation arrangements to allow the delegation of portfolio management to the UK to continue.
Globally, our two largest fund ranges are in the UK and Luxembourg.
The UK range is not actively marketed outside the UK.
Investors in the Luxembourg range are predominantly comprised of EU27 and other non-UK investors.
The UK government has introduced a regime to allow EU27-based funds to continue to be offered to clients based in the UK in the period immediately after Brexit.
Pages 1 to 47 constitute the strategic report, which was approved bytheBoard on 6 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive 6 March 2019 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
