52 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH IS We actively monitor occupier and other UNDERPINNED BY ACTIVE RISK markets for adverse signals relating to Brexit, MANAGEMENT and we have maintained dialogue with a range of customers and suppliers to understand 2018 continued to present a backdrop of potential impacts on them, and therefore political, economic and competitive challenges indirectly on us.
We have also maintained in key markets, including the UK, Germany, dialogue with key suppliers to understand France, Poland and Italy.
and mitigate risks to our operational and construction supply chains.
To date, we have DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION not observed significant adverse factors in Guided by the Groups capital investment these areas.
strategy, we have pursued opportunities in the We also convened a group to assess and light of current market conditions described address the corporate risks relating to Brexit.
in more detail on pages 22 to 23 and our A small number of risks on the Brexit risk appetite for risk in particular our appetite for register merited in-depth focus, but these land and other non-income producing assets.
were limited in number and scope and none Relevant Key Risk Indicators are considered proved to be beyond our appetite even in a each month by the Investment Committee to disorderly Brexit scenario.
As a result, whilst inform its decisions.
we have identified the work required to adapt We continue to manage our risk exposure by: under various scenarios, the specific response will depend on the nature and timing of Our strategy for growth utilising options on land whenever feasible: withdrawal, and we will initiate the work is underpinned by active maintaining a limited exposure to oncethis is clear.
speculative development: and risk management.
TECHNOLOGY planning for the combined impact of SOUMEN DAS significant decisions land acquisitions, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Whilst disruptive technology is not considered infrastructure commitments and a principal risk to the Group, we do actively development commitments that consider risks in this domain.
During 2018 will be required by our pipeline of we invested significant effort in assessing development opportunities.
the potential impacts of a wide range of technologies: we formulated a digital and FINANCING technology strategy: we invested in our organisation in this area: and we engaged The Groups financing strategy is designed with a number of property and technology both to support investment in our growth, organisations.
For 2019, we have refreshed our and to provide a high level of resilience in technology horizon scanning process which anticipation of the risks we face.
The Groups will feed our consideration of emerging risks.
ongoing management of its financing, including extending debt facilities and OUR RISK APPETITE maturities, is described on pages 31 to 37.
The Group recognises that its ability to HEALTH AND SAFETY manage risk effectively throughout the organisation continues to be central to its Health and safety remains a major focus for success.
Our approach to risk management risk management.
Our activity during 2018 aims to bring controllable risks within and looking ahead to 2019 is described on our appetite, and to enable our decisionpage 43. making to balance uncertainty against the objective of creating and protecting value for BREXIT our shareholders.
Inevitably the risk of a Disruptive Brexit has While our appetite for risk will vary over loomed large and remained an activelytime and during the course of the property managed risk, supported by a dedicated risk cycle, in general the Group maintains a register.
The Executive Committee considered fairly low appetite for risk, appropriate to our our approach and response plans regularly strategic objectives of delivering a sustainable throughout 2018, and will continue to do so in progressive dividend stream, supported by 2019 and for as long as necessary.
long-term growth in net asset value per share.
53 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PROPERTY RISK Our responsibilities to these stakeholders The Group adopts the three lines of include compliance with all relevant laws: defence model of risk management.
We recognise that, in seeking outperformance accurate and timely reporting of financial and Operational management, the individual risk from our portfolio, the Group must accept a other regulatory information: safeguarding manager and risk owner provide the first balanced level of property risk with diversity the health and safety of employees, suppliers, line of defence.
The Executive Committee, in geographic locations and asset types and customers and other users of our assets: other monitoring committees, and the risk an appropriate mixture of stabilised income safeguarding the environment: compliance management function overseen by the Group producing and opportunity assets in order with codes of conduct and ethics: ensuring Risk Committee provide the second line of to enhance opportunities for superior returns.
business continuity: and making a positive defence.
Finally, Internal Audit provide the Our target portfolio should deliver attractive, contribution to the communities in which third line of defence.
low risk income returns with strong rental we operate.
Risks are considered within each area of the and capital growth when market conditions business to ensure that risk management is are positive and show relative resilience in a OUR INTEGRATED AND ROBUST fully embedded within the Groups culture downturn.
We aim to enhance these returns APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT and decision-making processes.
through development, but we seek both to The Board has overall responsibility for ensure that the drag associated with holding Accountabilities for the Groups risk ensuring that risk is effectively managed development land does not outweigh the management are outlined in the diagram on across the Group.
The Audit Committee potential benefits, and to mitigate the risks page 54. monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk including letting and construction risks management process on behalf of the Board.
We have put risk appetite at the heart of our inherent in development.
Further information on compliance with risk management processes.
Risk appetite is In line with our income focus, we have a low the risk management provisions of the UK integral both to our consideration of strategy appetite for risks to income from customer Corporate Governance Code can be found in and to our medium-term planning process.
default or insolvency, and accordingly seek a the Governance section on page 60.
Risk appetite also defines specific tolerances diverse occupier base with strong covenants and targets for key metrics and the criteria for The risk management process is designed to and avoid over-exposure to individual assessing the potential impact of risks and our identify, evaluate and mitigate the significant occupiers in specialist properties.
risks that the Group faces.
The process aims to understand and mitigate, rather than The most significant risks and mitigating FINANCIAL RISK eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business controls are detailed in the Group Risk The Group maintains a low to moderate objectives, and therefore can only provide Register.
Risks are assessed in both appetite for financial risk in general, with a reasonable and not absolute assurance.
unmitigated assuming that no controls are in very low appetite for risks to solvency and place and residual with mitigating controls The Board recognises that it has limited gearing covenant breaches.
This assessment control over many of the external risks it directly relates potential impact to risk As an income-focused REIT we have a faces, such as the macro-economic, political appetite so that it is clear whether each risk low appetite for risks to maintaining stable and regulatory environment, but it reviews is comfortably within appetite, tolerable, progression in earnings and dividends over the potential impact of such risks on the intolerable or below appetite.
We also formally the long term.
We are, however, prepared to business and actively considers them in its assess the velocity of the most significant risks tolerate fluctuations in dividend cover as a decision making.
to determine how quickly they might cause an consequence of capital recycling activity.
The Board also monitors internal risks and intolerable impact on us.
We also seek long-term growth in net asset ensures that appropriate controls are in place A Key Risk Indicator KRI dashboard is value per share.
Our appetite for risks to net to manage them.
produced on a monthly basis to show actual asset value from the factors within our control The Board has performed a robust assessment and forecast performance against risk appetite is low, albeit acknowledging that our appetite of the principal risks facing the Group.
KRIs are considered in the Groups for moderate leverage across the cycle The Board has formally reviewed the principal Medium Term Plan.
amplifies the impact of market driven asset risks twice during the year.
The Board has also valuation movements on net asset value.
Mitigations for each risk are documented completed its annual review and approval of and monitored in the Group Risk Register.
the Groups risk appetite, and the Groups risk CORPORATE RISK The Register is used as a key input to management policy.
The Audit Committee determine priorities for the Groups internal We have a very low appetite for risks to receives a report twice a year on how the audit assurance programme.
Furthermore, our good reputation and risks to being Group Risk Register has been compiled.
managements annual assessment of control well-regarded by our investors, regulators, effectiveness is driven by the Groups employees, customers, business partners, Risk Register.
suppliers, lenders and by the wider communities and environments in which we operate.
54 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS OUR FRAMEWORK FOR RISK GOVERNANCE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE Overall responsibility for ensuring that risk Monitors effectiveness of the Groups is effectively managed across the Group.
risk management process and internal control systems.
Determines the Groups risk appetite.
Conducts robust assessment of Groups risks.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 EXECUTIVE RISK OWNERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT Own risks in domain.
Oversees execution of risk management Agrees internal audit programme across the business.
Assign accountability for mitigating individual risks tosenior risk managers.
Formally considers risks, including Conducts internal audit programme and emerging risks, four times per year.
Ensure that risks are identified, assessed and adequately controlled.
Review risks with the risk management Delegates accountability for risk function atleast twice per year.
management and monitors performance of risk controls.
Assigns Executive Risk Owners to each risk.
RISK MANAGERS MONITORING COMMITTEES Responsible for ensuring the risk is Regularly identify and monitor the within appetite.
significant risks and corresponding controls within their domains.
Drive design and implementation of controls.
Risk management function attends regularly.
Review and assess existing risks with risk management function at least twice per year.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Coordinates the risk management process on behalf of the Executive Committee.
Oversees the work of the Risk Management function, which in turn: Manages and reports on the risk register.
Assesses and documents risks and controls.
P rovides quality assurance and challenge to risk owners and managers.
55 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VIABILITY STATEMENT ASSESSMENT OF THE GROUPS PROSPECTS PRINCIPAL RISKS be breached, causing a threat to the Groups viability.
We then assessed the likelihood of The Directors have considered the Groups The principal risks have the potential to that limit being reached as a result of the prospects, including reference to the affect SEGROs business materially.
Risks are individual event or combination of events Groups principal risks, to form the basis classified as principal based on their potential occurring, using a combination of historic data of our assessment of longer term viability.
to intolerably exceed our appetite considering for example the acute property valuation The process for conducting this assessment is both inherent and residual impact and cause decline in 20072009 and forward-looking summarised in the Audit Committees report material harm to the Group.
Some risks that may be unknown at present, In our modelling none of the financial The Directors confirm that they have a as well as other risks that are currently covenants were breached with gearing reasonable expectation that the Group will regarded as immaterial and therefore not remaining comfortably below 160 per cent be able to continue in operation and has detailed here, could turn out to be material in and interest cover well above 1.25 times.
adequate resources to meet its liabilities as the future.
they fall due over the next five years.
Reverse stress testing was undertaken over the The current principal risks facing the Group period under review and, in isolation, it would The five year assessment period is the same are summarised in the diagram below and take at least a 50 per cent fall in property values time horizon as covered by the Groups described across the following pages.
to breach gearing covenants: or a decrease annual rolling five year strategic financial plan.
The descriptions indicate the potential areas in rental income of over 65 per cent or an This is considered to be the optimum balance of impact on the Groups strategy: the increase in interest rates to over 14 per cent to between our need to plan for the long term, time-horizon and probability of the risk: the breach interest cover covenants assuming 60 recognising that property investment is a longprincipal activities that are in place to mitigate per cent fixed rate debt is maintained.
term business, and the progressively unreliable and manage such risks: the committees that nature of forecasting in later years, particularly In addition, we have undertaken a severe provide second line of defence oversight: given the historically cyclical nature of the downside risk scenario of an economic shock changes in the level of risk during the course property industry.
The Directors confirm that consistent with the financial crisis of 2007- of 2018: whether the risk is within our appetite they have no reason to expect a step-change 2009 crisis at a point when the Group is most after the application of our mitigations : in the Groups viability immediately following exposed with its development programme.
and links to further relevant information in the five year period assessed.
Whilst this scenario reduced the headroom on this report.
the financial covenants the Group is able to ASSESSMENT OF THE GROUPS VIABILITY Management has actively considered continue in operation.
emerging risks during the year.
To this end, In addition to the robust ongoing assessment The scenarios set out are hypothetical and the Executive Committee undertakes a risk and management of the risks facing the severe for the purpose of creating outcomes horizon scan twice a year, and the risk Group, as already set out in this section, the which have the ability to threaten the management function undertakes an annual Group has stress tested its five year strategic viability of the Group.
We also note that, survey of peers and other listed companies to financial plan.
This stress test has considered in the event of a severe threat to liquidity, identify potential risks for consideration.
the risks that could either individually, or in various options are available to the Group aggregate, threaten the viability of the Group.
Whilst no principal risks have been added to maintain viability.
These options include The process for conducting the Groups or removed in 2018, three of our risks have reduction of any non-committed capital assessment is the responsibility of the Chief increased, and one has reduced since 2017. expenditure and acquisitions, selling assets, or Financial Officer and is overseen by the reducing cash dividends including the use of Audit Committee.
In particular the stress test has considered the RESIDUAL RISK potential impacts of: a systemic crisis, such as a major dislocation 3 Disruptive Brexit or failure of capital markets or a failure of the insurance market: Market cycle 1 an acute deterioration in occupier or 2 Portfolio strategy property investment market conditions: Health & safety 4 significant movements in interest rates and Financing strategy 5 Political & foreign exchange rates: 8 6 Development plan execution regulatory an inability to refinance maturing debt: and Investment plan execution 7 Operational delivery & compliance 9 a sustained interruption to the Groups business continuity.
In stress testing we assessed the limits at Within appetite Intolerable Below appetite which key financial ratios and covenants would IMPACT Low PROBABILITY High 56 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL RISKS 1.
DISRUPTIVE BREXIT The property market is cyclical and there The Groups Total Property and or Shareholder The uncertainty associated with Brexit may is a continuous risk that the Group could Returns could underperform in absolute or adversely impact investment, capital, financial either misinterpret the market or fail to react relative terms as a result of an inappropriate including FX, occupier and labour markets appropriately to changing market conditions, portfolio strategy.
This could result from: in the UK as the nature and timing of exit and which could result in capital being invested or future relationships are negotiated.
Holding the wrong balance of prime or disposals taking place at the wrong price or secondary assets: In most scenarios there may be extended time in the cycle.
periods of uncertainty, leading to market Holding the wrong amounts or types of This is a continuous risk with a impacts that are less acute but persistent.
land, leading to diluted returns and or moderate likelihood.
In the event of a no deal disorderly Brexit constraints on development opportunities: these impacts could be acute.
MITIGATIONS Holding the wrong level of higher risk In the long term, exit from the EU could opportunity assets or too many old or The Board, Executive Committee and impact levels of investor and occupier obsolete assets which dilute returns: and Investment Committee monitor the property demand as a result of reduced trade and or market cycle on a continual basis and adapt Holding assets in the wrong geographical the relocation of corporations and financial the Groups investment divestment strategy in markets: missing opportunities in new institutions away from the UK.
anticipation of changing market conditions.
markets or lacking critical mass in Nevertheless, the likelihood of severe adverse existing markets.
Multiple, diverse investment and occupier impact on the Group is judged to be low.
market intelligence is regularly received This is a continuous risk with a MITIGATIONS and considered both from internal on moderate likelihood.
the ground sources and from independent We have engaged in dialogue with key external sources.
MITIGATIONS customers, and with key suppliers to understand labour and material supply risks.
Upside and downside scenarios are The Groups portfolio strategy is subject To date, we have not observed significant incorporated into Investment Committee to regular review by the Board to consider adverse factors.
Structural drivers of demand papers to assess the impact of differing the desired shape of the portfolio in order appear to have continued to outweigh any market conditions.
to meet the Groups overall objectives and Brexit-related uncertainties.
to determine our response to changing opportunities and market conditions.
The Group has, however, continued to adopt a disciplined approach to land acquisition and The Groups Disciplined Capital Allocation is speculative development.
informed by comprehensive asset plans and independent external assessments of market The Groups strategy provides resilience conditions and forecasts.
As well as the underlying quality and diversity of the Regular portfolio analysis ensures the portfolio portfolio, mitigations include substantial is correctly positioned in terms of location covenant headroom, access to diverse sources and asset type, and retains the right balance of funding, FX and interest rate hedging, and of core and opportunity assets.
The annual short, responsive development lead-times.
asset planning exercise provides a bottom-up assessment of the performance and potential for all assets to identify underperforming assets that are considered for sale.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 THE INCREASED RATING IS A REFLECTION OF PERSISTING UNCERTAINTY AS DEADLINES BECOME IMMINENT.
OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK FURTHER INFORMATION: THE GROUPS RESPONSE ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES TO THIS RISK IS DESCRIBED ON PAGE 52.
57 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE INCREASED RISK SIMILAR RISK DECREASED RISK 4.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 5. FINANCING STRATEGY 6.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN EXECUTION Health and safety management processes The Group could suffer an acute liquidity The Group has an extensive current could fail, leading to a loss of life, litigation, or solvency crisis, financial loss or financial programme and future pipeline of fines and serious reputational damage to distress as a result of a failure in the design or developments.
The Group could suffer the Group.
execution of its financing strategy.
significant financial losses from: This is a continuous risk with a low likelihood Such an event may be caused by: a failure Cost over-runs on larger, more of causing significant harm to the Group.
to obtain debt funding e. g. due to market complex projects.
Nevertheless, we note that this risk is disruption or rating downgrade : having Increased competition and or construction somewhat increased by the scale of the an inappropriate debt structure including costs from labour market changes Groups development activity.
leverage level, debt maturity, interest rate or weakened supply competition or currency exposure : poor forecasting: leading to reduced or uneconomic MITIGATIONS default on loan agreements as a result of a development yields.
breach of financial or other covenants: or The Group manages an active health and counterparty default.
Above-appetite exposure to non-income safety management system, with a particular producing land, infrastructure and focus on managing the quality and compliance This is both a short and a long-term risk with a speculatively developed buildings arising from to good health and safety practice of very low likelihood.
a sharp deterioration in occupier demand.
MITIGATIONS This is a medium-term risk with a A published Health and Safety policy is moderate likelihood.
backed up by independent site inspections of The Groups financing strategy is aligned with both existing assets as well as development our long-term business strategy, the Medium MITIGATIONS projects against SEGROs Health & Safety Term Plan and our risk appetite.
policy defines key policy parameters and Our appetite for exposure to noncontrols to support execution of the strategy.
income producing assets including land, We continue to improve health and safety infrastructure and speculative developments is standards on our construction sites, and The Group regularly reviews its changing monitored closely.
work more closely with our contractors and financing requirements in the light of health and safety consultants to increase opportunities and market conditions.
We retain a high level of optionality in our understanding and implementation of future development programme including at Financing activity in 2018 see pages 31-37 SEGROs requirements.
the point of land acquisition, commitment to has strengthened the balance sheet, increased infrastructure and commitment to building.
We have undertaken a comprehensive review average debt maturity, lowered the average of all industrial estates across the Groups cost of debt, and demonstrated our ability to The development programme remains portfolio to assess the potential pedestrian access a range of debt capital markets.
Those estates that Liquidity remains strong and there is The risk of cost-overruns is mitigated by our were considered high risk were independently substantial headroom against all of our experienced development teams and the use assessed by traffic management experts and financial covenants.
of trusted advisors and contractors.
Our short development lead-times enable a quick response to changing market conditions.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 THE INCREASED RATING REFLECTS THE GROUPS THE REDUCED RATING REFLECTS THE FINANCING LEVEL OF DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY AND GREATER ACTIVITY UNDERTAKEN IN 2018 AND THE GREATER FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL SAFETY.
OVERSEEN BY: OPERATIONS COMMITTEE: OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OPERATIONS COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: HEALTH AND SAFETY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IS DISCUSSED ON PAGE 43.
58 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 DISCIPLINED PRINCIPAL RISKS CAPITAL ALLOCATION OPERATIONAL PRINCIPAL RISKS EXCELLENCE CONTINUED EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE INCREASED RISK SIMILAR RISK DECREASED RISK 7.
O PERATIONAL DELIVERY AND COMPLIANCE Decisions to buy, hold, sell or develop assets The Group could fail to anticipate significant The Groups ability to protect its reputation, could be flawed due to uncertainty in analysis, political, legal, tax or regulatory changes, revenues and shareholder value could be quality of assumptions, poor due diligence leading to a significant un-forecasted financial damaged by operational failures such as: or unexpected changes in the economic or or reputational impact.
environmental damage: failing to attract, operating environment.
retain and motivate key staff: a breach of antiIn general, regulatory matters present bribery and corruption or other legislation: Our investment decisions could be mediumto long-term risks with a low major customer default: supply chain failure: insufficiently responsive to implement our likelihood of causing significant harm to the structural failure of one of our assets: strategy effectively.
a major high-profile incident involving one This is a continuous risk with a moderate Political risks could impact business confidence of our assets: a cyber-security breach: or likelihood as changing investment and and conditions in the short and longer terms.
failure to respond to the consequences of occupier market conditions require climate change.
MITIGATIONS Compliance failures, such as breaches of Emerging risks in this category are reviewed joint venture shareholders agreements, MITIGATIONS regularly by the Executive Committee.
loan agreements or tax legislation could Asset plans are prepared annually for all also damage reputation, revenue and Corporate heads of function consult with estates to determine where to invest capital shareholder value.
external advisers, attend industry and specialist in existing assets and to identify assets briefings, and sit on key industry bodies such This is a continuous risk with a low likelihood for disposal.
of causing significant harm to the Group.
Locally-based property investment A number of potential risks were identified, and operational teams provide market MITIGATIONS assessed and managed during the course of intelligence and networking to source the year.
None were individually considered The Group maintains a strong focus on attractive opportunities.
to be material enough to be classified as Operational Excellence.
The Executive, Policies are in place to govern evaluation, due principal risks.
Operations, and Business Information Systems diligence, approval, execution and subsequent Committees regularly monitor the range of review of investment activity.
risks to property management, construction, compliance, business continuity, organisational The Investment Committee meets frequently effectiveness, customer management and to review investment and disposal proposals cyber security.
and to consider appropriate capital allocation.
The Groups tax compliance is managed by Investment hurdle rates are regularly an experienced internal tax team.
REIT and reappraised taking into account estimates of SIIC tax regime compliance is demonstrated our weighted average cost of capital.
Compliance with joint Major capital investment and disposal venture shareholder agreements is managed decisions are subject to Board approval.
by experienced property operations, finance and legal staff.
The SELP JV additionally has comprehensive governance and compliance arrangements in place, including dedicated management, operating manuals, and specialist third-party compliance support.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 CHANGE IN2018 THE INCREASED RATING REFLECTS LEVELS OF POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY IN MARKETS INCLUDING THE UK, ITALY, FRANCE AND GERMANY.
OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: OPERATIONS COMMITTEE: INVESTMENT COMMITTEE BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS COMMITTEE: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ON PAGES 06-08.
59 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRS INTRODUCTION 60 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 62 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 66 LEADERSHIP TEAM 68 GOVERNANCE REPORT 70 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 77 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 84 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 100 DIRECTORS REPORT 106 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS 108 RESPONSIBILITIES
