"COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE Risk Management Risk management approach Management oversight We have a structured framework identified in our Serco We have a systematic approach to our risk oversight, with Management System SMS"" to support our management of nominated members of senior management tasked to ensure risks."
Our Group standard, which we require all our Divisions that the risk management framework is understood and and Functions to follow, consists of six key processes forming implemented.
This allows for a robust reporting structure, the risk management life cycle.
This enables a consistent both top-down and bottom-up, with a current focus on approach to identifying, analysing, monitoring and reporting better aligning the Business and Divisional risks to our risks and a mechanism for providing assurance that the risk principal risks, and vice versa.
mitigation in place is effective.
"For our principal risks, we have Subject Matter Experts We seek to identify, review and report risks at all levels of our SMEs"" and a nominated Executive Committee member business, reflecting the nature of the activities being allocated to each, supporting their review and management."
undertaken at those levels, the business and operational Detailed reviews of these risks are carried out on a rolling basis risks, and the level of control considered necessary to protect and contribute to the risk reporting at the Group Risk our interests and those of our stakeholders.
As well as individual deep-dives carried out on each of our principal risks during the year, our divisional We recognise that our management and internal control CEOs provide a deep-dive of one of their material risks systems can only seek to manage and not eliminate our risks, providing the opportunity for the GRC to challenge risks at as any system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, Divisional level and to stress test our Group principal risks see assurance against material misstatement or loss.
pages 91 to 93 for the detailed Corporate Governance Report.
Risk management life cycle CORPORATE RISK REPORTING TOOL RISK REPORTING RISK PLANNING RISK IDENTIFICATION Reporting of the status of material Assigning responsibility for risk Identifying risks associated risks up through the management management implementation and with achievement of our business chain to the next organisational level, planning the approach.
Includes potential risks to provide assurance that business from external factors arising from risks are being appropriately the environment within which we managed and controls in place are operate, and internal risks arising effective.
from the nature of our business.
Risk Management Life Cycle Processes RISK MONITORING RISK ANALYSIS RISK MITIGATION Monitoring mitigation actions Assessing the level of inherent Identifying controls that will and their impact so as to improve and residual risk exposure, based reduce material risks to a target risk the effectiveness of controls and on an assessment of the probability rating aligned with our risk appetite, improve the residual risk rating.
of an identified risk materialising, and implementing cost-effective and the impact if it does, using a Monitoring changes to mitigation and contingency actions standard risk scoring system, our business and the external that improve the effectiveness of taking into account the effectiveness environment, to ensure we have sight controls.
of and respond appropriately to of current controls.
| 52 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTING Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements This year we have enhanced our risk overviews with the The Board considers the risk appetite of the Group in the introduction of a Key Risk Indicator dashboard.
This enables context of the factors outlined in the diagram below.
the GRC to see at a glance progress to our mitigation plans, Different risks will attract different levels of risk appetite, our tolerance levels and other risk indicators such as and the use of heat maps help us to prioritise our risks using outcomes relating to our three lines of defence activity.
a combination of agreed impact and likelihood criteria.
The dashboard has been refined during the year, and this is expected to continue as our maturity regarding indicators Each of our principal risks has an appetite statement to and performance measures increases.
determine the nature and amount of risk that the Group is willing to accept as well as informing our decision-making as to the level of resource required to mitigate the principal Risk appetite risks.
These statements are aligned to our Values, Code of Our objective is to be a trusted partner of governments, Conduct and other ethical requirements to support and drive delivering superb public services that transform outcomes the right risk culture within the Group.
and make a positive difference for our fellow citizens.
As such, we have a relatively low risk appetite to ensure that we can deliver on the wider value that we want to bring to governments, public services and to society.
Risk appetite factors Political environment Regulatory Strategy & environment organising principles Risk Risk Controls exposures appetite Risk Policy tolerances Risk culture | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 53
