STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2018 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY LOST TIME INJURY RATE Operating in an ethical, environmentally and socially RATE FELL BY REDUCED BY sustainable manner is a key driver in value creation 16% 25% Focus on leadership through behavioural safety WORKPLACE WORKPLACE has resulted in benefits to existing safety 20 20 programs including near-miss reporting.
We promote near miss reporting as a proactive way OBJECTIVES ETHICS to identify and rectify potential hazards.
This has The highest ethical standard resulted in an unprecedented number of near HEALTH & SAFETY Senior remains committed to the highest miss reports across the Group in 2018: 8,392, HEALTH & SAFETY ETHICS EMPLOYEE SUPPLY CHAIN Health & Safety is one of our core values in standard of ethics and a zero tolerance towards an increase of over 60% compared to 2017 Objectives Objectives Objectives Senior, it is an upmost priority and remains ENGAGEMENT bribery and corruption.
Our ethics and business and a record year.
Continue towards our goal Act in accordance Implement a Responsible one of our core business objectives.
Objectives conduct programme commits us to conducting of zero harm through with Seniors business Supply Chain Management Develop a Group HR All of our businesses have been subjected to business fairly, impartially and in compliance When compared to our 2017 annual figure In 2015, we launched effective management principles and values, Policy and communicate Framework with a Group health, safety and environment audit in with local laws and regulations and to acting the 2018 Total Recordable Injury Rate fell our 20 20 vision for systems, employee upholding a zero tolerance it to all suppliers.
Areas of improvement are identified and with integrity and honesty in our business by 16% and the Lost Time Injury Rate sustainability, a five-year engagement and defining approach to bribery for learning, diversity actions tracked centrally.
The programme is underpinned Progress reduced by 25% with no work-related strategy.
will be revised to align the format with the by the Code of Conduct, which provides a clear A Responsible Sourcing employee fatalities.
Our vision has three core recent ISO 45001 standard Health and framework on which to base decisions when Progress Progress Policy has been adopted.
Progress The inclusion of behavioural based safety in our Safety Management.
themes: Workplace, conducting day-to-day business.
It does this by: A 25% reduction in our Rolled out advanced Key suppliers have The Group continues to Zero Harm program is now showing tangible Environment and Lost Time Injury Rate and ethics and compliance been included in the partner with world class In 2018 a fire occurred in one of our European clearly setting out the behaviour expected of benefits and continues to drive down the injury Community.
a 16% reduction in our programmes training assessment process.
training providers to develop businesses.
No staff were injured in the event all employees: rates.
The significant reduction in Lost Time Injury Total Recordable Injury across the Group.
our leadership pipeline and which was confined to a particular processing providing guidelines which help employees Rate means we have now achieved our 2020 Rate compared with 2017. capability.
The business contingency plan is proving to apply our values: and Plans have been made goal to reduce Lost Time Injury Rate to 0.5.
Perform, our new global effective in mitigating the event and all Group This means we have to use an external enabling employees to raise a concern or ask performance management In 2019 we have plans to further embed our businesses have been required to examine accomplished the 2020 provider for handling a question if in doubt.
system to our leadership behavioural safety program and have targeted similar plant with learning taken from the event.
objective of reducing our whistle-blowing teams across our businesses.
further reductions in both lost time and Acting ethically is an enabler of our business, Lost Time Injury Rate by notifications.
For 2019 we have plans to extend our We continue to identify recordable injury rates.
providing competitive advantage by 50%, two years earlier behavioural safety program with My Team high potential individuals strengthening long-term relationships than targeted.
We believe that leadership in health and safety My Responsibility, a workshop and coaching and talent through our and protecting the Groups reputation.
is key to driving the world class health and program for our first line business leaders.
robust succession planning safety culture we aspire to.
All of our business We use various forms of communication and In addition, we will be strengthening our and talent management leadership teams have attended a workshop training, both in-person and through electronic communication network for HSE professionals process and ensure that around our Essential Behaviours, the key media, to embed the ethics and integrity with a revised intranet as well as global they have appropriate themes of the workshop sessions were: requirement across the Group.
any alleged violations or complaints and take the to understand why a Behaviour Standard necessary action.
A register of reported incidents supports a strong safety culture and how is maintained by the Group Company Secretary INJURY RATES it works: and the Board receives regular updates.
to see the connection between behaviours 4.0 ENVIRONMENT The Group recognises that the use of third-party COMMUNITY and real incidents: 3.5 intermediaries can increase potential bribery and 2.97 2.94 2.95 to compare the current management 3.0 corruption risks within the markets in which we behaviours with the Essential Behaviours 2.49 2.5 operate.
All external sales agents working on using a gap analysis method: 2.0 1.78 behalf of Senior across the world are required to to choose two of these behaviours and 1.50 1.5 operate in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
1.13 CARBON EMISSIONS WATER CONSUMPTION WASTE RECYCLED CERTIFICATION COMMUNITY GIVING create Action Plans that address these 1.03 0.95 0.93 1.0 The Code requires a pre-appointment due 0.67 Objectives Objectives Objectives Objectives Objectives Doing Our Bit : 0.50 diligence and risk assessment to be undertaken, 0.5 Reduce carbon emissions Limit the environmental Reduce the overall Establish formalised Establish positive and to develop and lead a communication and prior to engaging or re-appointing any sales 0.0 through improved energy impacts of our products quantity of waste environmental meaningful relationships engagement strategy to launch the Behaviour 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 agent and requires them to be issued with consumption and and processes through generated and improve management systems in with all the communities Standard on site: and Total Recordable Injury Rate the Code, ensuring that they understand, efficiency measures.
more efficient water proportion of materials all businesses to reduce in which Senior operates Lost Time Injury Rate to commit to improving a single behaviour acknowledge and accept its requirements.
and provide financial personally Doing My Bit.
Progress Essential Behaviours for... support to local charities Emissions of CO tonnes Progress Progress Progress 2 and good causes.
Supervisors & Managers & per m revenue have Water consumption Through continual All businesses in Senior Theme Everyone Team Leaders Leadership decreased from 65 in for 2018 was 0.31 improvement 92% of now have ISO 14001 Progress Ensure Complian p ce Set High g Standards Standards Follow Rules 2017 to 60 for 2018. megalitres m turnover our waste produced accreditation, with the Our businesses continue Communication Speak Up p p Encourag ge the Team Communicate Open p ly y compared with 0.26 was recycled in 2018 last two achieving to interact in a positive in 2017. compared to 91% in 2017. accreditation in 2018. way with communities Risk Manag gement Be Mindful Promote Risk Awareness Confront Risk local to the facility.
Involvement Get Involved Engage the Team Involve the Workforce Businesses have worked hard to embed our essential behaviours for health and safety.
34 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 35 Rate per 100 employees STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Please refer to the Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENT CO TO TURNOVER Report on pages 44 to 47 for further information The table below shows the diversity of the 2 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Senior Groups Board of Directors, Executive on Corporate Ethics and the Code of Conduct.
Senior plc is committed to ensuring equal 86 Environmental management remains a strong 90 85 86 CO to revenue 2 81 tonnes of CO Committee and Operational Senior Management 2 opportunities, fairness of treatment, dignity, 80 focus in our businesses.
We achieved a reduction emitted per 2018 update WATER CONSUMPTION in 2018 by gender.
work-life balance and the elimination of all m revenue of 8% in our carbon intensity CO per m 70 65 2 The 2018 Code of Conduct training programme We continue to monitor and report on water Gender 60 forms of discrimination in the workplace for 60 revenue, as well as a reduction of 7% in the was completed by all employees usage.
Seniors businesses incorporate water Male Female employees and job applicants.
Senior aims 50 total carbon emitted CO e. 2 The Senior Code of Conduct was updated saving initiatives as they continue to refine to create a working environment in which all Total Group 81% 19% 40 and reissued to all employees It is a requirement for all Senior businesses to production processes.
In 2018 our water intensity individuals can make best use of their skills, 30 Board of Directors 57% 43% increased from 0.26 in 2017 to 0.31 for 2018 The Group Responsible Sourcing Policy was attain an accreditation to ISO 14000.
The last two free from discrimination or harassment, and 20 Executive Committee 66% 33% businesses achieved full accreditation in 2018. megalitre m turnover.
This is attributed in the updated and reissued in which all decisions are based on merit.
10 Operational Senior main to increased activity in some product lines.
Training on GDPR was delivered to 0 Management 86% 14% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Groups Equality, Diversity and Inclusion employees as appropriate policy is contained within the Code of Conduct The Board seeks to ensure a diverse workforce Our plans for 2019 and requires Seniors employees to treat that supports all employees, irrespective of ENERGY INTENSITY All employees will be required to complete everyone they meet in the course of business age, disability, gender, race, religion or sexual CARBON EMISSIONS 220 the 2019 Code of Conduct training programme with respect, fairness and dignity.
We will not accept any form of Energy WASTE RECYCLED 204 202 In 2018 we saw a small increase 1% in our 200 194 intensity A Learning Management System will be are required to comply with the Code of Conduct 184 unlawful discrimination against our colleagues In 2018, we recycled over 92% of our waste MWh m 180 171 169 absolute Scope 1 direct carbon emissions implemented, facilitating the delivery of and the policies included therein.
During the revenue or any third parties be they potential employees, with a number of our businesses achieving 160 compared to 2017, the increase may be ethics and other training year, all employees received training on the 140 customers, subcontractors, suppliers or zero waste to landfill where local conditions are attributed to heating buildings in lower winter 120 Code of Conduct.
We have made a commitment members of the public.
All employees have favourable to recycling opportunities.
This is a temperatures in some of our larger businesses.
100 to provide a diverse and inclusive workplace for an equal chance to contribute and to achieve result of a concerted effort by the businesses 80 Total Scope 2 indirect emissions have reduced example by having policies and procedures that their potential.
We strive to reflect the diversity to examine opportunities to minimise waste 60 in 2018, down around 8%, this comes largely support the attraction, selection, retention and EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 40 of the communities we work in, at all levels and where possible investigate new recycling from reduced carbon conversion factors in some 20 In our autonomous and collaborative structure promotion of people from a diverse range of across our workforce.
Senior plc is an equal opportunities.
The total volume of waste of our larger businesses.
0 candidates based on skills and merit.
In addition, our operating businesses actively engage via a opportunities employer.
recycled by the Group in 2018 increased by 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 range of activities that are culturally appropriate Seniors operating businesses adopted local In terms of carbon intensity we have seen 9% compared to 2017.
In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 policies as a means of helping to achieve for the business.
These include: meetings with further improvements this year, attributed to Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017, WATER CONSUMPTION employee representative bodies, long service these aims.
a combination of continuing energy saving Senior publishes its Gender Pay Gap report awards, an employee App, holiday parties initiatives and more favourable carbon conversion 0.50 on the Companys website.
The intensity measure has reduced from 0.45 Megalitre m businesses assess engagement at a local level 0.38 0.40 turnover 65 tonnes CO e m revenue in 2017 to 60 2 0.36 via engagement surveys, providing feedback to 0.35 tonnes CO e m revenue in 2018, down 8%.
0.31 0.31 2 0.30 0.30 the participants and develop action plans based 0.26 Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been 0.25 on the feedback.
As well as our annual Spring 0.20 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IN INDIA WATER PURIFICATION SYSTEM independently verified in accordance with Roadshow when members of the Executive 0.15 At Senior Flexonics New Delhi, it is our firm the International Standard on Assurance WITH CAPACITY OF Team visit all our sites to present a business 0.10 belief to give back to society through engaging Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements update, our operations hold regular meetings 0.05 with our local community, which also supports on greenhouse gas statements ISAE 3410. with groups of employees such as All-hands 250 litres per hour 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 two of Seniors Corporate Responsibility meetings, Behavioural Safety sessions, Values Senior submits data and information related to Objectives: Employee Engagement and workshops and Kaizen events.
Climate Change on an annual basis to the CDP.
This means that we must detail how we manage Having considered the increased emphasis Our aim is to improve the quality of life through our emissions of carbon and describe in detail of the new UK Corporate Governance Code effective partnership on a sustainable basis.
how we consider carbon and the environment 2018 on stakeholder engagement, the Board APPROVAL in the way we conduct our business and plan has nominated Celia Baxter as a designated The Strategic Report from pages 1 to 37 Keeping the above objectives in mind, we for the future.
CDP is a not-for-profit charity that non-executive Director responsible for collaborated with a government school in a was approved by the Board of Directors on runs the global disclosure system for investors, engagement with the workforce.
1 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by deprived area of the Haryana state to resolve companies, cities, states and regions to manage issues of unsafe drinking water causing water their environmental impacts.
Over the past borne diseases and related health issues to 15 years they have created a system which is 850 students.
DAVID SQUIRES used by a broad spectrum of leading companies SUPPLY CHAIN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE A water purification system with capacity and institutions.
Our businesses have communicated the of 250 litres per hour was installed with requirements of the Group Responsible maintenance back up to ensure the Sourcing Policy to key suppliers.
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE This has brought immense delight to school COMMUNITY students along with the elimination of water 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 borne diseases.
Energy efficiency MWh m revenue 204 202 194 184 171 169 A formal inauguration ceremony was organised Scope 1 GHG tCO e 9,466 11,475 12,092 10,906 10,348 10,414 2 COMMUNITY GIVING by the school principal on 17 December 2018 Scope 2 GHG tCO e 51,151 56,787 56,482 59,578 55,941 51,226 2 We continue to establish positive and meaningful which had active participation from the school Scope 3 GHG tCO e 5,631 2,796 4,130 4,089 4,123 3,738 2 relationships with all the communities in which students and the village representatives who Tonnes CO emitted per m of revenue 85.47 86.14 85.58 81.28 65 60 2 Senior operates and provide financial support to were present for the thanksgiving.
Water usage in megalitres 275 314 264 288 268 332 local charities and good causes.
Our businesses This was a moment of pride for all the Senior Percentage of waste recycled or recovered 71% 81% 82% 81% 91% 92% continue to interact in a positive way with India employees.
Water usage per m of revenue 0.36 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.26 0.31 communities local to their facility.
36 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 37 Thousands Thousands Thousands STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Previous Experience 1.
RAJIV SHARMA In 2018, he stepped down as Director CHAIRMAN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE of Finance of Oxford University and as Appointment to the Board DIRECTOR DIRECTOR non-executive director of BTG Plc.
He is a Ian King joined the Board on 13 November Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board former non-executive director of Victrex plc.
2017 as a non-executive Director and became Susan Brennan joined the Board in Rajiv Sharma was appointed to the Giles held a number of positions with Chairman in April 2018.
Board with effect from 1 January 2019.
Amersham plc within finance and corporate External Appointments External Appointments development, culminating in his role as Group External Appointments Ian is the senior independent director of She is the Executive Vice-President and Rajiv has been the Group Chief Executive Finance Director.
He was formerly a Partner Schroders plc, having been appointed to its the Chief Operations Officer of Bloom with Arthur Andersen & Co. of Coats Group plc since January 2017, Board on 1 January 2017, the lead non-executive Energy Corporation.
having served as an executive director Qualifications director for the Department for Transport and since March 2015.
Coats is a leading Previous Experience BA Hons in Economics and a Chartered 1.
CELIA BAXTER a senior adviser to the Board of Gleacher industrial thread manufacturer with a She has more than 25 years of manufacturing Accountant.
business spanning 50 countries, including experience, including automotive vehicle and North America and Europe and with a 6.
DAVID SQUIRES Previous Experience components assembly.
She served as VP of growing presence in Asia.
He was Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Manufacturing at Nissan North America, Inc. from September 2008 to June 2017, having Appointment to the Board and as Director of global manufacturing Previous Experience been originally appointed to its Board as Chief David Squires was appointed to the Board at Ford, where she led a global business During his career, Rajiv has held senior roles Operating Officer, UK and Rest of the World on 1 May 2015 and became Group Chief office for Fords assembly, powertrain and in various companies including Honeywell, in 2007.
He also served as a non-executive Executive on 1 June 2015. stamping plants.
director and senior independent director of Previous Experience Qualifications Qualifications Rotork plc until June 2014.
David started his career in the oil industry BSc in Microbiology and MBA.
BTech in Mechanical Engineering and MBA, Qualifications working for Shell: however, most of his working Marketing & Strategy.
BINDI FOYLE Fellow of the Chartered Institute of life has been spent in the aerospace industry, 9.
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR initially with Hughes Aircraft Company now 3.
BINDI FOYLE Appointment to the Board GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Raytheon, then GEC-Marconi BAE Systems, 2.
CELIA BAXTER Bindi Foyle joined the Board as an Executive Eaton Corporation, and Cobham plc, before Appointment to the Board INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Director on 3 May 2017 and became Group Andrew Bodenham joined as Group Company joining Senior plc in May 2015.
DIRECTOR Finance Director on 1 July 2017.
He acts as Secretary to David has held senior posts in operations Appointment to the Board the Senior plc Board and its Committees and She joined Senior as Group Financial Controller and procurement, business development, Celia Baxter joined the Board on 2 September also sits on the Groups Treasury Committee in January 2006, a role she held until July 2014 programme management and general 2013 and became Chair of the Remuneration and the Executive Committee.
when she became responsible for the Groups management.
Prior to joining Senior plc, David Committee in December 2013.
Prior to her Qualifications was Chief Operating Officer of Cobham plc.
External Appointments appointment as an Executive Director, Bindi LLB Hons and a Chartered Secretary.
Qualifications She is a non-executive director of N. V. Bekaert was Director of Investor Relations and BA in Business Management Studies, CHARLES BERRY S. A. and RHI Magnesita N. V. Corporate Communications for the Group.
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Charles Berry was non-executive Previous Experience Previous Experience Purchasing and Supply and Fellow of Chairman and Chairman of the 5.
DAVID SQUIRES Her early HR career was with Ford Motor Prior to joining Senior, Bindi held senior finance the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Nominations Committee until he retired Company and KPMG.
She has held executive roles at Amersham plc and GE, having from the Board at the conclusion of the 7.
MARK VERNON HR positions with Hays plc, Enterprise Oil Plc previously worked with BDO Stoy Hayward.
Companys Annual General Meeting in SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE and Tate & Lyle Plc, and most recently was April 2018.
Qualifications Director of Group HR of Bunzl plc.
DIRECTOR BSc Hons in Economics & Accounting and Appointment to the Board Celia Baxter will succeed Mark Vernon as Senior Qualifications a Chartered Accountant.
Independent Non-executive Director following the Mark Vernon joined the Board in April 2011 Doctor of Philosophy PhD and Member close of the 2019 AGM.
and became Senior Independent Director in 5.
GILES KERR of the Chartered Institute of Personnel April 2016.
DIRECTOR External Appointments Appointment to the Board He has been a Director of LiqTech International, Giles Kerr joined the Board on 2 September Inc since 2013 and was appointed its Chairman 2013 and became Chairman of the Audit in July 2018.
RAJIV SHARMA Committee in April 2014.
Previous Experience External Appointments He was the Group Chief Executive of In December 2018, he was appointed Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc until his a non-executive director of Abcam plc.
He has had He is also a non-executive director of a long career in the industrial engineering Adaptimmune Therapeutics plc, PayPoint plc industry, serving previously as Group and Arix Bioscience plc.
Vice-President of Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, Vice-President of Durco International and President of Valtek International, a global controls business.
ANDREW BODENHAM 38 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1.
JOE MOCKUS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT HSE See biography on page 39.
A US citizen, he joined the Group in October The Executive Committee, although not COMMITTEE 2010 as the Chief Executive of Senior Flexonics formally appointed as a Committee of the The HSE committee is also not formally 2.
DAVID BEAVAN Bartlett and subsequently added responsibility Board, oversees the running of all Senior appointed as a Committee of the Board, David took up the role of Director of Business for the Senior Flexonics businesses in Mexico Group operations.
but officially oversees all health, safety and Development & Strategy formerly the Head of and India.
He was appointed Chief Executive of environmental matters across the Group.
The purpose of the Executive Committee Business Development in April 2014.
He joined Aerospace Structures in February 2017.
Prior to Its Terms of Reference can be found on is to assist the Group Chief Executive in the Group in 2004, when he was appointed joining Senior, Joe served as President and COO the Companys website.
the performance of his duties, including: the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace BWT.
Prior to joining Senior, David had general Throughout 2018, the members of the development and implementation management experience within automotive and 8.
MIKE SHEPPARD this committee were: David Squires of strategy, operational plans, policies, commercial aircraft Tier 1 supplier industries.
A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for Chairman of the committee, Mike Sheppard procedures and budgets: 1.
DAVID BEAVAN over 30 years and is the Chief Executive of Chief Executive of Flexonics, Joe Mockus the monitoring of operating and financial 3.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, performance: See biography on page 39. positions within the Group included operational Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace the assessment and control of risk: roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, Fluid Systems and Mark Roden Group HSE 4.
LAUNIE FLEMING the prioritisation and allocation of Pathway and Bartlett.
The committee A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for resources: and met three times during the year.
MICHELLE YORKE the monitoring of competitive forces Committee upon his appointment as Chief Michelle took up the role of Director of Risk in each area of operation.
Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in and Compliance in September 2018.
Prior to that appointment, The Committee is also responsible for joined the Group in April 2016 as Head of Risk he had been Chief Executive of Senior the consideration of all other matters not and Assurance.
Prior to joining Senior, Michelle Aerospace SSP.
specifically reserved for consideration by has more than twenty years of experience the Board.
A report on the activities of the in the aerospace sector having held a 5.
BINDI FOYLE Executive Committee is provided to the variety of leadership roles.
Michelle is See biography on page 39.
LAUNIE FLEMING Board by the Group Chief Executive at each a Chartered Accountant.
JANE JOHNSTON Jane joined the Group on 16 May 2016.
The Committee is comprised of two members A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel of the Board, David Squires and Bindi Foyle, and Development, Jane has considerable together with Launie Fleming Chief Executive experience heading up HR functions across of Aerospace Fluid Systems, Joe Mockus a range of global geographies.
She has worked Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, in a number of different sectors including Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, technology, drug development, construction, David Beavan Director of Business and professional services and, prior to joining Development & Strategy, Andrew Bodenham Senior, was Group HR Director at Pace plc.
Group Company Secretary, Jane Johnston Group HR Director and Michelle Yorke Director of Risk and Compliance.
MICHELLE YORKE 40 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS So far as is known, no other shareholder had a POLITICAL DONATIONS AUDITOR The Directors present their Report and notifiable interest amounting to 3% or more of No political donations were made by the Each of the persons who is a Director of the issued share capital of the Company, and Group during the year.
the Company at the date of approval of this supplementary reports, together with the Directors believe that the close company Annual Report confirms that so far as the EMPLOYEES the audited Financial Statements for provisions of the Income and Corporation Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group promotes the dissemination of Taxes Act 1988 as amended do not apply information of which the Companys Auditor the year ended 31 December 2018. relevant information, so that employees are to the Company.
is unaware: and kept regularly advised of Group and local the Director has taken all steps that he she COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK operational developments.
Where appropriate, ought to have taken as a Director in order local briefing sessions are held concerning CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE to make himself herself aware of any such matters as Group development, The statement of compliance with the relevant audit information and to establish corporate ethics, health and safety, pension provisions of the UK Corporate Governance that the Companys Auditor is aware of plans and healthcare benefits.
Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting that information.
Council is set out on page 44.
Senior provides support, training and There are no specific restrictions on the size of a ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS This information is given and should be development opportunities to all our employees holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature Details of the Directors who served throughout interpreted in accordance with the provisions irrespective of whether or not they are disabled.
both governed by the general provisions of the The Annual Report on Remuneration is to be of the Groups operations and its principal the year can be found on pages 38 and 39. of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
We give full and fair consideration to disabled Companys Articles of Association and prevailing put to shareholder vote at the forthcoming activities are set out in the Strategic Report The Directors interests in the shares of applicants, and where an existing employee In 2016, the Group undertook a formal tender legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 2 to 37.
Its Group undertakings are the Company are included in the Directors becomes disabled during their employment, process for its external audit function, with a agreements between holders of the Companys was approved by shareholders at the shown on pages 123 to 125.
The Strategic Remuneration Report on page 69.
No Director we will make every effort to ensure they are selected number of audit firms receiving an shares that may result in restrictions on the 2018 AGM.
Report includes details of the market overview, has any interest in contracts with the Company able to continue working for Senior.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No key growth drivers, Seniors business model, or its subsidiary undertakings.
As shown on ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING external auditor from 2000 to 2016, was not person has any special rights of control over the strategic objectives, risks and uncertainties, page 39, Susan Brennan is Executive Vice GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Notice of Meeting describes the business invited to tender due to the longevity of its Companys share capital, and all issued shares key performance indicators and a summary President and the Chief Operations Officer of The Group has followed the reporting to be considered at the AGM to be held at appointment.
Following conclusion of the are fully paid.
Note 53 provides requirements on greenhouse gas emissions, 11.30 am on Friday 26 April 2019 at Glaziers tender process, the Board recommended details of the contract Bloom Energy has with With regard to the appointment and replacement contained in the Companies Act 2006 Hall, 9 Montague Close, London Bridge, ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups a Group subsidiary.
Procedures have been of Directors, the Company is governed by its Strategic Report and Directors Report London SE1 9DD.
No acquisitions or disposals were completed external auditor for the financial year adopted by Bloom Energy which mean Susan Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Regulations 2013: details of the Groups during the year.
On 15 February 2019, the Group commencing 1 January 2017.
KPMGs Brennan has no involvement in this contract.
ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS Governance Code 2016 the Corporate greenhouse gas emissions can be found sold its Flexonics operating company in France, reappointment was approved by shareholders Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 on page 37.
OWN SHARES The provisions of the Corporate Governance Senior Flexonics Blois SAS.
The Articles may The Company purchased no ordinary shares Code require that all Directors of FTSE 350 disposal can be found in Note 37 on page 114.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS By Order of the Board be amended by special resolution of the of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company companies should be subject to annual election The Company has been notified that the RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS shareholders.
The powers of Directors are during the year.
Celia Baxter, Susan Brennan, following shareholders were interested in The results for the year are shown in the described in the Matters Reserved for the purchased by the Senior plc Employee Benefit Bindi Foyle, Giles Kerr, Ian King, David Squires ANDREW BODENHAM 3% or more of the issued share capital of Consolidated Income Statement on page 78.
Senior plc Board, which may be found on the Trust in the year to satisfy the future vesting of and Mark Vernon will all stand for re-election at the Company: GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Companys website.
Each year, shareholder executive share awards and employee share the AGM to be held in April 2019.
Rajiv Sharma, An interim dividend of 2.19 pence per share 1 March 2019 approval is sought to renew the Boards % at plans.
At the end of the year, the Directors had who was appointed a Director towards the end 2017 2.05 pence has already been paid and 13 February authority to allot relevant securities.
authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 2018, will stand for election at the 2019 AGM.
the Directors recommend a 2018 final dividend 2019 dated 27 April 2018, to make market purchases of 5.23 pence per share 2017 4.90 pence.
There are also a number of other agreements Aberdeen Standard Investments 6.43 BOARD DIVERSITY of the Companys shares up to an aggregate The final dividend, if approved, will be payable that take effect, alter or terminate upon a BlackRock 5.01 Senior remains committed to all aspects of nominal amount of 42m 2017 42m, which on 31 May 2019 to shareholders on the register change of control of the Company, such as Board diversity including gender, experience, Fidelity International 4.54 represented approximately 10% of the issued at the close of business on 3 May 2019.
This commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, background and personal attributes and will Alantra Asset Management 4.06 share capital of the Company.
A resolution to would bring the total dividend for the year to property lease arrangements, and employee keep under review its balance and composition.
renew this authority will be proposed at the Legal & General Investment 7.42 pence per share 2017 6.95 pence.
None of these are considered to be The appointments of Celia Baxter to the Board forthcoming AGM.
Management 3.69 significant in terms of their likely impact on the in 2013, Susan Brennan in 2016, and Bindi Foyle SHARE CAPITAL Norges Bank Investment business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, in 2017 mean that Senior has strong female The Company has one class of ordinary Management 3.54 the Directors are not aware of any agreements representation on its Board.
shares, which carries no right to a fixed income.
Janus Henderson Investors 3.52 between the Company and its Directors or Each share carries the right to vote at general DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Vanguard Group 3.36 employees that provide for compensation meetings of the Company.
The Company for loss of office or employment that occurs Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for Allianz Global Investors 3.36 issued no new shares in 2018. the benefit of the Directors were renewed by because of a takeover bid.
Mensarius 3.04 the Company during the year and remain in The total number of shares in issue at FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS force at the date of this Report.
Note 20 contains disclosures on RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Further details on share capital are given financial instruments.
Details of employee share plans are set out Product development and improving in Note 34. manufacturing processes represent the primary focus of the Groups research and development activities.
42 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 43 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Section B: Effectiveness his appointment was formally approved by in office during the year, this process involved The Companys Nominations Committee the Board.
The biographies of all Directors individual appraisal interviews.
The results of the leads the process for Board appointments are provided on page 39.
The work of the evaluation process are used to improve Board and supervises management development Nominations Committee is described on performance and to determine the training and succession planning.
All Directors receive induction upon needs of each of the Directors.
Mark Vernon, in recommendations to the Board on all new Board joining the Board and are encouraged to update consultation with the other Directors, undertook appointments and re-appointments, further their knowledge and skills on a frequent basis.
an evaluation of the Chairmans performance, details of which can be found on page 48.
In 2018, all Directors received training on and concluded that Ian King provided effective The Committee, which consists entirely of statutory matters.
Based on the results non-executive Directors, is chaired by Ian King: of the performance evaluation process, the The Directors are cognisant of the fact that its composition is shown below, with the Chairman considers that all members of IAN KING the Board, and its Committees, should addition of Rajiv Sharma from 1 January 2019. the Board, the Board collectively, and its CHAIRMAN have the appropriate combination of skills, Committees, continue to contribute effectively Diversity, gender, social and ethnic backgrounds experience and knowledge to enable them to to the running of the Company.
Section A: Leadership The Board has ultimate accountability for the and personal skills and abilities are taken into carry out their duties effectively.
Membership CHAIRMANS LETTER The Board is structured under a non-executive Groups risk management process, which is account during the recruitment process to of the Board and its Committees is kept under Details of the Directors external statutory I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate Chairman, and currently includes two executive described on pages 20 to 25. ensure the Board is well-balanced and regular review and refreshed when appropriate, appointments can be found in their biographies Governance Report for 2018 on behalf of Directors and five independent non-executive appropriate for the Group: the Boards policy on taking into account the Directors lengths of on pages 38 and 39.
The Board believes that the Board.
This report is intended to provide The Board met formally on a regular basis, Directors, who were selected for appointment diversity and inclusion is described on page 36. service and their ability to devote sufficient time the Directors experience of working with other shareholders with a clear and meaningful ten times in 2018: in addition, there were because of their diverse experience.
In addition, In addition, the Nominations Committee seeks to Company matters.
companies adds value to their contribution to explanation of what governance means to three meetings of the Audit Committee in the Company has an Executive Committee, confirmation that candidates under consideration the Companys Board meetings.
In compliance the Board and how this guides its decision- 2018, together with three meetings of the The Board undertakes an annual self-evaluation chaired by the Group Chief Executive, comprising would have sufficient time to carry out their with the Corporate Governance Code, making process.
Good corporate governance Remuneration Committee and four meetings process and in 2018 this was carried out with the executive Directors and other key executives duties as a Director of the Board, if appointed.
all continuing Directors offered themselves is given prominence across the Group: the of the Nominations Committee.
A table showing the support of Independent Audit Limited.
Details of the members of the Time commitment of continuing Directors is for election or re-election at the Companys Board sets the tone and takes the lead on Board and Committee meeting membership 2018 evaluation process found the composition Board and of the Executive Committee are kept under review.
All Directors who were in office all governance matters.
and attendance is shown on page 45.
Other of the Board and its Committees to be summarised on pages 38 to 41. in 2018 will again offer themselves for Committees are appointed by the Board to deal Appointments to the Board are made following a appropriate.
The evaluation findings showed The Board remains committed to ensuring re-election at the 2019 AGM and our recently The Directors consider that an effective Board with treasury matters, disclosure matters and that the Board operated effectively throughout the long-term sustainable growth of the Group, rigorous, formal, recruitment process supported appointed Director will offer himself for is in place which leads and controls the Group, specific issues such as acquisitions and disposals.
In 2018, Korn Ferry the period and made some suggestions for which is key to the set of core Principles set out election.
The resolutions to be put to with clear divisions of responsibility between additional focus.
The findings will be used to in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018. conducted an external search to assist the shareholders at the 2019 AGM can be The minutes arising from all Committee the Board and Executive team.
Boards recruitment process to find suitable help support the development of the Board as meetings are made available to the Board.
found in the Notice of Meeting, which the Group continues with its strategy to grow candidates for the role of an additional nonis available on the Companys website The Board is led by the Chairman, Ian King, who Procedures are in place to ensure that all IAN KING executive Director.
Korn Ferry has no other profitability, both organically and by acquisition.
The Board Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions CHAIRMAN Independent Audit Limited has no other The Board confirms that in 2018 all Directors connection with the Company or its Directors.
considers all non-executive Directors of the taken by the Board are based on the fullest, Having considered a number of strong connection with the Company or its Directors.
had made a positive contribution to the running Company to be independent, having taken into up-to-date, available information.
The nonof the Company and believes they will continue candidates, the Nominations Committee account a list of relationships and circumstances executive Directors are encouraged to visit As in prior years, in 2018 the Chairman undertook CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT recommended to the Board that Rajiv Sharma to work to ensure its long-term success.
that may appear relevant in determining the Groups operations to meet the local a review of the performance of all the Directors The Corporate Governance Report describes be appointed to the Board on 1 January 2019: independence, in accordance with the management teams and discuss any issues the manner in which the Company has applied Corporate Governance Code.
The Chair that they may be facing.
At every Board the Main Principles of the UK Corporate encourages open and honest discussions meeting, there are reviews of health, safety Governance Code 2016 the Corporate between Directors, both within and outside and environmental performance, and operational, Governance Code.
Board meetings, and ensures no Director or financial and administrative matters: social and STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE group of Directors exerts pressure or dominates ethical issues, the agreement of budgets and the Boards decision-making.
levels of insurance cover are reviewed CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE whenever appropriate.
The Company has been in compliance with The Board is responsible for setting the strategy the Principles set out in Sections A to E of the of the Group, including the setting of commercial There is a procedure by which all Directors can Corporate Governance Code 2016 throughout strategy and the approval of Group budgets and obtain independent professional advice at the 2018 and moved towards full compliance with financial statements.
It also approves significant Companys expense in furtherance of their BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, financial and contractual commitments made duties, if required.
The membership and attendance record of the full Board Meetings and its full Committee Meetings during 2018 are shown in the table below.
which became effective on 1 January 2019. by the Group.
The Boards Terms of Reference To enable the members of the Board and its Nominations more fully describe the responsibilities APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE Main Board Audit Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Committees to discharge their duties effectively, of the Board and may be found on the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE the Chairman ensures that accurate and clear Charles Berry Charles Berry Companys website.
The Principles of good corporate governance Chair Ian King Giles Kerr Ian King Celia Baxter information is provided to all Directors in a timely are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code The Board delegates a certain number of its manner in advance of meetings.
The Group Total number of meetings 10 3 4 3 under five areas.
These Principles have each 1 responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Company Secretary supports the Board to Charles Berry 2 2 1 2 1 1 been reviewed by the Directors and are Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environment ensure that it has in place appropriate policies, Celia Baxter 10 10 3 3 4 4 3 3 commented upon as follows: Committees.
The Group Chief Executive, processes, time and resources to enable it Susan Brennan 9 10 2 3 4 4 3 3 together with the Executive Committee, is to operate efficiently and effectively.
Bindi Foyle 10 10 responsible for the implementation of the Giles Kerr 9 10 3 3 3 4 2 3 decisions made by the Board and for the 2 Ian King 10 10 4 4 3 3 day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations.
David Squires 10 10 Mark Vernon 10 10 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 Charles Berry retired from the Board on 27 April 2018.
2 Ian King became Chairman on 27 April 2018.
44 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 45
