Principal Risks and Uncertainties For our European business, Serco conducts business Review of principal risks and wider horizon scanning through locally established companies in EU states and by Our Executive Committee reviews the principal risks facing way of a branch of Serco Limited which allows Serco to the Group, taking into consideration the various Divisional continue to operate subject to the freedoms and rules of risk registers and any emerging risks that would threaten the execution of Sercos strategy, business model, future the Internal Market.
Public procurement and bidding processes will remain broadly unaffected as local laws will continue to apply We also assess our external and internal environment to post-Brexit.
anticipate both risks and opportunities and to increase our ability to pre-empt, convert or exploit them.
Material risks We recognise that Brexit may delay existing public sector are covered at the GRC meetings.
outsourcing contracts and or reduce pipeline opportunities while the UK Government and the Civil This year, emerging risks specifically included reviews on: Service focus on implementing Brexit withdrawal.
The changes in perception for outsourcing and changes We are not critically reliant on our workforce having to in government, inflation, other external cost pressures travel extensively between the EU and UK, or the need to and Brexit.
source EU workers on UK contracts any such requirements that do arise will raise a manageable We make specific reference below to the UKs proposed administrative workload only.
withdrawal from the European Union Brexit and our We are conducting a critical supply chain review, and to current assessment of its impact on Serco.
date we are broadly comfortable with our key UK We recognise that significant uncertainty will remain until any suppliers ability to maintain the provision of goods and Brexit proposal is fully agreed and understood, and as such services on key UK contracts.
our understanding of potential risks and impacts are being regularly reviewed and assessed.
We have, for example, Our principal risks and emerging risks are constantly reviewed the potential impact of Brexit, including adverse monitored at the appropriate level within the organisation.
economic consequences, on our existing contract base, However, whilst we may have refined our risk drivers and workforce, bidding activities and supply chain.
Reiterating controls during the year, these considerations have not our CEOs comment in last years Annual Report, we do not materially affected the principal risks as reported in our 2017 believe that Serco will be materially affected by the UK Annual Report.
withdrawing from the European Union.
This is based on the The resulting principal risks, as described below, have been following key points: reviewed by the Executive Committee, GRC and the Board.
For our UK and EU contracts, operations are generally Each risk is classified as a strategic, financial, operational, delivered locally in-country and are not critically people, hazard, or legal and compliance risk.
The risks are dependant on a cross-border supply chain or workforce.
described on the following pages, together with the relevant By operating many contracts, Serco has a natural hedge strategic business objectives, key risk drivers, the Groupfrom material Brexit risks that may therefore arise on a wide material controls which have been put in place to limited number of contracts only.
mitigate the principal risks and the mitigation priorities going forward to improve the effectiveness of the controls.
This Many of our existing contracts have provisions which allow year we have included the residual risk trend indicator for for inflationary adjustments to fees charged by us.
each risk, together with a brief commentary to contextualise A hard Brexit without a transition period and or an these trends.
orderly withdrawal may cause regulatory and compliance The risks are considered over the same three-year timeframe uncertainty on some limited UK contracts that require as the Viability Statement set out on pages 64 and 65, which performance under EU regulation, bodies and or takes account of the principal risks in its assessment.
standards: however, we believe such uncertainties will be addressed under proposed new UK regulations following In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties listed any withdrawal.
below, there may be other risks, either unknown, or currently Tariffs will only affect a small number of UK contracts that believed to be immaterial, which could turn out to be require imported goods that cannot be procured locally.
These risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Summary of principal risks Strategic risks Failure to grow profitably Failure to manage our reputation Failure to deliver expected benefits from Transformation Financial risks Financial control failure Major information Contract non-compliance, Failure of business Operational risks security breach non-performance or misreporting critical partner, supplier or sub-contractor Failure to act with integrity People risks Hazard risks Catastrophic incident Material legal and Legal and regulatory compliance failure compliance risks | 54 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements A place people Winning good business Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable are proud to work The trend indicator depicts the trend of our residual risk Increasing risk Decreasing risk No change rating internally over the course of 2018.
STRATEGIC RISKS Failure to grow profitably Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts profitably, or a lack of opportunities in our chosen markets, will restrict growth and may have an adverse impact on Sercos long-term financial viability.
Our business is linked to changes in the economy, fiscal and monetary policy, political stability and leadership, budget priorities, and the perception and attitude of governments and the wider public to outsourcing, which could result in decisions not to outsource services or lead to delays in placing work.
Market conditions continue to be challenging in a number of our sectors and geographies, though our diversity and focus on business development has enabled us to retain important re-bids and gain sufficient new business to stabilise our revenue.
With a reasonable pipeline of opportunities ahead, further opportunity for margin improvement and our access to a wide variety of markets, we consider this risk to be stable.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: External factors reducing the pipeline of Serco Group and Divisional Review pipeline opportunities to opportunities political and policy changes in Strategy including annual strategy ensure all market activity is our markets such as changes in views about the reviews, ensuring focus on and accurately captured and that private provision of public services, changes resource allocation to specific budgets are allocated accordingly.
following elections in federal or state governments, markets and geographies with Review portfolio for new attractive or decisions such as Brexit may make it more the greatest growth potential.
difficult for us to win in some geographies or result Serco Operating Model.
Continue to improve leveraging Investment Committee.
"of Serco best practice and Failure to be competitive lack of appropriate Serco Management System innovation, as well as refine bid references and value propositions for the markets in SMS""."
solution processes and SME which we compete, or an insufficient understanding of our competitive environment may put us at a Sector-specific Centres of resources to ensure our disadvantage to our competitors.
Excellence CoEs and Value propositions remain competitive.
Inability to meet customer and solution Continue to adopt a robust requirements during design, implementation Newly relaunched Serco Institute qualification processes so that and delivery executing our bids in an to develop thought leadership Business Development resources unsatisfactory manner by not understanding the and innovation for our markets.
are focused on the most attractive strategic needs of the customer, mispricing bids, Business Life cycle Review Team opportunities.
"developing inefficient or non-innovative solutions BLRT"" Process."
Refinement of BLRT process to and misunderstanding risks, may prevent us from Pipeline and Business ensure lessons learnt and achieving our growth ambitions.
"Development BD"" spend price-to-win competitive analysis Ineffective business development poor account reviews to ensure efficient are formally embedded in the management, market shaping, proposition deployment of resources."
"development and visibility of pipeline opportunities Divisional Performance Reporting may affect our ability to set and meet targets for Continued focus on account DPR"" process."
growth as well as drive process improvements.
management for major bids, as Annual Performance Reviews, well as re-bids to ensure existing Failure to obtain or capitalise on benefits from Talent Reviews and Succession our Transformation Programme See Failure clients are experiencing good Planning processes.
of deliver expected benefits from Transformation service from Serco and fully Programme.
Ensure that the divisional and understand the value and quality business unit BD leadership and of our services.
resources are appropriate for the Continuation of changes to Group delivery of our growth strategy.
and Divisional overhead and Shared Services structures as part of the Transformation Programme to ensure we remain cost competitive.
Review and consider appropriate inorganic growth opportunities as the market continues to develop.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 55 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED Failure to manage our reputation Failure to manage our reputation will mean that customers will be less likely to give us new business or renew existing business.
It will also impact our ability to attract and retain high-quality people and may lead to reduced share price and the related consequences of a reduced valuation of the business.
We have maintained a continued focus on Operational Excellence and have made a positive contribution to the debate around public sector outsourcing.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Failure to clearly define what Serco stands for Serco Values clearly defined and Continual refinement and and how we wish to be seen may result in understood.
improvement of existing inconsistent communication and misunderstanding communication and marketing Group Reputation, Brand and by our key stakeholders.
Not understanding our customers and Customer and stakeholder Continued and heightened efforts stakeholders expectations may result in a failure relationship, communication and to explain and evidence the to recognise changes in our business environment or engagement programmes.
benefits and innovations that our customers priorities.
Serco brings to the provision of Proactive engagement with the Insufficient focus on articulating and evidencing public services.
media and continual media the benefits of private provision of public monitoring.
Recently relaunched Serco services may result in an imbalanced public Media training and understanding Institute to trial and publish discourse and a misunderstanding of what Serco of reputational issues for senior innovative thinking in public contributes to customers and service delivery.
Failure to manage incidents appropriately may Incident management processes result in us not responding in a collaborative manner and crisis management plans.
with our customers or not communicating in an open and ethical manner to key stakeholders.
Failure to deliver expected benefits from Transformation If components of the Transformation Programme do not deliver the anticipated benefits, then we will not achieve the efficiency savings needed to become a sufficiently profitable and growing business.
Early momentum on key projects delivery at the end of 2017 eg.
UK divisions consolidation meant benefits flowed early in 2018, this established momentum for the rest of the year.
The full-year target was achieved by July which meant residual risk in-year was minimal.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Risk trend: Mitigation priorities: Non-delivery of required benefits we fail to Serco Target Operating Model Key benefits embedded in 2019 achieve the expected benefits due to ineffective and design principles.
budgets to further increase focus portfolio management and governance.
on delivery and achievement of Portfolio programme benefit outcomes at all levels.
Severe disruption to the business we fail to management process.
coordinate and prioritise the various programme Stakeholder engagement and Further refinements to benefits objectives due to poor integration across activities communication plans.
tracking and reporting including and inadequate programme management, and we differentiation between budget Benefits management process.
negatively impact on Business As Usual activities.
supporting and budget enhancing Failure of the businesses to understand the benefits.
imperative to change due to ineffective Additional delivery assurance and communication from the leadership teams.
supplier management activities Failure to comply with new operating model built into portfolio and delivery due to ineffective enforcement of the model and management processes.
changes not embedded into the business.
Failure to communicate the change and impact of the change to clients potentially causing opposing short-term drivers.
| 56 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements FINANCIAL RISKS Financial control failure Financial control failure may result in: an inability to accurately report timely financial results and meet contractual financial reporting obligations: a heightened risk of error and fraud: poor quality data leading to poor business decisions, or an inability to forecast accurately: the failure to create a suitable capital structure, and an inability to make critical financial transactions, leading to financial instability, potential business losses, and negative reputational impact.
During 2018, the Finance Transformation Programme has been completed for both our UK and AsPac Divisions.
Finance Centres of Excellence were created for both Divisions which are now in a stabilisation phase.
Finalising the transformation phase has significantly reduced our financial control risk exposure, and stabilisation will continue to reduce this exposure further.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Not setting the right tone from the top if we do Group Governance and finance Deliver on final components of not set the right tone from the top, we may fail to strategy.
embed finance policy, processes and controls.
Finance Transformation Embed transformed finance Poor financial processes if processes are poorly Programme governance.
function and monitor delivery and designed, then inaccuracies and fraud may occur.
"Serco Management System risks of outsourced Finance Centre Inadequate financial controls within the business SMS"" finance processes of Excellence."
if controls are inadequate, we may fail to provide and controls.
Continuously improve forecasting adequate protection from sabotage of systems, fraud Standardised reporting, and reporting processes and and error.
forecasting and financial outputs to deliver better insight Impact of Finance Transformation Programme processes.
activities programme activities may lead to poor Standardised financial systems Deliver global finance process change control or an unstable financial control and data structures.
improvement and efficiency environment due to an increased workload on the Skilled and adequately trained through automation and robotics.
Establish billing assurance Failure of Finance Transformation Programme we do not transform the finance programme.
processes and controls and fail to deliver expected Ensure talent is retained within the benefits.
finance function through initiatives such as opportunities for personal development and improved training.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 57 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL RISKS Major information security breach A major information security breach resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive information including personal or customer or wilful damage resulting in the loss of service, causing significant reputational damage, financial penalties and loss of customer confidence.
Whilst our ongoing mitigation measures continue to deliver clear benefits, the external threats continue to evolve in complexity and sophistication, resulting in a steady state view of the overall risk.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Non-compliant systems if our systems are Enterprise Architecture Boards Routine vigilance and proactive non-compliant with Serco policies and standards and & Solution Review meetings.
vulnerability identification regulatory requirements for the protection of coordinated through our Security Serco Management System sensitive information, we are susceptible to breaches Operations Centres.
IT security infrastructure, Embed third-party due diligence Non-compliance with policies and standards if processes and controls.
staff do not comply with Serco policies and Privileged User Management and Embed the use of global key standards, then they may accidentally release Two Factor Authentication for our security risk indicators to support sensitive information to third parties.
Vulnerability of systems and information if we External assessments.
do not identify sensitive information and protect and test the vulnerability of our systems, then we are Third-party due diligence checks potentially exposed to a breach.
Unauthorised use of systems if we do not Active monitoring by our Security implement effective personnel vetting and access Operations Centres and Computer restriction processes and controls, then unauthorised Security Incident Response Team use of our systems may occur.
Inadequate incident monitoring and response if Standardised HR processes.
we do not monitor our systems and remediate and Cyber security awareness training repel attacks, then we may fail to minimise the impact part of our Serco Essentials of any breach.
Contract non-compliance, non-performance or misreporting Failure to deliver contractural requirements or to meet agreed service performance levels and report against these accurately may lead to significant financial penalties, legal notices, onerous contract provisions or ultimately, early termination of contracts.
The reporting structure, the systems and the monthly business performance review which is conducted at contract, Business Unit and Division level across our business provides a rigour that allows senior management visibility of contract performance or compliance issues early.
We have seen no major failures in 2018.
"Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Poor understanding of contract obligations may Contract Management Contract Management training result in staff failing to acknowledge and act on Application CMA""."
obligations or a failure to provide adequate Contract governance including Development and global roll-out resources to deliver against contractual obligations.
Monthly Contract Reviews, of contract performance Poor systems IT unreliable or incorrectly Business Unit reviews and dashboard Gauge.
configured systems may result in late or incorrect Divisional Performance Reporting Improve consistency of approach data being produced.
to risk assessment and controls Lack of process and controls poorly documented Business Life cycle Review Team across all divisions.
"or poorly communicated processes may lead to BLRT"" process."
Divisional operational excellence deliberate or unintentional misreporting or contract Serco Management System improvement plans.
Ineffective assurance and human error Leadership Development insufficient oversight and assurance of contract Programme and Contract performance, could lead to contract non-compliance, Manager training.
non-performance or a misreporting of performance.
Communication of Our Values and Poor leadership and culture if our leaders do not Code of Conduct.
align with our Values, and staff feel under pressure to Speak Up process Ethicspoint.
meet challenging operational targets and or performance indicators, then deliberate misreporting may occur.
| 58 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Failure of business-critical partner, sub-contractor or supplier 1 As a result of the failure of a business-critical partner, sub-contractor or supplier to deliver and or perform to the required standard, Serco may be unable to meet its customer obligations or perform critical business operations which could result in a financial, operational or reputational impact on Serco.
An extensive exercise to identify business-critical suppliers across all divisions was concluded in Q3, and the trend is steady while controls are implemented and systematically tested.
This trend will remain the case while we focus on our highest risk suppliers and test the effectiveness of controls implemented.
"Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Ineffective procurement and supply chain Serco Management System Focus on highest-rated businessgovernance resulting from non-compliance to SMS"" Procurement policy, critical suppliers for roll-out and standards and lack of consequence management."
Identification of significant suppliers a failure to Sourcing standards and Develop proposition for formal identify our critical suppliers may result in lack of procedures in each region.
supplier and contract focused oversight and understanding of the impacts Identification and maintenance management framework.
on Serco should they fail to deliver our customer of business-critical partner, Audit business-critical subcritical services.
contractor and supplier business Limited oversight resulting in poor sourcing, Contracts with appropriate KPIs continuity plans.
contracting and monitoring of business-critical SLAs etc.
business partners, sub-contractors and suppliers as Risk assessment and mitigation of Financial health checks and well as the potential for engaging in ineffective or business-critical suppliers through monitoring in the UK, North onerous contracts with suppliers or sub-contractors.
the Sales and Bidding cycle.
Lack of resilience in the supply chain exposing us to potential service provision or financial losses should they have ineffective Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans.
A partner, sub-contractor or supplier on whom Serco depends to deliver customer critical services or perform critical Serco business operations and therefore ability to earn revenue.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 59 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued PEOPLE RISKS Failure to act with integrity Being found to have engaged in a significant corrupt or dishonest act bribery, fraud, misreporting, cheating and lying leads to customers being reluctant to do business with such organisations.
Such behaviour might arise through the actions of rogue employees or as a result of pressures individuals feel they are being placed under culture.
Such acts might lead to: the loss of existing business: restrictions on our ability to bid or win new business: our ability to attract high-quality people or partners: or may impact shareholder, investor and financial institutions confidence in Serco.
We have continued to entrench our values through explicit leadership behaviours and communications and celebration through the Pulse Awards.
Our key controls have been further embedded, including those for our due diligence processes and ethical risk assessment.
We have strengthened and further clarified our expected behaviours through updates of Code of Conduct and associated training.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Failure to communicate if we do not define and Top-level commitment tone from Adoption of online Conflict of communicate our Values and expected standards the top.
adequately, our staff and third parties will fail to Strong, meaningful and Refinement of divisional ethics and understand these, which may result in inappropriate understood Values.
leadership actions and low engagement with our Code of Conduct.
Review of due diligence processes.
Corporate Governance with Our ways of working do not align with our Continued refresh of Serco oversight by the Corporate Values staff or third parties being unaware of and Essentials training.
or not reflecting our Values may result in poor Evaluate effectiveness of internal decision-making, unacceptable business conduct, Delegated Authority Matrix culture assessment processes.
"and unethical or illegal behaviour bringing our DAM""."
"Serco Management System Direct or indirect contribution to human rights SMS""."
abuse staff either directly or indirectly contributing Financial controls and processes, to human rights including slavery and forced labour with segregation of duties for abuses may result in a breach of laws regulations.
Gifts and Hospitality process and registers.
| 60 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements HAZARD RISKS Catastrophic incident An event incident or accident as a result of Sercos actions or failure to effectively respond to an event that results in multiple fatalities, severe property asset damage loss or very serious long-term environmental damage.
Significant activity completed frontline operational controls collated and self-assessed.
Second line insurance and contractual risk allocation under review and improved.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Factors resulting in unsafe conditions a lack of Serco Health, Safety and Adoption of updated health and identification and assessment of risks, sudden Environmental HSE Strategy.
equipment failure or inadequate security may result Effective and engaged safety Ensure strategy workplans have in poor mitigation of and or response to a serious culture.
specific focus on Catastrophic risk.
Regular safety communications Improve understanding through Ineffective or inadequate policies, standards and and maintenance of safety training in insurance and procedures if procedures systems are not aligned awareness.
with industry standard or customer expectations, an Competency-based recruitment Complete second line controls unacceptable level of safety management may occur.
review and alignment of insurance.
Lack of capability and experience if resources Role description and competency Review levels and adequacy of lack current competency in specialist regulatory definition.
requirements this may result in a serious event.
Lack of safety cultural alignment a safety culture which does not reflect our Values and fails to engage Safety training and individual our staff and work safely may result in a serious event.
development plans and process based on role and operational risk.
Insufficient safety management oversight devolved compliance of regulations to Access to subject matter sector-specific Subject Matter Experts without expertise.
appropriate safety management oversight may result Safety Management System in safety management systems which are not fit for policy and procedures.
Planned and preventative Inadequate response to a catastrophic event if inspections, maintenance and our contingency plans do not provide an adequate repair programmes.
response to an event then escalation of an event or Third-party ethical due diligence prolonged disruption may occur.
Assure Sercos incident and compliance reporting system.
"Business Life cycle Review Team BLRT"" process."
"Divisional Performance Reporting DPR"" process."
Crisis and incident emergency response plans and testing.
Business Continuity plans and testing.
Adequate risk transfer via contract, insurance.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 61 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Material legal and regulatory compliance failure Failure to comply with laws and regulations may cause significant loss and damage to the Group including exposure to regulatory prosecution and fines, reputational damage and the potential loss of licences and authorisations, all of which may prejudice the prospects for future bids.
Defending legal proceedings may be costly and may also divert management attention away from running the business for a prolonged period.
Uninsured losses or financial penalties resulting from any current or threatened legal actions may also have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Various laws and regulations that apply across the business continue to be subject to increased focus and attention, including anti-bribery and corruption laws, Market Abuse Regulations, data and privacy laws, modern slavery, trade compliance and human rights.
Our GDPR implementation programme continues to support the business and help drive increased focus on data protection laws.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Risk trend: Lack of governance and oversight may result in a Automated alerts on material legal Horizon scanning on key potential failure to identify potential or actual legal or and regulatory obligations and new laws and regulations, regulatory breaches resulting in a failure to respond changes.
appropriately or confirm compliance with legal and Legal and contracts experts Greater use of data and trend regulatory requirements.
aligned to various specialist areas analysis to inform Key Risk Failure to comply with the SMS and contractual across the business.
obligations may result in compliance failures for Investment Committee and Launch of new Conflicts Group Group-wide material legal and regulatory Business Life cycle Review Team Standard Operating Procedure.
"BLRT"" bid process and Ongoing compliance activity."
Failure to identify and respond to governance.
Refreshing Serco Essentials material changes in legal and regulatory Third-party ethical and general training programmes.
requirements may result in key subject matter due diligence on all suppliers.
"experts within the business not remaining up to date Continuing key contract and Serco Management System and failure to comply with material legal and compliance assurance reviews on SMS"" including various policies regulatory obligations."
and operating procedures guiding Lack of awareness by employees of the legal and Developing and embedding Serco and regulating conduct.
regulatory requirements placed upon them and Trading Principles.
Case management software the business may result in lack of identification and and analytics.
Inadequate provision of systems and tools may Legal training.
result in ineffective methods to support the Serco Essentials training.
management and reporting of legal and regulatory External and Internal audits.
Regular reporting to Board Legal or regulatory compliance failure by a and Executive Committee on third-party supplier agent partner may result in legal issues and new laws across Serco being held responsible for their failure under the Group.
Speak Up process and case management system Ethicspoint.
Serco Trading Principles promoting consistency across the Group on bid risk.
"| 62 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements SFO investigation We remain under investigation by the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO"" which commenced in December 2013."
We are cooperating fully with the SFOs investigation, but it is not possible to predict the outcome and timing.
No conclusion has yet been reached.
However, in the event that the SFO decides to prosecute, the range of possible adverse outcomes is any one or a combination of the following: that the SFO prosecutes the individuals and or the Serco Group companies involved, who may defend the action successfully or be convicted.
"This may result in significant financial penalties, an impact on existing contracts and Serco being subject to a period of discretionary debarment from future contracts with government entities: or that the SFO and the relevant Serco entities enter into a deferred prosecution agreement DPA"" which may result in significant financial penalties, a potential impact on existing contracts and a period of discretionary debarment from future contracts with government entities."
Such debarment would be discretionary in the sense that a contracting authority may consider it not to be relevant to a given bid or re-bid, or that Serco has provided sufficient evidence that it has addressed any issues identified in a DPA or be limited in time under the terms of the Public Contract Regulations 2015.
Upon any such conviction or DPA, the amount of additional work given to the Group may be reduced, and the Group may be subject to enhanced scrutiny with respect to its other contracts and further actions beyond those being implemented under the Corporate Renewal Programme may need to be taken.
If the Group faces any criminal convictions, debarment consequences or enters into a DPA, any such outcome could result in significant fines, a potential impact on existing contracts and have a material adverse impact on the Groups ability to contract with the government and on its reputation, which would, in turn, materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, operations and prospects.
In addition, a criminal conviction of a Serco entity or of one or more of the Groups current or former employees would in certain circumstances allow the Ministry of Justice to re-open the 64.3m settlement agreed and paid in 2013 in respect of certain issues arising under the Electronic Monitoring Contract.
In those limited circumstances, the UK Government may seek additional payments from Serco.
We will continue to cooperate with the SFOs investigation.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 63
