Strategic report Principal risks The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the Operations, assets and people: and principal risks facing the Company, including those that would Financial risks.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or For each risk we state what it means for us and what we are liquidity.
These have been categorised across: doing to manage it.
Customer perception: Legal and regulatory environment: Customer perception What is the risk?
1 We are a regulated utility providing essential services to our customers.
We recognise that our customers We may be unable to improve increasingly expect more from us and demand an improved and more consistent experience.
As other ormaintain our levels of industries improve their levels of service, the bar continues to be raised.
customerservice sufficiently Failure to deliver the service that customers expect will lead to customer dissatisfaction.
This may result infinancial penalties under Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism SIM and associated ODI outturn.
to deliver what our customers tellusthey want.
What are we doing to manage the risk?
The three upper quartile UQ programmes in Retail, Water and Waste are key to SIM improvement.
Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
Whilst Retail has a number of transformation actions in flight there are further actions to be delivered which will improve customer experience, for example website transformation.
Customers tell us they are delighted Regulated Water and Waste Water businesses when we are able to complete billing issues for them at Point of Contact so the retail programme is looking at how to improve our Point of Contact resolution to improve the overall experience.
Link to how were achieving our strategy The Waste UQ programme is focusing on both the work of our supply partner Amey in our day-to-day page22 customer offering and also how Severn Trent supports them in complex cases.
The Waste UQ programme has identified some key areas to drive and improve performance in order to improve our SIM score.
Embedding customers at the heart of all we do The Water UQ programme is at an early stage.
The rapid action team pilot that is currently ongoing in our Link to our values Derbyshire area is showing fantastic customer benefit.
The programme is currently developing a rollout plan to all other areas.
The E2E customer communications workstream is looking at the expectation that we set We put our customers first when a customer contacts us through their channel of choice and how we keep the customer informed along the journey.
An element of this workstream is a review of our Track my Job customer communication tool that We are passionate about what we do we use to keep customers informed.
We act with integrity ODIs Movement in net risk exposure ODIs 24-27 Key: Increase in net risk exposure No change in net risk exposure Decrease in net risk exposure 60 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Legal and regulatory environment What is the risk?
2 Severn Trent Water operates in a highly regulated environment.
Whilst we are broadly content with the We may be unable to effectively direction of changes proposed for our industry, there remains a risk that future changes could have a anticipate and or influence future significant impact on Severn Trent Water.
developments in the UK water What are we doing to manage the risk?
industry resulting in our business Severn Trent has always contributed to the debate about our industrys future, including through our series of plans becoming unsustainable.
We will continue to be an active participant in these conversations, so we can help shape thinking about how to best serve our customers in the future.
We have contributed to embedding the role of Market Operator Services Ltd the body which oversees the non-household retail market and contributed towards the success of competition in the non-household market.
Regulated Water and Waste Water businesses We continue to participate in discussions with Ofwat on the development of the future regulatory environment and since publication of Ofwats final methodology in relation to Water 2020 we are developing our business Link to how were achieving our strategy plan.
We are actively participating in discussions on the opening of the competitive market for bioresources.
pages26 to 29 Engagement with our peers, other regulators, UK Government departments and other stakeholders, Changing the market for the better including the Welsh Government, helps us to influence the direction of regulatory policy where possible and put forward our own case for change in a constructive way.
Investing responsibly for sustainable growth We continue to engage constructively with stakeholders following Labours 2017 manifesto commitment to ODIs re-nationalise the water sector.
We are encouraged that both the benefits to customers of the current model and the cost to taxpayers of re-nationalisation are now being better understood.
N A Movement in net risk exposure What is the risk?
3 Our policies and processes must reflect the current legal and regulatory environment and all relevant The regulatory landscape is complex employees must be kept aware of new requirements.
The Group as a whole may face censure for nonand subject to ongoing change.
compliance in an individual group company or a specific region in which we operate.
Thereis a risk that processes may What are we doing to manage the risk?
fail or that our processes may not Our Governance Framework, transparency, engagement with customers and stakeholders, policies and effectively keep pace with changes internal controls ensure our ongoing compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
inlegislation leading to the risk of For the operation of separate Wholesale and Retail business we have a control framework of protocols, non-compliance.
policies, systems, guidance and training to ensure ongoing compliance with the relevant legislation including Competition Law.
Following the integration of Dee Valley into the Severn Trent Group we have refreshed our policy framework Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
and are updating our systems, protocols and policies in readiness for the boundary realignment of our regulated businesses.
Group-wide Ensuring readiness for the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR coming into effect on 25 May 2018 Link to how were achieving our strategy has also been a key area of focus for us.
pages 24 to 29 Changes to the legal and regulatory environment are captured as emerging risks through our ERM process with the necessary owners and actions identified to ensure compliance when the changes come into effect.
Driving operational excellence and continuous innovation Movement in net risk exposure Changing the market for the better Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Link to our values We act with integrity We protect our environment ODIs ODIs 1-4, 19-23, 30-43 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Strategic report Principal risks continued Operations, assets and people What is the risk?
4 The risks arising from loss of one or more of our major systems or corruption of data held in those systems We may experience loss of data or could have far reaching effects on our business.
We have recognised the increasing threats of cyber attacks interruptions to our key business on our systems and data.
Whilst this threat can never be eliminated and will continue to evolve, we are focused on the need to maintain effective mitigation.
systems as a result of cyber threats.
We continue to follow guidance from the National Cyber Security Centre NCSC to improve our defences against cyber attacks and have focused this year on more layered-security controls to protect sensitive data Group-wide inreadiness for the introduction in May 2018 of the GDPR.
Link to how were achieving our strategy We have also completed risk assessments of cyber threats to our water supply systems for the introduction pages22 to 25 inMay 2018 of the Network and Information Systems Directive NISD.
We have participated in a number of Government led and internal cyber incident exercises to test our Embedding customers at the heart of all we do response capability to cyber attacks.
Driving operational excellence and Although not directly impacted by significant recent cyber incidents e. g. WannaCry and NotPetya, we did continuous innovation review our security controls and response plans to ensure we are prepared for future attacks of this type.
Link to our values Movement in net risk exposure We put our customers first ODIs ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 24-37 What is the risk?
5 If we are unable to meet operational performance targets, we may be subjected to significant regulatory We may fail to meet our regulatory penalties either within the current price review period, or applied to the next price review.
targets including targets from Regulatory targets apply to all of our water treatment, distribution, sewerage and sewage treatment assets.
Ofwat for operational performance Measures are in place in relation to water quality, continuous supplies, sewer flooding, sewer collapses and pollution events.
of our assets resulting in regulatory penalties.
Our business plan for 2015-2020 includes considerable investment in our assets to improve the resilience Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
of our networks, reduce interruptions and improve the service that our customers receive.
We recognise there are areas where our performance is not as consistent as we would like and we are committed to Regulated Water and Waste Water businesses improving these.
We are continuing our Cleanest Water Plan which drives the inspection, cleaning and repair of storage tanks, Link to how were achieving our strategy increasing our capital maintenance interventions, optimising our operation and maintenance tasks and pages22 to 27 formalising our processes, standards and operating procedures involved in delivering clean water.
Embedding customers at the heart of all we do We use leading measures on our comm cells and performance meetings to track delivery against customer ODIs and performance commitments so that we can intervene in a timely fashion if performance is drifting.
Driving operational excellence and continuous innovation The three UQ programmes in Retail, Water and Waste are key to us delivering our targets for the remainder of this business plan.
Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Movement in net risk exposure Link to our values We put our customers first We are passionate about what we do We protect our environment ODIs ODIs 1-45 Key: Increase in net risk exposure No change in net risk exposure Decrease in net risk exposure 62 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information What is the risk?
6 Some of our assets are critical to the provision of water to large populations for which we require alternative Failure of certain key assets or means of supply.
processes may result in inability Examples include our reservoirs and water treatment works.
These assets are regularly inspected and toprovide a continuous supply of maintained and our assessment of the overall condition of these assets is good.
clean water and safely take waste Other examples are our IT, telephony systems and remote monitoring systems which are also key to our operations.
water away within our area.
We included substantial investment in our AMP6 plan to reduce the likelihood of failure of strategic assets that supply Birmingham and to provide the city with a second source of water.
We are ahead of delivery on the Group-wide improvements to our strategic assets and on track with the provision of a second source.
Link to how were achieving our strategy We continue to maintain and test our Being prepared framework to ensure our business continuity pages22 to 31 arrangements are fit for purpose and the Group can react quickly to safeguard our critical operations.
In addition to investing in resilience improvements to our network we also have assurance plans in place to Embedding customers at the heart of all we do monitor, inspect and maintain our most critical assets and to ensure clean water is always available to our Driving operational excellence and customers and we will always be able to safely take their waste water away.
continuous innovation We will continue to make significant investment into our network and processes but we accept there is always Investing responsibly for sustainable growth a risk of unexpected failures.
For example, we experienced a number of trunk main bursts in 2017 which led to supply interruptions to our customers and in March 2018 the very rapid thaw following The Beast from the Link to our values East resulted in a substantial increase in pipe bursts.
Our incident response helped to mitigate the impact of these failures.
During the bursts we worked with local resilience forums and other agencies and had We put our customers first great community engagement to return suppliers back to normal as quickly as possible.
We are taking the learnings from the incidents to expand our network condition monitoring programme to detect vulnerabilities We are passionate about what we do before failures occur and to ensure that our incident response procedures are as good as they can be.
ODIs Movement in net risk exposure ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23 What is the risk?
7 The nature of our assets, operations and business are such that threats to the safety of our employees, Due to the nature of our operations contractors, customers and the wider public exist.
Operational failures or negligence could result in damage we could endanger the health and to the environment.
safety of our people, contractors We are responsible for a large estate of assets and have to secure these from unauthorised access to ensure our operations are not impacted nor the safety of the public compromised.
and members of the public as well as negatively impact our local and What are we doing to manage the risk?
Our 2015-2020 business plan includes substantial investment in community schemes to ensure the risk of failure at key points along our Elan Valley Aqueduct, that could cause substantial damage and endanger the safety of the public, is further reduced.
We have a well-established Health, Safety & Wellbeing framework to ensure all operations and processes Group-wide are conducted in compliance with Health and Safety legislation and in the interests of the safety of our people and contractors.
Our Goal Zero initiative clearly establishes our target that no one should be injured or made Link to how were achieving our strategy unwell as a result of what we do.
Weve continued to reduce total injuries to staff and contractors through the pages24 to 27, and pages 30 to 31 application of the Goal Zero plan and we work collaboratively with our supply chain and other key stakeholders to continue to seek improvements.
Driving operational excellence and There are a number of ODI commitments we have made to protect our local environment, including river continuous innovation water quality, pollution incidents, biodiversity improvements and environmental compliance.
In AMP6 we will Investing responsibly for sustainable growth be delivering our largest ever environment programme, spending over 300 million to deliver improvements to rivers throughout our region, a programme which is supported by our customers who want to see us Creating an awesome place to work do more to improve river water quality.
This year we expect to regain our 4 Environmental Performance Assessment status from the Environment Agency.
Link to our values We recognise the impact our operations have on the wider environment and we want to reduce our carbon We protect our environment footprint by seeking lower carbon ways of operating our business, driving energy efficiency and generating renewable energy.
We aim to increase the amount of renewable energy we generate and to invest in ways to We act with integrity make our processes more energy efficient, and our target is to generate the equivalent 50% of Severn Trent Waters energy needs by 2020.
ODIs ODIs 30-41, 42-43 Movement in net risk exposure Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Strategic report Principal risks continued What is the risk?
8 Climate change hotter and drier summers, wetter winters and increased frequency of storms could result We are unable to deal with the inan inability to meet customer demand, lower river levels, decreased raw water quality, flooding of our water impact of extreme and unpredictable or waste works, sewer capacity being exceeded and increased land movement.
Climate change could also be a contributing factor for principal risks 1, 5, 6 and 7 detailed above.
weather events on our assets and There are also some potential opportunities that climate change presents for us, including aquifer recharge infrastructure and or are unable to and increased biological treatment.
It is important that we understand these opportunities to maximise successfully plan for future water the benefits.
resource supply and demand due to What are we doing to manage the risk?
Our climate change adaptation report sets out our strategy for coping with future changes to our climate.
In February 2018, we published our draft water resources management plan for the next 25 years.
The plan Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
includes a detailed assessment of climate change impact for our region and our demand management and proposed new sources are designed to offset any supply risk resulting from climate change.
Group-wide Our analysis for the National Flood Resilience Review NFRR, that was instigated by Defra the Cabinet Office Link to how were achieving our strategy after the flooding of winter 2015 16, identified our non-infrastructure overground sites that could be at risk pages24 to 27 from river or surface water flooding using a new higher standard called the Extreme Flood Outline.
This has informed our contingency plans and future investment plans.
Driving operational excellence and We dont consider climate change risks in isolation and we view them alongside all the challenges we face.
continuous innovation To that effect a large number of our current objectives and targets agreed as part of our ODI commitments Investing responsibly for sustainable growth will increase our resilience from climate change, including reducing leakage, improving water efficiency, reducing properties prone to low pressure, protecting prone properties areas from sewer flooding and Link to our values increasing the resilience of our water supply and water waste works.
Our own impact and contribution to climate change cannot be ignored and, as outlined in principal risk 7 We protect our environment overleaf, there are a number of ways in which we are addressing our impact on the environment.
ODIs Movement in net risk exposure ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 42-43 Key: Increase in net risk exposure No change in net risk exposure Decrease in net risk exposure 64 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Financial risks What is the risk?
9 We already provide significant funding but could be called upon to provide more money to reduce pension Lower interest rates, higher inflation deficits in our defined benefits schemes.
or underperforming equity markets What are we doing to manage the risk?
may require us to provide more funding forour pension schemes.
Following the Brexit vote, our main defined benefit pension scheme has seen a significant growth in the accounting value of liabilities due to the fall in long term interest rates.
Volatile financial conditions are likely to remain for the foreseeable future.
The growth in the accounting deficit has adversely impacted the headroom Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
on some of our credit ratios, such as gearing, which are relevant for debt covenant and credit ratings purposes.
It also has a reputational impact that could have a bearing on investment and distribution decisions.
Group-wide We have completed the process of immunising our bank financial covenants from adverse movements in the accounting deficit, gaining approval from relevant banks and the European Investment Bank EIB.
We have Link to how were achieving our strategy worked with the ratings agencies to focus on the impact of our repair payments on credit ratings, rather than pages26 and 27 movements in the accounting value of the deficit.
Importantly, we have agreed cash repair payments with the Trustee until the next Triennial Valuation at 31 March 2019.
We have also completed, with Trustee agreement, Investing responsibly for sustainable growth additional inflation and interest rate hedging and introduced downside protection to the funds equity holdings.
The Pension Regulator has confirmed that the March 2016 actuarial valuation will not be subject to further review.
However, the Regulator has stated that it believes that the current repair period, to 2032, is very long and in the event of a further deterioration in deficit does not see an extension of the recovery plan end date an appropriate solution.
Movement in net risk exposure What is the risk?
10 We must ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet our near term financial commitments.
We have a We are unable to fund the business significant funding requirement in AMP6, to fund our investment programme and refinance maturing debt.
sufficiently in order to meet our This is a well-controlled risk, but it is important that we maintain these high standards to mitigate this risk.
liabilities as they fall due.
Whilst Brexit may impact our access to funding from the EIB, an attractive source of finance, we have Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
other sources of funding we can call upon.
In November 2015, we raised 471 million through a US Private Placement debt issue and in November 2016 to December 2017, we raised 900 million through three sterling Group-wide bond issues.
Despite some initial volatility following the Brexit vote, global debt capital markets continue to deliver substantial levels of liquidity.
Link to how were achieving our strategy pages26 and 27 See our Long-Term Viability Statement on pages 58 and 59.
Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Movement in net risk exposure The Strategic report, as set out from page 1 through to page 65, has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Bronagh Kennedy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 22 May 2018 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
