Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Risk management Our approach to risk: Our Enterprise Risk Management process Risk is all about uncertainty and risk management describes the We use an established ERM process across the Group to activities performed within our organisation to identify, assess, assess and manage our significant risks, which are linked to and control events which may impact on our ability to achieve our corporate objectives, core processes, key dependencies, our aims and objectives.
We also recognise that uncertainty can stakeholder expectations and legal and regulatory obligations.
manifest itself as both negative and positive impacts, hence our The process is controlled by the central ERM team and goal is to minimise these threats and maximise the opportunities underpinned by standardised tools and methodology to ensure for the benefit of our customers, people, contractors and consistency.
ERM Champions and Co-ordinators operate key stakeholders.
throughout the business, with support and challenge from the ERM team, to identify and assess risks in their business units The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is quarterly against a defined set of criteria that consider the effectively managed across the Group.
The Boards mandate likelihood of occurrence and potential financial and reputational includes defining risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure to impacts.
The potential causes and subsequent impact of the risks ensure significant risks are aligned with the overall strategy of are documented to enable mitigating controls to be assessed.
The management of risk is embedded in our everyday This assessment allows us to put in place effective strategies to business activities, with employees encouraged to play their part.
remediate defective controls or implement additional controls.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee assesses the This information is combined to form a consolidated view of effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management ERM risk across the Group and allows the risks to be prioritised.
process and internal controls to identify, assess, mitigate and Our significant risks, in terms of likelihood and impact, form our manage risk.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee in Group risk profile which is reported to the Executive Committee evaluating the design and effectiveness of internal controls and for review and challenge ahead of final review and approval by risk mitigation strategies implemented by management.
the Audit Committee and Board half-yearly.
The report provides The Executive Committee reviews strategic objectives and an assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those assesses the level of risk taken in achieving these objectives.
risks and an action plan to improve controls where this has been This top down risk process helps to ensure the bottom up deemed necessary.
ERMprocess is aligned to current strategy and objectives.
To further enhance our ERM information, we now report risk Across the Group, we manage risks within the overall flightpaths.
These graphically demonstrate the level of risk the Governance Framework which includes clear accountabilities, Group faces and the timeline for the key risk mitigation steps delegated authority limits and reward policies.
These are to manage the risk to the target position.
The flightpaths help designed to provide employees with a holistic view of effective to facilitate a more thorough review of the target risk positions, risk management.
considering risk appetite and whether improvement actions Within Severn Trent Water Limited, our approach reflects our to achieve these are on target with the correct prioritisation status as a regulated utility providing essential services and in place.
operating as part of the Critical National Infrastructure for the In addition, individual risks or specific risk topics are also UK.
The nature of our Severn Trent Water Limited business is discussed by the Board during the year.
such that there are some significant inherent risks, as illustrated On a monthly basis, the status of open risk mitigation actions on pages 60 to 65.
We aim to have a strong control framework across the Group risk profile is reported into the Executive in place to enable us to understand and manage these risks in Committee by the central ERM team.
The level of ERM maturity accordance with our risk tolerance and appetite.
in each business unit is assessed half-yearly and reported In our non-regulated businesses we take a more commercial to the Executive Committee.
Improvement plans are agreed approach to risk.
However, we recognise that we provide to ensure ERM is fully embedded and effective.
An overview products and services for clients who operate in regulated of accountability for our ERM process is illustrated in the environments.
As a result, for risks that could impact on our diagram opposite.
clients regulated services, we take a similar approach to risk asin our own regulated business.
The risks inherent in our Risk appetite non-regulated business are illustrated on pages 60 to 65.
The Board keeps under ongoing review the relationship between our strategic ambitions and the management of risk.
The ERM process establishes target risk positions for each of our significant risks.
The Board formally discusses the progress towards this position and the mitigating actions being undertaken every six months.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Strategic report Risk management continued The ERM process Long-Term Viability Statement Assessment of current position and long term prospects The Board The Directors assessment of the Groups current financial position is set out in the Financial review on pages 51 to 56.
Sets strategy and determines The Groups principal operating subsidiary is Severn Trent Water Limited, regulatory outcomes which is a regulated long term business characterised by multi-year Sets business plan objectives investment programmes and stable revenues.
The water industry in England Defines risk appetite and Wales is currently subject to economic regulation rather than market competition and Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation tosecure that water companies are able to finance their appointed activities.
Ofwat meets this obligation by setting price controls for five year Asset Management Periods AMPs.
This mechanism reduces the potential for Operational teams variability in revenues from the regulated business.
The current AMP runs Identify and assess risks until March 2020.
Ofwat has published its Final Methodology for assessing companies business plans and setting price controls for the AMP period Set risk target position 2020 2025 and Severn Trent Water Limited has made significant progress Identify risk improvement actions in developing its business plan, which is due to be submitted to Ofwat inSeptember 2018.
The Group has significant investment programmes that are largely funded through access to debt markets.
The Groups strategic funding objectives reflect the long term nature of the Severn Trent Water Limited business and ERM team the Group seeks to obtain a balance of long term funding at the best possible Monitors performance economic cost.
The Groups Treasury Policy requires that it maintains sufficient liquidity to cover cash flow requirements for a rolling period of Assesses ERM maturity across 18 months in order to mitigate the risk of restricted access to capital markets.
the Group The Groups debt maturity profile is actively managed by the Group Treasury Provides challenge and insight department to spread the timing of refinancing requirements and to enable such requirements to be met under most market conditions.
The weighted Reports to Executive Committee, averagematurity of debt at the balance sheet date was 14 years.
Audit Committee and Board The Group has an established process to assess its prospects.
The Board undertakes a detailed assessment of the Groups strategy on an annual basis and the output from this assessment sets the framework for the Groups Financial risks medium term plan, which is updated annually.
Like all businesses, we need to plan future funding in line with The plan assesses the Groups prospects and considers the potential impacts business need.
This is part of our normal business planning of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Stress tests are performed to assess process see Principal Risk 2. the potential impacts of combinations of those risks and uncertainties.
The plan also considers the mitigating actions that might be taken to reduce The Board receives regular updates relating to funding, solvency the impact of such risks and uncertainties and the likely effectiveness of the and liquidity matters through the Treasury Committee so we mitigating actions.
can respond quickly to any changes in our ability to secure Period of assessment financing see Principal Risk 10.
The pension fund Trustees The Directors considered a number of factors in determining the period to and Company regularly monitor our pension deficit, with advice be covered by the assessment.
The long term nature of the Groups principal from investment managers and actuarial advisers.
An annual business together with relatively stable revenues and a model of economic pension fund review paper is produced for the Board to apprise regulation that places a duty on the regulator to secure that water companies them of fund performance and proposed initiatives to manage can finance the proper carrying out of their functions support a longer period down pension liabilities and further balance pensions risk see of assessment.
However, the changing nature of regulation of the water industry increases the uncertainty that is inherent in the Groups financial projections.
The ERM process and relevant risk assessments are factored The Group has an established planning and forecasting process and the into the stress testing to assess the Groups prospects as part Directors consider that the assessment of the Groups prospects is more ofour Long-Term Viability Statement.
reliable if it is based on an established process.
The Groups latest medium term plan extends to the end of the next AMP period in 2025 and the Board Sustainability risks of Severn Trent Water Limited will make an assessment of viability covering Sustainability risks are treated in the same way as all our that period in its business plan submission to Ofwat in September 2018. other Company risks, captured at a local level by responsible A longer period of assessment introduces greater uncertainty as the teams and managed centrally through our established ERM variability of potential outcomes increases as the period considered extends.
By the nature of what we do, several of our principal Bearing in mind the long term nature of the Groups business: the enduring risks have a Sustainability focus, and we monitor our social and demand for its services: the nature of the Groups established planning process and the changing nature of the regulation of the water industry in environmental impacts in line with our broader performance.
England and Wales, the Directors have determined that seven years is an appropriate period over which to assess the Groups prospects and make itsviability statement this year.
58 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Assessment of viability Governance and assurance In assessing the future prospects the Group has considered the potential The Board reviews and approves the medium term plan on which this effect of risks that could have a significant financial impact under severe viability statement is based.
The Board also considers the period over but plausible scenarios.
The risks considered were identified from the which the assessment of prospects and viability statement should be Groups ERM process, which is described on pages 57 to 58, and from made.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in performing this review.
the key assumptions in the financial model.
The scenarios tested are Details of the Audit Committees activity in relation to the Viability Statement described below.
are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 83 to 89.
The Directors have identified actions, including reducing discretionary This statement is subject to review by Deloitte, our External Auditor.
outflows of funds and working with providers of finance, that would be Their audit report is set out on pages 136 to 140. available to the Group to mitigate the impact of adverse outcomes.
Assessment of viability The Group has significant funding requirements to refinance existing debt The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a seven year that falls due for repayment during the period under review and to fund period to March 2025, taking into account the Companys current position the Groups capital programme.
Under all scenarios considered the Group and principal risks.
would remain solvent and have access to sufficient funds in normal market Based on that assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation conditions.
The Groups Treasury Policy requires that it retains sufficient thatthe Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities liquidity to meet its forecast obligations, including debt repayments for the as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2025. next 18 months.
In making its assessment the Board has made the following key assumption: Going Concern Statement Any period in which the Group is unable to access capital markets to raise In preparing the financial statements the Directors considered the finance during the period under review will be shorter than 18 months.
Companys ability to meet its debts as they fall due for a period of one year from the date of this report.
This was carried out in conjunction with the On this basis, the stress tests indicated that none of these scenarios, including the combined scenario, resulted in an impact to the Groups consideration of the Long-Term Viability Statement above.
expected liquidity, solvency or credit metrics that could not be addressed On this basis the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going by mitigating action and hence were not considered to be threats to the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Scenario tested Related principal risk 1.
An increase in the funding deficit of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes Risk 9: Increased funding for pension schemes The planned funding for the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements is based on assumptions on future inflation, asset returns and members longevity.
Underperformance against these assumptions might result in additional cash contributions being required during the period under consideration.
Contributions arereviewed and agreed with the scheme trustees on a triennial basis with the next valuation of the main scheme due as at31March 2019.
A severe climate event, operational failure or other exceptional event with a very Risk 4: Cyber security significant financial impact Risk 6: Failure of key assets The Groups Enterprise Risk Management process has identified a number of risks Risk 7: Health and safety and environmental impact includingcyber security, failure of key assets and severe weather events that might Risk 8: Impact of extreme weather climate change have a significant impact on the Groups operational and financial performance.
A reduction in inflation and increase in interest rates for the duration of the period N A key assumption in financial model underconsideration Severn Trent Water Limiteds revenues are linked to inflation.
Low or negative inflation tendstoadversely impact profits and cash flows if increases in costs exceed revenue.
Underperformance against performance commitments Risk 1: Failure to deliver what our customers want Severn Trent Water Limited operates under a regulatory model which encourages companies todeliver what customers want using performance related rewards and penalties.
Failureto deliver performance at the committed level can lead to significant penalties.
Higher costs than planned that are not funded Risk 2: changes in the regulatory environment for Significant overspending could result in a deterioration in financial metrics and theUKwater industry performance, which might adversely impact the Groups solvency.
A combination of scenarios 2, 3 and 4 See above It is unlikely that scenarios 1 and 3 would occur simultaneously since lower inflation andhigher interest rates would tend to reduce the pension deficit.
Therefore scenario 3, which has a great individual impact has been included.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
