Regulators External Audit Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management plays an integral part in SIGs planning, decision making and management processes.
All colleagues have a responsibility to ensure they understand the risks in their area of activity and in ensuring controls to manage the risks are operating effectively but the Board maintains overall responsibility for ensuring risk management and internal control systems are robust.
THE BOARD Executive Committee Audit Committee 1ST LINE 2ND LINE 3RD LINE Business operations Oversight functions Independent assurance Management controls Financial control Internal audit Internal control measures Risk management Health & safety Branch compliance Information security Cyber security 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE 3RD LINE OF DEFENCE Comprises managers and Provides the policies, Ensure that the first two lines staff who take ownership for frameworks, tools, techniques are operating effectively and identifying and managing risks and support to enable risk and advise how they could be as part of their core roles.
compliance to be managed improved.
Tasked by, and Collectively, they should have in the first line, conducts reporting to the Board Audit the necessary knowledge, skills, monitoring to judge how Committee, it provides an information and authority to effectively they are doing it, and evaluation, through a risk-based carry out the relevant policies helps ensure consistency of approach, on the effectiveness and procedures of risk and definitions and measurement of governance, risk management control.
The Board sets the strategy for the Group and ensures the risks for horizon scanning, attendance at risk forums and risk workshops held the delivery of this strategy are effectively identified and managed with management teams.
Emerging risks identified and monitored through the implementation of the risk management framework.
The Group employs a three lines of defence model to provide a Group risks are owned by an Executive Committee member and simple and effective way to enhance the risk management process sponsored by either the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial and ensure roles and responsibilities are clear.
These risks are assessed at both a gross and net level using to ensure there are no gaps or duplication of controls.
an agreed risk scoring methodology.
Mitigating actions currently in place are documented and regularly assessed.
Where it is not Risk management framework possible to manage risks to an acceptable level through existing controls, risk owners identify actions to enhance the control The SIG risk management framework is based on the identification of environment.
Group risks through regular discussion at local operating company leadership, Executive Committee and Transformation Committee meetings.
New and emerging risks are identified through the use of 44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT On a monthly basis the Executive Committee examines, in detail, an Improvements planned for 2019 individual risk from the Group risk register, and all Group risks are SIG will continue to improve its risk management processes with a formally reviewed by the Group Risk Team with updates reported number of initiatives: back to the Executive Committee and Board twice annually.
This Further development of data quality and capabilities to improve includes a review of whether the documented controls are in place Group reporting and allow greater oversight by second line and an update of the actions required.
The completeness of the risk functions: register and the appropriateness of the scoring are also reviewed at this time.
Development of assurance mapping capabilities to identify any gaps or inefficiencies: The Group monitors Key Risk Indicators KRIs for its principal risks which help identify when a risk profile may be changing.
The KRIs Further automation and development of the KRI reporting: are monitored monthly through the management accounts and considered as part of the Executive Committee monthly meetings.
Formal definition of risk appetite: and A similar process occurs at the operating company level where the Development of a Group-wide branch audit framework.
risk registers comprise risks for the local Medium Term Plans and Brexit risk strategic objectives.
Group Risk periodically reviews these risks with local management and performs a reconciliation with the Group There remains significant uncertainty around the timing and nature risk register.
of the terms on which the UK will exit the European Union.
Since the rejection by the House of Commons of the initial draft agreement, Assurance activity there is a greater risk that the UK's departure is delayed or in the Internal audit bases its annual audit plan on the Group and individual worst case that the UK could leave the EU with No Deal.
The Board operating company risk registers.
It also reviews all key controls has regularly reviewed the potential impact of Brexit on its UK and documented in the key controls framework in each operating Irish businesses since the initial vote and impact assessments have company on a two-year cycle.
Whilst most of the work is performed been completed for core areas of the Group that will be affected by by an in-house team of qualified auditors, expertise for specialist the exit and these have been updated as negotiations progress.
areas such as IT and change programmes is obtained through a coWhilst the majority of the Groups profits are generated by its source arrangement.
The plan for 2019 covers a number of Group mainland European businesses which are to a large extent not risks, with a significant focus on the change agenda.
expected to be affected by Brexit, a significant proportion is The audit team obtains updates from management on progress derived from SIG Distribution, SIG Exteriors and SIG Ireland.
The UK towards completion of agreed actions and collects evidence businesses will potentially face challenges from the UK's exit from the to support successfully implemented actions.
The status of EU whilst SIG Ireland will potentially face challenges as a result of its management agreed actions is monitored on a monthly basis significant level of imports from the UK and its distribution activities through the Executive Committee meeting and reported quarterly to covering the whole island of Ireland including Northern Ireland the Audit Committee.
Whilst independent assurance on control activity comes from Group The major potential areas of exposure to the UK business are internal audit, second lines of defence provide additional comfort monitored on a regular basis and are considered to be: to management that controls are designed appropriately and are Declining market conditions the least quantifiable and most working effectively.
Examples include the programme of branch visits uncertain of the risks that may have an impact on the Group is by the Health and Safety team and the review of the key controls the potential decline in market trading conditions.
In a worst case framework in each OpCo by the Group Controls Manager.
scenario, the UK market could decline abruptly and substantially.
The uncertainty of any potential terms of the final agreement Developments in 2018 may mean large projects in the UK and Europe are postponed, Key developments of the management of risk and internal control in impacting demand for materials.
Market data is continually 2018 included: monitored to ensure that contingency plans are appropriate and Documentation of risk management framework and internal audit can be triggered if such a decline occurs.
manual: Heightened borders with the nature of the UK EU borders yet Implementation of a Transformation Governance Committee to to be confirmed there is a risk that goods supplied from Europe monitor projects effectively across the Group and identify the directly or indirectly may have longer lead times or become associated project risks: unavailable immediately after the exit.
The majority of materials sold in the UK are purchased in-country but some raw materials Appointment of a Chief Information Security Officer to further are sourced by suppliers from the EU.
Discussions with suppliers enhance cyber security controls: have been held to identify potential risk areas and plans have been Appointment of a Group Controls Manager to improve the key implemented to ensure stock levels can be increased prior to the controls framework and ensure it is embedded across the Group.
exit date to enable the business to continue to meet demand.
An exercise was completed with a third party to document and support improvement of financial reporting controls in larger Whilst the Irish business is considerably smaller than those in the UK, operating companies: considerable steps have been taken to ensure continuity of supply, product compliance with EU regulations and tariff pass through to Implementation of a revised Delegation of Authority Policy to customers.
The business has maintained continued dialogue with reinforce authorisation principles for operating and capital its customers to help them understand its approach to maintaining expenditure: and good customer service and value.
The Group will update its risk Revision of the branch assurance activity in parts of the UK to give assessment on a regular basis as negotiations develop and will greater first line assurance to senior management: and continue to work to minimise any disruption to its operations.
Introduction of an online tool to track actions from internal audit reviews.
com Stock code: SHI 45 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks D The Board monitors 15 risks on the Group Risk Register, which 4. includes the principal risks to the Group set out in this Report.
B C These risks, if they materialise, could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
The assessed net risk scores likelihood and impact of the risk occurring after taking E F G account of mitigating actions are outlined in the adjacent matrix and J details of how the risks might materialise, what the current mitigating 3.
A H I actions in place are, as well as any planned improvements, are included in the table below.
A F Delivery of the change agenda Pricing management B G Working capital management Systems capability C Data quality H Supplier rebates D Cyber security I Retention of talent 1.
E J Market downturn Health and safety 1.
Likelihood RISK TITLE DESCRIPTION KEY CONTROLS ACTIONS FOR 2019 Without appropriate and sufficient Appointment of transformation Review of delivery framework A capability, capacity and culture, the directors at each operating Further development of Group Delivery of the Group could suffer initiative overload company level communications change agenda resulting in management stretch and Consultation with external failure to meet core objectives CS CV OE experts to aid project strategy and implementation Introduction of Group transformation committee meetings to govern project portfolio Failure to manage working capital Budgets set for all areas of the Further development of cash flow B effectively, leading to an increase business with accountability for forecasting capabilities Working capital in net debt, reducing the Groups performance established Further centralisation of management funding headroom and liquidity Inventory task force set up to responsibility for inventory planning CS OE manage stock effectively across the in operating companies Group Streamlining of shared service Key metrics and reporting reviewed processes to given greater control regularly in management accounts over debtors and creditors and at management meetings Lack of availability and reliability of Implementation of data entry Additional data to be introduced to C data may have an adverse impact on controls data warehouse Data quality the ability of the business to make Introduction of data warehouse Introduction of new reporting tools properly informed and consistent CS CV OE with controlled data sources for operating companies decisions Internal or external cyber-attacks Appointment of experienced Chief Upgrade antivirus software D could result in system disruption or Information Security Officer Enhance cyber-attack monitoring Cyber security loss of sensitive data Training, communications and Cyber security strategy in place CS OE N schedule to ensure staff awareness of risks Disaster recovery plans in place and secure backups conducted to ensure continuity of service 46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Impact STRATEGIC REPORT RISK TITLE DESCRIPTION KEY CONTROLS ACTIONS FOR 2019 Changes in the market impact the The Groups geographical diversity Continue to monitor Brexit risk and E Groups ability to meet performance across Europe reduces the impact develop mitigation plans accordingly Market expectations of changes in market conditions in Further development of downturn any one country performance indicators and market CV OE Cost reduction plans across the modelling to assess better the Group to reduce cost base impact of market changes Industry based KPIs monitored monthly at a Group and operating company level Prices cannot be adequately Implementation of pricing tools Further improvement in data F controlled to remain both competitive and centralisation of control by capabilities to provide greater Pricing in the market and achieve margin operating company visibility management improvement targets Review and monitoring of margin CV N by customer Systems become heavily customised Strategy to bring in new off-theUpgrade core ERP systems G and outdated and are unable to shelf systems to fill existing gaps Design Group roadmap for system Systems support critical business activity and New systems and changes to replacement or upgrade capability decision making existing systems require central approval CS CV Rebate income may not be Reducing the reliance on rebate Roll out of rebate management H accurately accounted leading to an income through off-invoice software Supplier overstatement or understatement of discounting Further reduction of the reliance on rebates profits Rebate debtors and income long term rebate agreements regularly reviewed by commercial CV and finance teams Changes to rebate assumptions approved by the rebates committee Failure to attract and retain people Appointment of a new Group HR Development of an overarching I with the right skills, drive and Director improvement plan for recruitment, Retention of capability to re-shape and grow the reward, talent development and Engagement survey completed with talent business communications associated action plan developed CV CS N Improved remuneration packages and retention plans for critical roles Danger of incident or accident, Health and Safety policies and Review of consistency and accuracy J resulting in injury or loss of life to procedures in place and available of controls in targeted areas Health and employees, customers or the general to all staff safety public Well established training programme during induction and CS OE on an ongoing basis Monitoring and reporting on incidents and investigations into route cause carried out to continually improve processes Health and Safety audits completed by independent teams Relevance to strategy Understanding movements in business risks CS CUSTOMER SERVICE Increase Decrease CV CUSTOMER VALUE N No change New OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY OE www.
