Strategic Report Risk management IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISKS The Groups strategy exposes it to various risks.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks that the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group.
The Board has performed a robust The Groups system of internal controls assessment of the principal risks facing the including each of those set out on the Group, taking into account those that would left have been in place for the year under threaten its business model see page 26, review and upto the date of the approval future performance, solvency or liquidity, as ofthis Annual Report.
This system is well as the Groups strategic objectives see regularly reviewed by the Board and a page 16.
In addition, the Board considered review of the effectiveness of all material how risks evolve and potential emerging controls was carried out during the year.
The most significant risks arising from This effectiveness review considered the this assessment, including details of their design of controls associated with key management and mitigation, are set out risksand the evidence as to their proper onthe subsequent pages.
No significant failings or weaknesses The Group has a system of internal wereuncovered in the course ofthis controlswhich is designed to manage annualreview.
andmitigate these risks and which the Board is responsible for.
This system is inaccordance with the Guidance on Risk Brexit Management, Internal Control and Related Within the summary of principal risks Financial and Business Reporting as issued disclosed on the subsequent pages, the by the Financial Reporting Council, and its Group has not identified Brexit as a discrete key features include: principal risk.
In the event of a no-deal Brexit, which would lead to the UK trading a defined organisational structure with other countries on World Trade withappropriate delegation of authority Organization WTO terms, it is the Groups and clearly defined lines of reporting expectation based on existing WTO terms andresponsibility, whereby the incurring that for a significant majority of its export of expenditure and assumption of markets, no tariffs would apply.
For those contractual commitments can only be export markets that would attract tariffs approved by specified individuals and under WTO terms including the EU, the within pre-defined limits: level of tariffs that POLY4 is subject to formal authorisation procedures for all would notbe significant, nor is it expected banking transactions, expenditure and that anysignificant non-tariff barriers would investment decisions: apply to the products export.
a comprehensive system for budgeting The principal impact of a no-deal Brexit andplanning whereby periodic budgets are upon the Group would be the indirect prepared and approved by the Board and impact upon financial markets, where the subsequently monitored with variances uncertainty that a no-deal Brexit could bring reported to the Board at regular Board may impact the ease and terms which the meetings: and Group is able to access in relation to its regular and comprehensive information securement of the stage 2 financing.
This provided to the Board from the Groups risk event is covered within the scope of senior management team, covering existing liquidity principal risk, meaning financial performance and key that Brexit has not merited identification performance indicators, including asa discrete additional principal risk.
36 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information STRATEGIC RISKS PROJECT DEVELOPMENT 1 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: No change This risk remained static during 2018 as there was no meaningful change in the Groups Project design plan over the course of the year.
Risk appetite: Moderate In its development of the Project, the Group plans to deliver the required Project infrastructure in a time-efficient, cost-effective manner with a preference for proven and robust development methodologies.
Nature Mitigation The Groups ability to generate returns for shareholders The mining, processing and infrastructure challenges of the Project isdependent on it being able to deliver operational are inherent in a mining and infrastructure project of this size and andeconomically viable mine infrastructure facilities are not of an extraordinary level or nature.
Site investigation work through a programme of seismic survey A failure to complete successful construction of the necessary and investigative boreholes continues as part of the Project.
facilities would threaten the Groups ability tooperate.
Asengineering progresses, this risk naturally reduces.
Development risks are assessed, evaluated and reduced as far as reasonably possible as part of theProject management function performed by ourexperienced team.
FINANCIAL RISKS LIQUIDITY 1 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Finance Director and CFO 2018 movement: Increased The Group will be required to secure further financing in the coming months to continue development ofthe Project whereas at the end of 2017 no imminent additional financings were required due to the liquidity position at that time.
Risk appetite: Moderate The Group remains vigilant around its ongoing liquidity requirements as the ability tocomplete the Projects development is wholly dependent upon securing significant additional external funding.
However, a key element of the Groups strategy remains executing a financing plan that delivers returns for shareholders, therefore the Group continues to balance its need to secure additional funding against being discerning in its selection of the sources and timing of additional liquidity to maximise returns to shareholders.
Nature Mitigation The Group does not currently generate revenues andhas We have a strong Board and management team with extensive historically been reliant on external funding toprovide it with the experience in financing large, multi-billion Dollar projects.
required liquidity to operate and tocommence construction We have been successful in raising funds in the recent past, activities on the Project.
including raising funds in 2016 to commence construction of If the Group is not able to obtain sufficient further amounts of the Project.
funding to allow the Project to reach a pointof production where During 2018 the Group has commenced significant preparatory the Group generates positive operating cash flows, then there is work around its stage 2 senior debt financing, which would fund a risk that the Group would not be able to continue to operate.
the majority of the remainder of the operating costs and capital expenditure required tofinalise the development and construction of the Project and reach a point of production where the Project generates positive operating cash flows.
Feedback received from potential lenders during theyear around this has been positive so far.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 37 Strategic Report Risk management continued CURRENCY 2 4 Strategy link: Owner: Finance Director and CFO 2018 movement: Increased The Group has signed additional material construction contracts during 2018 with non-US Dollar payment currencies, increasing its level of future currency mismatches.
Risk appetite: Moderate The Group prefers to mitigate the risk of currency mismatches as far as reasonably practicable through thesigning of US Dollar-denominated construction contracts and its ongoing hedging activities.
However it does not let this preference overrule commercial considerations around the negotiation of the cost basis of its significant contracts.
Nature Mitigation The Group expects its future revenues to be denominated in US The Group has mitigated the currency risk in the medium to Dollars while the majority of its construction and operational costs long term by planning a capital structure where it has raised are expected to bedenominated in other currencies mainly Sterling.
funds in Sterling and US Dollars to broadly match the anticipated currency split of its expected capital expenditure A strengthening of non-US Dollar currencies, without offsetting and operating cost needs.
The currency denominations improvement in US Dollar-denominated polyhalite prices, ofcertain major capital expenditure contracts will not be couldadversely affect the Projects profitability and Groups finalised until subsequent to the completion of the Groups financial position.
The Group monitors its exposure to currency risk based on the Project expenditure forecast and the stage of development.
TheBoard-approved treasury policy sets out appropriate risk tolerances for currency exposure and the Group implements appropriate hedges toensure that it is compliant with this policy.
EXTERNAL RISKS PERMITS AND LICENCES 1 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: Reduced The Group has secured a number of minor non-material licence changes throughout 2018, thus reducing uncertainty compared to the position prevailing at the end of 2017.
Risk appetite: Low The acquisition and maintenance of all necessary permits and licences is vital to the ability of the Project to progress and so the Group remains extremely active in ensuring that all compliance conditions are, and remain, in place.
Nature Mitigation The Project requires a range of permits and licences to allow The Group is in possession of the planning permissions construction activities as well as future operations to go ahead.
required to commence the construction of the minehead, The Group currently has in place all material permissions to mineral transport system, materials handling facility and has allowconstruction of the Project against its original plan.
also received a development consent order for the construction of the harbour facility.
Any changes applied for do not affect As the Project progresses and the construction plan continues to these permissions, but instead modify or replace the existing be refined, this is likely to necessitate changes to existing planning permissions once approved.
There is arisk that these approvals will not be forthcoming which could lead to additional costs or delays in The Group is pro-active in maintaining effective working construction activities.
relationships with each licensing authority and is responsive tofeedback from those bodies around its permit applications.
The Group engages experienced consultant advisers that specialise in obtaining permits, licences and secondary approvals needed for the Project to operate.
38 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information COMPETITORS 2 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Marketing Officer 2018 movement: No change There have been no structural changes in the global fertilizer market since 2017 which would change the impact of this risk.
Risk appetite: High Despite the inherent barriers to entry in the market and the relative novelty of polyhalite asan accepted, high-volume fertilizer, the Group remains extremely confident in its ability to rapidly disrupt the existing market and, accordingly, istargeting and securing large multi-year supply agreements with established customers across the world.
Nature Mitigation The global fertilizer market that the Group is seeking tocompete The Group continues to develop its sales and marketing strategy in contains numerous well-established competitors and high to emphasise the unique characteristics of POLY4 and to make barriers for potential new entrants into the market.
front-of-mind in customers our products unique nature and how we differentiate ourselves from our closest competitors.
A failure to overcome pressure from competitors as wellas the inherent market barriers could threaten the Groups abilities to The Groups global agronomy programme providesan strike deals with potential customers for its products.
independently validated dataset which demonstrates the efficacy of POLY4 on a wide range of different crops in varying geographic and climatic conditions inorder to support the Groups marketing efforts.
OPERATIONAL RISKS SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 1 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: Increased The breadth and pace of construction activities being undertaken by the Group is now greater than it was at the end of 2017, meaning an inherently increased risk of a safety incident.
However the Group has significantly increased the resources of its safety team over the year to mitigate this and keep the risk to an acceptably low level.
Risk appetite: Low Safety is one of the Groups core values.
The Group prioritises safe-working across its activities and this takes precedence over other operational goals.
The Group continuously strives to reduce risks that could lead to a safety or environmental incident to as low as reasonably practicable.
Nature Mitigation The scale and nature of the construction operations that the The Group continuously assesses the risk to ensure that it has Group is undertaking in its development of the Project means the right people in the right places.
Nonetheless, the Group is there is an inherent risk to the safety of individuals who are not complacent about the risks in this area.
The Groups management team is set up to manage safety and A significant safety incident during construction operations resulting the environment effectively.
A key part ofits work in this area is in injury to workers would impact the Groups licence to operate, in ensuring that the Group engages contractors who have the affecting the delivery ofthe Project and the Groups reputation.
right attitude andsystems, and it welcomes expertise and improvement from employees, contractors and external parties.
Ongoing focus areas include leadership activities, work with contractors including onboarding processes and auditing, developing the culture of theProject team, and the identification and control ofmajor hazards.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 39 Strategic Report Risk management continued CONSTRUCTION DELAYS 1 2 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: Increased The breadth and pace of construction activities being undertaken by the Group isnow greater than it was at the end of 2017, meaning an inherently increased risk of delays occurring.
Risk appetite: Moderate Although the Group takes all reasonable steps possible to minimise the likelihood of delays and to meet its existing Project-development timetable, it nevertheless balances schedule requirements against expected cost impacts to achieve the best overall outcome for the Group, rather than only prioritise the Projects schedule.
Nature Mitigation The Group is undertaking extensive construction activities across Detailed assessment and planning is carried out continuously a range of locations and depths to deliver its Project against a by the management team and external parties as part defined timetable.
of the development to mitigate and fide-risk the Project during construction.
Unforeseen issues could arise which may cause construction delays, risking the Groups ability to meet the Projects existing The Group continues to pursue all acceleration options timetable, as well as potentially meaning that higher construction availableto reduce the time required to reach first production.
costs may be incurred as a result of the delays.
Contractors are incentivised to bring their scopes forward.
CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS 1 3 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: Increased The breadth and pace of construction activities being undertaken by the Group isnow greater than itwas at the end of 2017, meaning an inherently increased risk of performance issues as the number of contractors and suppliers hasincreased.
Risk appetite: Moderate The performance of contractors is crucial to the successful delivery of the Project, therefore the Groupsconstruction contracts contain provisions that enable performance to be monitored and driven.
However, some risk cannoteconomically be transferred to contractors on a project of this sort, therefore the Group is forced to accept a level of risk in this regard which it cannot mitigate away.
Nature Mitigation Due to the outsourced nature of most of the construction activities An active and experienced management team is in place with a of the Project, the performance of our contractors and suppliers is focus on being clear about expectations, verifying performance, critical to its success.
and doing everything possible within the contracts to ensure the success of our contractors and suppliers.
Performance is actively Performance issues by contractors or a lack of goal-alignment monitored and managed, with mitigating change instigated could manifest itself in delays to the construction programme should performance not meet expectations.
and or additional construction costs being incurred, or in the future performance of the mine once it becomes operational.
In working with our contractors, the Group is focused on ensuring that they are operating within their area ofspecialisation, that their senior management are engaged in our Project, that regular communication and progress updates are maintained and that major construction contractors are incentivised around the success of the Project.
40 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CONSTRUCTION COST OVERRUNS 2 4 Strategy link: Owner: Chief Development Officer 2018 movement: Reduced Although the capital estimate published by the Group in September 2018 indicated a capital cost estimate significantly higher than that previously made by the Group in 2016, this new estimate was made on the basis of much morereliable cost information, meaning that the prospective risk of subsequent cost overruns is less than it was at the end of 2017.
Risk appetite: Low The occurrence of construction cost overruns materially impacts the Projects finances and returns to shareholders.
Therefore the Group undertakes all reasonably possible mitigation to minimise the chances of overruns occurring, including changing aspects of the Projects design and construction timetable to offset potential cost overrun pressures.
Nature Mitigation The Group plans its financing needs based on a detailed budget The Groups management has a strong focus on cost.
Much of of the anticipated construction cost ofthe Project, which includes the Project has now been costed bycontractors and suppliers, a contingency.
with many contracts awarded, and this has resulted in a re-estimate of thefull Project and more cost certainty.
Unforeseen technical issues or scope changes compared to the budget may occur which could result in additional costs, should The September 2018 capital estimate includes aprovision for the value of total overruns exceed the budgeted contingency.
escalation, and also includes a significant contingency provision in case of cost pressures.
The contingency is based on a detailed assessment of a range of Project risks using Monte Carlo simulations performed by a third-party estimator.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of If these transactions are not successfully Based on the financial impact of theUK Corporate Governance Code, the concluded the Company may not be able theanalysis outlined above and the Board has assessed theprospects of the to ensure that the Project will become associated risks, management actions Company over a five-year period, taking operational, nor that commercial andcontrols that are either in place or account of the Companys current position production will commence on schedule could be implemented, the Board has and principalrisks.
been able to conclude that the Group willbe able to deliver the construction ofthe Project, provided the stage 2 Time frame Principal risks financing is completed, as described.
The Board believes that five years is the In addition, in making its assessment, most appropriate time frame over which theBoard has taken into account the the Board should assess the long-term principal risks as described on the Confirmation of viability viability of the Company.
The Companys preceding pages and also the scenario Taking account of these matters, the current activities do not generate any modelling and sensitivity analysis Directors have a reasonable expectation revenues or positive operating cash flow, undertaken by the Company and various that the Company will be able to continue in and construction of the Project and the consultants which has been conducted operation and meet its liabilities as they fall development necessary to commence aspart of the development of the Project.
due over the period to December 2023, production and generate revenues will The modelling demonstrates profitability assuming that the stage 2 financing referred require significant capital expenditures.
over a range of negative assumptions, to above is completed as described.
The Project is not expected to generate both individually and in aggregate.
The The Groups going concern statement positive net cash flow until approximately scenarios considered took into account isdetailed in note 1 of the consolidated 2023, some five years from now.
the impacts of: financial statements on page 98. a Project capital cost overrun: Assessing viability a delay in Project completion: The main assumption in the Board making lower realised polyhalite sales prices: its viability assessment is that the stage lower long-run polyhalite sales volumes: 2debt financing ofup to US$3.6 billion is successfully completed and the Company higher long-run operating costs: and is able to secure sufficient additional a reasonable downside scenario financing prior to the initial drawdown takinginto account a combination ofthe stage 2 debt financing.
The Strategic Report from pages 1 to pages 41 was approved by the Board on 30 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Chris Fraser Managing Director and CEO Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41 Governance 44 Board of Directors 46 Chairmans Introduction 48 Corporate Governance Report 53 Audit Committee Report 57 Nominations Committee Report 61 Remuneration Committee Report Chairs Annual Statement 63 Annual Report on Remuneration 76 Directors Remuneration Policy 82 Directors Report 85 Directors Responsibilities North York Moors National Park Image Credit: Ebor images GOVERNANCE 42 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43
