Corporate governance report continued Risk management Disclosure control and procedures There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The risk register are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed as part framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on impact of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and communicated and likelihood.
The risk is assessed, quantified and measured which enables to management, including the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO, as discussions on risk appetite.
The registers detail the controls that appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
manage the risks and, where necessary, the action plans to mitigate Auditor independence the risk exposure.
During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Committee reviewed audit The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team independence and the scope of non-audit services and independence monitors their implementation.
The internal audit team provides objective safeguards with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed control and risk management to the Groups operating management.
confirmation in writing that, in Deloittes professional judgement, Deloitte The Committee reviews the Group Risk Register typically twice a year and is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional carries out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and facing the Group and has done so during the year.
The Groups principal audit staff is not impaired.
risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 24 to 27.
There is an The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity ongoing monitoring process, which is operated by the Group Risk team and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either the and supported by senior management across the Group, to identify nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the and report to the Audit Committee on significant changes or new risks.
level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
Effectiveness of internal audit process Prior to the Groups acquisitions of Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland, The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function Deloitte member firms in Italy and Germany had substantial consulting on an annual basis which includes consideration of their understanding engagements with those businesses.
A transition plan was approved by of the business, scope of the audit coverage, resource levels and resolution the Committee and fully implemented in order to restructure and cease of recommendations.
This review has been carried out for the year any  aspects of those engagements in accordance ended 30 June 2018 and the Committee determined that internal with relevant auditor independence rules.
During the current year, the Group has continued to substantially reduce Committee evaluation the level of Deloittes non-audit work.
Deloitte has been involved in certain An evaluation of the Committees performance is conducted as part of strategic customer and operating systems projects since their inception the Board evaluation process.
Further details are described on page 38. and has specialist knowledge which it would be time consuming and costly Fair, balanced and understandable assessment to build up with another advisor.
The Committee therefore approved a The Financial Reporting Committee FRC, an internal committee, has certain level of permitted consulting advisory services with respect to responsibility for the production of the annual report and the associated these strategic projects for the current year, and has approved the review process.
Guidance and comprehensive due diligence procedures continuation of this work at a further reduced level in the year ending were issued to reviewers by the FRC to help them assess whether the 30 June 2019.
Non-audit fees declined very significantly over this four-year document was fair, balanced and understandable and complied with the period, from a peak of 15.8 million in 2014 15 pro-forma basis spend of requirements of the Code.
The FRC maintained oversight of the review 19.5 million to a level below that of the audit fee in the current year process and submitted certification to the Committee to enable it to excluding any non-audit fees incurred as a consequence of the Offers, be in a position to recommend to the Board that the required statement and will continue to reduce the level of non-audit fees.
The Committee is satisfied that all of Deloittes non-audit work continues The Committee also reviewed the disclosures regarding the Companys to be of a permitted nature, meaning that Deloitte is independent within alternative performance measures APMs having regard, in particular, the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements, and that to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures issued by appropriate safeguards are in place to assure Deloittes continued the European Securities and Markets Authority in October 2015. independence.
In this regard, the Committee also closely monitors the developing regulatory regime relating to the use of auditors for non-audit Viability statement work and is satisfied that the Company has complied and continues to The Directors are required to confirm whether they have a reasonable comply with the regulations in force.
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue to Audit and non-audit services provided during the year were approved operate and meet their liabilities as they fall due over a longer-term period.
An analysis of auditor remuneration is disclosed in The disclosure must set out the basis for Directors conclusions and explain note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
why the period chosen is appropriate.
The Committee sought managements input to its assessment of the viability of the Company and the Group.
The assessment, which was based on the Groups operating, capital and funding plans, also included consideration of the principal risks which could impact the performance of the Group and its liquidity and capital projections over the period.
The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be provided and agreed that three years was a suitable period of review.
The Viability Statement is detailed on page 27.
42 Sky plc Governance Audit and non-audit services Audit firm and partner rotation The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: for the engagement every five years.
The prior audit partner rotated off the engagement following the conclusion of the 2014 15 audit and Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: his successor was in place for 2015 16.
In turn, the current audit partner Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and Paul Franek will be required to rotate after the 2019 20 audit.
the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: and The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee significantly changed in the UK and Europe.
The Committee is closely is required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service, which monitoring these developments and taking into account that Deloitte includes those over 250,000. has been the external auditor of the Company since June 2002, it expects to conduct an audit tender in advance of June 2020, which itself is in The policy defines the types of services falling under each category advance of 2023 by which the transitional rules in UK and EU regulation and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval would require the Company to have performed a tender.
The Committee mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
has reviewed the timing of a future tender and feels that it is not currently The policy is reviewed at least every three years and an analysis in shareholders interests, but it will continue to keep the appropriate of all services provided by the external auditor is reviewed by the timing of a future tender under review.
The Company and the Group confirms its compliance with the provisions During the year, the following examples of non-audit work were deemed of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation to be pre-approved in accordance with the policy: Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Assurance of Gender Pay Gap reporting Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 30 June 2018.
Regulatory audit of the Sky pension plan As previously stated the Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year.
Effectiveness of external audit process During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process and managements role within that process was assessed by the Committee, Group Finance team and other key internal stakeholders in the form of a questionnaire.
The areas under review were: Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit and accounting issues Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and challenges it faces The quality of planning and supervision of the Group audit Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee The responses to the assessment were discussed by the Committee and it was confirmed that Deloitte are performing as expected.
Deloitte continue to demonstrate strengths in the majority of these areas.
There were no significant findings from the assessment and the review confirmed that Deloitte continue to carry out an effective and robust external audit, including the supervision of the Group audit.
The Committee also continues to be satisfied with the quality of challenge and scepticism of the external auditor.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that shareholder approval be sought to reappoint Deloitte as the external auditor for the 2018 19 financial year.
Annual Report 2018 43 Corporate governance report continued Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Chairmans overview Activities during the year Board changes The Committee keeps the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the length of service of individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
The Committee will identify the set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of external search agencies, select individuals to take Board positions on review of their individual merits, regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
During the ongoing Offers it is important to ensure the stability of the Due to the ongoing Offers, the Board has remained stable during the year.
Board and I am pleased to report that there have been no Board changes There remain 11 Directors on the Board, of which six Directors are deemed during the year.
The Committee continues to keep the composition of by the Board to be independent.
Committee composition The Independent Committee has functioned well and has ensured that During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board the appropriate governance structure is in place to protect independent Committees and agreed that during the Offer Period the membership shareholders.
These arrangements will continue for the duration of of the Committees would remain unchanged.
Independence The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to innovation During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete and change and is actively progressing initiatives such as addressing questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their independence.
gender balance, sourcing the right skills to complement The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and recommended to the our talented management team and creating robust succession plans Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the current to safeguard the Companys future performance.
The Non-Executive Directors who There was one Committee meeting held during the year after which I are considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified in reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during the meeting.
their respective biographies on pages 32 and 33.
The Committee continues to comprise a majority of Independent As noted on page 37, James Murdoch, Chase Carey and John Nallen are not Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Code.
considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
However, following the evaluation the Committee considers that each of these Andy Sukawaty Directors continue to make a significant contribution to Board and Committee Chairman Committee discussions.
Committee composition Board diversity Andy Sukawaty Chairman The Committee pursues a policy of diversity of skills, experience, nationality Martin Gilbert and gender in its approach to Board appointments.
Since 2011, three female James Murdoch Directors have been appointed and the Board currently comprises eight Matthieu Pigasse men and three women 27% female representation on the Board.
Attendance at Committee meetings Directors conflicts The Group CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the year and to time and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating effectively.
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee agenda The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate them as necessary.
Board and Committee composition Review of Non-Executive Director independence Review of Directors conflicts of interest Review of the Corporate Governance Report The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
44 Sky plc Governance The Committee noted the progress being made on expanding and Bigger Picture Committee implementing the Group responsible business strategy in Germany, Chairmans overview Austria and Italy and also reviewed progress on responsible sourcing and human rights, including the launch of the Companys second Modern Slavery Statement.
The Committee supports the Companys focus on inclusion and the ambition to build an inclusive culture for everyone.
To achieve this the Company has been focused on increasing the representation of BAME Black, Asian, and minority ethnic employees and achieving gender parity, including setting ambitious targets such as increasing the representation of women in senior leadership to 50% by 2020.
A range of initiatives have been developed, for example Get into Tech and Women in Home Service, which support women to develop skills in traditionally under-represented I am pleased to report that there has been continued significant areas.
The Company has been recognised externally for these programmes progress across the Bigger Picture this year.
We celebrated the success with inclusion in the Times Top 50 Employers of Women and being awarded of Sky Academy Studios which has welcomed over 100,000 young people the Business in the Community Gender Equality Game Changer Award.
through the doors, opening up the behind the scenes world of television The Committee also reviewed the Companys first Gender Pay Gap report, and inspiring interest in some important issues.
There was also the published in March 2018. announcement of the Companys commitments across Sky Ocean Rescue, The Committee is proud of the Companys continued success in supporting set out further in this report, and the significant progress made towards young people, with the launch of the Sky Ocean Rescue scholars and Sky these.
Our commitment to sustainability has been reflected by our Women in Technology scholars during the year.
These scholarships offer inclusion in a number of leading investor indices, including: the Dow Jones young people a unique combination of financial support, personal Sustainability Index, in which we maintained our silver award, and CDPs development, learning, mentoring and practical experience of the world Supply Chain Leadership board.
The Committee believes that the focus beyond their existing areas of expertise.
Sky Academy Studios in London, and scale of the Bigger Picture continues to make a significant contribution Livingston and Milan saw 26,679 young people create news reports this to the Companys ability to build a better business for the long term.
year, now reaching over 100,000 young people since its 2013 launch.
A refreshed strategy during this financial year is making an even greater This year, 4% of employees volunteered with Sky Academy Studios or impact for customers, the environment and for the Company and is took part in a beach clean for Sky Ocean Rescue.
Progress continues to an important way in which Sky is achieving its purpose and values.
be made in Italy to support young people through Ultima Ora, supporting There was one Committee meeting during the year and after that meeting media literacy through the Sky Academy Studios programme in Milan.
I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed.
Outside of this The Companys long standing charity partner MAMA Youth continues meeting the Committee were kept updated on the progress of Bigger to offer training and career opportunities in broadcast and production Picture activities.
for young people from diverse and challenging backgrounds from our Progress against the Bigger Picture strategy is detailed at West London Campus, with over 90% of alumni going on to secure www.
sky corporate bigger-picture work placements.
James Murdoch Sky made four significant commitments through Sky Ocean Rescue during Committee Chairman the year: to transform the Companys own business operations and products to Composition of the Committee become single-use plastic free: James Murdoch Chairman Tracy Clarke to use the Companys voice to inspire others to take action: Attendance at Committee meetings to protect the health of our oceans through working in partnership The Group CEO, Group COO & CFO, the Group Corporate Affairs Director, with WWF: and other senior executives and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings to inspire innovations that can help tackle plastic waste blighting the at the request of the Chairman.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts worlds oceans.
as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee discussed the Companys progress on these commitments, Bigger Picture Committee agenda including the significant reduction in plastic use across the business and Focus for the year has centred on the following items: the objective that all new products launched from 2018 are to be single-use plastic free.
The launch of Sky Ocean Ventures, the 25 million impact Progress on responsible business performance innovation fund, and the reach that Sky Ocean Rescue had achieved, with Progress on initiatives to inspire young people and inspire others millions of people having become aware of the issue of ocean plastic to take action through campaigns such as #PassOnPlastic, were also discussed.
The launch of the evolved Bigger Picture strategy.
The Committee has participated in the evolution of the Bigger Picture The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys strategy and supports its aim to be an inspirational business, inspiring corporate website.
young people, and others to take action on the issues that matter to everyone.
As part of a review of the Bigger Picture reporting, the Committee Activities during the year continued to note the positive economic, social and environmental The Committee was updated on a number of developments in relation contribution of Sky and looks forward to the further development of to the Bigger Picture during the year, as set out below.
For more information about Skys approach and progress during the year, go to skygroup.
