Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent Detailed controls and any relevant action plans are monitored by the Group of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives, as Risk team on an ongoing basis.
well as establishing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control There is an ongoing monitoring process which is operated by the Group Risk and risk management and reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
team and supported by senior management across the Group, to identify Additional information on the Groups internal control and risk management and report to the Audit Committee on significant changes or new risks.
processes is set out in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Audit The outcome of the UK referendum on EU membership continues to cause Committee Report.
uncertainty in both the political and economic environments in which we operate.
Although the large majority of our revenue is from subscriptions, For more on the Corporate Governance Report see: pages 32-45 we are not immune from the impact of any economic uncertainty.
We do, however, believe that our business model means that we are comparatively The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within the well placed to manage the consequences of the result and of its effect on business to support the identification and effective management of risk the economic environment.
Our operations are conducted mainly on a across the Group.
The divisions within the Group are each responsible territorial basis and our business involves limited movement of goods and for managing and reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk services between the UK and the rest of the EU and, to the extent that management policy and standards that have been approved by the it does, we can adapt our business processes as necessary.
companies, we will need to monitor and manage the practical implications The risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which provides as they occur.
Where appropriate we have also outlined in the table below an overview of the Group risk profile.
the impact of the result on our principal risks and uncertainties.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, conducts a robust assessment of This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groups principal risks, including those that would threaten its business the Group.
In addition to summarising the material risks and uncertainties, model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and their mitigation.
the table below gives examples of how we mitigate those risks.
The Group risk register is reported to the Audit Committee typically twice a year.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological developments The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront also have the ability to create new forms of quickly evolving competition.
A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with changing The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to ensure market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups competitive that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the market.
The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the value Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased of its offering is understood and communicated effectively to its customers.
competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that our The Group makes significant investment in the origination of content as well customers want on commercially attractive terms.
as in acquisition from across the world.
Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years across the The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated territories in which the Group operates and the outcome of the UK with its individual channels.
referendum has caused further economic uncertainty.
A significant economic decline in any of those territories could impact the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain customers in that territory.
Regulatory breach and change: The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the regulatory The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely processes that affect the Groups business.
affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of existing The Group actively seeks to identify and meet its regulatory obligations laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required regulatory and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: approvals or licences.
Please see page 28 of the Regulatory matters section Broadcasting compliance controls and processes are in place in the Groups for further details.
Interaction with the relevant regulatory authorities is The Group is subject to regulation primarily under Austrian, German, Irish, co-ordinated between the relevant local Compliance, Regulatory and Legal Italian, UK and European Union legislation.
departments: The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not limited to: Technical services with respect to the provision of certain technical services in the UK and Germany, processes are in place to monitor thirdBroadcasting as a provider of audio visual media services, the Group is party broadcaster access to the relevant broadcast platforms and to ensure subject to Austrian, German, Italian and UK licensing regimes under the that this is provided on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: applicable broadcasting and communications legislation.
These obligations include requirements to comply with relevant codes and directions issued by the relevant regulatory authorities, including for example, in the UK, Ofcoms Broadcasting Code, Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising and Cross-Promotion Code: Technical services as a provider of certain technical services in the UK and Germany, Sky UK and Sky Deutschland are subject to regulation in their respective countries: and 24 Sky plc Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Telecommunications Sky UK is subject to the General Conditions of Telecommunications compliance controls and processes are in place Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 UK and the in the UK and Ireland, overseen by the Customer Compliance Committee, Conditions for the provision of Electronic Communications Networks and to monitor compliance and performance against the General Conditions Services under the Communications Regulation Act 2002 Ireland, which of Entitlement and the Conditions for the Provision of Electronic impose detailed requirements on providers of communications networks Communications Networks and Services.
The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, but not training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory requirements.
limited to, competition antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer protection, data The Group will monitor carefully future developments that arise out of the protection and taxation.
result of the UK referendum and will engage in any relevant regulatory The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and processes.
or investigation and enquiries from regulatory and antitrust authorities.
The telecommunications and media regulatory framework applying to the Group in the UK and the EU may be subject to greater uncertainty in the event that the UK leaves the EU.
Potential changes to the regulatory framework could include divergence in the long term between the UK and EU regulation of telecommunications and media, and changes to certain mutual recognition arrangements for media and broadcasting.
Sky does not currently foresee any changes as a result of a UK exit that would have a material impact on its business.
Please see page 28 of the Regulatory matters section for further details.
Customer service: A significant part of the Groups business is based on a subscription model The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers expectations, to put and its future success relies on building long-term relationships with its its customers first, to understand what they want and to be responsive to customers.
A failure to meet its customers expectations with regard to what they say.
service could negatively impact the Groups brand and competitive position.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous development and improvement to its customer service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres across the UK and Ireland, insourcing of service centres in Germany and implementing ongoing training and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers are The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure to reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business and has a robust selection and monitoring process of third-party providers.
The Group A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, such is committed to achieve best in class business continuity standards and as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, OTT platforms or makes significant investments in the resilience and robustness of its the telecommunications and mobile networks on which the Group relies, could business infrastructure.
cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively impact our brand.
The Group also organises regular scenario-based group-wide business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems and sites.
Suppliers: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to support operating across the globe to support its business.
A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate ongoing management and monitoring of key partners A significant failure of a supplier or a discontinuation of supply could and suppliers.
adversely affect the Groups ability to deliver operationally.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
Annual Report 2018 25 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to preserving The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to provide the Groups profitability.
support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on financial performance The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted is provided on a monthly basis to senior management and the Board.
negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates, which create volatility in the Groups results to the extent that they are not The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and processes effectively hedged.
in order to ensure sound financial management and reporting.
The Group has a formal Treasury Policy which is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee Any increase in the financial leverage of the Group may limit the Groups on an annual basis.
In addition, the Group COO and CFO monitors the Treasury financial flexibility.
Policy on an ongoing basis to ensure its continuing appropriateness.
The The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and counterparty risks.
Treasury Policy covers all areas of treasury risk including foreign exchange, interest rate, counterparty and liquidity.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and uses appropriate hedging instruments and strategies to provide protection against adverse foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Trading transactional currency risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
Interest rate risk protection is in place using interest rate swaps and an appropriate currency mix of debt is maintained using cross-currency swaps.
Cash investment is made in line with the Treasury Policy which sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of the Groups cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf-rated liquidity funds.
The Group maintains headroom within our banking covenants to allow for unforeseen adverse impacts on our leverage ratio as a result of either economic decline or extreme currency movements.
The Group maintains strong liquidity as part of its core strategy, with high cash balances and access to 1.5 billion under fully undrawn revolving credit facilities.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with all relevant tax authorities, including HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group ensures security-by-design, built in from the ground up, in its The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the safety of its products, services and operation, making significant investment in leading people and infrastructure as well as needing to have in place fraud prevention technology, systems and infrastructure.
Security protection and assurance and detection measures.
is integrated into business processes, from research and development, The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners for to supply chain, sales and marketing, delivery, corporate operations and the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms technical services.
Skys own and third-party platforms.
The Group works closely with law enforcement agencies and policy makers in A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate order to protect its assets.
and is compliant with applicable laws, regulations, and deliver against its business objectives.
standards of relevant countries and regions, third-party contractual obligations, and by reference to industry best practices.
As part of security protection and assurance, the Group takes measures including physical and logical access controls to data and property, technologies to protect data, services and infrastructure, third-party security assessments and the monitoring of key partners to manage security risks.
The Group ensures that its employees, partners and suppliers comply with security policies and requirements, and receive appropriate training so that security, in particular cyber security, is deeply rooted throughout the Sky Group.
The Group takes a proactive approach to threat management and readiness in order to minimise risk and has a dedicated cyber security team which includes security analysts, threat intelligence specialists and senior security engineers.
They engage in intelligence monitoring and detection to hunt for security threats.
The Group actively recruits industry leading security professionals with industry recognised certifications and professional training.
26 Sky plc Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Projects: A common project management methodology is used to enable the Group The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure projects to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure projects and in order to continually drive the business forward.
This includes detailed reporting and regular reviews by The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could result senior management as well as cross-functional executive steering groups for in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability to execute major projects.
Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and for emerging technologies.
Intellectual property protection: The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate protections of our property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of programming intellectual property and other rights.
This involves both unilateral action and content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or which close co-operation with rights licensors and other bodies.
This includes, for may be subject to unauthorised use.
example, the use of automated online monitoring tools, the implementation of on-screen imprinting of content and steps in support of the Premier Leagues action to require UK ISPs to block illegal streams of live PL matches together with an active programme to protect our intellectual property rights, including registering patents for our products where applicable.
People: People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of its Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
The Group customers and achieve its goals as a business.
Failure to attract or retain champions diversity and develops talent through a number of activities, suitable employees across the business could limit the Groups ability to including the Graduate programme, Development Studio, an apprenticeship deliver its business plan commitments.
The Group invests in the working environment to make Sky an even more appealing place to work.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further details on our people are set out in the Employees section of the Directors report on page 61.
Viability statement Going concern In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over the three future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic years to 30 June 2021.
The assessment has taken account of the current report on pages 2 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows position of the Group and the potential impact of the principal risks and liquidity position are described in the Financial review on pages 22 to detailed on pages 24 to 27 of the Annual Report.
In addition, notes 1 to 31 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long-term funding The Directors believe that an assessment period of three years is arrangements, financial instruments and hedging activities and exposure appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the to financial risk.
position and performance of the Company over this period, taking account of its strategic plans.
The Directors assessment included a review of the As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, financial impact of the most severe principal risks that could threaten the together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide viability of the Company.
The financial impact was tested taking account sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its of currency downside risk and the likely effectiveness of the potential contractual and commercial commitments as set out in note 26 on page 121, mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, and the Company over this period, enabling the net financial effect to be calculated.
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the process undertaken current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, at the Based on the results of the assessment, the Directors confirm that they time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that there is a have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this to 30 June 2021. reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
In assessing the prospects of the Company, the Directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
