40 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 At the third line of defence is our Internal Risk report AuditFunction, providing an annual opinion on the effectiveness of our Risk Management Our risk management process process to the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, and then to the Board and its Committees.
Our approach to risk BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARDCOMMITTEES Responsible for regular oversight of risk management and for our annual strategic risk review Monitors risks through Board processes Strategy Review, Disclosures, M&A, Like all businesses, we face a number of risks and uncertainties.
Investments, Disposals and Committees Audit and Compliance & Culture, management reviews and deep dives Some come from outside our organisation, Our risk governance framework is set out ofselected risk areas others from within.
Some we cant control, below.
At the very top of our structure is our some we can.
Many ofour risks are similar to Board, setting our risk appetite and monitoring The Audit Committee is responsible for those experienced by similar businesses and the application of our risk framework through ensuring oversight of the process by which for 2018 we are undoubtedly aligned with other strategy, execution and practically through risks relating to the Company and its businesses as risks around Brexit uncertainty theoutputs of regular risk deep dives and operations are managed and for reviewing and political unrest globally have heightened.
reviews by the business and Group Risk the operating effectiveness of the Groups Team.
The Board cascades our risk appetite Risk Management process Successful management of existing throughout our organisation through the andemerging risks is critical to the Executive Committee, risk owner community long-term success of our business and to and our management group with a formal the achievement of our strategic objectives.
bottom up process ensuring that risks In order to seize market opportunities and are escalated back through the process leverage the potential for success, risk to our Board and form our PrincipalRisks must be accepted to a reasonable degree as appropriate.
Providing rigour and within our tolerances.
Risk management independence across this process is is therefore an integral component of the our Executive Committee and the GroupsCorporate Governance.
As in previous years our Enterprise Risk Board of Management process is based on a holistic Directors and approach to risk management, leveraging risk identification and risk treatments already in Board Committees place throughout our Business Areas whilst incorporating the same risk processes into the strategic planning process.
Our belief is that the strategic and operational benefits of Executive Committee managing risk are achieved when Enterprise Risk Management is aligned with the strategic and operational goals of the organisation, and our process and governance structure firmly Business Area aligns to this approach.
The current financial year has seen further maturity of the risk management framework with further testing of key controls through Group Risk Team deep dives by the Group Risk Team and a number of different risk topics presented to the Board and its Committees.
We have also designed our Enterprise Risk Management Framework to be fully integrated into our Internal Audit Annual Assessment of Effectiveness business processes.
This will be built on furtherthroughout 2019. t n e m s s e s s a R k i s s i r k r t e n s e p r o e n h s n e i p s l s a o n r n i G n g n o N i t e a t c r f e i t s n i 41 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SITTING Risk management life cycle ASGROUP RISKCOMMITTEE Reviews external internal environment foremerging risks Our risk management life cycle was fully refreshed in 2017 and Reviews risk register updates from wasupdated in 2018 to align with our new strategic imperatives Business Area Risk Groups whichwelaunched in December.
Identifies significant risks and assesses effectiveness of mitigating actions Our Risk Management Policy, sponsored by through a bottom up and top down process, our Chief Executive Officer, is supported by with regular oversight from the Executive BUSINESS AREA an Enterprise Risk Management Manual and Committee and quarterly reports to the Business Area Risk Champions provide the risk team provide regular training to all risk Board Committees.
An overview of our risk support to ensure a framework is champions throughout the year.
As in 2018 management life cycle can be found below: designed and implemented for alignment risks continue to be managed to the requirements of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework Carry out day-to-day risk managementactivities Identify and assess risk Implement strategy and mitigating actions to treat risk within Business Area Business Area Risk Champions lead regularriskregister updates GROUP RISK TEAM Manages implementation of all aspects of the Groups approach to Enterprise Risk Management including implementation of processes, tools and systems to identify, assess, measure, manage, monitor and report risks Facilitates implementation and coordination through Business Area Risk Champions Provides resources and training tosupport process Regular risk reporting to the ExecutiveCommittee Prepares Board and Group Risk d Committee reports ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS INTERNAL AUDIT 1 Risk identifcation 4 Net residual risk 6 Risk reporting ANDCONTROL FUNCTIONS IDENTIFYING risks associated ASSESSING the level of residual REPORTING the status of our Provides independent assurance to with the achievement of our net risk after mitigation so that most significant risks through the Board and Audit Committee on objectives by function at the risk levels are managed within the bottom up business area the effectiveness ofthe Groups Risk Group level.
defined tolerance thresholds processes and the top down Management process without being over-controlled or Executive Committee and 2 Gross inherent foregoing desirable opportunities.
riskassessment 5 Risk response planning 7 Monitoring and review ASSESSING the level IDENTIFYING additional MONITORING of risks and ofinherent gross risk.
actions required to meet our actions by management, the 3 Current control expected risk tolerance level accountable Executive and Board.
and ASSIGNING risk owners, identifcation timeframes and actions IDENTIFYING existing for ongoing management controlstomitigate risks.
e u d i a l k r s i i s R k w C e i u r v r e e r n d t n c a o n g t r n i o r l o i t d i e n n o t i M f c a t i o n g n i t r o p e r k s i R 42 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 2018 principal risks We assess our Principal Risks in terms of their potential impact on our ability todeliver our Strategic Imperatives These links are highlighted across the following pages and further information onthe Strategic Imperatives is found on page 9. BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND BUSINESS CHANGE Examples of risks Operating with a global remit, increased Risk Tolerance Failure or significant performance issues experienced outsourcing, more sophisticated materials and In operating our business, executing atcritical single source facilities.
the speed of technological change in an already our change programmes and in Disruption to manufacturing at single or sole source complex manufacturing process leads to greater managing our suppliers and facilities facility lack of manufacturing redundancy.
Ensuring our ability we have a low to moderate Supplier failure impacts ability to meet customer demand to continually execute and operate key sites tolerance for this risk.
and facilities in order to develop, manufacture Change from 2017 Natural disaster impacts ability to meet customer and sell our products within this environment is demand.
a key strategic imperative of the organisation.
Significant change prevents our projects and In addition, the pace and scope of our business programmes such as APEX achieving the intended change initiatives increases the execution risk benefits and disrupts existing business activities.
that benefts may not be fully realised, costs of these changes may increase, or that our business Actions taken by management Link to strategy as usual activities may not perform in-line with Comprehensive product quality processes and controls Our Strategic Imperative to Become our plans.
are in place from design to customer supply.
the best owner requires us to ensure we remain sustainable into Emergency and incident management and business the future and through periods of recovery plans are in place at major facilities and for business change.
Undertaking risk based review programmes for Oversight critical suppliers.
Board Project management governance and toolkits and projectsteering committee oversight to support successful execution of programme and projects.
Executive Committee and Audit Committee oversight ofRisks to change programmes.
Brexit Steering Group regularly monitors the evolving impact of Brexit and oversees our response.
43 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued CYBER SECURITY High profle incidents coupled with increasing Examples of risks Risk Tolerance government focus has resulted in raised Loss of intellectual property major data privacy breach or In managing our cyber risk and the significant impact on business operations from Malware awareness of the extent and potential impact possible disruption and reputational or Ransomware outbreak.
Our increasing impact we have a low to moderate Cyber security is not considered in the design of new business dependence on networked systems tolerance for Cyber Security Risk.
products with more products being connectable having and the internet, the design of new products, embedded software.
Change from 2017 connectable products and embedded software No change.
and the rapidly evolving cyber security threat landscape provides a level of risk exposure not Actions taken by management Link to strategy experienced in prior years.
In response to this Security information and event management SIEM Our Strategic Imperative to wehave undertaken an exercise to understand in place provides real-time analysis of security alerts Transform the business through our threats and vulnerabilities to target cyber generated by applications and network hardware.
enabling technologies requires security investmentin the right places.
us to deliver technology solutions Annual penetration testing and quarterly vulnerability testing.
in compliance with laws and Endpoint protection and Intrusion detection prevention.
regulations and in a way that The adoption of additional authentication tools to reduce protects any vulnerability to the likelihood of remote attacks.
Annual mandatory training and continuous awareness training for end-users.
Oversight Security governance structure in place including Audit Committee aCyberSecurity Steering Committee.
Further strengthening governance including a programme to monitor cyber security capabilities and controls, technical and governance matters.
QUALITY AND REGULATORY Examples of risks Global regulatory bodies continue to increase Risk Tolerance Defects in design or manufacturing of products supplied theirexpectations of manufacturers and Our response to this risk continues to, and sold by, the Group could lead to product recalls or distributors of medical devices.
Our products are to be critical and our ability to align product removal or result in loss of life or major injury.
used in the human body and therefore patient the standards required to ensure Significant non-compliance with policy, regulations safety is of paramount importance.
The European safe and compliant products is the or standards governing products and operations Medical Device Regulations, launchof ISO13485- key driver for our extremely low regarding registration, manufacturing, distribution, 2016, the Medical Device Single Audit Programme tolerance for risk inthis area.
and the tightening of theChinese YY standards Failure to obtain proper approvals for new or changed Change from 2017 have increased the focus on clinical and technical technologies, products or processes.
evidence, supplier controls and continual CE certificates issued by UK notified bodies prior to the productrisk reduction.
withdrawal date may be rendered void post Brexit.
2018 has also brought uncertainty in terms of Actions taken by management Link to strategy Britains exit from the EU as well as future trade Comprehensive and documented product quality Our Strategic Imperative to Become and regulatory relations between the EU and UK.
processes and controls from design to customer the best owner requires us to Like many other companies we are planning for the distribution are in place.
operate effectively and efficiently impact of a range of eventualities, particularly in and to produce compliant products Standardised monitoring and compliance with quality continuity assessment and how our products will of the highest quality to provide management practices through our Global Quality continue to be appropriately registered for trade safe and effective solutions to Assurance and Regulatory Affairs organisation.
Incident management teams in place to respond immediately in the event of an incident relating to Oversight patient safety.
Board Compliance & Governance framework in place for reporting, Culture Committee investigating and responding to instances of product safety and complaints.
Brexit working group is in place considering various deal no deal scenarios.
44 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our product portfolio is becoming increasingly Examples of risks Risk Tolerance complex, especially as we move to more innovative Failure to develop an appropriate pipeline of In pursuit of our strategy to be commercially successful products to meet and anticipate connected product technologies.
Our success innovative in our product offering we the needs of our customers ahead of the competition.
relies on investing in safe products and platforms, have a moderate to high tolerance Insufficient long-term planning to respond to competitor aligned internal and external design, and for risk.
development innovation in order to compete Inadequate innovation due to low Research & Change from 2017 effectively.
The need to be considered in our Development R&D investment, R&Dskills gap or poor Reduced risk.
approach to protecting our products, process and product development execution.
Lower value business segment investment, such as product maintenance and line extension projects.
Competitors may assert patents or other intellectual property rights against the Company, or fail to respect the Companys intellectual property rights.
Actions taken by management Link to strategy Global R&D organisation and governance framework Our Strategic Imperative to providing strategic direction for allocation of R&D Transform the business through investments across all businesses.
Clear stage-gate enabling technologies depends process to continually evaluate R&D investments heavily on our ability to continue to decisions and development ofnew products.
develop new innovative products and bring them to market.
Enhanced relationship with Commercial team to focus ondeveloping products that customers need.
Oversight Strengthened Clinical Affairs programme integrated Board withGlobal Marketing.
Cross functional New Product Design and R&D processes focused on identifying new products and potentially disruptive technologies and solutions.
Monitoring of external market trends and collation ofcustomer insights to develop product strategies.
Careful attention to intellectual property considerations.
TALENT MANAGEMENT We recognise that people management, effective Examples of risks Risk Tolerance succession planning and the ability to attract Loss of key talent, high attrition and lack of appropriate We have a moderate tolerance for succession planning in context of required skillsets and retain talent is of great importance to the this risk.
In the current economic Loss of competitive advantage due to an inability to environment of strong competition and reduced Change from 2017 attract and retain Top Talent.
spending, retention of top talent is a critical risk No change.
Loss of intellectual capital due to poor retention of talent.
which requires a strong process in relation to retention and engagement.
Failure to do so can Actions taken by management Link to strategy result in risks in our ability to execute Company Talent planning and people development processes All our strategic imperatives rely on strategy and achieve business objectives in are well established across the Group.
Talent and ensuring we have the right talent relevant functions and to be effective in the succession planning is discussed annually by the within our organisation to deliver chosen market discipline and leadership Board and regularly by the Executive Committee and maximum efficiency in everything of newerworkforce which may impact the Nomination & Governance Committee.
we do and to build strong leaders Companysfuture success.
Identification of high performing individuals and practices to plan for the succession of key roles.
Oversight Consistent and robust performance Board management process.
Development of strategic skills resourcing plan byfunctional areas.
45 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT Our success depends on our ability to sell our Examples of risks Risk Tolerance products proftably in spite of increasing pricing Reduced reimbursement levels and increasing In implementing innovative pricing pressures.
pressures from customers, and governments pricing strategies, we have a providing adequate funding to meet increasing Systemic challenge on number of elective procedures.
moderate to high tolerance demands arising from demographic trends.
Lack of compelling health economics data to support for risk and are willing to accept reimbursement requests.
The prices we charge are therefore impacted by certain risks in pursuit of new Risk of adverse trading margins due to fluctuating foreign budgetary constraints and our ability to persuade business opportunities.
currency exchange rates across our main manufacturing customers and governments of the economic Change from 2017 countries US, UK, Costa Rica and China and where our value of our products, based on clinical data, cost, products are sold.
patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
Actions taken by management Link to strategy We further face challenging market dynamics, such Development of innovative economic product Our Strategic Imperative to Achieve as consolidation of customers into buying groups, and service solutions for both Established and the full potential of our portfolio increasing professionalisation of procurement Emerging Markets.
depends on our ability to sell departments and the commoditisation of our products profitably in spite Appropriate breadth of portfolio and geographic spread entire product groups, which continue to of increased pricing pressures to mitigate exposure to localised risks.
Incorporating health economic components into the design and development of new products.
Oversight Emphasising value propositions tailored to specific Board stakeholders and geographies through strategic investment and marketing programmes.
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS As the Company grows to meet the needs of Examples of risks Risk Tolerance our customers and patients, we recognise that Failure to identify appropriate acquisitions or to conduct In acquiring new businesses effective acquisition due diligence.
we are not able to develop all the products and business models, we have a and services required using internal resources Failure to integrate newly acquired businesses effectively, moderate to high tolerance for including integration with Company standards, policies and therefore need to undertake mergers and commercial risk and are willing to and financial controls.
acquisitions in order to expand our offering and accept certain risks in pursuit of to complement our existing business.
areas, we may divest businesses which are Change from 2017 no longer core to our activities.
It is crucial for No change.
our long-term success that we make the right choices around acquisitions and divestments.
Actions taken by management Link to strategy We have a well-defned cross-functional process Acquisition activity is aligned with corporate strategy and Our Strategic Imperatives to Expand for managing risks associated with mergers prioritised towards products, franchises and markets in high-growth segments and and acquisitions that is subject to scrutiny from identified to have the greatest long-term potential.
Transform the business through executive management and the Board of Directors.
enabling technologies depend Clearly defined investment appraisal process based on on our ability to identify the right return on capital, in accordance with Capital Allocation acquisitions, to conduct thorough Framework and comprehensive post-acquisition due diligence and to integrate review programme.
Undertaking detailed and comprehensive crossfunctional due diligence prior to acquisitions.
Oversight Compliance risks included as part of due diligence Board reviews, integration plans and reporting for acquisitions.
46 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Our global remit results in heavy regulation Examples of risks Risk Tolerance across multiple jurisdictions.
There is increasing Failure to act in an ethical manner consistent with our In complying with legal and Code of Conduct.
public scrutiny of ethics in business and doing compliance requirements, we have the right thing is part of our licence to operate.
Violation of anti-corruption or healthcare laws, breach by an extremely low tolerance.
employee or third party representative.
National regulatory authorities enforce a Misuse or loss of personal information of patients, Change from 2017 complex pattern of laws and regulations that employees, research subjects, consumers or customers govern the design, development, approval, No change.
results in violations of data privacy laws, including manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of General Data Protection Regulations.
Actions taken by management Link to strategy Operating across this increasingly complex and Ethics & Compliance Committee oversees our ethical Our Strategic Imperative to Become dynamic legal and compliance environment, and compliance practices.
the best owner requires us to including regulations on bribery and corruption, comply with applicable laws and Global compliance programme, policies and procedures.
with poor legal and compliance practices can regulations and do the right thing as All employees are required to undertake annual training lead to fnes, penalties, reputational risk and part of our licence to operate.
and to certify compliance on an annual basis with our competitive disadvantage.
We have adopted a Code of Conduct and Business Principles.
Oversight proactive, holistic approach, which guides the Group monitoring and auditing programmes in place.
Company towards a culture of compliance and Board Compliance & Confidential independent reporting channels for Culture Committee turns the resolution of legal and compliance employees and third parties to report concerns.
issuesinto a source of competitive advantage.
COMMERCIAL EXECUTION Examples of risks We continue to make good and strong progress Risk Tolerance Failure to execute our strategy adequately from delivering our priorities and are proud of the We have a low to moderate high-levelambition to specific actions to make the pace with which our strategic and operational tolerance level for commercial ambition a reality.
decisions are quickly translated into actions.
Inability to keep pace with significant product innovation Effective communication and engagement with our and technical advances to develop commercially Change from 2017 customers are critical to the long-term success viable products.
We are confdent that we have Failure to adapt our priorities and execution appropriately the right priorities, structures and capabilities when conditions change meaning that transformational across the Group and we acknowledge that only programmes do not deliver the expected outcomes.
strong and continued execution will keep us Failure to engage effectively with our key stakeholders to ahead of our competitors and best placed to serve meet their evolving needs leading to loss of customers.
Failure to execute our priorities will impact our ability to continue to grow our Actions taken by management Link to strategy businessand serve our customers.
Global R&D organisation and supporting Our Strategic Imperatives to Achieve governance framework.
the full potential of our portfolio, Transform the business through Improved market development and launch execution enabling technologies and Expand commitment to win profitably in our target markets.
in high-growth segments requires Strategic planning process clearly linked to business excellent commercial execution.
Global transformational programmes in place providing Oversight agile opportunities for efficiencies, growth and a Board strengthened competitive position.
47 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC Across our business we are exposed to the Examples of risks Risk Tolerance effects of political and economic risks from the Macro-economic uncertainty or downturn in the In preparing for Brexit and UKeconomy as a result of Brexit.
impact of Brexit to changes in the regulatory managing risk arising from and competitive landscape to the impact of Regulatory risk whereby certificates issued by UK changes to our political economical Notified Bodies are no longer recognised in EU following the USAdministrations changed approach environment, we have a low to March 2019. toTrade Policy.
Global political uncertainty regarding trade policy.
Turning to Brexit, there remain heightened Change from 2017 Implementation of healthcare reforms and or levels of political and regulatory uncertainty in protectionist measures and regulation or legislation in New risk previously the UK following the referendum vote to leave local markets.
incorporated into the EU in June 2016, the triggering of Article 50 Business Change.
in March 2017 and the general election in June The availability of markets and market access rights.
This uncertainty is expected to continue for Impact on strategy and operations.
the foreseeable future until EU exit negotiations Increases in import and labour costs.
have been completed and alternative trade Retention of skilled labour and recruitment concerns.
deals have been put in place.
This situation may Increases in tariffs and restrictions on global trade.
adversely impact trading performance across the Actions taken by management Link to strategy sector.
Regulatory risk forms the most signifcant risk presently: the ability for us to continue to Continued engagement with governments, Our Strategic Imperative to Become administrations and regulatory bodies.
the best owner requires us to manufacture and register our products in a operate effectively within different The Group has a Brexit committee which meets regularly compliant manner for global distribution is key.
global political situations, which and is split into a number different work streams namely: change constantly.
Regulatory the most complex work stream considering product registration.
Oversight Supply chain considering the impacts on import Board and export requirements in UK and Europe: supply routes, managing inventory levels in the UK and Europe to minimise disruption from border clearance andmanaging labelling changes required as a result ofthe regulatory changes.
UK and Ireland UKI market considering issues expected to impact the UKI specifically the Irish border issue including whether a changed route to market is required in Ireland.
HR considering issues such as impact on EUworkers currently employed in UK and future mobility considerations.
Finance considering issues such as impact on tax including EU trading arrangements and the VAT implications of the changes and the impact on financial reporting, eg EU UK endorsement of IFRS.
Improved engagement and monitoring lobbying on localisation initiatives.
48 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued Deep Dives and reviews completed inthe year During the year, the risks BOARD AND AUDIT COMMITTEE DEEP DIVES AND REVIEWS identified through the bottom up LEGAL, COMPLIANCE RESEARCH AND FUNCTIONAL and topdown processes were AND QUALITY DEVELOPMENT OVERSIGHT mapped againsteach other with During the year, the Ethics During the year, the Board The Board and Audit themostsignificant risks forming & Compliance Committee received a report from the R&D Committee receive regular considered papers from function which included a focus updates throughout the year our Principal Risks.
the quality and regulatory on the risks associated with the from functions such as IT, and legal and compliance R&D programme and strategies Tax, Treasury and Financial functionscovering topics such to manage these risks.
The Audit These risks and our tolerance levels were as preparations for EU Medical Committee also receives an discussed with each member of the Executive Device Regulations, FDA & update three times a year Committee separately and collectively in Notified Body inspections, on the progress of the risk September andwere presented to the Board outcomes of internal management programme.
during the Strategy Review in December 2018. investigations, reviews of legal In December, the Accountable Executives were issues and a review of sexual further requiredtovalidate that the risk profile harassment policies and claims.
had not significantly changed since the initial exercise in June.
No changes were required MANUFACTURING HR M&A to our riskprofileas a result of this exercise, OPERATIONS which was also formally validated by each During the year, the Board The Board has reviewed Each Board meeting considers Accountable Executive.
has received a number of and approved all Executive Corporate Development within Throughout 2018, the Board assessed and presentations from the global Officer changes during the the context of the Group monitored risk in a number of areas and operations team considering year withinthe context of the Strategy and also reviews specific Deep Dive reviews were also the risks in particular associated overall strategy and havebeen specific acquisitions.
During the completed by the Group Risk team.
In addition, with the manufacturing footprint kept updated on management year, the Board also undertook in early 2019, the Board reviewed the results and the supply chain and actionsto implement the new retrospective reviews of of a deep dive on Brexit risk.
The 2018 risk proposals to mitigate these risks.
previous acquisitions compared reviews and deep dives included: to expectations in the original IT CYBER deal models.
The Audit Committee received reports on IT and cyber security including an assessment of the existing risks and benchmarking against industry standards.
GROUP RISK TEAMDEEP DIVES A series of planned Deep Dives have been completed in the year across our Business Risk Areas, including Global Manufacturing, Strategic Sourcing, Supply Chain, Global Quality and Regulatory, GlobalBusiness Services and IT.
These reviews were introduced in 2017 to supplement reports provided to the Board and primarily cover an independent assessment of compliance to the expected Risk Management Framework and in particular the adequacy of stated mitigating activities.
The results are reported through the Risk Champions and Accountable Executives to the Audit Committee and are tracked and monitored to resolution bytheGroupRisk Team.
49 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued 2019 Risk Management Plan We will continue to ensure a truly collaborative approach to risk Our work will continue to evolve in 2019 and we will management with risk accountability sitting squarely with management strengthen our approach to managing risks across and a proactive Group Risk function influencing decision making the organisation, including our business areas and through effective challenge and timely consultation.
2019 RISK MANAGEMENT TIMELINE Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 Q1 2020 INTERNAL AUDIT Risk Management 2020 Risk Based Internal Risk Management Effectiveness Review report Audit Plan Preparation Effectiveness to Audit Committee Review report to Audit Committee GROUP RISK TEAM Refresh Enterprise Risk Risk training Prepare 2020 Enterprise Refresh Enterprise Risk Management Policy Risk Management Strategy Management Policy Report to Audit Committee and Manual and process Prepare Review of Facilitate top down Principal Risks review process Report to Audit Committee BUSINESS RISK AREAS Quarterly Risk Review Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review byleadership teams leadership teams leadership teams leadership teams byleadership teams Review Principal Risk Register refresh and Risks and map to submission to Group Risk Strategic Imperatives Team annual certification EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Review reports from Review reports from Top Down review of Approve Principal Risks Review reports from GroupRisk Team Group Risk Team Principal Risks Group Risk Team AUDIT COMMITTEE Review and approval of Receive report from the Receive report from the Review and approve Review and approval of the Groups 2018 Risk Group Risk Team and Group Risk Team and Principal Risks the Groups 2019 Risk Management Process review Enterprise Risk review Enterprise Risk Management Process andViability Statement Management process Management process andViability Statement BOARD Approve Principal Risks Review of Principal Risks Approve Principal Risks 50 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued Our Viability Statement As part of the strategy business updates HOW WE ASSESS OUR PROSPECTS SCENARIO TESTING in September, the Board considered During the year, the Board has carried out For the purpose of testing the viability of the and discussed the Principal Risks which a robust assessment of the Principal Risks Company, we have undertaken a robust could impact the business model over the affecting the Company, particularly those scenario assessment of the principal risks next three years and discussed with the which could threaten the business model.
and some other risks, which could threaten management team how these risks were These risks and the actions being taken to the viability or existence of the Company.
manage or mitigate them are explained in These have been modelled as follows: detail on pages 4149 of this Annual Report.
Throughout the year, a number of deep In carrying out scenario modelling of dives and reviews into different risks In reaching our Viability Statement conclusion, the principal and significant risks on the were conducted by the Board, the Audit we have undertaken the following process: following page we have also evaluated Committee and the Ethics & Compliance the impact of asevere but plausible Committee looking into the nature of the The Audit Committee reviewed the Risk combination of these risks actually Management process at their meetings in risks and how they were mitigated, as occurring over the three-year period.
detailed on page 48 of this Annual Report.
February, July, September and December, We have considered and discussed a receiving presentations from the Group Throughout the year, a number of deep report setting out the terms of our current Risk function, explaining the processes dives into specific risk areas were financing arrangements and potential followed by management in identifying and conducted by the Group Risk Team, the capacityfor additional financing should managing risk throughout the business.
results of which were presented to and this berequired in the event of one of the discussed by the Audit Committee and are In October, a series of detailed one-to-one scenarios modelled occurring.
discussions were held with each member We are satisfied that we have robust of the Executive Committee and the mitigatingactions in place as detailed ASSESSMENT PERIOD GroupRisk Team.
In these discussions, on pages 4247 of this Annual Report.
The Board have determined that the the Executives were asked to consider the We recognise, however, that the long-term three-year period to December 2021 is an significant risks which they believed could viability of the Company could also be appropriate period over which to provide its seriously impact the profitability and future impacted by other, as yet unforeseen, risks Viability Statement.
This period is aligned prospects of the Company and the principal or that the mitigating actionswe have put to the Groups Strategic Planning process risks that would threaten its business in place could turn out tobe less effective and reflects the Boards best estimate of model, future performance, solvency than intended.
51 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 RISK REPORT continued 2018 SCENARIOS MODELLED VIABILITY STATEMENT Having assessed the principal risks, the Board SCENARIO 1 PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT PRESSURES has determined that we have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to Pricing and reimbursement pressures or Action taken: We have modelled a 1% annual continue in operation and meet its liabilities as currency exchange volatility PrincipalRisk price erosion from 2019. leading to a major loss of revenues and profits.
they fall due over a period of three years from 1 January 2019.
In our long-term planning we Link to strategy Link to Principal Risks consider horizons of both five and ten years.
Achieve the full potential of our portfolio Pricing and Reimbursement However, as most of our efforts are focused onthe coming three years, we have chosen this period when considering our viability.
SCENARIO 2 OPERATIONAL RISK Our conclusion is based on our current Execution risk our inability to launch new Action taken: We have modelled a universal 1% Strategic Plan approved by the Board in products losing significant market share reduction of annual volume growth from 2019.
February 2019, having regard to longer-term tothe competition.
strategic intentions, yet to be formulated in Product liability claims giving rise to significant Action taken: We have modelled a one-off detail.
However, we operate in a changing claims and legal fees.
significant product liability claim in 2020, without marketplace, which might cause us to adapt any insurance coverage.
In responding to changing Temporary loss of key production capability Action taken: We have modelled the loss of a external conditions, we will continue to resulting in our inability to manufacture a key factory, resulting in the loss of production and evaluate any additional risks involved which product for a period of time.
sales of a key product for two years from 2020. might impact the business model.
Link to strategy Link to Principal Risks By order of the Board, on 21 February 2019.
Become the best owner New Product Innovation, Design & Development Including Intellectual Property Transform the business through enabling technologies Commercial Execution Achieve the full potential of our portfolio Business Continuity and Business Change Susan Swabey Company Secretary SCENARIO 3 LEGAL REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Regulatory measures impacting our ability Action taken: We have modelled the complete tocontinue to sell key products.
loss of revenue from a key product foreach year from 2019.
Bribery and corruption claims giving rise Action taken: We have assumed a one-off tosignificant fines.
Link to strategy Link to Principal Risks Become the best owner Legal and Compliance Quality and Regulatory SCENARIO 4 CYBER SECURITY Inability to issue invoices or collect money for Action taken: We have modelled one of our key aperiod of time.
regions being unable to invoice for a month in 2020 due to an IT disruption.
Link to strategy Link to Principal Risks Transform the business through Cyber Security enabling technologies OTHER Political and economic risk for example, political Action taken: We have modelled a major upheaval, which could cause us to withdrawfrom a disruption due to a hard Brexit having a regulatory major market for a period of time.
impact, and also causing severe delays with imports and exports for three months.
Link to strategy Link to Principal Risks Become the best owner Political and Economic 52 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Governance Leadership 54 Our Board of Directors 54 Executive team 58 Nomination & Governance Committee report 71 Compliance & Culture Committee report 74 Audit Committee report 76 Directors Remuneration report 84 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and we comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as to the US securities laws and the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the NYSE and SEC and have no significant differences to report between the UK and US corporate governance standards.
We shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the reports on the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee, the Compliance & Culture Committee and the Remuneration Committee, how we have applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs and theCode throughout the year.
TheCode can be found at: www.
In addition, we are making progressincomplying with certain aspects of the 2018 Corporate Governance Code early.
