T N E M SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM E G A N A M K S I R R O F Y T I L I B I S N O P S E R Principal Risks and Risk Management Principal risks are identified through a business wide risk assessment process The risk review process encompasses Structure of risk management the identification, management and monitoring of risks in each area of the business.
This process includes an assessment of risks to determine the SOPHOS GROUP likelihood of occurrence, potential PLC BOARD impact and the adequacy of the mitigation or controls already in place.
A review is then undertaken by the Risk AUDIT AND RISK and Compliance Committee RCC, COMMITTEE which evaluates the principal risks of the Group with reference to its strategy RISK AND and the operating environment.
COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit and Risk Committee monitors and challenges these BUSINESS processes, reviewing the Groups FUNCTIONS Consolidated Risk Register and reporting material risks to the Board.
There may be other risks or uncertainties that could INTEGRATED BUSINESS emerge in the future, however the RISK MANAGEMENT Groups ongoing commitment to risk management will seek to address and mitigate the future risks, as and when they become apparent.
The Directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties in no specific order affecting the Group: Risk 1: Recruitment and retention of key personnel How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement The ongoing success of Sophos is Making Sophos a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
dependent on attracting and retaining Sophos is increasing its commitment to diversity and inclusion global high-quality employees at all levels by introducing new programs to attract and develop women in in the business who can effectively technology.
Sophos is committed to strong recruitment processes supported Failure to attract, retain or develop high by robust remuneration programs which are benchmarked quality employees across the business appropriately.
could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan.
Additionally, Sophos has a commitment to all levels of training and development throughout the organisation.
Reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
Annual employee engagement surveys enable progress of the Groups people actions to be monitored, areas of improvement identified, and necessary actions performed.
34 Cybersecurity made simple L O R T N O C E V I T C E F F E R O F Y T I L I B A T N U O C C A Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk 2: Defects or vulnerabilities in products or services How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement The Groups products and services are Sophos is committed to extensive test cycles and quality complex, and as such they have procedures which are subject to continuous improvement.
contained, and may in the future contain, Sophos employs combinations of internal and external quality design or manufacturing defects or reviews and testing of products, including source code reviews, errors that are not detected until after public and private 3rd party efficacy testing, automated code tests their commercial release and and various forms of penetration testing.
The Group encourages a deployment by end customers.
These healthy collaboration with the security research community, as defects could cause the Groups described in the Responsible Disclosure Policy: www.
products or services to be vulnerable to com security security attacks, cause them to fail to help security networks, temporarily Sophos continues to run a Bug Bounty program to leverage the interrupt end customers networking skills of thousands of individuals to help make its products and web traffic, and fail to prevent or detect properties more secure.
The Group sees good activity from the viruses or similar threats.
Further, due to research community, allowing it to resolve software defects before the evolving nature of threats and the they can be exploited by attackers.
This and other measures have continual emergence of new threats, the allowed the Group to slightly reduce this risk.
Group may fail to identify and update its Further, Sophos protects the privacy and security of its customers threat intelligence or other virus worldwide through its pledge to never engineer backdoors into its databases in time to protect its end products as described here: www.
As a result, actual or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in the Groups products or services, the failure of the Groups products or services to prevent a security threat could harm the Groups reputation and divert the Groups resources.
Risk 3: False detection of threats How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement The Groups products may falsely detect Sophos strives for continuous improvement in its world class threats or malware that do not actually SophosLabs threat research operation.
The Group invests in exist in applications or content based on ongoing staff training and process optimisation, as well as the Groups classification of application enhancements to testing and quality systems and procedures.
type, virus, malware, vulnerability In 2017, Sophos developed and launched a new reputation-based exploits, data or URL categories known false positive suppression system to complement the introduction as false positives.
These false of its Deep Learning artificial intelligence predictive modules in its positives, while inherent in the Groups products.
Additionally, there is proactive focus on improvement of industry, may impair the perceived processes to enable early detection of a false positive event, as well reliability of the Groups products and as applying a lessons learnt approach through root cause analysis.
may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of the Groups products.
Sophos acknowledges the inherent risk associated with a false positive incident within the industry and is committed to ensuring If the Groups products restrict important there are mitigating processes in place to manage any incident, large files or applications based on falsely or small, in order to minimise the impact on the Groups customers.
identifying them as malware or some other item that could be restricted, this could adversely affect end customers systems and cause material system failures.
Any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, damage to the Groups reputation, loss of end customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and risk of litigation, any of which could materially adversely affect the Groups financial condition and operating results.
35 Principal Risks and Risk Management continued Risk 4: IT security and cyber risk How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement As a provider of IT security products, the Sophos has a dedicated cybersecurity team focused on identifying Group is a natural cyber-attack target.
risks related to cyber-attack and planning appropriate protection, The Groups networks and products may detection, response and recovery mechanisms.
The Group is have vulnerabilities that have from time focused on day-to-day active monitoring and hunting for threats, to time been, and may in the future be, improving response processes and implementing continual targeted by attacks specifically designed improvements to governance, technology and education and to disrupt the Groups business and harm awareness programs.
Sophos continues to increase its investment in cybersecurity.
If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in the Groups internal systems, it could adversely affect the market perception of the Groups products.
In addition, a security breach could affect the Groups ability to operate its business, including the Groups ability to provide support services to end customers.
Risk 5: Product portfolio management How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement Sophos has an extensive number of Sophos continue to focus on and improve the interaction between products, enhanced further by acquired Product Management, Product Development, Sales and Marketing technologies.
The extent of investment in and all Support functions in an integrated product development each product needs to be managed and approach.
prioritised taking into account the Internal processes are run to identify opportunities for expected future prospects.
Additionally, standardisation and consistency across product lines.
This helps consideration must be given to the ability eliminate redundancies, reduce development and support costs, to be able to adequately support the and improve partner and customer experiences through a more entire product range.
predictable and coherent product portfolio.
Failure to manage the product portfolio Sophos is working to bring all products under a single cloud adequately could result in inappropriate management platform to deliver a common management investment focus in relation to research experience for the portfolio and a comprehensive solution that will and product innovation.
This could result encourage existing customers using on premise products to in products that do not meet the migrate to cloud management.
The Group is also working on the requirements of customers or partners portability of the cloud infrastructure in order to address any and the risk they will look to alternative privacy or data sovereignty issues that its customers partners solutions, resulting in the potential loss of might face.
both new and existing revenue streams.
Additionally, during the current financial year, Sophos have Failure to protect the Groups intellectual consolidated the Network Security Group NSG, Enduser Security property could adversely affect the Group ESG and the Central Platform Group CPG under single ability of the Group to operate in its leadership in order to improve synchronized security, cross markets.
business unit interlock and investment efficiencies.
The Group takes all appropriate opportunities to protect its Additionally, insufficient focus on key intellectual property and brands.
research and innovation projects may damage the long-term growth prospects Sophos customer and partner communities continue to be of the Group.
invaluable resources in guiding portfolio management decisions.
They provide immediate and constant feedback on how well Sophos is meeting its requirements, improvements that Sophos can make to its current offerings and opportunities for portfolio consolidation or expansion.
36 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk 6: Disruption to day-to-day Group operations How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement Sophos is at risk of disruption to its Incident management procedures and escalation processes are in day-to-day operations from a disaster place as well as maintaining security, business continuity and incident which may seriously impact IT disaster recovery plans.
systems or access to office space.
Whilst Sophos continues to make significant investments in the technology and infrastructure of the Group, the risk has increased A failure in the operation of the Groups due to the growing demand and reliance on cloud delivery for the key systems or infrastructure on which Groups products.
the Group relies could cause a failure of service to its customers and negatively impact the Sophos brand.
In concluding on the risks and uncertainties that are considered to be significant for the Group the Directors assess a wide range of issues, which included the following that are not considered to be principal risks: Brexit Following the decision by the UK population to exit, in due course, from the European Union Brexit, the Directors have continued to keep under consideration the expected impact of Brexit on the Group.
The Group operates internationally with a diverse geographic spread which results in only 12 per cent of the Groups revenue being sourced from the UK.
Whilst the fluctuations in the sterling exchange rate impacts on those UK revenues these are, to a degree, balanced with sterling denominated costs which mitigates the impact on the US Dollar functional currency of the Group.
The exact nature of the trading arrangements between the UK and the EU subsequent to the UKs exit from the EU currently remains uncertain and as a consequence the Directors have considered a number of scenarios and the Groups potential responses to them.
This scenario planning has included anticipating changes to the operations of the Group and its supply chain, which are not considered to be significant or posing a heightened risk to the Group.
The impact of Brexit on the current and future employees has also been considered and while there may be some disruption or changes in the UK, these are not currently anticipated to materially affect one of the Groups principal risks, the Recruitment and retention of key personnel.
Patent Infringement In addition, the Directors consider the risk of claims of patent infringement against the Groups products, which is considered to be a software industry-wide risk.
The risk is not considered to be a standalone principal risk and is instead factored into the Directors consideration of Product portfolio management, which is a principal risk.
