Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT Risk MANAGEMENT We recognise that effective management of risk is essential for Oversight delivering our strategic objectives.
As such, risk management is built In addition, the Executive Committee and key functional into our day-to-day management activities and forms an integral personnel in the Group consider those risks to the Groups strategic part of how we operate.
objectives which are not addressed within the business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing and mitigating these.
Committed to managing risk effectively These Group principal risks are analysed against a lines of defence The Group has a well-established process which delivers visibility framework, as illustrated below.
and accountability for risk management across our businesses.
The overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management and This process forms part of the Groups overall internal control mitigation processes is reviewed regularly by the Executive framework, as described on page 57.
Committee and twice yearly by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Risk management process Each principal risk is assigned to a member of the Executive Our approach to risk management incorporates both bottom-up Committee as its owner.
The risk owner is accountable for the and top-down elements to the identification, evaluation and assessment of the risk, identification of the risk scenarios, management of risks and all risks are evaluated with reference to development and monitoring of key risk indicators and planning the Groups achievement of its strategic objectives, as outlined on or maintaining of respective mitigations.
In assessing each principal pages 14 and 15. risk, the risk owner has also considered the risk appetite, which determines the amount of risk that the Group is willing to take Our business units are required to undertake formal risk on as a consequence of existing business activities and new management reviews at least twice a year.
This involves the use opportunities.
Each principal risk is given an overall assessment, of a consistent framework for the assessment of significant risks which represents the combination of profit impact and likelihood with respect to impact, likelihood and the time frame in which once all existing mitigations are taken into account.
Both the risk the risk could materialise.
Risks are assessed both before and after appetite and overall assessment is provided for each principal risk the effect of controls and mitigating actions have been taken on pages 32 to 36. into account.
Recognising the complexity and importance of the principal risks, in Overall ownership for each risk, together with responsibility 2018 the Group initiated a series of focused risk sessions to be held for mitigating actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
with either the Executive Committee, Audit and Risk Committee The resulting risk registers are then subject to review on an or Board.
These sessions will continue throughout 2019. ongoing basis as part of regular operational reviews.
This ensures that risk management is embedded in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as well as in our annual strategic planning cycle.
Overall responsibility: Audit and Risk Committee Determining the Groups risk appetite Oversight of the Groups internal control and risk management framework First line of defence: Business units Day-to-day ownership of risk management Second line of defence: Key Group functions programmes and Executive Committee Shaping policy and control framework Evaluation of risks impacting the Group as a whole Monitoring and oversight of risk management by business units Third line of defence: Independent assurance Assurance over the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management framework Spectris plc 31
