PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing our PRINCIPAL RISKS The effective management of risk is important for delivering our strategic objectives.
As such, risk management is built into our day-to-day management activities and forms an integral part of how we operate.
Acquisitions Strategy execution Risk appetite: Balanced Risk appetite: Balanced Assessment: Moderate Assessment: Moderate Integration of the operations and personnel of acquired The Group is currently undertaking a strategic review.
Progress businesses can be a complex process.
Potential risks therefore and initial conclusions from the review are set out on page 10. exist that the planned benefits from the acquisition may not be The Group considers that there is inherent risk associated with achieved as a result of problems encountered during integration the successful execution and delivery of the Groups strategic of the acquired business, incorrect assumptions made in the priorities, and that managing this risk is of increased importance business case, changing market conditions, or issues which during a period of strategic review and transition.
were not identified during the due diligence process.
Further, Some of the specific risks and mitigations associated with the the Company could be exposed to past acts or omissions Groups strategic priorities are managed via their own principal of the acquired business.
risk, for example competitive activity, how we develop new Impact products and how we acquire other businesses.
Nevertheless, Failure to successfully deliver the business plan.
the Group recognises the importance and value of managing Reduced profitability and cash flow.
strategic execution risk in its own right.
Impact Failure to realise the Groups growth plans.
Mitigation Rigorous financial, commercial and legal assessment Failure to realise the Groups plans for enhanced profitability.
of target businesses involving external consultants and Reduced capital returns and cash flow.
Mitigation Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve review Greater focus on performance management, capital allocation by the Board for such transactions.
Comprehensive representations and warranties Simplifying the business to focus on scalable platform in purchase agreements.
businesses, strongly aligned to attractive high growth end Integration planning.
markets with the strongest capabilities.
Regular review of the acquired businesses against Independent support and assurance in the development the business case.
Drive profitability through the cycle via a strong focus on margin expansion: 2018 update Profit improvement programme initiated.
Our acquisition activity during 2018 has included the expansion of test service capabilities for Materials Analysis and accessing new Operating leverage from organic revenue growth.
markets via the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences.
We have Lean operating model and system.
been careful to maintain our financial, commercial and legal due Developing a clear strategy activation programme aligning diligence and disciplines, which has meant that we have also the organisation and culture with the new strategy programme.
excluded ourselves from a number of potential acquisitions.
We have recently recruited an Integration Manager to strengthen Enabling the capabilities of our leaders and future leaders our capabilities with regard to integrating new acquisitions and to drive successful execution.
merging operating companies within our Materials Analysis and 2018 update Test and Measurement segments.
Strategic review initiated in the fourth quarter.
New profit improvement programme initiated in the fourth quarter.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Key: Link to strategy Risk appetite Assessment Change in risk level Innovative solutions Highly cautious Very low Higher Market presence Cautious Low Same Expanding globally Balanced Moderate Lower Operational excellence Opportunistic High Capital deployment Highly opportunistic Very high People Compliance with laws and regulations Risk appetite: Highly cautious Risk appetite: Cautious Assessment: Moderate Assessment: High We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, consequently, The Group needs to attract, develop, motivate and retain the right are subject to wide-ranging laws and regulations.
people to achieve our operational and strategic targets.
Effective talent management is essential to successfully delivering our Any failure by the Group or its representatives to comply with current business requirements and strategic goals, and to realising relevant laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal the full potential of our businesses.
Therefore, failure to attract, liabilities, leading to significant fines and penalties or the retain or deploy talent could significantly impact the successful disqualification of the Group from participation in execution of our strategy.
government-related contracts for a period of time.
In the event of a failure to comply with export control regulations, Impact the Group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed Loss of knowledge expertise.
upon its ability to trade.
Impact Lost investment in people.
Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow.
Structured recruitment processes for senior and Group talent.
Diversion of management resources resulting Organisational capability review processes in effect.
Penalties arising from breach of laws and regulations.
Inability to attract and retain talent.
2018 update Mitigation We recognise the heightened importance of managing people Strong cultural alignment to the Spectris value risk during a period of strategic review and transformation.
As a consequence, we have raised our assessed risk level and the Internal control framework and policies.
following additional mitigations were planned and introduced in 2018 with further rollout during 2019: Ethics training provided to all employees.
Formal export controls compliance procedures in place, Group HR information system.
including strict product classification and transaction Enhancements to Group approval governance process covering screening protocols.
Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories Assurance over key implemented mitigations.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
2018 update The compliance burden on the Group has heightened given our geographical concentration in areas that have seen an increase in regulatory risk during 2018.
An ethics and compliance enhancement programme was endorsed by the Audit and Risk Committee in October 2018 and is expected to deliver further mitigation strengthening over the next 24 months.
We continue to be responsive to issues raised through the Spectris hotline.
For details of our ethics programme, see page 39.
Spectris plc 33 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued New product development Political and economic risks Risk appetite: Balanced Risk appetite: Balanced Assessment: Moderate Assessment: Moderate The development of new technologies and products necessarily We operate in a range of end-user markets around the world involves risk, including: and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory developments in any of these countries.
Material adverse changes the product being more expensive or taking longer to develop in the political and economic environments in the countries in than originally planned: which we operate have the potential to put at risk our ability the product failing to reach the commercialisation phase: and to execute our strategy.
not meeting market requirements or market Impact requirements changing.
Impact Mitigation Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Maintain a broad spread of markets, products and customers Loss of market share.
to limit risks associated with any given territory.
Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
Market monitoring so that we can respond quickly to changing trading conditions.
Mitigation Regular strategic evaluations of product portfolios and the Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and markets in which we compete.
Project management disciplines are in place across our product 2018 update development programmes and audits provide assurance that While the Groups balanced geographical mix, with similar these disciplines are applied consistently.
exposure to North America, Europe and Asia, enables it to Regular monitoring of project progress and performance benefit from an improvement in trading conditions in each region, against plan.
two particular risk scenarios have increased in potential impact Working closely with customers to ensure that we develop likelihood: solutions tailored to their specific needs.
Uncertainty as to the outcome of Brexit and the prospect 2018 update of no-deal.
During 2018, the Groups focus has shifted During 2018, the Group has enhanced its focus on value-driven towards the no-deal scenario.
The Group has identified an product design, product portfolio management and project extensive list of potential risks.
Their associated mitigations are management.
The latter has resulted in the establishment of being continuously monitored to ensure the effective a special interest group comprised of operating company and management of risk during this dynamic period.
The Group has already made progress include amending provisions within our commercial contracts in driving consistent and good practices in project management and seeking approvals from alternative regulatory authorities methodologies and tools.
to continue to operate in the EU UK.
In addition, the Group has put in place a dashboard reporting Risk associated with the escalation of tariff measures between process designed to monitor key performance and risk indicators, the USA and China has also required focused monitoring and such as return on innovation and speed of innovation.
Working with each of the Groups businesses in China, an assessment has been made as to the annualised impact of the proposed tariffs.
In addition, separate assessments have been made with respect to the anticipated impact of tariffs on US imports from China.
Mitigations in place include the use of alternatives for US-based businesses with China-based suppliers, as well as proactive filing for exemptions from US tariff increases on imports.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Competitive activity Supply chain dependencies and disruption Risk appetite: Balanced Risk appetite: Cautious Assessment: Moderate Assessment: Low We are exposed to the risk that some of the components we The nature of the markets in which we operate means that all source, particularly for custom-built items or ageing products, of our businesses are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
are provided by a single supplier and are therefore vulnerable Impact to interruption of supply.
Our businesses also manufacture components using proprietary Reduced financial performance.
technologies at a number of locations.
Price and or volume erosion as a result of competitor activities.
Our ability to supply products to customers could be adversely Mitigation impacted by a significant disruptive event at any of these sites.
Ongoing monitoring of competitor activity and trends Impact in the markets in which we compete.
Inability to fulfil customer orders, resulting in lost sales and Maintain market-leading positions through strong customer reputational damage.
relationships and significant investment in R&D.
We have a diversified portfolio of products and markets that Loss of market share.
limits the overall risk from any single competitor.
Mitigation 2018 update Strategic sourcing teams source cost-effective suppliers across We maintained high levels of investment in R&D typically 6-7% a range of markets whilst validating suppliers business of sales, with our operating companies bringing new products processes, quality and standards.
and solutions to market during the year to sustain and strengthen our strong customer relationships and competitive advantages.
Alternative sources of supply actively sought to reduce While our assessment of this risk for 2018 has slightly increased, dependency upon single-source suppliers.
planned enhancements to activities in new product development, Business interruption insurance.
specifically in product management and the management of Strong contract review process.
speed and agility of innovation, will further contribute to the mitigation of this risk.
2018 update We continued to identify and qualify secondary sources of supply where key dependencies have been identified.
The Group Vice President Supply Chain recruited in 2017 continues to drive the following: Fluctuations in exchange rates Enhanced focus on the Groups critical suppliers based on Risk appetite: Balanced specialist independent spend analysis.
Assessment: Moderate Streamlining of previously fragmented vendor relationships into fewer, global, agreements.
We have operations which sell and purchase goods in foreign Driving benefits out of the existing procurement projects.
currencies and whose results we record in a variety of different currencies.
We are therefore exposed to any significant changes in exchange rates.
Impact Unexpected variations in the Companys results.
Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Mitigation Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and purchasing currencies where practical.
Forward foreign exchange contracts cover up to 75% of forecast transactional exposures up to 18 months ahead.
Foreign currency investments hedged with borrowings in the same currency wherever possible.
Regular monitoring, including sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of exchange rate movements on the Groups reporting.
2018 update Implementation of new treasury management system in 2019 will improve monitoring and compliance with the Groups transactional hedging policy.
Spectris plc 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Intellectual property Information security Risk appetite: Cautious Risk appetite: Cautious Assessment: Very low Assessment: Moderate In support of the Groups business model to provide As with most organisations of a similar size and complexity,  solutions to its customers, the Group our businesses face both internal and external information security has continued to take a holistic approach towards intellectual risks, the nature and complexity of which are constantly changing, property protection and management.
The Group owns and becoming more sophisticated and unpredictable.
In addition, registers patents and trademarks and maintains trade secrets, the introduction of regulatory requirements, such as the General confidential information and copyright as well as exploiting Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which came into force in intellectual property through licensing.
May 2018, requires that we continue to develop our processes and mitigations so that they remain effective and compliant.
The key risks are that the Group may inadvertently infringe third-party rights and that the Group may not hold sufficient Impact rights to prevent competitors independently developing similar Delay or impact on decision-making through lack of available products.
There are also risks that intellectual property may be reliable data or disruption of service.
lost through failure to implement controls to safeguard Loss of  or personal information.
confidential information or actively manage registered Reduced service to customers due to poor information handling intellectual property rights.
Our businesses employ a number of physical and logical control Loss of market share.
measures designed to reduce the risk of a breach in information Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
Our systems are monitored against unauthorised access.
Mitigation Policies and procedures in place requiring all of our A programme of continuous improvement focusing businesses to: on information security risks evaluates whether the Groups existing controls in this area would benefit from maintain a watching brief on new third-party patent additional strengthening.
applications and competitor activity: Employees receive online and face-to-face awareness training ensure adequate protection for key intellectual property, of information security risks and controls.
including registration where appropriate: Cyber risk and security is reviewed regularly by the Board undertake specific freedom-to-operate technical reviews prior to address the evolving landscape.
to commencing new product development, acquisitions or licences: and 2018 update register intellectual property where appropriate.
The Group IT function continues to increase the maturity at our operating companies in respect of data classification, 2018 update patch management and vulnerability management.
A new Chief The Group continues to undertake intellectual property Information Officer joined Spectris in November 2018, who will audits and facilitates operating company self-assessments continue to refine and drive both the ongoing risk assessment with a view to monitoring mitigation and key risk indicators and the existing and planned mitigation activity.
in governance, software, internal and external information protection.
During 2018, the Group Head of Information Risk Governance filled three new positions in the Information Risk Governance team to add further strength.
A Group IT Assurance Manager has also joined the Internal Audit function and will be a key third line of defence in 2019, delivering a plan of in-house assurance against the IT general controls in place across the Group and other risks associated with business systems and information security.
