STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIONS Macro-economic change Spirent is a global business exposed to current Deterioration in economic conditions and The Group closely monitors both world economic conditions and political a change to the terms of conventional market and geographic trends in order uncertainties over which it has no control.
international trade may lead to a reduction to respond to changes in demand and The business is also exposed to government in the level of demand for Spirents be in a position to take timely actions spending priorities, principally in the products and services and cause customers to protect profitability where possible.
to delay their purchasing decisions.
In addition, Spirent has a large number of geographically diverse customers, which may mitigate the impact of issues in any one area.
Technology change Spirent sells complex solutions in industries If product development investment does All Spirents businesses work very that can be subject to rapid technological not keep pace with the speed of change in closely with customers and remain changes.
Testing new technologies drives our technologies, or if it is not directed at the focused on their requirements.
business, but the opportunity also brings high right key areas, our competitive position risk since keeping at the forefront of these key and financial performance will suffer.
Each business makes investment decisions specifically related to future technologies is critical to our success and to ensuring that we remain competitive in If Spirents solutions take longer to develop their solutions portfolio based on than anticipated or longer to develop market needs.
than our competitors then our competitive Spirent continues to focus its It is critical that our product development position and financial performance will investment into areas that offer investment is directed at the right areas also suffer.
the most potential for sustainable in order to deliver the solutions that our Changes in technologies may lead to earnings growth.
In 2018 the product customers need, when they need them.
development investment was a short-term pause by our customers Spirents success is dependent in part on investing in our solutions.
proprietary technology which may be Intellectual property claims can result in Spirent has active intellectual property infringed by others.
significant defence costs, and may affect protection programmes in place to Protecting the Groups proprietary Spirents ability to market its products.
obtain appropriate protection in a technology is important to enable cost-effective manner.
26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIONS Customer dependence Customer investment plans The Group sells its products and services to a Loss of one or more of Spirents major Strong customer relationships are wide range of companies and continually seeks customers could have a significant impact critical to Spirent.
We aim to provide to expand its customer base.
In 2018, no one on Spirents financial results.
innovative solutions which meet customer accounted for more than 10 per cent of customers needs and we place great Group revenue, although the top 10 customers Spend on Spirents products is often capital emphasis on providing professional in nature and so customer spend can represented 40 per cent of Group revenue 2017 service and support.
One of the Groups strategic Significant failings in either quality or being In some of our markets certain customers have objectives is to invest in deepening a dominant market share, which makes doing able to deliver in the appropriate timescale our customer relationships.
We place could cause long-lasting damage to business with these customers and their engineers on-site with our customers suppliers critical to the success of our business.
and undertake site surveys of intended plans for the use of test solutions in Over recent years there has been significant In addition, many of the companies with their business.
which we do business are some of the largest consolidation in our customer base amongst service providers and network global telecommunications corporations.
We seek to establish thought Therefore meeting our development obligations, equipment manufacturers.
This trend leadership in our industry through continues and often results in delays in producing high quality products, and being on participation in standards bodies and time are vital to Spirents reputation and success.
spending, thereby reducing demand for industry forums, which in turn creates Spirents solutions and services.
It also additional links with customers.
Changes in our major customers priorities reduces the potential number of customers Our approach is to play a key part in technology investments can also have a to whom those solutions and services could in the wider supply chain to our key significant impact on their spending on Spirent be sold.
service provider customers by aligning products and on those in the customers with early adopters of technology.
Changes in our customers technology supply chain.
investments can result in reduced spending The industry continues to experience on our existing solutions before customers and those in the customers supply chain consolidation which does disrupt the spending patterns of affected customers.
increase spending on new technologies.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIONS Business continuity Operational risks are present in the Groups A significant natural disaster could disrupt An important component of Spirents businesses, including the risk of failed internal the Groups ability to conduct business corporate governance is its risk and external processes and systems, human and adversely impact revenue and management strategy.
IT disaster error and external events, such as a natural operating results.
recovery plans are in place for all core disaster or cyber security attacks.
For example, business systems and ensure that the Failed internal and external processes, a significant portion of our communications wider operations are all fully covered.
operations are located in California which has in systems or human error could lead to In 2018, we tested the new Group compliance issues.
the past experienced natural disasters, including Business Continuity and Disaster earthquakes and wildfires.
Disruption, financial problems of contract manufacturers or limitations in their Contract manufacturers are used for the Regular meetings are held with manufacture of a substantial amount of Spirents manufacturing capacity could limit contract manufacturers and a regular supply and or increase cost.
Spirents major contract manufacturer on-site presence is maintained.
In addition, the Groups largest If a cyber-attack were to be successful it manufacturing subcontractor could result in loss of data, confidential The incidence of cyber crime continues to has multiple worldwide sites rise.
Spirent is dependent on its information information and damage to Spirents and comprehensive business intellectual property, causing major technology systems for both internal and continuity plans.
external communications as well as for its disruption to the business.
There would also be a potential impact on Spirents day-to-day operations.
During 2018, we continued with credibility in the security market.
a programme of work to develop processes and procedures in the area of cyber security.
Competition Spirent operates in a range of highly competitive Actions by competitors and increased The Groups broad solution portfolio, niche markets which experience rapid competition can bring about pressure market-leading capabilities and technological change.
In order to compete on Spirents gross margin.
These factors customer focus continue to address effectively, it is necessary to establish and could also affect Spirents competitive this risk.
maintain technological differentiation in position, thereby reducing revenue and our solutions.
Spirent aims to maintain marketleading positions through significant The Group faces competition from new market In the last two years, significant investment in the development of start-ups as well as more established and consolidation has been announced in our differentiated products.
The consolidation of competitors may bring opportunities for Spirent but can Competitor activity is closely Industry consolidation amongst our direct monitored with a view to maintaining also change the competitive landscape as competitors may bring about a shift in competitors are able to leverage product clear differentiation based on Spirents competitive advantage.
products, services and global reach.
28 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING ACTIONS Acquisitions A key element of Spirents strategy is to develop Underperformance by acquisitions will Rigorous strategic and financial new capabilities and technologies, sometimes impact the Groups results and may evaluations of all acquisition through acquisition.
lead to impairment of goodwill and or opportunities are carried out.
Detailed financial and commercial due Integration of acquisitions can be a complex diligence is performed.
The Board process and the results expected from will only authorise transactions acquisitions may not be achieved due to after all due diligence has been problems encountered in integration, changes successfully completed and where in market conditions, the rate of adoption of the financial hurdles are within the new technologies, or sometimes deficiencies agreed guidelines.
arising in the due diligence processes.
Integration plans and processes are carefully considered prior to acquisition.
The Board reviews postacquisition performance.
Employee skillbase Employees are crucial to the success of our Intense competition for personnel is Investing in people is at the core of business.
Attracting and retaining highly qualified faced from other companies and the Groups strategy.
The aim is to and skilled employees is essential to enable organisations and the loss of key find, keep and engage the highest the Group to deliver on its strategy and to the employees, the failure to attract and calibre of employees and encourage success of the business.
retain other highly skilled employees, their contribution and development.
or the failure to adequately plan for An environment that fosters innovation succession may impair Spirents ability to and collaboration is critical to Spirents run and expand the business effectively.
success, as is ensuring incentive plans are competitive.
Succession planning for senior posts in the Company is reviewed periodically by the Board.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Regular reviews are performed to ensure that all elements of compensation across the Group are competitive with the market.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 29
