Strategic Report Risk management Our approach and appetite for risk We recognise risk as an inherent part of our business operations and we approach risk with the same deliberate, strategic In 2018, we undertook the important consideration as other aspects of the business.
The Risk Management Committee monitors our risks, in particular those task of implementing a Crisis identified as principal risks, on an on-going basis, while the Board Management Plan.
We ensured is responsible for the overall stewardship of risk management and internal control.
Using the information and evaluations that all operating companies have obtained from our regular top-down and bottom-up reviews, the resources and action plans to alongside the Committee-led principal risk appetite ratings, the Committee creates an effective system for monitoring, planning respond to any Brexit outcome in and developing a Group-wide approach and culture regarding March 2019. risk.
General Managers of our operating units are directly involved in the risk assessment process.
The evaluations of the Committee, Nicholas Anderson including the appropriate levels of risk, are communicated to all Chair of Risk Management Committee Group companies.
The on-going monitoring and engagement contributes to the Groups risk register and the management of risks.
Both the risk register and the principal risks are dynamic and fluid.
They provide a reflection of current conditions across the Group and guidance for on-going monitoring and mitigation activities.
What important developments occurred in 2018?
In addition to the on-going monitoring and review of developing risks, the Committee took the following actions during the year: Top-down risk review the Committee determined that the responses were satisfactory and that Group companies have in place countermeasures to mitigate the Groups principal risks: Risk register and principal risks the top-down review informed the annual review of the risk register: Risk Appetite Statement the Committee reviewed and confirmed the statement which can be found on page 85: Risk likelihood, control and impact The Committees analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation, is set out in the adjacent diagram.
Failure to realise acquisition objectives 5.
Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory 6.
Breach of legal and regulatory requirements including ABC laws 3 6 7.
Health, safety and environmental risks 7 5 8 Further reading The numbers relate to the 4 principal risks.
See pages 30-33 Potential impact of the risk Low likelihood High likelihood 28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 High level of control No control Modern Slavery Statement the Committee approved the revised statement which can be found on the Group website, Managing risks www.
com: Crisis Management Plan the Committee formalised a crisis Board Audit management plan.
Further information can be found on pages Committee 84 and 86: and Group Head of Internal Audit Dan Harvey joined the Committee in December 2018 improving oversight of risk Reports to Works with across the Group.
Risk Management Committee How is the Group preparing for the impacts Oversees risk management processes and of Brexit?
procedures and monitors mitigating actions put in The Committee continued to oversee and implement its Brexit place by the Group.
Works with the Audit Committee to monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and preparedness strategy in 2018, with significant activity occurring the audit process in the latter part of the year.
These actions, which will continue into 2019 as necessary, include the following: Top-down review Purchasing of pre-determined additional raw stock to be held at UK manufacturing sites: Risk review external internal Organising UK manufacturing schedules to complete and Carried out at regular intervals deliver additional finished goods to key Group companies in advance of the 29th March 2019 Brexit deadline: Assessing and updating costs associated with a no deal scenario: Risk assurance On-going communication with sales companies to confirm Internal audit and external auditor on-going review stock build.
of effectiveness by the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee Additionally, the Committee identified the potential impacts of Brexit on both customer and supplier contracts.
The Group Legal Team is co-ordinating with Group companies to address Group-wide risk register those issues and mitigate any potential negative impacts, and the Maintained and reviewed by the Risk Committee will monitor that process.
Management Committee The 2019 Plan takes into account the Profit & Loss and working capital impacts of Brexit for at least the initial six months of 2019.
Bottom-up review What, if any, risks do climate change Group operating companies present to the Group?
As a leading provider of thermal energy solutions, many of our products and services increase the energy efficiency of our customers processes, meaning that we play a role in climate change mitigation.
As awareness of climate change increases, this creates opportunities for us to support our customers in What are the key areas of focus for 2019?
meeting their energy and carbon reduction goals.
Nevertheless, In 2019, the Committee will undertake a bottom-up risk review, like all businesses, climate change increases certain risks, as well as the annual review of the risk register.
The issues especially those related to extreme weather events.
We seek to surrounding climate change will take a significant share of the mitigate this risk by annually mapping weather related and other Committees attention: the Committee will be conducting a more physical risks by geographic location, and ensuring that we have in-depth review of the related risks and opportunities in order to appropriate insurance cover in place.
Our regional manufacturing formulate and implement appropriate targets and governance capability, strategic duplication of manufacturing, and the local mechanisms to focus business activity across the Group.
holding of stock by our sales companies serve to reduce the risk of disruption should an extreme weather event disrupt our supply chain in any given location.
Lastly, we also take steps to proactively Further reading manage our own carbon footprint, by monitoring and managing More information on the Groups Our Viability Statement.
energy use and reducing our carbon emissions intensity.
approach to risk, including risk See page 89 appetite, along with the roles, responsibilities and actions of the Risk Management Committee.
See pages 86-89 See page 122 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 29 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk management continued The table below sets out the Groups principal Risk appetite ratings defined: risks and describes the links to strategy, the Following a marginal-risk, marginal-reward approach Very low mitigation measures and the appetite for each that represents the safest strategic route available.
The year-on-year change column sets Seeking to integrate sufficient control and mitigation Low methods in order to accommodate a low level of risk, out the direction of change from 2017. though this will also limit reward potential.
An approach which brings a high chance for success, Balanced The table includes those risks which we have considering the risks, along with reasonable rewards, economic and otherwise.
identified as currently most relevant to the Group.
Willing to consider bolder opportunities with higher levels Key High of risk in exchange for increased business payoffs.
Year-on-year change Pursuing high-risk, unprovenoptions that carry with Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Very high them the potential for high-level rewards.
Link to strategy Direct link Indirect link No link Year-onRisk Principal risk and year Key mitigation, sponsor appetite why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating Rationale for rating Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.
Economic and political instability The Group operates worldwide Operations in accordance with Group Very high We have the High and maintains operations in Treasury Policy background and Balanced territories that have historically  scenario planning know-how to Low experienced economic or political Strong internal controls, including internal audit successfully manage Very low instability.
This type of instability, and appropriate insurance the unique challenges which includes the uncertainties Resilient business model in economically and of regime change, creates risks Well spread business by geography and sector politically unstable for our locally based direct territories.
We are Executive sponsor: Nicholas Anderson operations and broader risks to willing to accept these credit, liquidity and currency.
challenges where Change: No change opportunities for growth are substantial.
Significant exchange rate movements The Group reports its results Maintain spread of manufacturing across Very high We take a balanced High and pays dividends in sterling.
currency areas view of this risk: the risk Balanced Operating and manufacturing Consideration of exchange rate exposures in arises as a direct result Low companies trade in local manufacturing strategy of our global presence, Very low currency.
With sales companies Forward cover where appropriate and in line but our geographic in nearly 50 countries and with Group Treasury Policy spread means we are manufacturing spread across Focus on reducing manufacturing cost not wholly dependent the globe, the nature of the on any one currency.
Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd Groups business necessarily results in exposure to exchange Change: This risk has increased rate volatility.
30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Year-onRisk Principal risk and year Key mitigation, sponsor appetite why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating Rationale for rating Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 3.
Cybersecurity Cybersecurity risks include risks Global assessment of IT environment against Very high Concerns of potential High from malware, accident, statutory UK cyber essentials framework and prioritising impact on the business, Balanced and legislative requirements, actions for improvement in addition to the Low malicious actions and other Deploying security tools to limit impact and important considerations Very low unauthorised access by spread of ransomware surrounding protection of third parties.
Initiating new centrally managed personal data, reinforce Firewall environment our commitment to Further strengthening of security for centrally implement and maintain managed systems for heightened protection robust security measures and consistency across the Group.
Executive sponsor: Shaun Mundy Change: No change Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 4.
Failure to realise acquisition objectives Whilst the Group mitigates this Regular review of acquisition criteria in line with Very high Thorough planning and High risk in various ways, including strategic plan proper due diligence Balanced through comprehensive Board approval of integration plans for can mitigate many of the Low due diligence, professional major acquisitions potentially risky aspects Very low advisers and contractual Scrutiny of targets and implementation plans by of an acquisition.
protections, amongst others, external advisers and internal key players Implementation plans there are some variables that Use of retainer escrow to provide protection must be well-developed are uncontrollable or difficult against warranty claims and carefully pursued to to control, such as economic Use of insurance as protection against seller achieve the full strategic conditions, culture clashes breach and non-disclosure and financial benefits.
Ensuring valuation models show healthy return Therefore, these could impact on investment acquisition objectives.
Regular monitoring of performance by the Board against the approved investment case Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd Change: At the end of 2018 this risk had decreased as a result of progress with our robust integration plans for Gestra and Chromalox Link to strategy: 5.
Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory 1 2 3 4 5 6 The risk includes loss of output Investing in modern flexible machining Very high Whilst we have mitigated High as a result of natural disasters, Capacity planning and holding stock in this risk through a Balanced industrial action and accidents.
sales companies geographic spread of Low Loss of manufacturing output at Conducting audits inspections factories, calculated Very low any important plant risks serious Annual Risk Assessments and business replication of capacity disruption to sales operations.
continuity planning and management of Reviewing and maintaining appropriate stock, the potential insurance cover negative consequences Continuing commitment to employee policies, to the Group and its ensuring satisfactory benefits and regular customers warrants a communication with all employees low appetite for this risk.
Executive sponsors: Jay Whalen, Mike Sutter and Ian Farnworth Change: No change Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 31 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk management continued Year-onRisk Principal risk and year Key mitigation, sponsor appetite why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating Rationale for rating Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 6.
Breach of legal and regulatory requirements including ABC laws We operate globally and must On-going global monitoring of commercial Very high We respect the laws, High ensure compliance with laws arrangements and agreements, with appropriate rules and regulations Balanced and regulations wherever we do professional advice of the jurisdictions Low business.
As we grow into new Established procedures to maintain accreditations in which we operate Very low markets and territories, we must Group-wide ABC training and whistleand believe we have continually review and update blowing hotline a duty to comply with our operations and procedures, Group Litigation Report and on-going monitoring those requirements.
and ensure our employees are of cases fully informed and educated in Regular updates on Corporate Governance and all applicable legal requirements.
Stock Exchange rules This is particularly important GDPR compliance plan implemented with respect to anti-bribery and Conducting supplier audits corruption ABC legislation.
Engaging suppliers to commit to compliance with Breaching any of these laws or the principles of the Supplier Sustainability Code regulations could have serious Executive sponsor: Andy Robson consequences for the Group.
Change: No change Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7.
Loss of critical supplier This risk is concerned with Identifying alternative supplies in advance and Very high Whilst the loss of a High the impact of the loss of a developing dual source supply critical supplier would Balanced critical supplier that could lead In-sourcing production present logistical Low to logistical difficulties and Changing specifications difficulties and cause Very low delayed deliveries.
Raising orders on an expedited basis delays, the impact Conducting supplier audits would be limited in Engaging suppliers to commit to compliance terms of the number of with the principles of the Supplier products and customers Sustainability Code affected.
Nevertheless, the potential impacts Executive sponsor: Ian Farnworth on customer service Change: This is a new principal risk and is warrant a low appetite highlighted because of Government policy for this risk.
changes in Brazil and China 32 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Year-onRisk Principal risk and year Key mitigation, sponsor appetite why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating Rationale for rating Link to strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 8.
Health, safety and environmental risks A major health, safety or All manufacturing locations report monthly on Very high We take seriously High environmental incident could health and safety issues the health and safety Balanced cause total or partial closure of a Board review of HSE items at every Board Meeting of our employees, Low manufacturing facility.
As a premium Role of Group EHS Executive and appointment customers and all Very low provider of safety critical products, of EHS Officers in all major Supply and Sales sites related stakeholders.
a breach of these requirements Enhanced training programmes, keeping the We continually strive would also have reputational focus on health, safety and the environment to put in place policies consequences for the Group.
Site visits conducted by Group EHS Director and procedures to and Group EHS Executive where practices are improve performance reviewed and improvement opportunities identified and ensure on-going compliance with Executive sponsor: Ian Farnworth HSE legislation.
Change: This risk has reduced due to increased investment in HSE programmes, including 87,671 training units undertaken by employees across the Group in 2018 As a result of the top-down review, the following points were agreed by the RiskManagement Committee: Economic and Political Instability to remain as ranked first: Loss of Manufacturing Output at any Group Factory to be ranked fifth rather than third: Cybersecurity to be ranked third rather than fifth: Breach of Legal and Regulatory Requirements including ABC Laws to be ranked sixth rather than seventh: Loss of a Critical Supplier raised to a principal risk: Solution Specification Failure no longer a principal risk, but will continue to be monitored on the Risk Register: and The year-on-year change for each principal risk assessed and updated.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 33 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review of Operations Introduction During 2018, the Group delivered record revenue and adjusted operating profit, achieved through a combination of strong Record revenue and adjusted organic growth and the incremental contribution of acquisitions made in 2017, set against a weaker global industrial production operating profit, achieved through environment and a currency headwind.
We saw progress in a combination of strong organic all geographical segments of the Steam Specialties business.
The Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology business had another growth and the incremental strong year while Gestra and Chromalox both performed in line contribution of acquisitions with our overall expectations.
Market environment Nicholas Anderson Steam remains the most efficient medium for transferring Group Chief Executive large energy loads in the form of heat within industrial processes.
Applications for steam are wide-ranging and include heating, curing, cooking, drying, cleaning, sterilising, space heating, humidification and on-demand hot water production.
Electrical heating technologies are widely utilised for freeze protection, high temperature industrial applications and temperature management in mission critical industrial processes.
Electrical heating is particularly appropriate where rapid on-off control is needed, high temperatures are required, easy installation is desired or zero-emissions at point of use are valued.
Peristaltic and niche pumps and associated fluid path components are widely used across an extensive range of industries to address mission critical or difficult pumping problems.
Peristaltic pumps are particularly suitable for hygienic applications as the fluid is contained within a tube, sterile tubing creates a sterile pump, or for applications where corrosive or caustic materials would otherwise damage the pump.
The wide applicability of our products across a broad range of industries, combined with our extensive geographical presence and the large proportion of revenues that derive from end users maintenance and operating budgets, mean that our markets closely correlate with industrial production growth.
During 2018, Key points in this section: global industrial production growth, at 3.3%, was slightly weaker Reported revenue up 15% to 1,153.3 million than initially forecasted and was lower than the 3.6% of 2017.
7% organic revenue growth in the Steam Growth in mature markets, at 2.3%, was lower than emerging Specialties division markets, which saw 4.4% growth.
The positive industrial production growth rate is reflected in the strong organic growth 9% organic revenue growth in Watson-Marlow achieved in 2018 and once again, sales growth outperformed Adjusted operating profit up 12% organically to industrial production growth as we successfully self-generated 264.9 million sales through the effective use of our direct sales business model, 23.0% adjusted operating margin strengthened by the implementation of our strategy.
Acquisitions performing in line with expectations Unless otherwise stated, all profit measures exclude certain items, as set out and explained in the Financial Review and in Note 2.
Organic measures are at constant currency and exclude contributions from acquisitions and disposals.
2017 2017 2017 Acquisitions Base M&A Actual Exchange Organic and disposal 2018 Organic Reported Revenue 872.1m 126.6m 998.7m 21.4m 62.8m 113.2m 1,153.3m 7% 15% Adjusted operating profit 214.1m 21.4m 235.5m 9.7m 25.5m 13.6m 264.9m 12% 12% Adjusted operating margin 23.6% 23.0% 120 bps -60 bps Statutory operating profit 198.9m 299.1m 50% Statutory operating margin 19.9% 25.9% 600 bps 34 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 As 93% of our sales and profits are made outside the UK, Brexit Within the Steam Specialties business, adjusted operating uncertainty had a limited impact on us and our customers in 2018. profit was 12% higher than the prior year on an organic basis, During the year, we completed a Brexit contingency planning with the Americas and Asia Pacific delivering strong organic exercise and have put plans in place to manage the situation, as it adjusted operating profit growth and a marginal decline in EMEA.
Further information on our Brexit contingency All geographic segments benefited from the inclusion of Gestra plans can be found in the Financial Review on page 52. which contributed 3% growth to the Steam Specialties business.
For reference, on a constant currency, like-for-like basis, Gestras Global industrial production growth is currently expected to remain sales rose 10% and adjusted operating profit was up 12%, despite positive in 2019, although at a lower level than seen in 2018. significant investments in the business.
HygroMatik was divested on 30th November 2018 and as a result contributed 0.3 million Progress in 2018 less adjusted operating profit than in 2017.
Sales Chromalox added an incremental 9.4 million to adjusted Overall the Group achieved organic sales growth of over 7%, with operating profit and continues to perform in line with our overall 7% organic growth in the Steam Specialties business and 9% expectations.
For reference, on a constant currency, like-for-like organic growth in Watson-Marlow.
Gestra saw year-on-year sales basis, Chromaloxs sales rose 9%, however adjusted operating growth of 10% and Chromalox 9%.
These acquisitions contributed profit reduced by 10% as we stepped up our investments for 114.3 million incremental sales in 2018.
HygroMatik was divested future growth and responded to manufacturing inefficiencies and on 30th November 2018 and as a result contributed 1.1 million bottlenecks exposed by the very strong sales growth.
Watson-Marlows organic adjusted operating profit grew by At 1,153.3 million, Group sales were up over 15% 11%, despite increased levels of investment.
Sterling was stronger on average across the year, than in 2017, and acted as a currency headwind, reducing Statutory operating profit increased from 198.9 million to sales on translation by 2%.
299.1 million, with 47.4 million of the increase coming from the sale of HygroMatik, which was a constituent of the EMEA division Geographically, the Steam Specialties business, which accounted within Steam Specialties.
for 64% of Group revenue in 2018, saw growth in all regions.
Sales of 733.5 million, were up 9% and up 7% organically.
Adjusted operating profit margin Gestra added an incremental 33.1 million to revenue in 2018.
At 23.0% the Group adjusted operating profit margin was Chromalox, which accounted for 13% of Group revenue in 60bps lower than the prior year, as the dilutionary impacts 2018, saw strong year-on-year sales growth of 9%, benefiting of 2017 acquisitions combined with an exchange headwind.
from stronger market conditions in the USA, as well as initial Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the adjusted operating contributions from our increased investments to strengthen direct margin expanded by 120 bps to 25.2% at constant currency, sales activities across the world.
despite increased investments for growth and an increase in material prices.
Excluding HygroMatik and the  accounted for 23% of Group revenue in 2018 and driven profit boost from Argentina, the adjusted operating profit saw organic growth of 9%, partially offset by negative currency margin was 22.5%.
Within the Steam Specialties business, movements.
Growth was achieved across all geographic regions.
the operating margin increased by 30 bps to 23.2% with the dilutionary impactof Gestra and foreign currency being offset Adjusted operating profit by the impact of devaluation in Argentina.
Despite the increased Group adjusted operating profit was more than 12% ahead of investment and manufacturing inefficiencies described above, the prior year on an organic basis and, at 264.9 million, was Chromaloxmaintained its first half margin of 14.7%.
As expected, up 12% at reported exchange rates.
The strong growth reflects Watson-Marlows operating margin was lower, although still very the increase in revenue, a net 6% positive impact from the full strong, at32.0%, due to exchange impacts.
year effect of acquisitions and a disposal, and a boost from the Argentine currency devaluation in the Americas, partially offset by a 4% negative translational and transactional exchange impact, due to the stronger sterling.
Excluding the boost from Argentina, we saw organic adjusted operating profit growth of 10%.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 35 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
