STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT STRONG RISK MANAGEMENT UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING RISK It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur or adversely affect the operating or financial performance of Risk Assessment Review the Group.
The Board has classified the principal risks by the impact the risk would be expected to have on the Group should it occur, and the anticipated likelihood that that risk may Group Executive Committee Identify occur using the following classifications: Risk Impact Impact High Medium Audit Committee Assess Low Likely Likelihood of occurrence Possible Unlikely Mitigate Board The Board takes the view that a High impact risk could lead to a 10 per cent or more reduction in revenue, a Medium impact risk a 5 to10 per cent reduction in Like all businesses, Spirent is exposed The risk assessment process starts in the revenue and a Low impact risk a reduction to a number of risks and uncertainties.
businesses, where up-to-date risk registers of up to 5 per cent in revenue.
These risks may arise from internal factors, are maintained and updated as part of the but some will be a result of external factors normal operating and control procedures The Audit Committee reviews and over which the Group has little or no direct and is facilitated by the Head of Risk & monitors the Groups risk processes and control.
It is the effective management Internal Audit.
Each business identifies reports to the Board on their effectiveness.
of these risks that supports Spirent in its key risks and mitigating factors and Risk is considered by the Audit Committee delivering on its strategic objectives, nominates a risk owner.
The impact and at least twice each year, at which time safeguards the Groups assets and, over the likelihood of occurrence of each risk is risk registers for both the Group and the time, will enhance shareholder value.
ranked, which assists the Group Executive material business units within the Group The process to identify and manage the Committee in assessing the likely impact are reviewed.
The Audit Committee principal risks and uncertainties of the in aggregate of each risk to the Group challenges and debates the risks with Group is an integral component of the as a whole.
The individual businesses are reference to risk tolerance and appetite, internal control system.
required to update their risk registers as set by the Board.
Progress made and regularly to reflect new or emerging risks any further actions to be taken regarding as they are identified.
mitigation plans, as well as any changes to the risk profile, are discussed in detail.
24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Board has identified the following principal risks, each of which is discussed on pages 26 to 29: Risk Impact Likelihood Change Macro-economic change High Likely Technology change High Likely Customer dependence High Likely Customer investment plans Business continuity High Likely Competition Medium Possible Acquisitions Medium Possible Employee skillbase Medium Possible CURRENT TOPICAL RISKS impacted.
In addition, the Groups main total.
It is highly unlikely that sales to China functional currency and presentational would completely cease, more plausible is AND UNCERTAINTIES currency are both US dollars which largely the scenario where one or more customers Brexit mitigates our exposure to adverse foreign would be embargoed for a period of time.
The United Kingdoms exit from the currency impact arising on Brexit.
In these circumstances, disruption would European Union is anticipated to have a be short-term with demand deferred and low impact on the Group by virtue of the US China Trade not lost, therefore the impact on trading small proportion of sales into Europe, Trade tensions and tariffs between the US over the medium-term is not considered the nature of our operations in Europe and China are anticipated to have a low material.
Short-term revenue impact and the mitigating actions we have taken impact on the Group.
Group sales to China is possible.
to adopt alternative channels to service were $92 million in 2018, 19 per cent of those customer relationships that could be RISK APPETITE AND combination, might threaten the Groups ability to make significant reductions in viability.
The expected aggregate impact its non-fixed operating costs.
In doing DEVELOPINGTHE LONG-TERM of Macro-economic change, Technology so appropriate adjustment was made VIABILITY STATEMENT change, Customer dependence and for the cost of taking those actions.
Provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Competition were modelled based on Corporate Governance Code requires In performing the Viability Statement historical trends experienced across the the Board to assess the viability of the modelling the Board took into Group.
A severe but plausible combination Group over a period significantly longer consideration the Companys healthy of those risks was considered for the than 12 months and confirm whether cash balance of $121.6 million at purposes of determining the revenue and it has a reasonable expectation that 31 December 2018 and the ability of free cash flow scenarios that should be the Group will be able to continue in the Company to continue to generate stress tested via financial modelling.
operation and meet its liabilities as they positive free cash flow even in stressed fall due over that period.
The Board The impacts were modelled over the threescenarios, as has historically been has determined that a three-year the case.
year period, using the Groups strategic period should be used when assessing three-year plan as a basis, with two viability, as explained on page 100 of The Board reviewed and discussed different assumptions in relation to timing: this Annual Report.
with management: 1 with emphasis on a stressed scenario The Board has sought to frame its risk in years two and three, given the process undertaken by appetite in terms of the markets and management to decide which managements view that such risks were technologies in which it is prepared unlikely to materialise in year one, as the scenarios to stress test: to make significant investments, the results of the stress testing Group had just completed a detailed full and those in which it would expect year budget for 2019: and performed, including an illustration its scale of investment to be more of the reduction in revenue and cash modest.
Except where very attractive 2 an even more severe, yet less plausible generation and consequently the opportunities were to present themselves scenario where those same impacts availability of cash to fund operations: to achieve greater scale in well-known are immediate with significant revenue and markets, which would be inherently cashdecline in 2019 and years two and three the ability of management to generative, the Board would expect to acutely impacted.
successfully take the mitigating maintain a healthy net cash position.
The analysis included assumptions in Management, together with members relation to the ability of the Group to take The resulting Viability Statement is set of the Board, considered which of successful mitigating actions, including the out in the Directors report on page 100. the principal risks, either alone or in Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 25
