Strategic Report A strategy for long-term success RISK REPORT managing sses risks During 2017 18, the Board sought to continue to mature SSEs Risk Management Framework to further enhance flexibility and decision-making throughout SSE, in support of creating value in a sustainable way.
SSEs Strategic Framework is part of the wider System of Internal Control as described on page 114 of the Directors Report and is used to support the setting of objectives for the SSE Group and its businesses.
whether any additional actions are required to SSE maintains a balanced range of Renewing our business improve the control environment.
The outputs economically regulated and market-based Sustainable and risk informed from these 10 committee assessments are energy businesses and assets ranging from strategic decision making then presented to the Executive Committee energy production and delivery to the When setting strategic objectives the Board for full review, with any emerging risks or provision of energy and complementary considers all material influencing factors, additional material changes resulting from services.
These provide a diversified including those relating to climate change, this being proposed to the Board for approval.
portfolio of business activities whilst technological developments and customer keeping the depth of focus on a single expectations.
Following the 2017 18 annual review sector energy: process, SSEs 10 existing Group Principal SSE has a clear understanding of the risks During the course of the year, the Board Risks remain unchanged.
Important revisions and opportunities in the Great Britain and made the proposal to merge SSEs household have however been made to the descriptions Ireland energy markets and these markets energy supply and services business in Great of each to take account of key developments therefore continue to provide the Groups Britain now named SSE Energy Services with and corresponding mitigations during the geographic focus.
npower, the retail business of innogy SE, to year.
Full Principal Risk descriptions can be form a combined independent retail company.
In areas where SSE is exposed to risks for As highlighted by the Chief Executive on which is has little or no appetite, even though page 24, a dedicated project team has been Risk Appetite Statement it has implemented high standards of control put in place to manage this transaction and No business is risk free and indeed the and mitigation, the nature of these risks mean the risks associated with it and is reporting achievement of SSEs strategic objectives that they cannot be eliminated completely.
on its progress to the Board and Executive necessarily involves taking risk.
SSE Committee on a regular basis.
Material will however only accept risk where In determining its appetite for specific risks, changes in the nature and impact of SSEs it is consistent with its core purpose, the Board is guided by three key principles: Group Principal Risks are continuously strategy and values: is well understood assessed with mitigating actions implemented and can be effectively managed: and 1.
Risks should be consistent with SSEs wherever necessary.
The risk factors directly offers commensurate reward.
core purpose, financial objectives, strategy associated with the transaction will be set and values.
In particular, safety is SSEs out in the Shareholder Circular which will The sectors in which SSE operates are first value and it has no appetite for risks be published on 27 June 2018. inherently subject to a high degree of political, brought on by unsafe actions: regulatory and legislative risk.
Risks should only be accepted where The Executive Committee and subeach of SSEs business divisions has differing appropriate reward is achievable on committees have responsibility for overseeing levels of exposure to additional risks.
For the basis of objective evidence and in SSEs Principal Risks.
During the third quarter example, the Networks business is largely a manner that is consistent with SSEs of SSEs financial year, an assessment of each economically regulated and is characterised purpose, strategy and values: and Principal Risk is completed by the assigned by relatively stable, inflation-linked cash flows 3.
Risks should be actively controlled oversight committee.
This assessment while the Wholesale business benefits from and monitored through the appropriate requires committee members to provide cash flows linked to government-mandated allocation of management and other commentary on contextual changes to the renewables.
In fulfilling its core purpose, the resources, underpinned by the maintenance risks and whether they consider them to have Wholesale business is however also exposed of a healthy business culture.
become more or less material during the year.
to significant energy market and commodity These responses are then consolidated into risk in its operational and investment The Board has overall responsibility for reports, one for each Principal Risk, which decision making.
determining the nature and extent of the risk are presented back to the committees along it is willing to take and for ensuring that risks with the results of provisional viability testing The key elements of SSEs strategic are managed effectively across the Group.
and analysis of relevant, current management framework including the range and nature information and key information relating of the energy businesses and assets within to interconnecting risks.
These reports form the SSE Group and its financial objective the basis for the committees to discuss and in relation to dividend growth are fully confirm risk trend more, less or equally reflective of its risk appetite.
Fundamentally: material, overall effectiveness of the risk control and monitoring environment, and 28 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Group Principal Risks SSE operates in fast moving markets that are Politics, subject to a high degree of political, regulation and compliance regulatory and legislative intervention.
It is therefore essential that SSEs Risk Cyber security Management Framework is dynamic and and resilience exible, allowing decision makers to focus on material risk information that may have an Energy impact, whether positive or negative, on a ordability strategic objectives.
Development and change The Board and Executive Committee look for as complete a perspective as possible when assessing the Principal Risks that face the Safety and the environment Group.
This graphic illustrates SSEs 10 Group Principal Risks positioned on a relative basis Commodity against the output of the Principal Risk Self price Assessment process based on changes in the context and current prevalence of each risk People and and potential impact on Group Viability culture based on critical risks scenarios developed in conjunction with business experts.
Energy infrastructure failure In addition, Principal Risks that were considered by their oversight committees to Major projects have increased in materiality during the year quality are shown in red, those that have not changed signicantly are shown in blue, and Financial liabilities those that were deemed to have decreased in materiality are shown in green.
More Less Potential Impact on Group Viability Safety remains SSEs most important value, and management of this risk remains SSEs highest priority.
It should be noted that Energy A ordability is particularly closely linked to and therefore impacted by Politics, Regulation and Compliance and Commodity Prices.
portfolio which provide flexibility of options.
considering these in isolation, the Directors Viability Statement This was demonstrated in the successful sale also consider the cumulative impact of As required within provision C. 2.2 of the UK during the 2016 17 financial year of a 16.7% different combinations of scenarios, including Corporate Governance Code, the Board has share of Scotia Gas Networks Ltd. those that individually have the highest assessed the prospects of the Company over impact and those that are most heavily the next 3 financial years to the period ending To help support this Statement, over the interconnected with SSEs other Principal March 2021.
The Directors have determined course of the year a suite of severe but Risks.
This year, neither regulatory or that as this time horizon is consistent with plausible scenarios has been developed shareholder approval have yet been received the Groups current capital programme and is against each of SSEs Principal Risks.
These in respect of the proposal to merge SSEs within the strategy planning period, a greater scenarios are based on relevant real life events household energy supply and services degree of confidence over the forecasting that have been observed either in the markets business in Great Britain SSE Retail with assumptions modelled can be established.
within which the Group operates or related the retail business of innogy SE to form markets globally.
Examples include persistently a combined independent retail company.
In making this statement the Directors have low commodity prices for Commodity As such two assessments have been carried considered the resilience of the Group taking Prices : changes to key government energy out for the Group one on the assumption into account its current position, the Principal policies for Politics, Regulation & that the approval is received and the other Risks facing the Group and the control Compliance : and the impact of the loss of key assuming not.
measures in place to mitigate each of them.
systems for Cyber Security and Resilience.
In particular the Directors recognise the Analysis relating to reverse stress testing is On the basis of the analysis undertaken, significance of the strong balance sheet, and also incorporated into the assessment.
and on the assumption that the fundamental committed lending facilities of 1.5bn which regulatory and statutory framework of the could be drawn down in most circumstances.
Scenarios that most have the potential to markets in which the Group operates does adversely affect SSEs ability to deliver its core not substantively change, the Directors have The Group also has a number of highly purpose to responsibly provide the energy a reasonable expectation that the Group will attractive and relatively liquid assets and related services needed now and in be able to continue to meet its liabilities as including a regulated asset base which the future are stress tested against forecast they fall due in the period to March 2021. benefits from a strong regulated revenue available financial headroom.
In addition to stream as well as the operational wind SSE plc Annual Report 2018 29 Low High Self Assessment Output Strategic Report A strategy for long-term success GROUP PRINCIPAL RISKS Commodity prices Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Managing increased market volatility related SSE uses VaR measures to monitor and control exposures.
to current geopolitical events including the Trading limits are set by the Board and managed through The risk associated with the Groups exposure to impact of, and uncertainty relating to, Brexit.
separate Retail and Wholesale Risk Committees.
fluctuations in both the physical volumes and price Commodity positions are assessed on a daily basis by of key commodities, including electricity, gas, CO 2 a Risk Management team.
permits, oil and related foreign exchange values.
SSEs Energy Economics team provide commodity price forecasts which are used to inform decisions on trading Material influencing factors: strategy and asset investment.
Weather associated seasonal fluctuations in demand, supply SSE utilises a number of hedging instruments to minimise and generation capabilities which may or may not be in exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and foreign line with historical trends both in GB and across Europe.
exchange markets, details are available in the Financial Further detail is available on page 33 of the Strategic Report.
Statements section of this Annual Report.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange markets.
Wholesale Risk Committee Geopolitical events and domestic political change.
International and national agreements on climate change.
Cyber Security and Resilience Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations The global profile, prevalence and Key technology and infrastructure risks are incorporated What is the risk?
sophistication of malicious cyber-attack into the design of systems and are regularly appraised with The risk that key infrastructure, networks or core continues to increase.
systems are compromised or are otherwise Changes to reporting regulatory SSE conducts regular internal and third party testing of the rendered unavailable.
requirements generated by the introduction security of its IT networks and systems.
of the General Data Protection Regulation Further strengthening and embedding of the cyber risk and Material influencing factors: GDPR and the Networks and Information controls framework which seeks to continue to identify Software or hardware issues, including telecoms network Systems NIS Directive.
threats and reduce exposures through, for example, and connectivity and power supplies.
Continuously evolving technological improved use of data analytics and further migration Malicious cyber-attack.
Ineffective operational performance, for example, breach Significant longer term Security Programme investment of information security rules or poor management of and planning which seeks to strengthen the resilience of resilience expertise.
the systems on which SSE relies.
Employee and contractor understanding and awareness IT Service Assurance works with individual business units of information security requirements.
to form and agree appropriate service level agreements for business critical IT services.
Business continuity plans are in place and are regularly tested and reviewed.
Oversight Information Security and Privacy Committee Development and Change Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations The planned SSE Energy Services The Board sets the risk appetite of the Group and approves What is the risk?
transaction represents the most significant and regularly reviews the Groups commercial strategy, The risk of failing to recognise and react appropriately strategic change to the SSE Group since its business development initiatives and long term options, to competition, technological advancements and creation in 1998. ensuring alignment of risk appetite and strategic objectives.
An increasingly flexible energy infrastructure The Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that network, including the transition in the divisional strategies are consistent and compatible with the Material influencing factors: Networks business from Distribution overarching Group strategy.
Fast developing customer needs in relation to efficient, Network Operator to Distribution System A dedicated project team is managing the planned SSE innovative and flexible products and services.
Energy Services transaction process as well as the risks Climate change and the necessity to generate the Identifying innovations and cost reductions directly associated with it and is reporting to the Board energy required in modern society in a responsible and in renewable technologies as research and and Executive Committee on a regular basis.
sustainable way which includes ensuring value is shared development continues apace.
with those impacted by SSEs operations.
Oversight The size, scale and number of change programmes Executive Committee underway, including those relating to regulatory or legislative requirements.
Longer term capital investment plans and budgets.
Governance and decision making frameworks within the Group.
30 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Energy Affordability Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Continued uncertainty surrounding Brexit SSEs Customer Charter sets out the steps it takes to What is the risk?
and its longer-term economic impact, support customers who are having difficulty paying their The risk that the combination of the cost of providing including on households and businesses.
bills, encouraging early engagement to work together on reliable and sustainable energy and the level of The extension of the price cap previously arrangements that allow payments to be appropriately customers incomes means that energy becomes introduced to pre-payment meter managed.
unaffordable to a significant number of SSEs customers.
customers to those receiving warm In March 2018, SSE attained the British Standard for Inclusive This risk is directly connected to political interventions home discount and the announcement Service Provision, which represents the gold standard in and commodity price exposure.
of Government plans for the introduction recognising and catering for vulnerability.
of a time limited cap on all standard variable SSE has a series of programmes, partnerships, funds Material influencing factors: energy tariffs.
and schemes in place to support vulnerable customers, Fluctuations in the cost of fuels.
including identifying and referring customers for benefits Generation technology changes.
Macro economic impacts on household and SSE continues to advocate its belief that modernisation business incomes.
of the energy market is best delivered by a cost-effective, Supply chain cost management.
privatised system that is properly regulated.
Public policies, including those aimed at reducing carbon emissions and energy consumption.
Oversight Required investment in the upgrading of the UK Retail Risk Committee energy infrastructure.
Energy Infrastructure Failure Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Ongoing efficient investment and the SSEs dedicated Engineering Centre of Excellence reviews What is the risk?
associated risks of upgrading networks assets.
and develops plans to ensure the ongoing integrity of its The risk of national energy infrastructure failure, Continued investment in a diversified range generation assets is maintained.
whether in respect of assets owned by SSE or those of generation assets.
Crisis management and business continuity plans are in owned by others which SSE relies on, that prevents place across the Group.
These are tested regularly and the Group from meeting its obligations.
are designed for the management of, and recovery from, significant energy infrastructure failure events.
Where there Material influencing factors: are material changes in infrastructure or the management Severe adverse weather that causes damage or interrupts of it additional plans are developed.
SSE continues to be an active participant in national security Appropriate asset management and necessary upgrading forums such as the Centre for the Protection of National works of both generation and network assets.
Government policy regarding the operation of the energy Oversight network which relate to security of supply, including the Executive Committee implications of Labour Party proposals for a much greater role for the state in energy provision.
Failures in any aspect of the GB national critical infrastructure.
Malicious attack on the GB energy infrastructure.
Financial Liabilities Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Ongoing uncertainty and volatility in The Group approach is to ensure that committed borrowings What is the risk?
financial markets due to potential macro and facilities are available at all times equal to at least 105% The risk that funding is not available to meet SSEs economic factors, such as the impact of forecast borrowings over a rolling 6 month period.
financial liabilities, including those relating to its of Brexit.
SSE seeks to maintain a diverse and innovative portfolio of defined benefit pension schemes, as these fall due Material reduction in defined benefit debt to avoid over-reliance on any one market.
This allows it under both normal and stressed conditions without pension scheme deficit levels.
to build relationships with, and create competition between, incurring unacceptable costs or risking damage to its Issuing of a 600m Green Bond, an debt providers.
innovative approach to financing renewable Each of SSEs defined benefit pension schemes has a Board energy infrastructure investment, achieving of Trustees which acts independently of the Group.
Material influencing factors: a coupon of 0.875%, SSEs lowest ever for a Global macro economic changes and subsequent senior bond.
Oversight volatility within foreign exchange markets.
Tax and Treasury Committee Fluctuations in interest rates and inflation which influence borrowing costs.
Defined benefit pension scheme investment and performance.
The impact of fluctuations in gilt yields on the value of defined benefits pension scheme liabilities.
Ongoing commitment to maintain credit rating criteria.
Major Projects Quality Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations The Group continues to manage the SSEs Large Capital Project Governance Framework ensures that What is the risk?
challenges associated with large capital all major capital investment projects for the Group are governed, The risk that major assets that SSE builds do not meet projects such as the Caithness-Moray high developed, approved and executed in a consistent and effective the quality standards required to support economic voltage transmission link and the Beatrice manner, with full consideration of best practice project delivery.
lives of typically 15 to 30 years.
The manual provides common standards across the Group and In 2018, SSE became a signatory to the incorporates continuous improvement practices.
Material influencing factors: United Nations Global Compact the The Large Capital Projects Services function employs dedicated Availability of competent contractors.
quality and assurance teams who perform in-depth quality Appropriate contractual arrangements.
Signatories must align their strategies and reviews.
operations with ten guiding principles, In major projects, SSE generally manages insurance placement Appropriate and effective budget management.
six of which are around human rights by organising owner controlled insurance.
This strategy allows it All aspects of supply chain management, including and labour standards.
to have greater control and flexibility over the provisions in place.
those relating to human rights and labour standards SSE also sees the insurance market as an important source of information on the reliability of technology and uses this to inform the design process of major projects.
SSEs strategy supports the transition to a low-carbon electricity system.
As part of this, SSE is investing significantly in renewable energy, and is expecting to increase its renewable energy capacity to over 4GW by 2020.
Oversight Group Large Capital Projects Governance Committee SSE plc Annual Report 2018 31 Strategic Report A strategy for long-term success GROUP PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED People and Culture Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Recognising the value of inclusion, SSE has SSE has a detailed inclusion and diversity policy and plan What is the risk?
reviewed its inclusion strategy which will be which is sponsored by the Executive Committee.
This policy The risk that SSE is unable to attract, develop and supported by a refined and more targeted ensures that candidates from as wide a talent pool as possible retain an appropriately skilled, diverse and responsible delivery plan.
are considered for all relevant vacancies.
For more details workforce and leadership team, and maintain a An Employee Communication Forum and regarding the progress of these please see the Sustainability healthy business culture which encourages and a detailed communications plan have been Report.
supports ethical behaviours and decision making.
put in place to ensure that all staff impacted Group policies including Doing the Right Thing, a guide by the planned SSE Energy Services to ethical business conduct, explicitly outline the steps Material influencing factors: transaction can raise questions, issues employees should take to ensure their day-to-day actions Rewarding employee contributions through fair pay and and concerns.
and decisions are consistent both with SSEs values and benefits.
SSE employees can report Recognition of the value and benefit of having an inclusive incidents of wrongdoing through both internal and external and diverse workforce.
SSE uses an independent Speak Up phone A responsible employer ethos see page 81 for further detail.
line and email service, hosted externally by SafeCall, through Clearly defined roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for which incidents can be reported.
The Audit Committee reviews all key accounting judgements Availability of career development opportunities and made as part of the preparation of the Annual Report and appropriate succession planning that recognises potential Accounts.
SSEs business leaders are required to undertake regular Clear personal objectives and communication of the succession planning reviews.
At a Group level, SSE continues SSESET of values.
to develop its approach to the management of talent and A focus on ethical business conduct and creating a culture strategies to strengthen this.
in which employees feel confident to speak up when they suspect wrongdoing.
Oversight Group Governance, Culture and Controls Committee Politics, Regulation and Compliance Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations UK Governments continuing focus on The Group has dedicated Corporate Affairs, Regulation, Legal What is the risk?
energy supply markets including further and Compliance departments that provide advice, guidance The risk from changes in obligations arising from potential interventions.
and assurance to each Division regarding the interpretation of operating in markets which are subject to a high UK Government policy evolution in key political, regulatory and legislative change.
These teams take degree of regulatory, legislative and political areas such as carbon price support and the lead in engagement with regulators, politicians, officials, intervention or uncertainty.
SSE continues to focus advocacy efforts on The Group has a dedicated project team to manage all Material influencing factors: maintaining a long-term collaborative and aspects of the regulatory and legislative change impacts Constitutional uncertainty relating to Brexit.
cooperative UK-EU relationship relating to of Brexit.
Changes in financial, employment, safety and consumer energy issues.
There is regular engagement with the Board and Executive legislation and regulation and the impact of these changes Committee on political and regulatory developments which on business as usual activities.
may impact SSEs operations or strategy.
Government intervention into the structure of the energy SSE has a long-term strategy to reduce the carbon intensity sector including renationalisation of any aspect of the UKs of the electricity it generates.
Changes to corporate governance requirements.
Oversight International and national agreements such as the 2015 Group Governance, Culture and Controls Committee Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Safety and the Environment Key developments in 2017 18 Key mitigations Introduction of the 50 20 Safety family Safety is the Groups No 1 value and is overseen by the Group What is the risk?
initiative which targets a 50% reduction in Safety, Health and Environment Committee, supported by The risk of harm to people, property or the injury rate and 50% of our people active on the Boards Safety Health and Environment Advisory environment from SSEs operations.
In 2018, SSE set a new, longer term ambition Crisis management and business continuity plans are in place Material influencing factors: to 2030 for the carbon intensity of the across the Group.
These are tested regularly and are designed Clear and appropriately communicated safety processes.
for the management of, and recovery from, significant safety Safety culture if it isnt safe, we dont do it.
Clear, effective and regular communication of all relevant SSEs dedicated Engineering Centre of excellence reviews safety updates.
and develops plans to ensure that the integrity of its assets is Competent employees and contractors.
Full environmental impact assessments are carried out for all Adverse weather.
major projects, to ensure adverse environmental impacts are Challenging geographic locations.
Appropriate task and asset risk assessment.
Oversight Group Safety, Health and Environment Committee 32 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Managing the impact of the weather on SSE Much of what SSE does is affected by the weather.
It has an impact on the production of renewable energy Wholesale, the operation of the transmission and distribution networks and the amount of gas and electricity used by customers Retail.
The weather is an important contributor Predicting how forecast temperatures to business performance that is strongly might affect demand for gas and interconnected to identified Principal Risks electricity, and whether daily fluctuations such as Energy Affordability, Commodity in temperature require a response Prices and Energy Infrastructure Failure from SSEs generation assets.
Forecasting the temperature to inform how SSEs energy portfolio managers SSE has crisis management and business buy power and gas in advance, thereby continuity plans to deal with severe weather improving SSEs procurement.
events that can damage energy infrastructure, Determining short-, mediumand and these were successfully implemented long-term wind forecasts and the in February and March 2018 in response electricity generation output from to the Beast from the East cold weather renewable generation assets.
front that presented challenges for the UKs Assessing how rainfall patterns could energy system.
impact SSEs hydro-electric generation output and storage capabilities.
Shortand long-term weather conditions Preparing for how extreme weather, are monitored by SSE so that it can manage such as high winds or excess rainfall, and respond to conditions for the benefit could impact the resilience of the of customers and to support the fulfilment transmission and distribution assets of its business objectives.
This includes: that SSEs customers rely on.
Rainfall Wind Temperature Hydro-electric generation in The wind drives much of SSEs Fluctuations in temperature the north and west of Scotland renewable generation, but too can influence total is directly affected by rainfall.
Over the course of 2017 18 a total of Across the UK and Ireland wind speeds in In 2017 18 the UK was marginally warmer 1,646.5mm of rain fell over North of Scotland.
2017 18 were very close to the 1981-2010 than the 1981-2010 climatology with a mean Despite February and March 2018 being climatology, and only fractionally higher temperature of 9.0C.
The year-on-year uncharacteristically dry 65% and 47% drier than those seen in 2016 17.
Year-on-year, comparison, however, shows 2017 18 was 0.5C respectively compared to the Met Office output from SSEs onshore and offshore colder than 2016 17 and two of the harshest 1981-2010 climatology, 2017 18 was around wind farms increased over the course of winter months, February and March, were 10% wetter than 2016 17 overall.
Output from 2017 18 to 5,908GWh, up from 4,529GWh considerably colder than the previous year.
SSEs hydro-electric assets, excluding from the previousyear.
pumped storage, was up slightly at 3,171GWh in 2017 18 compared with 3,101GWh in the previous year.
-4% 0% 0.2C Below the 1981-2010 climatology The wind speed deviation from the 1981-2010 Above the 1981-2010 climatology average average for the North of Scotland climatology average was negligible in 2017 18 for UK temperatures SSE plc Annual Report 2018 33
