RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of its shareholders.
A specialist management team of Directors and senior management highlight risks as and when they become apparent.
The team then in turn assists the Board in devising controls to minimise the Groups exposure.
THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and the Groups system of internal controls and the business continuity programmes are key elements of that.
The Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances and does much to mitigate the risks facing the Group.
The Group continues to invest in people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups operations and its finances effectively and efficiently.
ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE, MITIGATE AND MONITOR THE RISKS 4.
PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED TO LIMIT THE RISK The specialist management teams are responsible for the identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
The teams meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these should be reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place under which staff can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety, which are then appropriately investigated.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, and satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit services in the Retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Wholesale & Licensing formerly Brands division to monitor and control licensees.
These are complemented by an outsourced internal audit process currently performed by PKF Cooper Parry.
The Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and senior management.
The Board believes that the Group has maintained an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the FRCs Risk Guidance throughout the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to a formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 87 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS Continued There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group.
The policy was established to be utilised by staff who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS Control Environment The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the Board including: assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development: creation and assessment of legal policies: and review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on potential new risks such as key changes in the market.
CONTROL PROCEDURES Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each of the Groups operating businesses that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations are taken into account within these procedures.
FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups process for the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security.
The finance function has suitably qualified and experienced personnel to carry out the financial reporting process effectively.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring these processes, which are designed to ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory reporting and filing provisions.
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee, with the participation of the Executive Directors, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP The Group has identified the following factors as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
The Group is, however, exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
MARKET FORCES The Group operates in a highly competitive retail industry and currently competes at international, national and local levels with a wide variety of retailers.
Risk: A severe recession or downturn in the markets we operate in, especially the UK, could impact revenue and profits of the Group.
Mitigation: The Group is part way through an elevation strategy that focuses on providing the customer with an enhanced shopping experience across the Group fascias, namely SPORTSDIRECT.
The Group has a strong property portfolio and continues to strengthen this by relocating and improving stores to enhance the customer experience and adapt to market conditions.
This has greatly improved the products made available by the key third party Brand partners which provide a resilience to the business and places it in a good position to weather any periods of weak demand.
A number of key brands are owned by the Group, providing an internal level of control and certainty on margins.
There is also significant investment and focus on innovating our e-commerce offering.
88 TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISK The Group operates internationally.
The majority of foreign contracts relating to the sourcing and sales of Group branded goods are denominated in US Dollars and the Euro, thus leaving exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Risk: The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures and a strengthening of the US Dollar or a weakening of the Pound making goods more expensive.
There is also a potential exposure in relation to the Euro forward sales contracts and written option arrangements that the Group is party to.
Adverse movements on the sterling Euro exchange rate could impact group profitability.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency, as exchange rates move.
This could significantly reduce profitability.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Forecast sterling euro requirements are currently hedged up to the end of FY21 at rates of between 1.069 and 1.19.
The sterling dollar exchange requirement is fully hedged up to the end of FY20 at rates from 1.36 to 1.43.
The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are revalued in accordance with currency movements.
This currency risk is not hedged.
Risk: The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to its borrowings at floating interest rates.
Mitigation: The Group is cash generative and maintains appropriate debt levels to mitigate interest rate risk and at year end has debt levels of less than 1.5x underlying EBITDA.
We will continue to review the requirement for interest rate hedging.
BREXIT The Group operates internationally and specifically throughout mainland Europe.
The Group fulfils European internet sales currently from the Shirebrook operation.
We maintain inventory across the Europe wide retail operation as if it is one holding and as such regularly move inventory between stores in different European countries.
We have also benefitted operationally from the availability of mainland European staff who work in our warehouse and store network.
Risk: The UK is due to leave the EU in March 2019 and a transition period is then expected to last until December 2020.
A period of heightened economic uncertainty could reduce consumer confidence, holding back spending decisions and tightening financial conditions by creating extra risk thus impacting on the cost of finance and reducing its availability.
The terms of the eventual Brexit may influence the cost of labour, the ability to move goods as easily as we currently can and thus impose operational challenges and costs which we will have to manage.
Mitigation: While we are unable to fully protect the Group from what is potentially a completely new economic landscape, we have some elements which help to protect us with a network of warehouses across Mainland Europe which can assist in providing the most efficient stock management once the customs and duty landscape is fully understood.
We have been investing in some partial automation for the Shirebrook warehouse operations to make efficiencies and improve productivity on internet fulfilment orders and help mitigate any potential staffing shortfall after Brexit.
Brexit is regularly discussed at Board meetings.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 89 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS Continued SUPPLY CHAIN The Group operates internationally so is reliant on the successful distribution of goods from when they are distributed by the manufacturer to when they are sold in the stores.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers based overseas as the majority of the Groups products are sourced from outside the UK.
Risk: The Group is subject to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as those relating to exposure to different legal and other standards.
Particular risks include worker strikes, failure to meet minimum code of conduct standards, and transport delays for products which could all cause substantial difficulties.
Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers could bring negative media attention to the Group.
Mitigation: The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Groups Code of Conduct Supply Policy which enables the Group to monitor and benchmark the performance of the supplier.
Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation of these policies.
Strong service level agreements and maintaining relationships with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these risks.
KEY SUPPLIERS The Group is reliant on good relationships with its major manufacturers, key brands and brand suppliers.
Risk: A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
It may mean that customers shop elsewhere if stores cannot supply the required product.
Mitigation: The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships with suppliers and of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded goods.
This close relationship brings a better understanding of the suppliers resources enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the international supply market.
Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key manufacturers are aware of our commitment to them.
The elevation strategy is forging stronger relationships with key Brand partners as we perfect our merchandising of their products in our new generation stores.
This is enabling us to get a wider product range than we have had historically.
CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Group, primarily the Group Wholesale & Licensing division, provides credit to some of its customers.
Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders funds.
Risk: The Group could have a credit risk if customers were unable to make payments for products purchased on credit.
The Groups objective is to maintain sufficient funding and liquidity for its requirements, but the availability of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity of funding in the current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
The purchase of strategic acquisitions and investments to strengthen and compliment the Group may be hindered.
Relationships with suppliers could break down if we are unable to pay them in line with our contractual obligations.
Mitigation: The Groups key suppliers also face credit risks and as such the Group regularly assesses the viability of its suppliers and ensures there are plans to source from alternative businesses should key suppliers fail.
Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria approved by the Board.
The Group refinanced its main credit facility in November 2017 and is operating comfortably within it, expiry is November 2021 with an option to extend a further year.
90 TAXATION The Group operates internationally and in a wide range of jurisdictions and is therefore subject to tax risk across its operations.
Risk: The Group is subject to varying degrees of tax risk in relation to its international trading activities, both in the UK and overseas.
These include duty and VAT in relation to its overseas supply chain both internal and external and sales taxes in relation to online sales made to overseas customers from the UK.
The Group is also subject to transfer pricing regulations relating to trading relationships and transactions between Group companies.
Tax regimes differ country by country and the Groups overseas subsidiaries are subject to local tax compliance requirements and tax enquiries from the local tax authorities.
Mitigation: Group level tax risks are monitored by the Group finance function, with support from external tax advisors as required.
On-going compliance with local tax regulations is maintained through a combination of local finance teams, central oversight from the Group finance function, and the use of external tax advisors in key jurisdictions.
The Group takes a proactive approach to engaging with the tax authorities across its business.
Key tax risks are monitored and discussed at Board level, with appropriate actions agreed and implemented.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Key individuals within the Group have such a level of knowledge and experience of the business which makes them essential to continue to further the interests of the Group.
Risk: Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden resignation of key individuals could mean key people are no longer available to manage the Group, and this could result in a change to the operations and strategic direction of the Group.
Mitigation: Our departments work together to develop their understanding of each department and of the Group.
Senior managers work at ground level to help to assess the strengths within their teams and to offer development opportunities where appropriate.
This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal candidates for vacancies.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist masterclasses, encourage internal progression within the Group.
Executive development is important to us and we aim to promote internally rather than recruit external individuals who are unknown to the Group.
The Nomination Committee reviews the succession plan of the Group, and discusses who would take over roles if key team members were to leave.
OPERATIONAL The Group is reliant on the Head Office and National Distribution Centre at its Shirebrook Campus operating without disruption, along with the uninterrupted running of the Groups fleet of vehicles.
The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK.
Risk: Any disruption to the Head Office, National Distribution Centre or the fleet of vehicles might significantly impact the Groups ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its stores and maintain its supply chain.
Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems would have a significant impact on the Groups operation, particularly in the Sports Retail divisions.
Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions or adverse weather affecting the road networks within the UK could result in a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse effect on sales in stores.
Mitigation: The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is regularly reviewed to address operational risks.
The Head Office and National Distribution Centre has been extended so that there is additional room for storage and workers, for future business needs and in case of disaster.
The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and managed and that, where required, appropriate action is being taken.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 91 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS Continued CYBER FAILURES AND ATTACKS Online sales and advertising are key to the Groups strategy going forward.
However, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, commanding headlines and causing loss of customers trust.
Risk: Reputational implications if the attack is reported to the media, including a loss of sales whilst the site is down, and longer term loss of sales through the deterioration of customer confidence.
Loss of competitive advantage against market competitors and the new GDPR General Data Protection Regulation regulations will enable overseeing bodies to enforce sizeable sanctions and penalties.
Mitigation: The Group has a strategy and processes in place which relate to our IT security posture.
The recent establishment of a Group IT Security Officer role and ongoing work with internal and external parties enable us to continuously monitor our systems to ensure that they are sufficiently strong to deal with ever increasing cyber risks.
We have invested and continue to invest in systems to protect our sites, data and customers.
This investment spans several new security initiatives, including: new security tools, external penetration testing and employee IT security awareness training.
Recent implementation of the GDPR General Data Protection Regulation which seeks to create a harmonised data protection law framework across the EU and aims to give back to data subjects control of their personal data, whilst imposing strict rules on those hosting and processing this data anywhere in the world, has been an opportunity to review and enhance in some cases the way in which we use and store data.
The Groups IT is independently audited by outside agencies on an annual basis to challenge and test our defences.
Our existing strategies are under constant review to ensure we are protecting ourselves and fully utilising new technologies where those technologies could assist.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and Safety is key across all areas of the Group.
Policies are implemented, in conjunction with legal standards, to protect our staff and customers.
These have been subject to a detailed review and updated where necessary.
Risk: Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could result from a failure to establish and maintain safe environments.
Lack of competence in health and safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are difficult to defend.
Mitigation: We take reasonable steps to train all relevant employees within the Group to the appropriate standards applicable in each country.
Shirebrook Head Office is now a registered training centre for First Aid and Health & Safety, with Qualsafe and the British Safety Council respectively.
We have recruited a Health & Safety Training Officer and additional Health & Safety Officer based within Head Office.
The Regional Health & Safety Officers have received additional training and education regarding delivery of Fire Risk Assessments and Evac Chair training.
Training courses are regularly offered, and staff are encouraged to learn essential Health and Safety techniques.
A revised staff induction, refresher training and handbook has been introduced within our stores, along with revised task based risk assessments and safe Systems of Work.
The Warehouse teams have also undertaken similar reviews and implemented improved documentation and standards.
The team at our Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist stores with Health and Safety issues, assess incidents and report relevant matters to the Health and Safety Executive via the Reporting of Injuries, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Report RIDDOR.
We have a team of employees dedicated solely to dealing with claims and complaints.
The introduction of a bespoke online Accident Incident reporting system in November 2016 has assisted the team to become more proactive investigating incidents and building claims defensibility where necessary.
Accidents involving staff or customers are reported to the Board regularly, as are any legal claims that arise from these.
The Board considers ways to reduce the number of claims.
92 LEGAL The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual property rights are central to the value of the Groups Brands.
Risk: The Group currently believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents and distributors are in material compliance with employment, environmental and other laws.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for the Groups products, or require the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership of or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
Mitigation: The Group has an in-house legal team who have knowledge of a variety of legal areas that apply to the Group.
This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating such issues.
The legal team work closely with external advisors to assist with, and gain knowledge on, matters outside their areas of expertise.
The Groups legal advisors actively monitor trade mark applications by other companies, as well as the inventory of rival retailers, to ensure that our rights are not infringed and where these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
The legal team carefully draft contractual agreements to ensure that documentation is clear and legally binding.
Standard templates and key points are shared so that processes are streamlined and legal spend is reduced.
SALES The Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal peaks.
Risk: Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons could have a material adverse effect on the Groups businesses.
The Group is dependent upon the store portfolio and consumers spending habits.
Mitigation: Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group monitors inventory levels through sales forecasting to manage peaks in demand and we have years of trading profiles which assist in this regard.
Our team keep ahead of the trends, conducting market research on our customers and monitoring our competitors.
Sophisticated ordering systems ensure that items which sell well in particular areas will be restocked.
Our strong relationship with suppliers ensures that we are able to source key items at short notice, should this be required.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 93
