STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 47 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is embedded within our culture and therefore is a core aspect of decision-making.
Overview and culture Risk appetite The St. JamessPlace Group is exposed to a wide variety of risks The Board chooses carefully the risks it accepts and those it seeks due to its business activities and the industry in which it operates.
These choices are set out in detail in our Group In addition, the Group is also exposed to a number of external Risk Appetite Statement, which is reviewed at least annually by the factors and threats.
Under the leadership, direction and oversight risk committees of the Board the Risk Committee and Executive of our Board, these risks are carefully managed, contributing to our Board Group Risk Executive Committee and ultimately agreed by competitive advantage and helping us to achieve our client and the Board.
The Risk Appetite Statement aligns the Groups strategic business objectives as set out on pages 18 to 25. objectives with the outcomes-based approach and the overarching Risk Management Framework.
We do not, and cannot, seek to eliminate risk entirely, rather we seek to understand our risks fully and manage them appropriately.
The In particular, it articulates risks that are: emphasis is on applying effective risk management strategies, so all sought where we are receptive to that risk : material risks are identified, and managed or mitigated within agreed minimised where we are highly averse to that risk and aim to risk appetite.
Risk management is embedded within our culture and reduce the exposure as far as possible : or therefore is a core aspect of decision-making.
Our Risk Management managed where we accept that some risk is unavoidable or Framework is specifically designed to manage risks important uneconomic to mitigate entirely and where we therefore aim to to our clients, shareholders, advisers, regulators and employees, manage exposure through prudent and pragmatic controls.
whilst providing reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Risk appetite can and will change over time, sometimes rapidly as economic and business environment conditions change, and Risk management, solvency projections and stress and scenario therefore the statement is an evolving document.
A comprehensive testing form a key part of the business planning process, including suite of indicators is reported regularly to enable the Risk Committee, decisions on strategic developments, pricing and dividend payments.
on behalf of the Board, to monitor that the Group remains within its accepted appetite.
The Risk Appetite Statement includes a risk appetite scale.
This scale has several risk acceptance levels, ranging from no appetite for taking risk at all, through to acceptance of a risk.
The level of risk we are willing to accommodate will vary dependent on individual risk scenarios.
The decisions the Board takes when setting appetite will be based on understanding the likelihood and impact of a risk materialising.
co. uk 48 STRATEGIC REPORT R ISK AND R ISK MANAGEMENT C ON T I N U E D Risk Management Framework The Board, through the Risk Committee, takes an active role in overseeing the Risk Management Framework, for which it is responsible.
This framework is the combined processes by which the Group identifies, assesses, measures, manages and monitors therisks that may impact on the successful delivery of its objectives.
The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA is a central part of this framework, the main elements of which are shown in the following diagram.
STRATEGY KEY OUTCOMES RISK APPETITE RISK CAPITAL RISK GOVERNANCE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE MONITOR IDENTIFY STANDARD FORMULA EXECUTIVE BOARD RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS OWN ASSESSMENT SUBSIDIARY BOARDS MANAGE GROUP RISK EXCO ASSESS OTHER EXCOS RISK ESCALATION RISK CULTURE AND POLICIES ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 49 The Risk Committee comprises Independent Non-executive Board Whilst the diagram on the left hand side is a simplification of the members and is responsible for ensuring a risk culture of effective business model, these outcomes focus attention on those things risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
that are of greatest importance, and hence indicate where risk The Risk Committee report on pages 106 to 110 provides further management activity should be focused.
When doing this, current detail.
A report of its activity during the year can be found on pages risk priorities as well as emerging risks are considered across all 108 and 109. objectives.
The Risk Management Framework also provides clarity of ownership, enabling us to identify the key individuals within the Group The Risk Committee is supported by the Executive Board, Group who have responsibility for managing these risks.
Risk Executive Committee and Risk and Compliance functions at Group and local levels.
It is these supporting functions which take Within these outcomes, indicators are used to monitor performance the lead in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place, ensuring against risk appetite.
An Executive Board member is assigned to own on-going development and co-ordination of risk management within each of the risk appetite statements and related indicators.
The Committees provide an escalation route to the Board accountable for managing the associated risks within agreed for any risks which have or which are likely to materialise, and which thresholds and regularly reporting to the Executive Board.
This may pose a threat to us being able to remain within our risk appetite.
enables the Board to maintain effective oversight of all outcomes, Executive sub-committees of the Executive Board also provide and to manage any conflicts of interest that arise between them.
support for the management of risks in their areas of responsibility.
With regards to emerging risks, these are monitored regularly by the Group Risk and Compliance function and assessed as to whether they are increasing, decreasing or static in terms of their impact The Risk Management Framework is built around the on the Group and or our stakeholders.
It will be a combination of outcomes which are key to our organisation.
These are: these indicators and the perceived future risks to the Group that willdetermine the principal risks at any point in time.
CLIENTS Three lines of defence model That we deliver positive outcomes for our increasing population of clients.
Complementary to the above, there is also a bottom-up element to our framework.
This means each division of the Group is responsible for the identification, management and quarterly reporting of its own PARTNERSHIP risks first line of defence.
That we continue to grow and develop the Partnership.
The divisions are responsible for ensuring each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the likelihood of its occurrence impact assessments are completed against financial and nonPEOPLE financial metrics.
The divisions are also responsible for establishing That we treat all of our stakeholders well.
appropriate controls as a core part of the risk management process.
The Group Risk and Compliance function provides independent oversight, through support, challenge and monitoring activity of the divisional risk management processes second line of defence.
REGULATORS That we are compliant, have an open and honest Our Group Internal Audit function provides more holistic assurance, relationshipwith our regulators and protect our reputation.
via reviews and assessments third line of defence.
Underpinning the three lines of defence and to ensure effective FINANCIALS AND SHAREHOLDERS risk management, the Group maintains a comprehensive suite of That we deliver sustainable growth in reported profits on governance policies to support the Risk Management Framework.
These policies are reviewed at least annually to ensure they remain appropriate and effective.
co. uk 50 STRATEGIC REPORT R ISK AND R ISK MANAGEMENT C ON T I N U E D The outcome of these activities assists us when considering Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA the calculation and allocation of risk capital to all the major risks We provide financial advice and also manufacture and distribute in the Group in the insurance companies in particular, and the products in different jurisdictions, and therefore we are governed adequacy of the capital position.
This process ensures our continued by a range of financial services regulations.
As such, we have confidence that the regulated entities remain strongly capitalised.
relationships with regulators in the UK, Ireland, Singapore and Hong Kong.
At Group level we are classified as an insurance group and The ORSA has proved to be a useful process for making are subject to the Solvency II insurance regulation.
A key part of consideration of risk appetite more prominent in decisions by this regulation requires a consistent approach to risk management management, including those reviewed by the Risk Committee.
across the Group supported by an annual ORSA considering both TheORSA continues to evolve and further strengthen risk the Group and the individual insurance entities.
management processes throughout the Group.
The ORSA process is grounded within the business strategy and Internal control activities contributing to this operate as an annual cycle.
As directed The internal control environment is built upon a strong control by the boards of the EU insurance entities SJPUK and SJPI and the culture, underpinned by our Code of Ethics and organisational Board of the Company, the cycle comprises: delegation of responsibility using the three lines of defence model, comprehensive risk assessments, providing understanding of the as described above.
The purpose of this method of internal control risks each business unit faces, how they are managed and how is to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of they might change in the context of the strategic plan : and objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance.
quantitative analysis of the capital required to protect the There is delegated responsibility to implement and maintain effective sustainability of the Company projecting how this may develop controls, such that the Group operates within the risk appetite over our planning period of five years.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, Similar risk-based capital adequacy assessments are performed for monitors the effectiveness of internal controls across all business the other regulated non-insurance entities.
The assessment activities areas, primarily through the outcomes of the independent assurance range from stress and scenario testing, through loss event recording assignments undertaken by Internal Audit.
and analysis, to recovery and resolution planning.
Stress testing is undertaken across a broad range of scenarios, including market CONTROL SELF-ASSESSMENT CSA shocks, mass lapse events, new business growth scenarios and, In addition to the risk impact assessments, the CSA is a core element particularly, operational risk events.
Assessments are a continuous activity, through which business areas review their controls regularly, signing The regulatory solvency capital requirements allow for at least a off on their efficiency against a standard set of control statements.
1 in 200-year risk event, so we focus on reasonably foreseeable scenarios for the insights they can provide about how the business These are formally summarised annually and collectively these might react to stress conditions, as well as considering other, more control statements embody the elements for us to maintain a extreme scenarios.
control framework across five components as laid down in the internationally accepted COSO control standards : Our results show that the Group maintains strong levels of free control environment: assets, even under extreme but plausible scenarios, which demonstrates its resilience to adverse conditions.
For example, risk assessment: previous analysis of more severe stress tests investigating liquidity, control activities: which could be a key risk in stressed conditions, indicated the Group information and communication: and can reasonably expect to have sufficient liquid funds to be able to meet its liabilities over the planning period.
This is supported by our monitoring activities.
liquidity risk policy which outlines the approach and controls in place This annual summary contributes to the year-end Internal Control to manage liquidity risk, the primary control being to hold corporate Evaluation exercise undertaken by Internal Audit as part of the and surplus assets in deep and liquid markets.
assurance provision to the Audit Committee.
The controls activity is valued in the organisation, as it provides confidence that business areas can meet their objectives, clarity to support decision making, and agility in adapting to change and complexity.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 51 FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESSES In addition to the above, the political environment, including Brexit, isan area of increasing uncertainty and therefore a principal risk to Specifically, in relation to the financial reporting processes, the main our business through investor sentiment and the wider economy.
features of the internal control systems include: Webelieve that the direct impact on our operations will be limited extensive documentation, operation and assessment of controls dueto our business model.
In particular we have minimal exposure inkey risk areas: tomarket risk through our matching strategy, in addition, investments monthly review and approval of all financial accounting data are also globally diverse.
We have considered and made appropriate including data generated by our outsource providers: and arrangements where potential operational issues following a no-deal formal review of financial statements by senior management, Brexit could occur, although the business has a very minimal forboth individual companies and the consolidated Group.
The indirect impact on the economy, and therefore investor Principal risks and uncertainties sentiment, cannot be determined with any precision because of The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties the current uncertainties both around Brexit and the wider political that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the environment.
It is these indirect outcomes which could impact upon market in which we operate.
These are the risks which could have a our business.
Stress and scenario testing has been performed which material impact on the key strategic outcomes in the five areas set demonstrates that the businesses is highly resilient to changes in the out on page 49.
The Board and the boards of the insurance entities domestic economy.
have responsibility for assessing their main risks and these are We are focused on understanding the degree to which the various monitored on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, the Executive outcomes might impact the business.
For instance, understanding Board, the SJPUK and SJPI boards, the SJPI Risk and Compliance how market uncertainty and volatility could impact client decisions Committee, the SJPI Singapore Branch Executive Management and behaviours.
This allows us to consider how they might be Committee and the Board of SJPI Hong Kong Limited.
We continually monitor the changing environment, to Against each of the principal risks, consideration is given to the level ensure our analysis and scenario testing remains current.
However, of exposure and the extent to which the risk can be mitigated, with we also consider worst case scenarios to facilitate planning for all the risk being assigned a weighting and a justification for this.
Although scenarios of political change, including Brexit, example, the Group believes that the accumulation of reputational can drive changes in risk, the potential impacts on our business issues through the risks set out below presents a significant would manifest in ways which we are familiar with, notably market exposure yet is difficult to further mitigate beyond the processes risk, persistency risk, changes in new business levels and operational currently in place across the business.
Conversely, the risk of risks.
We cover these risks more specifically in the tables in the regulatory breaches may pose higher exposure i. e. fines may directly following pages.
correlate to the Funds under Management, but can be directly The principal risks and uncertainties, the business outcomes on mitigated through processes, controls and systems.
which they impact, and the high-level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are set out in the following tables.
Although all of the risks identified in the previous years report are still applicable to our business, we have sought to rationalise and focus our reporting on our principal risks this year.
Within all of the risks below, reputational and investor relations impact is considered so these have not been individually drawn out overleaf : ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 52 STRATEGIC REPORT R ISK AND R ISK MANAGEMENT C ON T I N U E D Non-financial risks Risk Description Outcome Management and controls Clients rely on their SJP advisers for the Clients There are many processes in place to mitigate this risk, Systemic advice provision of initial and ongoing advice.
including detailed advice guidance with appropriate failure Failures in the quality of advice or governance around changes and updates, appropriate documentation of advice could lead to incentive structures, adviser training and accreditation, redress costs, reputational damage and compliance procedures, monitoring processes and regulatory intervention.
The Group guarantees the suitability of advice given by advisers and also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Outsourcing The Groups business model involves the Clients, We maintain close working relationships with our outsourcing of administration and custodial Financials and outsourcing partners, who are central to our business failure services to third parties.
Poor service from, Shareholders model.
This enables us to work effectively and efficiently or failure of, one of these third parties could together.
Service level agreements are in place and lead to disruption of services to clients, performance is monitored against these.
reputational damage and profit impacts.
With any significant migration programme such as the Bluedoor administration system, implementation is backed up with a project focus on outcomes and an understanding of associated operational risks.
Group Risk and Internal Audit work closely with the programme teams, with the Executive Board overseeing project readiness risk assessments and audits along with contingency plans.
We also work closely with our outsourcing business partners to understand any material changes to their businesses which may impact us, with regular reviews including monitoring of the outsourced companys financial strength.
In the case of an extreme event, all our relationships are governed by formal agreements with notice periods.
The business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are also regularly tested and improved, and scenario analysis is carried out.
Cyber risk and Cyber risk, which could include loss of Clients, The leading cause of information security incidents are data, system control or system availability, Advisers, individuals unknowingly or inadvertently enabling the information continues to be one of the top risks facing Financials and attack, so awareness is the most effective defence.
We security individuals and organisations.
A successful Shareholders maintain an active and on-going awareness programme cyber-attack could result in disruption or on information security threats and how to prevent distress for clients, advisers, and employees, or respond to them for employees and advisers.
This as well as resulting in reputational damage is supported by system maintenance, data leakage and regulatory censure.
prevention and detection technologies and vulnerability testing.
In addition an incident reporting system ensures a rapid response if an incident does occur.
We also ensure our outsourcing partners have robust information security programmes in place and use secure means fortransmitting data to and from these organisations.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 53 Risk Description Outcome Management and controls Investment Our approach to investment management Clients We offer a broad range of funds and portfolios, which may fail to deliver expected returns to clients allows client diversification and mitigates our new performance of the Group or the range of products and business, persistency and market risks.
We actively fails to services offered may become inappropriate manage and monitor the performance of our investment meet client for client needs.
managers through the Investment Committee which is expectations supported by respected independent investment research consultancies and review the ongoing suitability of portfolio asset allocation through the Portfolio Committee.
We perform ongoing due diligence and appropriateness reviews on third-party products at least annually.
Adviser Group products are distributed, and ongoing Advisers The adviser proposition is an area of continual focus, advice is provided, exclusively through with outputs from regular adviser surveys and other proposition, the SJP Partnership.
Inadequacies in the adviser feedback being reflected on an ongoing basis.
recruitment adviser proposition, range of products, We employ a number of specialist managers specifically andretention technology or services offered to the to manage the recruitment and retention of highPartnership may result in inefficiencies and quality advisers, and a dedicated senior management frustration, with consequent loss of advisers team oversees the SJP Academy, which broadens our and client impact, or inability to recruit recruitment streams.
Formal retention strategies are in sufficient, high-quality new advisers or field place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good management.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Business Sale and Purchase Agreements incentivise Partners to build up high-quality sustainable practices and enable the Company to manage succession of the Partnership, thereby ensuring continuity of service to clients and funds under management.
Regulatory, The nature of the Group is such that it Regulators Regulatory and legislative change is largely a risk which falls under the influence of regulators cannot be mitigated, although the Group seeks to legislative and and legislators in multiple jurisdictions.
engage with regulators and policy makers in an open tax environment Transformative regulatory, or indeed and constructive manner, with the aim that key issues political changes, could impact adversely impacting the Group are taken into consideration in onour current business model.
Our governance structures, management committees and compliance monitoring The Group could face a fine or regulatory activities seek to ensure we remain compliant with censure from failure to comply with current regulation.
and or future regulations, with increased supervisory intrusion, disruption to business and potential for changes to the business model.
Competition and The competitive environment in which we Financials and This risk is mitigated through ensuring our business is run operate continues to evolve with the need Shareholders efficiently, being responsive to the needs of our clients charge pressure for dependable wealth management advice and advisers and seeking continual improvements to increasing whilst regulation and technology processes.
Charges are benchmarked against competitors are changing the nature and accessibility of and competitor activity is monitored allowing action to available information.
Competitor activity be taken in a timely manner if required.
The Group offers in the adviser-based wealth management a diversified product range, including manufactured and market may result in a reduction in new third-party products.
We have a proven track record in business volumes, reduced retention of adviser and employee acquisition and retention.
Our existing business with the resulting impact more established advisers often have significant equity on ongoing advice fees, pressure on margins stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is for both new and existing business, and the structured to aid retention.
Similarly, variable remuneration potential loss of advisers and key employees.
of key employees is structured to aid retention.
co. uk 54 STRATEGIC REPORT R ISK AND R ISK MANAGEMENT C ON T I N U E D Non-financial risks continued Risk Description Outcome Management and controls Funding Pressure on funding availability may limit Financials and A debt funding policy is in place, with committed the Groups ability to provide business loans Shareholders funds available through the revolving credit facility availability to Partners to make strategic investments.
Credit approved bank lending facilities are available to support business loans to Partners.
Further corporate borrowing requires approval at Board level.
People and People and the distinctive culture of the People This risk is mitigated through effective recruitment Group play an important part in its success.
processes, leadership, succession planning, the culture Poorly managed recruitment, expansion, implementation of executive and management succession, culture and resourcing may development initiatives and regular surveys and lead to loss of valued individuals, lack of consultation groups.
The latter enable us to monitor diversity, increased risk of errors, and failure the sentiment of our staff and advisers and identify to deliver on the business plan.
anypotential adverse impacts upon, or trends within, ourculture, and respond appropriately.
Financial risks Financial risks relating to credit, liquidity, market and currency risk are explored in Note 16 on pages 183 and 184.
However, should some of the non-financial risks materialise or environmental factors influence our business, it may give rise to a further financial risk, as set out below: Risk Description Outcome Management and controls A reduction in funds under management Financials and Retention risk is managed through the long-term Insurance risk owing to poor retention would reduce Shareholders relationships between advisers and clients.
In future Annual Management Charge particular, advisers keep clients informed during income.
This may arise from factors such periods of market volatility, and lower risk funds as changes in the economic climate, poor and portfolios are available, with no charges for investment performance, competitor switching.
The Investment Management Approach activity, or reputational damage to the involves monitoring of fund manager performance, Group.
and changes are made where appropriate.
Adverse mortality or disability experience, Mortality and disability risk is substantially reduced in particular higher death claims following through the use of reassurance with low retention.
an incident or widespread illness, or longerMortality risk benefit on investment products are term increases in mortality rates, would generally limited to 1% of invested assets.
risk deductions are reviewable and an increase in reassurance rates would be passed on to clients through increases to charges and or premiums on aregular basis.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 55 Consideration is given to factors or events that impact on our funds Viability Statement under management, investment growth, retention of clients and In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate Governance ability to attract new clients in addition to the effects of a market Code, the Directors have assessed the Groups current financial downturn.
A combination of these factors will be used to form position and future prospects over a five-year period and have a scenarios which will then be tested, providing for more extreme reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in combinations of events.
Therefore, assumptions are robustly operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of analysed to predict both the immediate impact of an event along this assessment.
withthe impact over the longer term in the wake of the event.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have considered several In addition to these more extreme combination scenarios, different strands of work, including: assessments are also completed based on more current topical or the Business Plan and associated strategy documents and the emerging risk exposures affecting the Group or financial services Groups capacity and capability to deliver the plan: more generally, including: a significant data loss through a cyberattack: a prolonged outsourcer failure: a substantial increase in an assessment of the economic, regulatory, competitive and risk expenses, without an equivalent increase in income: significant and environment which was carried out as part of the Boards strategy prolonged stock market falls: and extreme and unprecedented mass review process: lapses.
the Groups ORSA process, which is summarised in the section above: and Activities in the risk management framework stress testing, controlsmanagement and Key Risk Indicator monitoring, ORSA, operational risks, mitigating actions and the control environment.
capital adequacy assessments along with strategic planning by the A planning period of five years is used both in medium-term business Board, contribute to a robust assessment of the principal risks facing planning and for the ORSA, as it reflects the horizon over which the the Group.
Due to our product structure, The Board considers that the Groups risk culture is well embedded investment and pension business does not generate net cash in the as demonstrated in the risk management processes and having first six years.
By using a planning horizon of five years, we assess considered both the current and future market environment and our viability based on revenues generated on business we have today assessed the results of ongoing comprehensive operational risk rather than relying on assumed growth.
scenario testing and financial stress testing, the Board believes that The ORSA was particularly useful in assessing viability as it has a the business model remains appropriate and that the Group will be similar purpose and requires a comprehensive assessment of risk able to remain in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due management and risk capital requirements of the business in excess over the five year assessment period.
The Board will ensure that of a 1 in 200-year risk calibration.
the Group maintains a robust risk management process, including business continuity planning and considers that it will continue to From the principal risks on pages 52 to 54 for the purposes of meet its liabilities over the planning period.
This is further supported assessing the resilience of the Groups business model, the key by the resilience that the Group has demonstrated over recent years risks have been identified.
The assessment indicated that none of in a variety of different external conditions.
We plan for severe but the identified individual key risks in isolation would compromise the plausible events, exploring but not limited to the following areas: Groups viability financially but could indirectly impact areas such as the market understanding the effects on asset value and investment client satisfaction or reputation.
growth : persistency understanding the effects of varying lapse However, severe but plausible scenarios are also used to assess volumes and withdrawals : new business exploring the effects of the impact of the risks.
This informs business planning in the longer slowed or increased volumes : and expenses focusing on the impact term, whether that is in the development of new controls, processes of increased costs.
The Directors believe that the risk planning and or systems or influencing corporate strategy for proposition or management processes and culture, allow for a robust and effective financial safeguarding.
risk management environment, providing the assurance needed for the Directors to remain confident in the Groups outlook.
This programme of stress testing allows the Group to model the potential impact of a variety of external and internal events.
For instance, some of the stress scenarios explore the impact of a combination of plausible events, adding further weight to the assessments.
