PORTFOLIO AND OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED REGENERATION Development progress We made good progress on our three existing major regeneration schemes during the year.
At Swansea Bay Campus, we released 87m of capital from the sale of the first phase of student accommodation, net of the transfer of a 52m finance lease creditor, and we completed the latest 40,000 sq ft academic facility, which was forward-sold to global education provider Navitas.
At Longbridge, we released 54m of capital via the sale of the Shopping Park and we sold 8.5 acres of land to a third-party housebuilder for the delivery of 215 new homes.
At New Covent Garden Market, via our 50:50 joint venture with VINCI, we continued to progress the relocation of the existing market facilities following the sale of the first 10 acres of land in 2017.
Current developments The release of capital from the first phases of development at Swansea and Longbridge has been important to unlock the next phases of development.
At Swansea, we completed the latest 411 student beds in early 2019 which, like the first phase, we expect to sell in due course.
At Longbridge, we agreed terms on a 15-year fixed pre-let for a 21,100 sq ft office building, which will complete the Devon Way office cluster and at NCGM, the ongoing process of relocating the market facilities is on track.
Future pipeline Our three existing major regeneration projects have significant future development potential.
We continue to work on enhancing the vision for our 468-acre Longbridge site, which is c. 50% developed.
The next phase of development could deliver c. 0.7m sq ft employment space, but we want to make sure this fits our placemaking ambitions and that we create a lasting legacy at this important scheme.
At Swansea Bay Campus, we continue to prepare plans for the next 85,000 sq ft of academic facilities and 600 student beds for delivery by 2021, with a further c. 250,000 sq ft and 1,000 beds development potential remaining beyond that.
At NCGM, completion of the market relocation will release a further 10 acres of residential development land to the joint venture in the long-term.
Beyond these three projects, we have started preliminary discussions on a potential large-scale mixed-use redevelopment opportunity at Wythenshawe, between Manchester city centre and Manchester Airport, where we own an existing 1960s retail centre, and we have started to explore further opportunities at Trentham Gardens.
There is no decision imminent on either scheme but even though the predominant use of both assets is currently retail, we intend to retain them for the time being to explore their wider development potential and, in the meantime, both assets continue to produce a good income return.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 48 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Longbridge The 1bn regeneration of the former MG Rover manufacturing plant, Longbridge has been transformed from 468 acres of post-recession brownfield land into a thriving and sustainable community which has created more than 2,800 jobs.
Approximately 50% of the way through, we have, to date, delivered over 965 homes, a 70m town centre, a Technology Park for innovation, education and community space including a 66m purpose-built facility for Bournville College, 180 beds of bespoke medical accommodation for the MoDs Defence Infrastructure Organisation and a 260 apartment Extracare retirement village.
We also saw the creation of the three-acre 2.0m Austin Park, which uncovered 255 metres of the River Rea for the first time in nearly 100 years.
We are delivering a 1m village hall on land known formerly as Eastworks that will benefit both our new community of homes at Cofton Hackett as well as the villages long-standing residents.
Furthermore, St. Modwen has committed 70,000 to the nearby Grade 1 listed church, St. Michaels, to provide the building with gas and water.
A comprehensive programme of public art, events and entertainment has made Longbridge a fantastic place to live, work and play.
We have partnered with local organisation WERK to create the Longbridge Public Art Project, a long-term project designed to stimulate the cultural growth of the area that has delivered 235 local events, exhibitions and workshops that have been attended by more than 18,000 people.
A partnership with Birmingham-born Digbeth Dining Club regularly brings award-winning street food to the town centre, Christmas Craft Markets have been introduced, as well as a music festival with local artists and theatrical performances from local theatre group Women In Theatre.
An online community hub Longbridge Life was also created, providing support to local businesses, information on activities and events in the area, showcasing local charities and giving all generations a platform on which to share their news, views and concerns.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 49
