Risk management Strong risk management underpins our approach to strategic delivery The ERM framework ensures that risk is assessed, monitored, Our approach to risk management controlled and appropriately governed based on a common taxonomy Effective risk management is an essential part of delivering our and methodology.
The major components of the ERM framework can corporate strategy.
Our approach is predicated on strong risk be grouped into four areas related to how we govern, assess, monitor awareness and risk accountability across all lines of defence in our and control risks.
Most risks arise in the business first line, that is business.
We believe that this delivers long-term value for our clients, where they should be managed.
The second line oversees business customers and shareholders, and protects their interests.
risk assessments and provides advice and challenge where We aim to ensure that: necessary.
Our decision-making is attentive to both risk and reward in pursuit of Risk governance: Our governance drives how we make decisions our business plan objectives and strong client outcomes on current and future risks drawing on our assessment, monitoring Our responsibilities to clients and customers are prioritised and control processes.
We seek to ensure that risk decisions are taken at the right level.
Most risk decisions are taken in our Capital is appropriately rewarded for the risks that are taken business units but certain decisions will be taken in senior executive Three lines of defence committees or at Board level.
We operate three lines of defence in the management of risk so that Risk assessment: All three lines of defence have their own there are clearly defined roles and responsibilities within our processes for assessing risk thoroughly in line with their respective Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework: roles.
There are well developed processes for coordinating First line: Day-to-day risk management, including identification and viewpoints, challenging specific assessments and escalating points mitigation of risks and maintaining appropriate controls, is delegated of difference that might warrant action.
from the Board to the Co-Chief Executives and, through a system of Risk monitoring: The ongoing monitoring of risks and the delegated authorities and limits, to business managers performance of key controls is a critical activity to allow us to keep Second line: Risk oversight is provided by the Chief Risk Officer.
track of developments, drive action and ensure appropriate capital allocation The Risk and Compliance function is organised so that there is a consistent view across all of our principal risks, especially conduct, Risk control: We operate processes so that risk is mitigated using regulatory and strategic risks working closely with the first and third controls with clearly identified control-owners.
The effectiveness of lines of defence.
controls is reviewed on a regular basis.
Third line: Independent verification of the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal risk and control management systems Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is provided by our internal audit function.
This is independent from ICAAP all other operational functions.
It operates subject to supervision The Group supervisory regime has changed from Solvency II to that and challenge by the Audit Committee.
of the Capital Requirements Directive.
As required under the Capital Requirements Directive, the ERM framework is structured to support a Enterprise Risk Management framework comprehensive ICAAP which covers: As part of our corporate transformation, we have taken the opportunity Awareness and understanding of the current and potential risks to to refresh our ERM framework.
This also ensures that we continue to the business including both financial and non-financial risks and raise standards in risk management as we build a world-class their potential to affect both long and short-term value investment company.
Specifically, we have made changes across all Accountability for the management of risks the key building blocks of our framework so that they better support the management of risk in our transformed business.
The appetite to accept these risks and how we manage them The assessment of capital requirements with respect to the risks A forward-looking assessment of the risk and capital strength of Standard Life Aberdeen over a multi-year time horizon in light of business plans, considering a range of stress scenarios 40 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT however there are impacts of a no-deal Brexit that are difficult to plan Business risk environment for and which could be disruptive.
The degree of market disruption, The delivery of good investment performance and our ability to and hence volatility, as a result of a no-deal Brexit is difficult to predict innovate to respond to changing clients needs is fundamental to the but our teams have processes in place to support the smooth and Groups ongoing success as is our ability to effectively distribute our orderly governance of our funds should there be a disruption to pricing investment solutions.
Following the sale of the UK and European or liquidity of underlying assets.
insurance business, and the diversification of revenues it previously provided, these key aspects of asset management delivery become Apart from the potential for increased market volatility impacting even more fundamental to the success of the Group.
We recognise clients investments, we have also had to consider i how to maintain that investment performance remains mixed with challenges across the Groups portfolio management and distribution capabilities for key funds and asset classes such as absolute return and equities.
European clients and ii the risk that key suppliers to the Group might This weakened performance has impacted on overall net flows but suffer disruption.
gross inflows have been encouraging and are spread across a diverse In light of the multilateral memorandum of understandings which the range of capabilities.
European Securities and Markets Authority has co-ordinated on The sale of the UK and European insurance business to Phoenix has behalf of EU-27 securities regulators to allow supervisory cooperation significantly simplified the risk profile of the Group though we still with the UK FCA, we have analysed and planned for the residual risk have indirect exposure to insurance risks through the 19.98% holding that delegation arrangements between our Luxembourg and Irish of Phoenix.
As well as our core investment business, the financial subsidiaries and our UK offices may not be permitted.
A no-deal Brexit success of the Group is materially influenced by holdings in our could also threaten the Groups operations, as they could for many insurance and asset management associates and joint ventures in the other industries and companies.
Our Brexit preparations cover all UK, India and China which we oversee through a dedicated function areas of business including ensuring that our staff can continue to to ensure we maximise value for shareholders.
perform roles, maintaining continuity of personal data flows and addressing areas of concern with key suppliers.
Our platform As with any transformational corporate event, there are new risks businesses are also preparing for the consequences of market introduced following the sale of the UK and European insurance disruption which could see markets, and hence platform funds, business.
There are increased dependencies on Phoenix for the become illiquid and also high trade volumes as our customers and efficient and effective operation of the Group through Transitional clients react to the evolving market conditions.
Services Arrangements and failures of these services could result in detriment to customer and client outcomes and subsequently to the Cyber security has continued to be a major issue facing all large Groups reputation and future financial performance.
The Group has corporates and we are no exception especially given our global dedicated significant time and resource to structuring the Transitional footprint and renewed focus on digital transformation.
Dedicated Services Agreements and their ongoing oversight to mitigate such teams of internal experts, augmented by external expert input, help to risks.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to the dividend declared by ensure we actively manage this continually evolving risk.
Phoenix through our 19.98% holding and hence unexpected earnings We have a strong proactive relationship with our regulators and seek volatility at Phoenix could impact on the Groups profitability.
Our opportunities to engage both directly and indirectly through trade Investment Management Agreements and Ancillary Service associations to contribute to the regulatory agenda and ensure that Agreements with entities within the Phoenix Group are designed to our knowledge and experience are considered in the decisions taken.
ensure that service standards are maintained for both clients and customers.
We follow our Group policy on material outsourcing The regulatory agenda continues to evolve with increasing focus from arrangements which are subject to oversight by Risk and Compliance.
UK and EU regulators on value for money and competition and the FCA Asset Management Market Study and Investment Platforms Operational stretch continues to exist within the business as work is Market Study have continued to remain important areas of our work.
underway to integrate and transform the Group in line with its new focus.
This brings with it operational risks including the retention of Our ambition is to be an industry leader in conduct governance and talent and the engagement of our people.
We have undertaken careful the delivery of fair client and customer outcomes.
This will be resource planning with executive ownership and accountability for achieved through a strong conduct risk culture and we have made delivery of our integration and transformation programmes alongside significant strides in this area to benchmark and strengthen our delivery of our business as usual activities for the benefit of our conduct risk framework.
customers, clients and ultimately our shareholders.
The delivery of good investment performance and our ability to Our principal risks and uncertainties innovate to respond to changing clients needs is fundamental to the The specific risks we face as a business are driven by what we Groups ongoing success as is our ability to effectively distribute our choose to do and how we do it, as well as the wider environment in investment solutions.
Following the sale of the UK and European which we operate.
We group these under 12 principal risks which form insurance business, and the diversification of revenues it previously the basis of our detailed risk taxonomy.
This risk taxonomy sets the provided, these key aspects of asset management delivery become framework for assessing, monitoring, controlling and governing the even more fundamental to the success of the Group.
We recognise risks of the business.
Our principal risks were subject to robust that investment performance remains mixed with challenges across assessment by the Board and are described in the following pages.
key funds and asset classes such as absolute return and equities.
This weakened performance has impacted on overall net flows but gross inflows have been encouraging and are spread across a diverse range of capabilities.
In view of the corporate transformation over the last two years, the business remains well positioned to benefit from the trends which are shaping the investment landscape.
However, there remains unavoidable uncertainty due to Brexit, and in particular, a no-deal Brexit.
The Group has well established plans for an orderly Brexit Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 41 Risk management continued Operational risk 1 Process Execution and Trade Errors Risk appetite statement: The Company maintains a number of significant business and operational processes.
We have no appetite for significant process, operations and trade errors that are detrimental to our clients or customers or compromise our financial strength or our reputation.
We will maintain a strong and well established risk management framework as a foundation for the effective management of process risk across the business.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Failing to execute operational processes may result in poor Clearly defined three lines of defence risk management client and customer outcomes, operational losses, reputational model where accountability and awareness are central to damage and potentially increase the amount of capital we have managing risks in the first line to hold.
Risk and control self-assessment process redesigned to fit Our increase in operational activity resulting from our merger the capital-light business proposition which created the Standard Life Aberdeen Group, the sale of Effective deployment of our Operational Risk team to Enhancing our our UK and European insurance business and the effectively oversee and challenge process controls operations implementation of our transformation has resulted in some Launch of a new risk management system to facilitate use additional strain to the normal operating environment.
We of management intelligence and effective reporting recognise that these additional challenges require additional Evolution of our ERM framework to reflect our changing oversight and support to ensure we deliver against our strategy.
business will ensure that these risks are managed We employ robust risk control processes to ensure that there is effectively across our business effective management and oversight of any process execution Continued investment in our system capabilities as part of or trade error issues.
our transformation project will identify synergies and simplify our operating environment 2 People Risk appetite statement: Our people are crucial to the success of the Company and efforts will focus on maintaining a skilled and highly motivated workforce.
We will accept a level of staff turnover provided that resource gaps are not detrimental to achieving strategic objectives.
We seek to uphold our corporate values and we will take necessary action to eliminate individual and institutional discrimination and to make equality, diversity and inclusion core issues in the development and implementation of policies and initiatives and in the way we manage our staff.
We accept that our international footprint and profile presents new challenges and we operate in some countries that maintain different values to our own.
We will respect local laws, we will not knowingly expose our people to personal risk, and we will use our influence to contribute to development in our local operating context and maximise our positive impact as we operate around the world.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Our people drive the success of our business.
We must retain, We listen to our people and seek to understand their views attract and develop a skilled and diverse workforce with the right through active leadership and ongoing staff engagement, experience to meet our strategic goals.
including periodic surveys We regularly benchmark our terms and conditions against With the creation of the Standard Life Aberdeen Group and sale the market of our UK and European insurance business our people are more clearly aligned to achieving our strategic objectives.
We are committed to driving inclusion and diversity Enhancing our Increased challenges in an uncertain business and political Employee networks are used to support our people operations environment have the potential to impact our ability to attract ensuring their voices are heard.
These include: Carers Innovating for the and retain staff globally.
In addition, our complex corporate Network, Mind Matters mental health, Young Persons future change activity has been challenging for our people.
Development Network, Balance gender, Unity BAME, Armed Forces, Lighthouse LGBT We are committed to the Women in Finance Charter and meeting the targets by 2020 We operate a global business where our people are able to work across borders and help us achieve our strategic goals Trends Link to strategic priorities Increase Stable Client centricity Enhancing our Innovating for Valuing our savings Decrease operations the future ecosystem 42 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational risk continued 3 Technology Risk appetite statement: The Company operates in an ever increasing technology driven environment, which brings complex challenges around data governance and cyber security.
We have no appetite for substantial flaws in our technology infrastructure that could expose our systems to reoccurring or prolonged failure, unauthorised access, compromise by third parties, or breach of data protection regulation.
We will maintain the confidentiality and integrity of our data, technology infrastructure and systems by implementing credible risk-prioritised controls to protect against known and emerging threats, focusing protection around our risk-sensitive assets and protect customer and staff data from unauthorised or accidental access, misuse or disclosure.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Our business is built upon our ability to advance alongside the We utilise layered controls and engagement in both technology available to us.
We rely upon a wide range of IT change and business as usual activities systems and require greater use of online functionality to better We undertake regular penetration testing and crisis serve our clients and our people.
Effective management of management exercises technology can improve efficiency and cost savings.
Our business invests in enhancing and developing controls The risk of operational disruption and data loss is increasing as in IT infrastructure Enhancing our seen by the rise in phishing and malware attacks.
Our Continued engagement with our clients and with our operations exposures extend beyond our Group as we have a number of regulators concerning technology risks key suppliers who can be exposed to cyber risks resulting in Security is considered as part of our ICAAP report and impacts to our supply chain.
This risk applies to our outsourcing considers data security as well as virus and malware of some IT services to Phoenix.
attacks Delivery plans exist to ensure mitigating actions are in place covering our change risks.
Embracing more agile working practices allows us to deliver multi-speed change for our business.
4 Business Resilience and Continuity Risk appetite statement: We are committed to identifying the threats, interruptions and potential impacts to the Company, and building the resilience and capability required to provide an effective response.
We have no appetite for reoccurring or prolonged interruption to our critical business operations and systems, including those undertaken by our outsourced partners, that could result in significant operational loss, material reputational damage or that impacts on client or customer service.
Business resiliency planning and execution must be proactive, consistent and aligned with strategic objectives.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Identification and management of impacts of potential threats to We maintain appropriate business continuity and our business requires resilience.
Our processes are the contingency plans.
We have achieved ISO 22301 in safeguards that put the needs of our stakeholders at the heart of relation to fund management activities.
Our business supports remote access working to manage A failure of business continuity could damage our ability to at times when some of our offices are unable to be maintain day-to-day activity and serve our clients and customers accessed Client centricity and cause significant reputational and operational damage.
We hold work area recovery locations as alternatives for Enhancing our our key office locations with capacity for key functions to We are exposed to external and uncontrollable events, such as operations continue servicing our clients and customers extreme weather, which have an ability to impact our business operations.
These events require resilience and continuity We ensure our people are informed of any scenarios processes in order to manage potential impacts.
We are well whereby physical or remote access is challenged.
This placed to maintain service and view this risk as stable.
communication system is tested regularly.
We are engaged with our key third party suppliers to ensure we have resilient operations.
This is achieved through assurance activities and ongoing supplier management.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 43 Risk management continued Operational risk continued 5 Fraud and Financial Crime Risk appetite statement: The Company acknowledges that financial crime could arise from either internal or external parties who attempt to defraud the Company or our clients by circumventing our processes or controls, including those operated by our outsourced partners.
We have no appetite for knowingly exposing our systems and processes to misuse, or conducting business with clients, suppliers or other third parties intent on misusing our products or services for the purpose of committing financial crime.
We will take measures to detect, deter and report such behaviour and activity.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy We are vigilant to potential instances of fraud, both internal and We operate a number of controls covering anti-money external, financial crime or bribery and actively work to deter and laundering, anti-bribery, fraud and other areas of financial prevent such behaviour.
We have a number of supplier crime and monitor them closely partnerships which increase our risk and we have controls in Our Global Code of Conduct and Policy Framework place to manage them.
provide our people with minimum standards and drive our Risk detection methods are used to ensure we are able to culture Client centricity protect clients and customers and our business.
Our mandatory learning module on anti-financial crime Enhancing our provides our people the necessary information to identify operations and escalate potential issues Our integrated Risk and Compliance function ensures that our controls are effective in combating financial crime and fraud 6 Change Management Risk appetite statement: The Company is undergoing a significant transformation programme that requires our staff and processes to adapt quickly.
We will not undertake change initiatives that do not meet the criteria for delivering these strategic objectives and or regulatory requirements to the Company.
We have no appetite for material wastage in time, scope, cost or quality of deliverables.
Our change portfolio will be governed to predict and overcome change barriers in preparation for change implementation.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Implementing change activities supports our strategy and Our major change projects are centrally managed with business plan.
Our complex portfolio of internal change projects clear governance processes and consolidation of our coupled with regulatory and political changes mean we face change workload significant delivery challenges where there are competing As part of our stress and scenario testing we have demands for resources.
considered change management Completing projects on time and on budget are risks in this Our second line Risk and Compliance function engages Enhancing our space along with failure to meet the objectives of the change.
with change activities to ensure appropriate governance is operations in place Regulatory pressures continue along with political planning for Brexit.
These challenge our deployment of technology, people and capital.
We have actively planned for Brexit and other regulatory projects and view our change management trend as stable.
Trends Link to strategic priorities Increase Stable Client centricity Enhancing our Innovating for Valuing our savings Decrease operations the future ecosystem 44 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational risk continued 7 Supplier Risk Risk appetite statement: The Company recognises that to achieve certain objectives and improve efficiency the use of suppliers is required and we have a number of outsourced supplier relationships as part of our business model, particularly in relation to fund administration, custody and transfer agency services, and retail platforms.
We recognise that some suppliers may fail, but we have no appetite for our critical suppliers to fail to fulfil their obligations or provide inadequate service.
Our supplier relationships will be governed and overseen, on a risk based approach, against the standards set within our procurement and supplier risk framework.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy We have a number of supplier relationships in operation to Our outsourcing and third party management policy includes allow us to deliver our strategy such as, BNP Paribas and the standards to which we hold our suppliers in relation to Citigroup for our asset management business, FNZ for our both new and existing arrangements platform business and Phoenix for some of our IT services.
We have oversight and policies over our third parties as their The failure of any of our outsourcing providers could instigate changing business models affect our risk profile a resilience and business continuity event disrupting our Our stress and scenario testing programme considers Client centricity operations.
supplier risk Enhancing our Adding new outsourcers increases our exposure to our risk We are committed to maintaining strong relationships with our operations culture, framework and business performance.
external providers to ensure we understand arising risks and that early management can take place 8 Financial Management Process Risk appetite statement: We are committed to operating a robust financial planning and control process to enable strategic and business decisions to be based on robust financial information.
We have no appetite for accounting irregularities or making material financial mis-statements.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Standard Life Aberdeen has established financial Application of robust governance and challenge ensures that management processes and controls.
Our business decision where business decisions are made, there is appropriate making is based on accurate and timely financial information.
oversight Provision of inaccurate or incomplete information could result Our Audit Committee challenges our reporting as part of in poor strategic decision making and negatively impact our financial planning and control processes business planning processes.
Our Risk function provides second line challenge of our Enhancing our business plan to support decision making operations Our financial reporting is aligned to external reporting standards and industry best practices Conduct risk 9 Conduct Risk Risk appetite statement: The Company has no appetite for unfair customer outcomes or poor market conduct, whether through deliberate or negligent actions.
Consistent with our values, where unfair outcomes arise, the Company will put it right in a fair and prompt manner.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Our business relies on our ability to ensure fair client and Seeking good customer and client outcomes is an essential customer outcomes.
Failure to achieve these outcomes poses aspect of our corporate values and our franchise significant reputational damage and likely financial losses for Our Global Code of Conduct contains the standards required our business.
Along with our mandatory training modules we embed a strong conduct aware culture across our business.
We are fully supportive of our regulators driving better customer outcomes and mindful that in a changing landscape The second line actively oversees the operation of the Client centricity we need to remain agile to change.
Our ambition remains to Conduct Risk Framework including the governance of become an industry leader in conduct governance and the conduct risks, the quality of risk assessment and action.
We delivery of fair client and customer outcomes.
openly engage with our regulators around the world.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 45 Risk management continued Regulatory and legal risk 10 Regulatory and Legal Risk Risk appetite statement: Standard Life Aberdeen has no appetite for any breach of laws, regulations or prescribed codes that apply to its business.
We have no appetite for wilfully breaching contractual obligations where this could give rise to a materially adverse financial or reputational impact on the Group.
Financial materiality will be assessed against the materiality threshold used for the Groups consolidated financial statements in any given reporting period.
Where laws require interpretation or where regulations or codes are ambiguous or untested, we will take reasonable steps to determine their applicability, including seeking legal advice where necessary.
When determining the appropriate course of action, we will have due regard to fair outcomes for our customers, clients, shareholders and other relevant stakeholders.
Where breaches are identified, we will ensure that these are resolved in a timely manner taking into account where relevant the interests of customers, clients, shareholders and other stakeholders including, if appropriate, by informing the relevant authorities.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy As part of a highly regulated industry globally, we are We are open with our regulators in order to maintain strong exposed to a number of different regulators and legal relationships and high levels of trust.
This allows us to have systems.
timely and meaningful discussions on supervisory matters and any areas of potential regulatory change.
Regulatory or legal change can drive opportunities and threats to our business activities.
With current focus on We conduct horizon scanning to plan any upcoming regulatory platform activities and asset management fee pressure we changes and establish programmes to manage them Enhancing our are exposed to some risks in this area.
The Policy Framework sets out the compliance standards for operations our business An increase in regulatory change and information demands can require a significant diversion of people resource and Our internal legal team supports our senior management on impact growth opportunities due to climbing compliance relevant areas across our business costs.
Strategic risk 11 Strategic Risk Risk appetite statement: The Company has an appetite for strategic risk that arises as a consequence of pursuing its chosen business model.
We will proactively identify and understand the strategic risks that it is exposed to, the options available to manage them and ensure that these inform strategy formation and business planning.
We have a limited appetite for failing to deliver our business plan objectives as a result of underperformance that is within our direct control.
Ongoing performance against the business plan will be closely monitored and prompt action taken to address any material adverse divergence.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Our vision to build a world-class investment company Ongoing engagement with clients and customers on service requires us to generate sustainable long-term value for our and performance clients and customers.
We utilise active investment Our first and second line investment risk teams provide multiple management to achieve this outcome.
With variable levels of oversight and challenge to our investment function investment performance across our products we are Our Board and executives are responsible for our strategy and focused on managing our investment performance risks.
its execution, with our Co-CEOs responsible for the Impacts all areas Managing our strategic goals in line with completing our development and promotion of our strategy and overall of strategy strategic transition to a capital-light business has created monitoring of its operational performance some potential distraction risks.
We proactively manage our relationships with our strategic Geopolitical unrest and associated risks can affect the partners allowing us to expand our existing investment markets in which we operate and impact our reputation capabilities and diversify our business capabilities Ensuring we have captured the demands and needs of clients and customers and adapting to preference changes can impact our business significantly.
Trends Link to strategic priorities Increase Stable Client centricity Enhancing our Innovating for Valuing our savings Decrease operations the future ecosystem 46 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial risk 12 Financial Risk Risk appetite statement: The Company has no appetite to fail to maintain sufficient resources to meet its contractual, business and regulatory obligations.
We will ensure it can do so under both normal conditions and an appropriate range of company and market stressed scenarios.
The Company has an appetite for market and credit risk exposures where these are required in pursuit of its business objectives.
Exposures must be controlled to manage capital and liquidity requirements, concentration risk and the risk of financial loss.
The risks to our business and how they have evolved in 2018 Our approach to managing these risks Link to strategy Our transition to a fee based model has increased the We maintain a strong capital position to ensure any increased exposure of our revenue streams to volatility in financial capital costs are covered markets given the impact this has on the value of assets on Through our ICAAP we allocate appropriate capital against our our platforms and under management.
risks and review these risks on an ongoing basis The value of our shareholder assets are also exposed to Our stress and scenario testing programme cover our financial volatility in financial markets.
Liquidity risk may impact our risks in particular: market, liquidity and counterparty risks Enhancing our business if we were unable to maintain enough liquid Counterparty exposures are proactively monitored with operations capital to cover liabilities as they fall due.
mitigation action taken where necessary Valuing our savings Our counterparty exposures have reduced as a result of the We ensure we have appropriate capital to support and optimise ecosystem sale of our UK and European insurance business.
We have our balance sheet effective processes in place to manage our counterparty We monitor our current and projected liquidity position to exposures.
identify where any management actions may be required We maintain a revolving credit facility as part of our contingent funding plans Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 47
