com Strategic Report How We Manage Our Risks We understand the need for a system of internal control and risk We have continued to monitor the position of Brexit negotiations, Risk review process management.
The identification and management of key risks and a senior working group meets regularly to assess the likely for the Group is the responsibility of the Risk Committee which impact to our operations.
As a result, we consider that the oversees a risk register that is reviewed formally and updated on possible range of Brexit impacts are now established and, with 1 Existing emerging risks a regular basis to ensure that it is focused on real, current and Britains membership of the EU ending during the current financial significant business risks, that mitigating actions are feasible and year, we have concluded that this risk warrants consideration in Top down risk identification effective, and the resulting net risk is appropriate.
Our appetite its own right, rather than being viewed as a composite element for risk is widely understood within the business with an aim to of other risks.
Departmental Risk Register be risk aware while recognising that to achieve our objectives The continued expansion of Superdrys operations across we will take on certain risks but in an informed manner.
These geographies both new countries and new areas within countries risks will provide a balance between risk and reward, and be able Bottom up risk identification and development of multi-channel routes to market introduces to be mitigated or managed should the risk materialise.
We will an associated complexity of operations that can increase not knowingly take risks that could negatively affect the safety our risk footprint, while decreasing the impact of any one risk of customers or colleagues, be detrimental to our brand, lead 2 Risk Committee evaluation to the business as a whole.
As an example, the successful to breaches of legal or regulatory requirements or endanger the implementation of our multi DC project increases our locus of future existence of the business.
Where such risks crystallise we risk from one to three sites, but limits the impact of failure to will transparently escalate these as appropriate.
Emerging Risks Horizon Scanning discrete territories rather than our entire operations.
We have Risk Assessment Review risk score The Risk Committee, which reports to the Executive Committee also recognised the risk that the ongoing consumer preference Independent Risk Assessment with oversight provided by the Audit Committee, meets monthly towards digital shopping channels will impact the profitability of to co-ordinate the risk management programme, and review our physical store estate.
the risk procedures and practices in place to ensure they reflect the growing scale, maturity and complexity of the Group.
It is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer with other members 3 Executive Committee sign-off being the Global Retail Director, Group General Counsel, Chief Information Officer, Risk and Assurance Manager, Group Financial Monitoring risks Controller, Head of Business Transformation and an Internal Audit representative from KPMG.
Membership of the Committee Principal Risks will be expanded in the current financial year to include and Uncertainties representation from the Groups two capital-light growth Assessing risk channels, Wholesale and Ecommerce.
During the year the risk matrices under review have been expanded to include a number of risks that are either common across all departments or complex and cross-functional.
4 Audit Committee oversight Superdry As a result of the implementation of the Superdry 5.0 strategy, we have developed the way we view risk, assessing it against 5.0 Review of Risk Committee minutes our strategy and the Design to Customer process now in Evaluation of effectiveness of Risk Management operation across the business, and contextualising it within our and Strategic Risk Review operating framework.
Risk is managed actively by the regular consideration of both functional risk and execution risk within the large, complex, cross-functional programmes managed by the Business 5 Board sign-off Transformation team.
Functional risk registers are prepared, documented and presented annually by the responsible member Setting risk appetite of the senior management team.
The reviews are captured using a standard template that allows ready comparison of risk across Review and sign off the business and allows the identification of cross-functional Principal Risks and Uncertainties mitigation strategies.
Approval of adequacy of controls 51 Superdry Front Section.
indd 51 26 07 2018 16:58:23 S G U N I C T A R O E T P O N G I S E D N B G U I Y S A E D N D D N S O A U N R A C L E P SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 How We Manage Our Risks We have assessed our identified risks through internal review and benchmarking and remain confident that our principal risks and uncertainties remain accurate.
However, we accept that our identification of risks may not be exhaustive, and we continue to monitor their change or the development of any new risks that might have an adverse effect on the Group.
We AR5 recognise the inter-connectivity of our risks.
Figure 1 seeks to reflect these dependencies in relation to our purpose, strategy and operating framework.
Strategy Risk Heading Elements Damage to Superdry Brand or AR1 ALL loss of Brand resonance Failure or underperformance AR2 GDB RI of key product ranges Failure to deliver the AR3 ALL global strategy AR3 AR4 AR6 AR2 Failure to deliver growth AR1 AR4 WMO GDB in target markets AR8 Failure to recruit and or retain AR5 ALL key staff or a dilution of the culture Negative impact driven by our Superdry AR9 AR7 AR6 WMO RI response to global economic 5.0 conditions GDB Lack of availability of systems AR7 OE AR13 AR13 AR12 compromise of data held Failure to comply with legal and regulatory AR8 WMO OE frameworks AR6 AR10 AR6 AR11 GDB Impact on results due to AR9 ALL currency fluctuations Supply chain disruption AR10 WMO OE raw material shortage Failure to deliver Ecommerce AR11 WMO GDB revenue growth Consumer preference shift AR8 AR12 OE RI towards digital shopping channels Negative impact as result AR13 ALL of Brexit RI OE Relentless Innovation Operational Excellence GDB WMO Global Digital Brand World Market Opportunity 52 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy Damage may occur to The strength of the Our ongoing customer research insight programme continues to show Weeks AR1 OE the Superdry Brand or Superdry brand is that the Superdry brand has strong appeal in all of our major markets.
The the Brand may lose its fundamental to the success research has shown that our addressable customer market is broader than resonance.
previously understood and more defined by attitude than age, which has GDB directly influenced our marketing strategy.
The research programme will be This could result from There is a risk that the extended further in the coming year to provide insight to all key operating many factors, including equity within the brand markets.
RI diminishing brand may be damaged, with resonance as described associated impacts to New distribution channels are approved internally to ensure that they in AR2 from the failure to customer perception, meet our brand guidelines and our in-house brand protection team also WMO meet consumer needs and investor sentiment, works closely with third party advisers and customs authorities throughout address consumer trends, recruitment and retention the world to monitor the production and sale of counterfeit product and, poor quality or counterfeit of colleagues, revenue and where identified, remove it using all remedies available, including takedown product.
margin, financial penalties, procedures and issuing proceedings.
We also monitor our supply chain to prosecution and increased limit the risk of any supplier selling unauthorised product directly into the The brand may also running costs.
be damaged through corporate actions including: Our approach to Sustainability and Health & Safety is proactive, with failing to act or react to regular training and audit across Superdry and supplier locations.
Ethical an unfolding situation, trading matters are managed by our Ethical Trading Manager, reporting customer services issues, directly to the Head of Sourcing, and we are a member of the Ethical workplace accidents, Trading Initiative.
We engage with our suppliers and expect them to fraudulent business operate in accordance with our Ethical Trading Code.
We assess the status practices, unauthorised of operating practices through a schedule of audits and visits and, where access to IT systems, necessary, work with suppliers on improvement plans.
We have upgraded corporate malfeasance, our strategic supplier engagement programme during the year, which corruption or socially included a global supplier conference.
Any business issues that arise are dealt with in a transparent manner, and staff are reminded of their responsibilities to act as good global citizens.
indd 53 26 07 2018 16:58:23 N O I S I V D N A Y G E T A R T S SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 How We Manage Our Risks Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy The brand and Groups The Group may miss While the Superdry brand is not positioned within the fast fashion category, Months business may suffer opportunities by misjudging the combination of an enhanced programme of customer research, GDB AR2 from any failure to meet a part range, entire established category management capability and brand understanding consumer needs and category or season.
embedded in the organisation provides a strong understanding of and RI address consumer trends connection to the market and our customers.
This could lead to inventory leading to a product shortages or excesses Our category management and design capability, which has been range that is insufficiently that could result in lower significantly strengthened over the past three years, continually monitors differentiated or unattractive margins, missed potential fashion and consumer trends.
revenue or loss of customer This combined understanding informs our range and product development This risk could manifest goodwill.
together with its range construction to ensure the brand offers high quality, itself from a combination of innovatively designed products offering strong value for money at a series many factors including: lack of price points.
of innovation, inappropriate levels of inventory, too We continue to innovate approximately 5,000 designs each year to provide few or too many options a new reason for customers to buy.
The brand has also been extended into creating insufficient or new product ranges including Superdry Sport, Snow and more premium confusing consumer choice ranges, each launched during the past two years.
The launch of new or poor range construction ranges is expected to continue which will further broaden and strengthen at the store or Group level.
We continue to develop improved planning and stock management processes and systems to enable the business to make better decisions on initial stock quantities, allocation across sales channels and to respond more rapidly to inventory levels and opportunities.
Our capability will be further enhanced in the forthcoming financial year with the introduction of store level ranging to better match the customer offer to local demographics.
Failure to deliver the global Failure to achieve planned We continue to update and refine our strategy to ensure it delivers Months strategy.
growth targets could maximum focus and returns.
Our revised strategic framework sets out OE AR3 significantly impact on how we will create a Global Digital Brand and the effective implementation Earnings will be impacted if revenue, and therefore of this strategy continues.
This centres on continued Ecommerce and we fail to achieve longGDB corporate and investor Wholesale growth, disciplined new store investments, continued innovation term business growth as sentiment.
in all aspects of the business and a heightened focus on operational a result of the lack of an excellence to support our planned growth.
effective strategy, the failure RI to successfully implement Our Executive team has broad consumer and business experience an effective strategy, an with clearly defined ownership for each element of the strategic plan.
WMO inappropriate business Progress against our plans is monitored ensuring issues are resolved and model in key markets or opportunities pursued in a timely manner.
the failure to successfully Strategic reviews also consider the balance of current and estimated sales deliver critical infrastructure in each channel within a key territory to ensure it remains optimal and projects.
reflects changes to customer shopping behaviours.
We continue to be strongly cash generative and able to fund our ongoing investment programme.
com Strategic Report Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy Failure to deliver on our Failure to successfully Each market entry was subject to extensive consumer, market and Months growth aspirations in establish the Superdry operational research, informing the optimal position for the brand in the GDB AR4 the Groups key future brand and expand our local market and any necessary adaptation to the brand or business model development markets.
operations in North America to reflect local practices.
In both China and North America, the brand WMO and China could result is marketed through local social media and marketing activity, including in financial losses and or endorsement by key influencers, tailored to the specific market.
brand damage, which could Furthermore, reflecting local market dynamics, mitigation strategies have undermine the strategy of been established specific to each market as follows: becoming a global digital brand.
North America During the year we have significantly strengthened the North American team creating an effective balance of local and global capabilities having previously completed the integration of key functions, including merchandising and replenishment, to the Groups shared global infrastructure.
Having repositioned the customer offer in all customer channels in our first year of ownership, a series of test retail stores that better represent the brand proposition were then introduced.
Further stores in high profile catchments will be supported by a greater wholesale presence and Ecommerce offer serving the whole country.
A dedicated regional warehouse was established during financial year 2017 and will be further developed to support all sales channels, including the integration of Wholesale operations in 2018.
China The brand operates in China via a joint venture with Trendy International Group Trendy.
Trendy have extensive retail experience and operational capability and were selected as a partner after a full due diligence process.
Future development will be concentrated on franchise expansion, limiting ongoing capital funding requirements and leveraging Trendys capability.
The joint venture Board includes two Superdry representatives including Euan Sutherland, Chief Executive Officer, ensuring regular market visits and governance of senior management.
indd 55 26 07 2018 16:58:24 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 How We Manage Our Risks Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy Loss of key colleagues or Lack of appropriately skilled Euan Sutherland as Chief Executive Officer and the wider Executive team Months the inability to attract and and experienced resource provide the necessary leadership skills to drive our global strategic goals.
OE AR5 retain talent or preserve the could result in a delay Our ongoing resourcing, talent review and succession planning processes Superdry culture.
in achieving the Groups are providing the Executive team with the necessary data and tools to GDB strategic goals.
understand the future skills requirements of the business.
This has led to the significant strengthening of key functions, particularly design, category management and merchandising, where a number of senior external RI recruits complement long-serving colleagues rich in the DNA of the brand.
This capability will be further strengthened through the recruitment of a WMO Creative Director during calendar year 2018.
This process is also helping to ensure that all colleagues can benefit from rewarding careers.
Our approach to remuneration, as clearly demonstrated by the recent introduction of the Founder Share Plan which enables all colleagues throughout the business to share in the growth in market value of the business, seeks to promote and reward long-term success within a suitable risk framework supporting recruitment, long-term retention and collaborative working of senior management.
Recognising the importance to the overall Superdry proposition of a service-led customer experience, colleague retention and recruitment in stores is a priority.
Improved retention levels are targeted as we enhance our training and development programmes.
We recognise that retaining the Superdry culture is key and undertake an annual all-colleague survey to understand better the level and drivers of engagement.
In the 2018 survey 74% of our colleagues rate us as a great place to work.
Global economic Our results can be affected Our Risk Committee horizon scans to anticipate new risks and changes in Months conditions.
by events or circumstances nascent risks.
GDB AR6 which impact consumer Economic and financial Our increasingly diversified business model encompassing Retail, confidence and buying conditions or external world Ecommerce and Wholesale along with our increasing global footprint, RI habits, labour availability or events.
WMO Regular reviews through customer research and a review of competitor pricing, together with forecasting disciplines, are in place to assess current market conditions and to ensure that any issues are dealt with in a timely manner.
Our wholesale and finance teams closely manage credit terms and use of insurance and bank guarantees with their trading customers to balance a customers ability to purchase goods with their ability to pay.
Our treasury function monitors the stability of financial institutions that hold our deposits or provide currency instruments.
These are spread over a number of institutions to mitigate this risk and ensure competitive terms.
com Strategic Report Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy Lack of availability of Should any of our We continue to invest in new information technology systems and Days infrastructure or IT systems operational technology or infrastructure to improve reliability and availability and enhance our security OE AR7 due to operational facilities be unavailable for profile.
Security controls, including regular audits and penetration tests, constraints or a major an extended period, our are in place to ensure that data is protected from corruption, unauthorised incident or compromise ability to trade would be access or use through encryption.
of data either accidentally impaired, particularly during The detailed external review of the Groups security maturity has recently or maliciously held by the peak trading period been updated, demonstrating the planned tangible improvement.
A series of Superdry or key third from November to January.
actions targeted to further enhance our security environment is planned, and parties.
Compromise of data could continues to be monitored via the Groups Risk Committee.
have regulatory impacts, Our information technology disaster recovery capabilities continue to be result in fines and or developed and tested, with a warm start IT facility and secondary work damage the brand.
area location providing resilience in the event of the loss of primary IT systems or office facilities.
We operate a strict change freeze during the Groups key trading period in order to minimise the risk of infrastructure disruption.
Failure to comply with legal Failure to comply with legal Our in-house tax and legal functions work closely with the business to Weeks AR8 and regulatory frameworks.
obligations or regulatory identify and mitigate legal and regulatory risks using both internal resources OE frameworks in the diverse and external advisers where either specialist or local advice is needed.
markets in which we The Group is well progressed in a programme to simplify its legal entity GDB operate could result in structure, and has reviewed the associated obligations and impacts for financial penalties, individual local territory directors.
prosecution, the inability to WMO enforce contracts and or We have reviewed the data that we hold and how we process it as part reputational damage.
of an assessment of our readiness for the implementation of the GDPR.
Our current processes are robust, and we are looking at compliance with GDPR as an evolution of our current data protection regime see also AR7.
Risk of significant changes Our financial results could The Groups operations are increasingly geographically diversified, Weeks in currency exchange rates.
be impacted by changes in introducing a natural currency hedge.
However, we maintain constant management oversight, including Board review, of foreign exchange exposure and opportunities and use forward GDB foreign exchange contracts to provide planning certainty in the major currencies in which we trade.
RI WMO 57 Superdry Front Section.
indd 57 26 07 2018 16:58:24 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 How We Manage Our Risks Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy Global supply chain While most of the raw Our sourcing strategy includes long-standing supplier relationships with a Months NEW disruption and or raw material that we use is proven track record and includes monitoring raw material availability and OE AR10 material shortage.
freely available, there price, dual sourcing where appropriate to facilitate continuous supply in are fabrics and garment the event of supplier failure.
Our supply relationships are formalised with The Group is reliant upon WMO accessories that are more a supplier manual and regular global supplier conferences providing clear a global supply chain and specialist.
An event, from expectations and a framework within which our partners operate.
logistics infrastructure to earthquake to factory fire, maximise availability of Through implementing a series of multi-channel distribution centres has the ability to constrain products, on time and to capable of serving all channels in a specific geographic region, the Group, supply, and therefore specified quality.
with a common operating system, has built-in resilience in the event of the impact our ability to failure of a single regional centre.
Where appropriate, we have relationships produce the final garment.
with multiple carriers to build resilience into our delivery network.
Finished goods in transit We continue to develop our upstream inventory holding capability which may be delayed due to allows inventory to be held closer to origin, allowing for more flexible circumstances beyond allocation to serve individual geographical markets.
our direct control including IT failure at or financial In market hubs, provide quality inspections to facilitate earlier identification instability of third parties and rectification of quality or compliance issues.
This could have the subsequent impact that Superdry fails to maximise its revenues, limiting brand exposure and reducing customer goodwill.
Ecommerce revenue Failure of the digital We have a dynamic rolling programme of enhancements, each of which Days NEW growth, reflecting our proposition could lead improves the customer experience and will typically deploy several GDB AR11 position as a digital brand, to a poor multi-channel improvements to our Ecommerce sites each week.
is key to the ongoing experience, which may lead We have a comprehensive, multiple layered approach to our developments WMO development of the to failure to achieve growth informed by both quantitative and qualitative customer evaluation of our business.
targets and reduce the on-site customer experience.
attractiveness of the brand This growth requires with consumers.
We have a fast follower approach to digital marketing, leveraging new attractive, functional approaches, but not embarking on higher risk untested techniques.
We and reliable websites, constantly monitor customer response rates to activity to ensure that we an advantaged service remain relevant in what we do to our target audience.
proposition and effective marketing strategies.
We operate a Customer Scorecard which monitors overall customer experience including product feedback from customers and any failures to meet delivery service levels or Contact Centre responsiveness.
This information is used to create action plans to rapidly address any issues that are impacting customers.
com Strategic Report Risk Change in Change in Link to Ref Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Velocity Risk 2017 Risk 2018 Strategy The ongoing consumer Declining consumer visits Stores remain an important element of the overall brand experience Months NEW preference shift towards to stores leads to declining within our Global Digital Strategy and are an important source of ongoing OE AR12 digital shopping channels.
profitability in the physical revenue.
Our store estate benefits from ongoing investment, both in the retail environment.
form of refits and from improved merchandising capability, including the introduction of ranging by store during 2018.
RI The brand has a relatively small store portfolio totalling 658 stores across 54 countries, with over 400 of these stores being operated by third parties under franchise arrangements.
The Groups owned store portfolio of 246 stores, is almost exclusively leased with an unexpired lease term of less than six years and over 60% of leases having a tenant break opportunity within the next four years.
All stores are subject to ongoing performance reviews and corrective action is taken, including lease exit, where stores fail to deliver targeted levels of profitability.
Demanding investment criteria are set before capital is invested in new stores with historic stores delivering a payback within 30 months and future stores targeted at 24 months.
New store leases are targeted to contain variable rent arrangements and incorporate break clauses giving the ability to respond quickly should a store fail to meet expectations.
Leases are only extended against equally demanding criteria.
Brexit the exit of the UK Reduction in consumer We have formed a Brexit working group, chaired by a member of the Months NEW from the European Union spending, increased delays Executive Committee and with input from specialists and representation OE AR13 potentially introduces risks on goods crossing borders, from each business area.
to operations, including increased direct and Until there is any certainty on what Brexit might entail, the Group models GDB increases in tariffs on goods indirect costs, and shortage worst case scenario impacts e. g. no trade deal and an overnight reversion and delays in their global in labour especially in the to WTO tariffs and looks at ongoing trends e. g. the reduction in migration movement, availability of UK distribution centre.
to the UK in order to prioritise actions to mitigate the risk.
RI labour and instability in the global currency market.
WMO This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Superdry Plc on 4 July 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer 4 July 2018 59 Superdry Front Section.
