Risk management Managing risk Synthomer achieves its strategic objectives by good risk management practices which enable good decision making and the pursuit of opportunities whilst protecting our sites, systems, staff and other stakeholders.
Successful risk management enables Synthomer to achieve its corporate objectives faster and more efficiently, and recognises that we only achieve reward by taking an appropriate level of risk through setting the risk appetite and risk tolerance.
How Synthomer manages risk: Risk oversight Synthomer plc Board Audit Committee Executive management The Board is responsible for creating The Audit Committee is responsible Executive management is responsible the framework for the Groups risk for overseeing the management of the for the management of our strategic, management to operate effectively.
principal risks, controls and the assurance operational, compliance and financial The Board continues to strengthen its processes.
To help further embed risks using the risk management definitions and measurement of: successful risk management within framework.
This includes ensuring there Synthomer, the Audit Committee in 2018 are to the extent possible mitigating the risk appetite, which is the target conducted deep dives into a number of actions and controls in place.
range of risk the Board believes business unit and functional risk registers.
Synthomer should take to achieve its These deep dives allow management to corporate objectives: explain directly to the Audit Committee the risks and associated mitigating the risk tolerance, which is the degree actions in place and in development.
of variance from the targeted risk appetite that the Board is willing The risk management system, Audit to tolerate.
Committee deep dives and associated assurance work are designed to ensure that risk is managed to within the risk tolerance rather than to eliminate risk completely, and reviews provide reasonable assurance in line with good practice.
Identification and assessment of risk Risk output We have a structured risk management the most critical risk events.
The method Business units individually conduct a framework operated at business unit, brings structure to the identification of bottom up assessment of the principal risks functional and Group level.
The Business hazards or risk events, potential causes and record them in a risk register using the Risk Assessment Methodology defines a of those hazards and the consequences Business Risk Assessment Methodology.
standard set of risk categories with generic of the hazard occurring.
The bow tie Group Functions and the Executive Board risk descriptions to assist management in method also identifies barriers or controls conduct a top down review of strategic identifying areas of risk.
There is also a simple in place or needing to be developed risks taking into account the input from the scoring methodology to quantify risk.
We to mitigate the likelihood of the threats business units and prepare a Group risk rank risks, taking into account the mitigating occurring or impact of the effects of the register using the same methodology.
controls in place, by combining their risk event.
We encourage our management economic, operational or reputational impact to be cognisant of good practice on The Board reviews and approves the and the likelihood that they may occur.
risk management including from our Group risk register.
professional advisers and the World We use a barrier based bow tie method Economic Forum Global Risks report.
to help management define and assess Bow tie methodology A barrier-based bow tie methodology is used to clearly show the relationship between the potential causes threats, consequences and controls barriers associated with undesired hazardous events.
Hazard Threat 1 Proactive barrier Proactive barrier Recovery barrier Recovery barrier Consequence Top event Threat 2 Proactive barrier Proactive barrier Recovery barrier Recovery barrier Consequence Escalation Escalation Escalation Escalation factor factor barrier factor barrier factor 32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Assessment of principal risks Our key risks and assessment of their likelihood and potential impact are illustrated in the probability impact matrix opposite: 6 Strategic 8 1 Volatility in chemicals and polymers market 1 2 Competition and failure to innovate 4 3 Intellectual property 11 4 Manufacturing capacity expansion projects 7 5 Strategic projects including M&A 5 Operational 9 2 6 Safety, health and environment SHE 10 3 7 Loss or failure of a Synthomer site 8 Security, complexity and reliability of systems 9 Disorderly Brexit Compliance 10 Ethics Low Medium High Financial Impact Reputational Financial 11 Financial risks New risk Risk that has moved from 2017 Each region undertakes a formal risk Compliance risks where a breach of Our key risks assessment and prepares a register using regulations or laws could lead to fines Risks affect us in many ways.
Across our the Business Risk Assessment Methodology.
from regulators and reputational risk business, we identify the likelihood and that may be disproportionate to the potential impact of risks through our formal Risk management size of the event leading to a breach.
twice-yearly risk assessment submissions review and assurance encompassing the business units and Financial risks relating to the funding Group functions and also more regularly and fiscal security of the Group.
Group risk function through empowering management to The Group risk function, an integral part of consider and react to risks.
These reviews, The table on pages 34 to 37 shows more our Group operations function, challenges together with our three lines of defence detail of the key risks identified at the end of the assumptions, risks identified, model, enable us to establish effective 2018.
Our Board and management consider prioritisation and response actions in controls to mitigate to the extent possible that these pose the greatest threats to our place or proposed.
business and they score highest on our risk table.
They fall into categories that relate Assurance providers We categorise our risks taking into account closely to our business model.
Not all risks Synthomer operates a three lines of the effectiveness of mitigating actions and facing Synthomer are listed and the risks are defence model.
A number of different controls, in the following areas: not listed in any order of priority.
internal assurance providers for example, Group SHE, ISO audits and Internal Audit Strategic risks that could prevent us The nature of risk changes over time with review the effectiveness of the mitigating from achieving our strategic objectives.
new risks emerging and the impact of actions and controls.
External assurance is others changing.
Our risk management and Operational risks which, if not provided by our Statutory Auditors and also assurance programme can only provide successfully managed, would threaten by an external specialist in ISO standards.
reasonable, not absolute, assurance that key our viability.
These relate to our ability to risks are managed to an acceptable level.
operate a sustainable and safe business.
The three lines of defence Board Audit Committee External Senior management auditor 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Policies Risk management Internal audit Regulators Procedures Group finance E. g. HSE, EA, ICO, Management controls Group SHE CMA, FCA ISO audits Regulatory affairs Legal department Investors and Quality rating agencies Functions that own Functions that oversee risks Functions that provide and managerisks independentassurance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 33 Likelihood Improbable Possible Probable
