Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the key risks that affect our business, although there are other lower level risks that occur and impact the Groups performance which are also actively managed through our risk management framework.
Strategic risks Risk Response 2019 plans Volatility in chemicals and polymers market The markets in which we operate are The Group continues to maintain a balanced Our acquisition strategy continues to target inherently volatile, including in raw material portfolio of products serving a wide range expansion in new geographic regions and also input prices, affecting volumes and margins of end markets around the globe.
Segment adjacent speciality chemicals businesses to and may adversely affect the results of performance at business unit level is closely help us diversify the risk further.
monitored and corrective actions are taken New product development will continue as necessary.
to diversify the Groups risk in 2019.
1 4 V Competition and failure to innovate We operate in highly competitive markets The Group continues to invest in enhancing We have reorganised the business along and the Group could lose market share to existing products and developing new chemistry lines in order to bring our other producers of speciality chemicals if products through our R&D programme and businesses closer to the customers and we fail to remain competitive, or to other our acquisition strategy includes technologies we expect this, together with our Customer products that can be substituted for the that are new to the Group.
Relationship Management CRM system products of the Group if we fail to identify enabling our sales teams to better identify Our technical services teams work with threats and innovate to mitigate them.
and secure opportunities, to drive growth in customers to understand and anticipate their 2019 and beyond.
future needs and to help them drive efficiencies 1 3 V in their own manufacturing processes.
Our integrated business planning process will allow us to operate more efficiently.
All sites operate quality management systems including assurance processes to ensure the quality of products meets agreed standards.
We continue to review our cost base and sales effectiveness to ensure we can price our products competitively.
Intellectual property The value of the Group is dependent on The Group improved its IP management Where appropriate, and where we are our ability to identify and protect our own with new hires in 2018 and will continue its legally able to, we will patent or otherwise intellectual property and ensure we do active patent programme and monitoring protect more IP in products, processes not breach third party intellectual property for infringements.
IP rights which could lead to reputational We will continue to improve IT security in damage and additional costs.
our networks, ERPs, recipe change control system and industrial controls systems, to 1 protect IP from theft and unauthorised use.
Manufacturing capacity expansion projects Enhancements to our plants to increase This risk is perceived to be increasing as we We will deliver two significant capacity manufacturing capacity to take advantage spend more on capex and have to secure enhancements in early 2019 and have of growth markets are dependent on good professional project management and announced a further capacity expansion in project management.
Poor execution of our contractor resources to design and build our NBR plant in Malaysia.
various projects could impact on our ability capacity expansion.
Our Project Excellence methodology will be to deliver the capacity enhancements.
We have a robust capital appraisal process in reviewed to ensure any lessons learned are place to assess proposed projects to ensure addressed and further training given 4 V they deliver value which includes regular as required.
Project Excellence Return on Invested Capital ROIC for methodology is in place for all significant our significant capital projects is being capex projects.
The outcome of completed introduced to the Long-Term Incentive Plan projects with costs in excess of 1m LTIP performance measures in 2019 to are reviewed by Internal Audit and the ensure appropriate management focus.
34 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Link to strategy Change in risk 1 Research and development and technical 3 Capacity utilisation No change expertise to exploit newmarkets 4 Investment in capacity Increase Driving efficiency and excellence 2 5 Business growth through acquisition Decrease through operations Read more on pages 18-19 Sensitivity for risk made in assessing viability V Risk Response 2019 plans Strategic projects including M&A The Groups strategic plan includes Executive management has extensive M&A activity will continue to be closely significant M&A activity to grow our experience of successful M&A transactions scrutinised and challenged by the Board.
There is a risk that we fail to including integration of the acquired business.
We will increase the efficiency of our existing identify and secure any targets or identify External advice is used to help identify targets, processes and continue to invest in our ERP the wrong targets, paying too high a prepare bids and conduct due diligence.
systems to enable smoother integration of price, fail to integrate acquired assets and acquired businesses.
drive planned synergies, or we encounter Detailed integration plans are prepared as performance, funding and cashflow issues part of the due diligence exercise.
Ongoing review of acquisition process or other potentially unknown liabilities.
and implementation of lessons learned to future transactions.
5 Operational risks Risk Response 2019 plans Safety, health and environment The chemical industry is inherently dangerous Synthomer operates a central safety audit Our Group SHE audits will continue to involving the safe transport, storage and function dedicated to SHE issues and it focus on higher risk areas including manufacture of hazardous chemicals.
provides advice to, and monitors, our sites process safety.
We will make further Failure to manage the impact on our staff, to enable continuous improvement across all progress on our long-term ambition manufacturing sites and the environment of major SHE areas.
Increasingly, the focus is to implement a proactive approach to these risks could lead to regulatory fines, on process safety risk to mitigate the risk of maintenance as a preventable measure.
reputational damage and lost production.
We will focus specifically on Maintenance programmes are undertaken to completing the actions from our 2 mitigate the risks.
Loss or failure of a Synthomer site A manufacturing site or a raw material Crisis management procedures are in place We will continue to improve preventative storage site might be unable to operate, for all sites to respond to risk events which are measures to reduce the risks and develop whether temporarily or longer term, due reviewed and tested regularly.
our business continuity plans including crisis to a risk event, including natural disaster, management response, disaster recovery for Sourcing strategies are in place Groupsafety incident, failure of a key supplier or key systems and data as well as longer term wide to access multiple sources for key raw the supply chain, sabotage or cyber-attack, recovery of operations.
materials and the Group works closely with which would have an adverse impact on key suppliers to ensure availability.
Single operations and business unit profitability.
sourced materials are identified and inventory retained, where appropriate, to mitigate risk of 2 3 V supply chain failure.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Risk Response 2019 plans Security, complexity and reliability of systems We are reliant on various legacy systems We have increased resources in our IT Further security process improvements are to run our business and the complexity systems and security teams to improve our planned in 2019 including penetration testing of our systems continues to increase with systems, processes and security.
and review of good security practices.
acquisitions, compliance requirements and Cyber defences continue to be enhanced and We will test IT resilience through our automation of processes.
We also expect appropriate employees complete IT Security programme of disaster recovery testing.
the inherent risk from cyber security attacks Awareness training.
to continue to grow, and although mitigated by our increasingly sophisticated defences, all of our systems, including our industrial control systems, ERPs and communications could be compromised.
We could lose intellectual property and customer data which might undermine our competitive position or a cyber-attack could leave one of our plants out of action or subject to blackmail.
1 2 3 Disorderly Brexit We reassessed the Brexit risks throughout A Brexit task force has been established to We will continue to monitor the impact of a our business in 2018 as a no deal outcome consider and mitigate, as far as possible, no deal scenario or any delays to settling was perceived to be more likely.
There is the potential impact of a disorderly Brexit, future trading arrangements.
We will review a risk that a no deal scenario will lead to monitoring impact on supply chain, regulation, our trading arrangements, processes and financial costs such as tariffs, and affect the trade compliance, operations and human systems to ensure that we take, as far as UK and EU manufacturing plants ability to resources.
possible, any mitigating actions necessary.
import raw materials and export products on a timely basis, and also impact REACh regulation compliance costs.
2 3 4 5 V Compliance risks Risk Response 2019 plans Ethics The Group could suffer substantial penalties, The Code of Conduct has been updated We will ensure that senior management and damage to reputation and other sanctions to address the new regulations.
The new local business units continue to emphasise for any failure to control, for example, Code of Conduct includes real examples and the provisions in the Code of Conduct and anti-competitive behaviour, bribery and scenarios to aid employee understanding and that Group legal and other relevant functions corruption, or breaches of trade sanctions.
Malpractice reporting continue to provide training and advice on The General Data Protection Regulation is and protection for reporters are similarly its applicability.
now law and has greater potential penalties covered in the new Code of Conduct and We will continue to review our approach that could impact the Group.
an external, confidential reporting helpline to legal compliance including the new has been made available.
2 V local management provide regular training to targeted groups of employees on anticompetitive behaviour, bribery and corruption.
We have terminated all business activities in certain sanctioned countries to avoid the risk of breaching trade sanctions but continue to monitor all our customers using trade compliance tools.
36 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Link to strategy Change in risk 1 Research and development and technical 3 Capacity utilisation No change expertise to exploit newmarkets 4 Investment in capacity Increase Driving efficiency and excellence 2 5 Business growth through acquisition Decrease through operations Read more on pages 18-19 Sensitivity for risk made in assessing viability V Financial risks Risk Response 2019 plans Financial risks A significant proportion of the Groups The Group has a policy of hedging all We will continue to hedge transactional turnover and assets are in currencies other significant foreign exchange transactional currency risks.
than UK sterling and fluctuations in currency exposure principally receivables and payables The UK schemes pension deficit is expected exchange rates may significantly impact the denominated in a currency other than the to reduce over the longer term as the results and net assets of the Group.
entitys reporting currency at operating Group pays the additional contributions to company level.
The Group regularly reviews its The Group has funding risks relating to the UK scheme agreed with the Trustees net assets and borrowing currency exposures, defined benefit pension scheme obligations, in 2016.
The timescale will be affected by borrowing in overseas currencies to hedge the the value of which are highly dependent on movements in the financial markets and the net assets held in those currencies volatile financial markets.
A Group-wide review of pension and 2 5 V The UK defined benefit pension scheme was other long-term employee liabilities will be closed to future accrual in 2009.
Additional undertaken in 2019. contributions and careful asset management should reduce the deficit over the longer term.
Overseas defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed annually by actuaries to ensure appropriate contributions are made and liabilities are recognised appropriately.
Viability statement In accordance with the provision of section C. 2.2 of the 2014 Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken, revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors focusing on the impact of the principal risks detailed above on have assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year period pages 34 to 37 over the five year period.
The risks have been to December 2023, being the period covered by the Groups assessed for their potential impact on the Groups business approved strategic plan.
This plan is updated annually, in a model, future trading and funding structure.
The sensitivity process led by the executive management team with input from analysis has considered a number of severe but plausible the respective businesses and functions.
It includes analysis scenarios linked to the risks.
In all cases, the impact was of product and segmental performance, cash flow, investment considered on both liquidity and borrowing covenants.
programmes and returns to shareholders.
The plan is presented to the Board each year as a part of its annual strategic review.
The scenarios included trading volatility, increased competition, disruption as a result of a disorderly Brexit, delays in project The directors consider five years to be an appropriate time delivery, failure of new products and the temporary loss of a horizon for the strategic plan, being the period over which the manufacturing site.
They also included the risk of potential Group actively focuses on its long-term product development significant changes in foreign exchange rates, which is and capital expenditure investments.
A period above five deemed to be outside the control of the Group.
A combined years is considered by the directors to be too long, given the sensitivity was also performed, aggregating all of the scenarios uncertainties that exist beyond this time frame.
The results also took into account the availability and likely degree of effectiveness of mitigating actions available.
In making their assessment, the directors have considered the diverse activities and product offering of the Group in terms of While this sensitivity analysis did not consider all of the risks that geographies, chemistry and end markets.
The directors have the Group may face, the directors consider that it is reasonable also considered the Groups current strong financial position, in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
including the existing committed unsecured bank facilities, which have been assumed to be refinanced at maturity, and the Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a reasonable fixed interest rate hedges entered into 2018. expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period.
