Strategic report Pr incipal risks and uncertainties Effectively managing risks Every organisation faces risks of varying severity as an inherent part of doing business.
Someof these are within the control of the organisation and others are not.
The Board has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties The Groups risk management framework facilitates continuous to the Group, which the Group seeks to proactively manage and andongoing discussion of risks and associated risk appetite to monitor on an ongoing basis.
The details of these principal risks, ensure the appropriate focus is placed on mitigating principal andthe controls in place for mitigating them, are outlined below risks.
The Board will continue to assess the principal risks and inno particular order of severity.
The principal risks have been uncertainties faced by the Group and will update the risks and identified and assessed with consideration to the impact on the mitigation plans accordingly.
Groups ability to deliver its strategy and therefore its mission.
Inaddition, a directional arrow has been included alongside each For more information 08 riskto reflect the movements in gross risk from the prior year.
onourstrategy Strategic governance Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Operational and First line Second line Third line financial governance of defence of defence of defence Audit and Risk function including Internal Audit, Senior Management Team Operational management Central support functions risk management and externaladvisers 22 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Risk and impact Mitigation Customer trust and brand reputation 1 2 4 Customer confidence and trust are critical TalkTalk remains confident of the role for a well-regarded value operator in the market and is toTalkTalks business, and the Groups committed to delivering a positive end-to-end customer experience.
operating approach always seeks to do TalkTalk introduced its Fixed Low Price Plans FLPP in October 2016 which have resonated whatis right for the customer.
However, strongly with customers and, combined with the ongoing transformation of customer services, asavalue for money connectivity provider the Group has seen a return to growth in the core business in 2018 which is expected to continue inthe market, there is a risk that TalkTalk is into 2019.
The Group also continues to invest in network and systems to support the provision of perceived as a budget provider, associated reliable products to customers as well as ongoing investment in and focus on security see Data with price rather than quality and service.
These factors have contributed to improving the risk landscape with Business and industry challenges including increased customer confidence and improving customer satisfaction.
In addition, TalkTalk continues cyber threats and scam calls or poor to support customers in dealing with the industry-wide issue of scam calls.
Initiatives such as the customer experience also present a risk Beat the Scammers campaign and the launch of Call Safe are designed tohelp customers tobrand reputation and trust.
protect themselves from the threat of scams.
Failure to maintain trust, improve brand TalkTalk will continue to focus on existing as well as new customers, guided by the four key reputation and offer a positive customer principles we believe are critical to being a value for money connectivity provider simplicity, experience may result in a negative impact affordability, reliability and fairness.
tocustomer satisfaction, increased churn, performance decline or loss of investorconfidence.
People 3 TalkTalk recognises employees as a key asset TalkTalk has established values which act as a cultural framework and are embedded through the and aspires to be a Great Place to Work for all business in recruitment and performance management processes.
We understand the increasing Structured talent forecasting and assessment processes are in place to ensure required talent challenges and importance in the market of isproactively understood and actions plans are in place to actively manage attrition risks and defining an effective operating model and succession.
These processes also ensure a proactive review of the senior management level to attracting and retaining the right talent to ensure the right leadership is in place for motivating, inspiring and leading the workforce to deliver deliver organisational performance and future onthe corporate objectives.
Failure to attract and retain required talent and competencies within an A people scorecard is also in place for ongoing monitoring and oversight of people risk and, where effective organisational environment may required, actions to further mitigate risk exposures are identified and implemented.
In addition, negatively impact our ability to deliver on Group-wide activities are carried out to assess the level of employee engagement and insight gained performance targets and strategic objectives.
is used to develop action plans to ensure a highly engaged and motivated workforce is maintained.
TalkTalk has this year been recognised by Great Place to Work one of the UKs Best Large Workplaces, which recognises the impact of sustained improvement of our people practices.
Competitive landscape 1 2 3 A clear pricing strategy is in place with ongoing monitoring of pricing position and value proposition.
TalkTalk is established as a value for money The strategy is reviewed to ensure it remains competitive and continues to support our position connectivity provider in the fast growing as a value for money provider against the changing competitor landscape.
FLPP continues to see quad play market.
The value proposition is a strong customer take-up as it offers both new and existing customers the opportunity to lock in key partof the business model and to date their price for the term of their contract guaranteeing no mid-contract price rises.
The introduction has provided competitor differentiation.
of FLPP along with the focus on continuous improvement in connectivity has seen a return to Over the last year significant competitor growth across both residential andbusiness customer bases.
In 2019, the Group will continue to activity has continued with similar intensity focus on connectivity and delivery of plans for further improvement in the customer experience to prior year.
The competitive landscape including enablement ofgreater self-serve.
These 2019 plans form part of the risk mitigation and therefore remains largely unchanged with driving an improved net risk position.
varying degrees of activity in most product channels.
The risk that this competitive In addition, competitor pricing activity continues to be monitored to understand customer backdrop makes it difficult for TalkTalk andmarket impact and plans are revisited accordingly if necessary.
TalkTalk uses customer tomaintain its value credentials remains communications to promote its simple, affordable, reliable and fair messages and is committed consistent with prior year.
tohelping customers understand the best positioned package to meet their needs.
Gross risk Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as the prior year Strategic objectives 1 2 Profitable growth in consumer Accelerate momentum in TTB 3 4 Customer experience, cost efficiency and people development Investment in the network and full fibre TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 23 Strategic report Pr incipal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and impact Mitigation Changing market structure 1 2 3 4 TalkTalk continues to be a vocal advocate of competition and is well placed to The Government and Ofcom are committed to promoting benefitfrom an increasing trend towards a more pro-competition regulatory investment in full fibre networks through infrastructure framework.
This poses a significant risk to incumbent players in the market, whilst competition in the UK telecommunications market.
presenting potentially valuable opportunities for challengers.
The business is actively BT Group agreed to the legal separation of Openreach engaging with the necessary external stakeholders to share views and attempt to inMarch 2017 and implementation is in progress under deliver the best market and customer outcomes, as well as to proactively close scrutiny by Ofcom.
Uncertainty remains about the understand and respond to the opportunities and challenges presented by extent to which this will drive network investment and structured market changes.
TalkTalk is closely engaging with Openreach on product and service developments, Ofcoms Wholesale Local Access Market Review WLAMR including FTTP roll-out plans, in order to pursue favourable outcomes for TalkTalk has led to: under the new governance arrangements.
It is also monitoring the effect of legal separation of Openreach from BT Group and feeding in to Ofcoms Openreach requirements for Openreach to make it cheaper and Monitoring Unit.
simpler for competitors to use its existing infrastructure when building networks: TalkTalks announcement of its plans to set up a new company with Infracapital withambitions to provide full fibre to more than 3 million homes and businesses caps on wholesale broadband prices, including a demonstrates that it will also play a central role in alternative infrastructure reduction in superfast broadband prices: and investment in the UK leveraging the market and regulatory opportunities.
higher service standards for Openreach installations TalkTalk is engaging with the Governments full fibre initiatives, including the barrier and repairs.
busting unit, and maintaining a pro-competitive position in the FTIR.
Together these decisions are expected to promote TalkTalk is calling for a dark fibre access remedy in the Business Connectivity infrastructure competition and increase the incentives MarketReview.
for Openreach to invest in full fibre networks while protecting consumers over the 201821 market reviewperiod.
Government is providing stimulus for alternative network investors through the Digital Infrastructure Investment Fund, the Local Full Fibre Networks Programme and the creation of the Barrier Busting Unit to reduce the cost ofnetwork build by removing red tape.
Government has kicked off a Future Telecoms Infrastructure Review FTIR to assess future market structure.
Until Ofcom concludes its Business Connectivity Market Review for the period 201922, some uncertainty will remain over dark fibre access, which allows companies to use their own equipment to run Openreach fibre lines themselves, rather than renting much more expensive managed services from Openreach.
Regulatory compliance 1 2 4 The telecommunications sector is highly regulated, The Groups Regulatory Compliance Committee, a subcommittee of the Board, has withcompliance over key customer-focused regulations continued to convene throughout the year to monitor the mitigation of operational risks monitored by the governing body, Ofcom.
Another of which could give rise to customer complaints and regulatory breaches.
The Group Legal thekey governing bodies relevant to the Company is Counsel and Company Secretary has chaired weekly compliance meetings throughout theInformation Commissioners Office ICO.
The the year, attended by senior management.
regulations and laws that TalkTalk must comply with, There are clear lines of accountability both in first-line operations and in our second-line including Ofcom General Conditions and data legislation, assurance function and there has been continued focus on embedding processes and are designed to support customers.
controls to maintain compliance to industry regulations including focus on delivering The regulatory landscape is increasingly challenging with improvements in our complaint handling processes and reducing complaint volumes.
many significant regulatory changes landing in the next Plans are also in place to deliver the significant volume of regulatory changes which come 12months including the General Data Protection Regulation into force over the next twelve months.
GDPR which comes into force in May 2018, revisions to Ofcom General Conditions which primarily come into TalkTalk has established structured programmes to deliver changes resulting from force in October 2018 and the introduction of the Ofcoms end-to-end review of its General Conditions.
The progress of this activity Automatic Compensation code that comes into effect willbe governed by the existing Compliance Committee and meetings to ensure inFebruary2019.
Failure to comply with regulatory obligations may In 2018 TalkTalk has invested significantly in implementing processes, systems and resultinnegative customer impact and or significant controls to deliver compliance with the GDPR.
Investment and focus will continue in regulatory fines.
2019as activity in relation to embedding compliance to the new GDPR is a multi-year programme of work.
24 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Risk and impact Mitigation Data and cyber security 1 2 4 Security of customer, commercial and colleague data In 2018 TalkTalk has continued to invest in and focus on actively implementing an poses increasing reputational and financial risk to all ongoing programme to build security capability.
Investment is also planned to businesses and the gross risk remains high.
The organisations security strategy is centred around four emerging developments in cyber and data related strategic themes: threats and crime consistent with prior years present Secure by Design: asignificant challenge in terms of securing data and systems against attack.
Secure in Operations: TalkTalk receives most of its revenue through card Secure Third Parties: and transactions and like many businesses utilises third Secure Culture.
parties as part of doing business.
TalkTalk recognises that failure to successfully secure data and systems against The strategy is underpinned by the NIST Cyber Security Framework and is positioned attack may have a material impact on brand reputation to continuously improve the security maturity of the organisation, as well as maintaining and financial performance.
Other associated costs may and updating ongoing activities such as monitoring activities, vulnerability scanning, also be incurred, including potential regulatory fines.
penetration testing and the data loss prevention solution to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
Over the last two years significant investment has been made in building out a bigger security function and capability including successfully establishing an in-house Security Operations Centre, which went live in autumn 2017.
The security function has worked closely with the Group Data Protection Officer over the last twelve months to support delivery of the new data protection requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation and will continue to maintain a collaborative approach to maturing the organisations security posture.
These activities and investments are supporting management of the risk and improving net risk trajectory.
In addition to the above, a robust governance structure remains in place with the Security Committee meeting every two months.
This is a subcommittee of the Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, with senior executive representation and including a Non-Executive Board member.
Resilience and business continuity 1 2 4 TalkTalk is reliant on its infrastructure as well as key Network resilience is assessed and monitored on a regular basis and, over the last third party suppliers and partners in order to deliver year, TalkTalk has continued to deliver network improvements and simplification quality products and services to its customers.
Continuous monitoring of network availability Network, system or third party failure could result in is also in place to ensure any issues are identified in a timely manner and resilience significant disruption to services or business processes, testing takes place.
Where an incident does occur, a robust incident response process which may have a negative impact on customers and is in place and exercised to ensure effective response, followed by a problem therefore damage customer loyalty or drive complaints.
management review that is linked to service improvement.
The Group recognises It is therefore important to establish resilience in the that network resilience is also reliant on the dependency on Openreach for the last network and require resilience from our third parties mile and as such Ofcom focus on BTOR processes, systems and controls should help and partners.
The approach adopted for supporting infrastructure Other prioritised critical processes, systems and third parties are identified and and associated resilience, including use of third parties, business owners are assigned accountability for assessing resilience and implementing is regularly reviewed to ensure an optimal model is business continuity plans to enable continuity of operations in the event of an incident.
maintained which drives resilience and efficiency.
TalkTalk also continues to invest in supporting appropriate resilience on critical There is a risk that changes to approach may not be systems taking a risk-based approach.
For third parties, the relationship owners are delivered effectively resulting in a negative impact assigned accountability for requiring critical third parties to have adequate business tooperations.
continuity plans in place and obtaining third party assurance that their plans have been reviewed and tested on a regular basis.
It is also noted that in the event of an incident, TalkTalk must be able to respond in an efficient and effective To support the service improvement, simplification and cost reduction agenda manner in order to minimise impact on customers in2019, TalkTalk will look at opportunities for rationalising third party partners.
Wherethe partner landscape is rationalised, structured transition programmes willbe put in place to manage the transition and mitigate key transition risks.
Gross risk Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as the prior year Strategic objectives 1 2 Profitable growth in consumer Accelerate momentum in TTB 3 4 Customer experience, cost efficiency and people development Investment in the network and full fibre TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 25 Strategic report Pr incipal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and impact Mitigation Financial 3 4 As with many organisations, TalkTalk must The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups liquid resources and actively manage liquidity risk.
Other key managing compliance with the terms of funding agreements.
Policies and operating procedures financial risks include availability of long term are in place and these are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate for the business.
funding, the ability to comply with covenants The Executive Committee and the Board oversee the liquidity and funding position of the Group and other terms of funding arrangements, on a regular basis and are required to provide approval on major and significant funding decisions.
and foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
In addition to the above, TalkTalk recently announced an equity placing which raised 201m, the In addition, there are a number of changes net proceeds of which will be used to strengthen the Groups balance sheet, support continued toaccounting standards that will be adopted customer growth and invest in long term FTTP plans.
in 2019 and 2020, in particular IFRS 15 and The Group Treasury function is also responsible for managing foreign exchange and interest rate IFRS 16 respectively see note 1 to the risks in line with the Groups policy.
TalkTalk has established projects to deliver the required changes to accounting standards over accounting for revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 and lease accounting IFRS 16 and the status of these projects is tracked as part of the Change Management Framework.
Change delivery and execution 4 A formal change framework is in place for delivery of change projects which helps ensure appropriate Delivery of performance and strategic process and governance are in place to drive successful project delivery.
The framework is intended objectives and development of the business to ensure a desired level of quality is reached throughout the lifecycle ofeach project and has is reliant on the ability to successfully deliver continued to support successful delivery of key change programmes in2018, including implementing innovation and other operational changes monitoring capabilities for the in-house Security Operations Centre.
required to support growth and performance.
Failure to effectively deliver significant change The Group Change function remains a key effective control for facilitating prioritisation programmes and associated benefits critical discussions to ensure people and financial resources are appropriately engaged, allocated to TalkTalks strategy would result in an inability andfocused.
Performance measures for key change projects are defined and monitored and to deliver performance objectives and limit regularly reviewed by Group Change.
Monitoring and oversight of key change projects occur TalkTalks competitive position in the market.
atboth the business unit leadership team level and by the Executive Committee on a regular basis, enabling real time consideration of the potential impact of other operational and strategic activities on change projects.
In addition, as part of the organisational reset, TalkTalk has aimed for further simplification byconcentrating on fewer, more focused initiatives to support delivery of simplified, clear strategic objectives.
This inherently limits delivery and execution risk.
Gross risk Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as the prior year Strategic objectives Strategic objectives 1 2 Profitable growth in consumer Accelerate momentum in TTB 3 4 Customer experience, cost efficiency and people development Investment in the network and full fibre 26 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
