M R o i n i a s t I o n k n r d i e d n p o e t g n h d c g w a i d t e s d n n Risks Managing our risks effectively How we manage risk ERM Programme ERM Programme Tate & Lyles enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a common, 1 Group-wide approach to the identification, Identify analysis and assessment of risks and risks the way risks are managed, controlled and monitored.
5 2 Review and Assess monitor risks risks and interactions Three lines of defence We manage significant risks through three levels of defence.
Risk ownership and control 4 3 Business and operational management Respond to and Prioritise is responsible for identifying risks and mitigate risks risks maintaining effective controls on a day-to-day basis, and for implementing policies and procedures that are consistent with that objective.
Front line controls are updated regularly in response to the Groups changing risk profile.
Monitoring and compliance Three lines of defence Group functions support management in monitoring key risk areas, and ensuring the first line of defence is designed and operating as intended.
These functions, including risk management, quality, ethics and compliance, and environment, health and safety, also identify current and emerging risks, and monitor the timely remediation of deficiencies.
Independent assurance The Group Audit and Assurance team internal audit and external assurance providers give independent assurance over the Groups risk management, control, and governance processes and systems.
Oversight The Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee provide oversight and direction in accordance with their respective responsibilities.
More information is in the governance section of this Annual Report.
38 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 r r n s o t e n d 3 a v 1 2 n s O e c s t o u r r r m a n s o p c e l h l i a i n p c e Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Over time, the Groups risk profile evolves and the Boards view Risk framework of the principal risks is updated accordingly.
Following a number The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of changes to the principal risks over the last few years, the of risk management and internal control, and for setting the Board decided this year that no changes to the principal risks Groups risk appetite.
The schedule of matters reserved to the were required.
Board ensures that the Board makes a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, and determines the nature and The Board confirms that a robust assessment of the principal extent of risk it is willing for the Group to take to achieve its risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its strategic objectives.
business model, performance, solvency and liquidity, has been carried out.
The principal risks identified as part of the process Approach undertaken during the year, together with examples of the mitigating actions being taken, are set out on pages 40 and 41.
It Process to identify risks is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect The Group-wide risk management and reporting process helps the Group.
to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
Principal risks are considered over a time period of three years.
This annual process Viability statement is both bottom-up and top-down.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate The top-down aspect involves the Board assessing what it Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the believes to be the principal risks facing Tate & Lyle.
The bottomGroup, taking into account our current position and the potential up aspect involves a rolling programme of workshops, facilitated impact of the principal risks we face.
by the risk management team, held around the Group.
These Although the Groups strategic plan, which the Board reviews workshops identify current and potential risks which are then annually, forecasts beyond three years, the current planning collated and reported through functional and divisional levels to process provides for the preparation of a detailed financial the Executive Committee.
Areas and behaviours which could plan over a three-year period, built bottom-up on a divisional potentially trigger risk combinations are also considered.
basis, including anticipated capital and funding requirements.
Through these processes, we identify the Groups key business, For this reason, the Directors have determined that a three-year strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks, and then period to 31 March 2021 is an appropriate period over which to develop action plans and controls to mitigate them as far as assess viability.
possible, to the extent deemed appropriate taking account of the To assess viability, we stress-tested the strategic plan under four Groups risk appetite.
The Board reviews these risks again, as downside scenarios which would stress the potential viability of well as emerging and black swan risks.
the Group if one or more of the principal risks set out in this Annual Report were to occur.
The potential impact of these Risk appetite scenarios was assessed individually, and in combinations, on As part of the annual risk assessment process, the Board and both a gross before mitigation and a net after mitigation basis.
Executive Committee consider the nature and extent of the The four downside scenarios modelled were: a major operational Groups risk appetite.
The results of this exercise are used as failure causing the shutdown of a large manufacturing facility for part of strategic planning activities, and in setting ongoing an extended period of time: a sharp decline in sales in one or mitigating actions.
more of our major product lines: the loss of one or more of our Managing risks key global customers: and government actions or policies restricting or preventing our ability to operate in key markets.
Individual executives are assigned responsibility for managing In each case, we assumed we would still be able to secure risks and their associated mitigating controls.
As part of the financing or re-financing in the capital markets in all plausible process, senior executive management formally confirms once market conditions.
a year that risks are being managed appropriately within their operations and that controls have been examined and are effective.
We measured the impact of these risks occurring by quantifying The confirmations and any exceptions are discussed at the Audit their financial impact on the strategic plan, and on the Groups Committee and, where appropriate, reported to the Board.
viability when set against measures including liquidity, credit The Executive Committee reviews the principal risks regularly rating and financial covenant requirements.
We also considered operational and commercial impacts.
The results of this stress and formally at least three times a year, and reports any changes in the level or velocity of the risks, and associated mitigating testing showed that the Group would, over the three-year period, be able to withstand the impact of the most severe combination actions, to the Board.
The Board reviews the principal risks at least every six months.
of the risks modelled if we made adjustments to our strategic plan and capital allocation priorities, and carried out other Principal risks available mitigating actions.
The Board has carefully considered the type and extent of the Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a principal risks to the Group achieving its objectives.
While the reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Group seeks to manage risk carefully, at the same time the operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Board recognises that some risk needs to be taken for the to 31 March 2021.
Group to achieve its strategic goals.
com 39 Risks continued Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Health and safety policies and procedures are in place at all facilities with Safety dedicated staff to ensure they are embedded and measured Act safely and maintain the safe operation of our facilities Regular review of performance and policies by the Board The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, and the Maintenance of suitable insurance programme communities in which we operate is paramount.
We must operate Programme of global compliance audits within local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to SafeStart behavioural safety training programme rolled out across health, safety and the environment, including emissions.
Failure to plants, offices and labs act safely, which could lead to loss of life or serious injury, may give rise to fines or penalties for breach of safety laws, interruptions in During the year, a comprehensive review of Group-wide safety protocols, operations or loss of our licence to operate, liability payments and procedures and culture was undertaken with the support of an costs arising from injuries or damage, and damage to our reputation.
As a result, a new strategy and approach to safety was implemented called Journey to EHS Excellence A new global environment, health and safety EHS organisation was put in place to support our Journey to EHS Excellence see pages 46 and 47 for more information.
Investments to increase sales and technical resources, and Strategy infrastructure, particularly in emerging markets laboratories expanded Grow in food and beverage solutions in Shanghai, Singapore and Mexico City during the year Our ability to deliver our strategy to grow our Food & Beverage Solutions New staff recruited and existing staff developed to upgrade skillsets in business may be affected by a number of factors such as delivering customer-facing areas and innovation growth in emerging markets, customers readiness to adopt new Global programme to increase customer focus in key areas such as ingredients and incorporate them in new product launches, competitor customer account management, planning and execution actions, and growing key product or product families.
Furthermore, Programme put in place to sharpen focus on our customers failure to make acquisitions and create value by integrating them into Commercial organisation re-aligned to focus on key categories.
the Group effectively, may also affect our ability to deliver growth.
Failure to deliver our strategy over the longer term would negatively affect our credibility, reputation and profitability.
Innovation and Commercial Development team conducts research and Innovation works closely with customers and other external organisations to identify Innovate and commercialise new products emerging consumer trends Failure to identify important consumer trends and provide innovative Open innovation team actively scouts for breakthrough technologies and solutions, and the inability to successfully commercialise new opportunities across industries and universities products, could impact the delivery of our strategy.
This would affect Strategic marketing organisation provides support for new product our performance and reputation.
launches and consumer and category insight Prioritisation of partnership opportunities with customers to accelerate development cycles and bring new ingredients to market more quickly Tate & Lyle Ventures invests in early-stage companies in food science and technology by partnering with research institutions, entrepreneurs and other venture funds.
Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward employees People with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel Talent development strategy to provide opportunities for employees, as The performance, knowledge and skills of employees are central to well as training to close skills gaps our success.
We must attract, integrate, engage and retain the talent Single global performance management system and talent planning we need to deliver our strategy, and have the appropriate processes processes in place and culture in place.
Being unable to retain key people and Focus by the Board on succession planning for business-critical roles adequately plan for succession could have a negative impact on Measurement of progress against cultural objectives, for example, global our performance.
Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation in areas Legal and compliance such as health and safety, environment, quality, food safety, corporate Comply with legal and regulatory requirements, governance and data protection and our Code of Ethics Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as anti-trust and We operate in a variety of markets and are therefore exposed to a anti-corruption law: and provide ongoing training to employees wide range of legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must understand Ethics training provided to employees and comply with all applicable legislation.
Any breach could have a Full-time global Head of Ethics and Compliance appointed during the year financial impact and damage our reputation.
Whistleblowing process in place Speak Up programme Compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Cyber security enhancement programme in place focused on Cyber security strengthening people, process and technology defences Maintain the security of our information systems and data Compulsory cyber security training A cyber security breach, whether as a result of human error, Cyber security breach scenario exercises deliberate action or the failure of technology systems, could result in Advanced perimeter defences in place unauthorised access to or misuse of information systems, technology Continuous vulnerability detection and defences or data.
This could cause harm to our assets, loss of data, business disruption, legal liabilities and damage to our reputation.
Separation of systems within plant network Third-party Security Operations Centre providing 24 7 security monitoring, security event correlation and threat counter-measures.
40 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Preventive maintenance programme across the plant network Operations and supply chain Ongoing programme to improve global supply chain processes Maintain the continuous operation of our plant network and Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly as supply chain, including high standards of customer service practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in the event Operating plants involves many risks which could cause temporary of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure or permanent breaks in production.
We must have a robust sales Dedicated internal resources allocated to key projects in conjunction with and operations planning process to avoid disruption to the supply business teams to ensure business continuity is not compromised chain and maintain high standards of customer service.
Failure to do Customer service managed by Global Operations as part of integrated any of these things could have a material adverse effect on our end-to-end supply chain process.
Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies including Raw materials multi-year agreements Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation with energy, freight and other operating inputs customers to manage balance of raw material prices and product sales Our margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due to prices and volume risks factors such as alternative crops, co-product values and the Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security of supply variability of local or regional harvests caused by, for example, Network of corn elevators to enhance security of supply weather conditions, crop disease, climate change or crop yields.
New or back-up supply sources in place in case primary suppliers face In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or due localised challenges to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to customers Use of derivatives and forward contracts where practical, to hedge and the full increase in raw material prices or higher energy, freight or manage our exposure to raw material and co-product prices.
Additionally, margins may be affected by customers not taking expected volumes.
Strict quality control and product testing procedures to ensure products Quality are released only with full quality control clearance Maintain the quality and safety of our products Quality policies, procedures and performance reviewed by the Board The safety of the consumers of our products is critical.
Poor quality Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points plans updated at all plants to or sub-standard products could have a negative impact on consumer be fully compliant with new US Food Safety Modernization Act safety and on our reputation and relationships with customers.
Immediate response Recall Committee meets promptly if a recall event occurs Third-party audit programme supplemented by internal global compliance audits Regular recall simulation exercises.
Global regulatory team, supported by external consultants, monitors Consumer concerns and food regulation local regulatory requirements affecting our products Changes in consumer, customer or government Global nutrition team initiates and monitors research and publications attitudes to our products concerning the use and functionality of our ingredients and maintains Our freedom or ability to operate may be affected by changes in global network of health and nutrition clinicians, academics and experts consumer or customer attitudes, food law and regulatory changes, Membership of trade organisations provides access to broader sources campaigns targeted at specific ingredients or technologies or other of information and ensures, where appropriate, a single voice for the factors that may impact the regulatory status or perception of our industry on regulatory and public interest issues affecting our ingredients products or of their functionality, efficacy or use.
We must ensure Maintenance of relations with regulatory authorities that the science behind our ingredients for example, health claims, Provision of clear information on ingredients provenance and traceability nutritional impact is supported by credible sources, clearly Research Advisory Group, chaired by a non-executive director and communicated and understood by relevant regulatory authorities.
comprising leading scientific experts, reviews critical aspects of the Failure to do so may restrict the markets for our products.
Groups innovation activities and provides guidance.
Programme in place to ensure that we actively engage in discussions Government regulations and trade policies with political parties, influencers and regulatory authorities in the main Changes in government regulations and or trade countries we operate in policies Active member of relevant industry trade associations Government actions or policies causing changes in tariffs, customs Model in place enabling production across the plant network to be adapted duties, or imposing import export limitations, or other barriers, may or optimised in the event of market restrictions in certain countries lead to our business incurring additional costs, or may restrict Operation of a global plant network means customers can be served opportunities for growth or prevent or limit our ability to operate in from different countries if products from certain markets are restricted certain markets.
or become economically less attractive Continue to invest in resources and infrastructure across different markets and geographies to diversify business mix.
Financial policies and standards are in place supported by procedures for Financial controls key financial processes, for example, capital expenditure Maintain an effective system of internal financial controls Financial risks are monitored and managed through a number of forums, Without effective internal financial controls, we could be exposed to for example, the regional Control Environment Councils financial irregularities and losses from acts which could have a Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed quarterly significant impact on the ability of the business to operate.
We must business and financial reviews safeguard business assets and ensure the accuracy and reliability of Minimum control standards are confirmed at the half-year and at the end our records and financial reporting.
of the financial year Automated controls are built into systems where possible.
