RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW Risk management objectives and principles The Group operates a strong and independent, business-minded risk management system.
Its main objective is to contribute to the sustainability of risk-adjusted returns through the implementation of an efficient risk management system.
The Group has adopted four primary risk management principles to better accomplish its major objectives: Govern risks transparently to obtain understanding and trust.
Consistency and transparency in risk-related processes and policies are preconditions for gaining the trust of various stakeholders.
Communicating risk goals and strategic priorities to governing bodies and providing a comprehensive follow-up in an accountable manner are key priorities for staff responsible for risk management.
Manage risks prudently to promote sustainable growth and resiliency.
Risk management acts as a backstop against excessive risk-taking.
Capital adequacy management and strong forward-looking tools and decision-making ensure the Groups sustainability and resiliency.
Ensure that risk management underpins the implementation of strategy.
Staff responsible for risk management provide assurance on the feasibility of achieving objectives through risk identification and management.
Identifying and adequately pricing risks, as well as taking risk mitigation actions, supports the generation of desired returns and the achievement of planned targets.
Use risk management to gain a competitive advantage.
Comprehensive, transparent and prudent risk governance facilitates understanding and trust from multiple stakeholders, ensuring the sustainability and resilience of the business model and the positioning of risk management as the Groups competitive advantage and strategic enabler.
Risk management framework The Groups risk management framework incorporates all the necessary components for comprehensive risk governance and is comprised of enterprise risk management, credit, financial and non-financial risk management, risk reporting and supporting IT infrastructure, cross-risk analytical tools and techniques such as capital adequacy management and stress-testing.
The following diagram depicts the risk management framework.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 57 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 58 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 GOVERNANCE The Group conducts its risk management activities within the framework of its unified risk management system.
The involvement of all governance levels in risk management, clear segregation of authority and effective communication between the different entities facilitate clarity regarding the Groups strategic and risk objectives, adherence to the established risk appetite and sound risk management.
The Groups governance structure ensures adequate oversight and accountability, as well as clear segregation of duties.
The Board and the Supervisory Board have joint overall responsibility to set the tone at the top of the Group and monitor compliance with the established objectives, while the Management Board governs and directs the Groups daily activities.
1 1 1 The risk governance structure consists of three board levels, including the Board, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board.
All three boards have dedicated risk committees.
The Board and the Supervisory Board each have a Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee that supervises the risk profile and risk governance practice within the Group, as well as an Audit Committee that is responsible for implementing key accounting policies and facilitating internal and external auditor activities.
The Management Boards Risk Committee was established to guide the Group-wide risk management activities and monitor major risk trends to ensure that the risk profile complies with the established risk appetite.
The Management Boards Operational Risk Committee makes decisions related to operational risk governance, while the Assets and Liabilities Management Committee ALCO is responsible for the implementation of asset-liability management policies.
The Board, the Supervisory Board and the Banks senior management govern risk objectives through the Risk Appetite Statement, which establishes the desired risk profile and risk limits for different economic environments.
The statement also sets monitoring and reporting responsibilities, as well as escalation paths for different trigger events, and limits breaches, which prompt risk teams to frame and implement established mitigation actions.
To effectively incorporate the Groups risk appetite into day-to-day operations, Risk Appetite Statement metrics are cascaded into more granular limits at the business unit level, establishing risk allocation across different segments and activities.
1 These terms are defined in the glossary on page 299 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 59 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The process of setting and cascading the risk appetite is ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT undertaken in parallel with the business planning process.
The centralised enterprise risk management ERM The interactive development of business and risk plans function is in place to ensure the effective development, aligns the plans by solving risk-return trade-offs in the communication and implementation of risk strategy and process and increases the feasibility of achieving targets.
risk appetite across the Group.
The ERM function facilitates The Board level oversight, coupled with the permanent cross-risk activities such as aggregation, analytics and involvement of senior management in the Groups risk reporting and addresses issues that are not specific management and the exercise of top-down risk allocation to a single type of risk.
Accordingly, the ERM function by the enterprise risk management function, ensures complements the role of other risk functions to ensure clarity regarding risk objectives, intense monitoring of the coverage of key risk activities and responsibilities and the risk profile against the risk appetite, the prompt builds capabilities in a centralised team.
The major ERM escalation of risk-related concerns and the establishment functions can be summarised as follows: of remediation actions.
Risk appetite development, cascading and monitoring The daily management of individual risks is based on the are essential elements of the Groups strategy.
A risk three lines of defence principle.
While business lines are budget is allocated to individual business lines to ensure the primary owners of risks, risk teams act as the second the achievement of aggregated metrics.
line of defence by sanctioning transactions, tools and Internal capital adequacy assessment is a continuous process within the Group to ensure adequate calculation techniques for risk identification, analysis, measurement, of unexpected losses and prompt respective mitigation monitoring and reporting.
The committees established at actions to assure solvency.
Economic capital is operational levels are charged with making transactionassessed for all the material risks of the Group, such level decisions as part of a framework comprised of clear as credit, financial, operational and market risks.
and sophisticated delegations of authority, based on the Additionally, individual economic capital calculations are four-eyes principle.
All new products and projects supplemented by enterprise-wide stress-tests.
Based pass through risk teams to ensure that the risks are on the selected stress scenarios, the Group calculates comprehensively analysed.
These control arrangements losses and projects capital adequacy ratios.
This guarantee that the Group makes informed decisions that exercise helps the Group to define the capital buffers are adequately priced and that any risks exceeding the that are to be held to meet the regulatory requirements Groups established targets are not taken.
Credit, liquidity, under predefined stress scenarios.
market, operational and other non-financial risks are each Stress-testing exercises are one of the crucial tools managed by dedicated teams.
for effective risk identification, measurement and mitigation.
In that regard, the Group continuously The Groups strong and independent risk-management advances its stress-testing capabilities and tools.
Stress structure enables the fulfilment of all required risk testing at both the transaction and portfolio levels forms management functions within the second line of defence part of the regular risk management activities.
by highly skilled professionals, with a balanced mix Consistency of risk management practices within of credentials in banking and real sectors in local and the Group is also an important task of the ERM.
risk management function dedicated to promoting consistency ensures that the risks are identified, In addition to the risk teams subordinated to the chief risk measured and governed in an optimal manner within the officer, the compliance department reports directly to the Group, and reported and understood on a consolidated CEO and is specifically in charge of anti-money laundering basis.
The Group-wide approach to risk management and compliance risk management.
As a third line of became even more crucial considering the Groups international strategy to ensure that the risks are defence, the internal audit department is responsible managed properly across the Group.
for providing independent and objective assurance and Generating an adequate return on risk plays a crucial recommendations to the Group to promote the further role in the sustainability of the business model.
Risk improvement of operations and risk management.
inputs for pricing are designed in a way to serve as a backdrop against excessive risk taking and guarantee that the Group takes adequately priced risks.
60 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 After a thorough assessment of borrowers requirements, CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT credit analysts in the case of corporate and loan officers As a provider of banking services, the Group is exposed in the case of SME borrowers prepare a presentation to the risk of loss due to the failure of a customer or containing certain key information in relation to the counterparty to meet its obligations to settle outstanding potential borrower and submit it for review to the business amounts in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit risk is the underwriting risk management unit.
An underwriting risk most material risk faced by the Group since it is engaged manager ensures that the project analysis provided by mainly in traditional lending activities with a simple balance the credit analyst loan officer is complete, all risks and sheet.
Thus, the Group dedicates significant resources to mitigating factors are identified and adequately addressed, its management.
and the loan is properly structured.
Business underwriting risk managers specialise in a particular sector to be aware Due to the significant reliance on foreign currencies in of current industry trends and developments.
Georgias economy, currency-induced credit risk is a significant component of credit risk, which relates to A multi-tiered system of loan approval committees risks arising from foreign currency-denominated loans is in place with different approval levels to consider to unhedged borrowers in the Groups portfolio.
Credit the borrowers overall indebtedness and risk profile.
risk also includes concentration risk, which is the risk These committees are responsible for reviewing credit related to credit portfolio quality deterioration due to applications and approving exposures, with different large exposures provided to single borrowers or groups committees based on the size and risk of the loan.
At of connected borrowers, or loan concentration in certain the highest level, the Chief Executive Officer, corporate economic industries.
business director and chief risk officer are involved.
In addition, exposures to the 20 largest borrowers or for The major objectives of credit risk management are to amounts exceeding 5% of the Banks regulatory capital put in place a sound credit approval process for informed would require review and approval by the RECC.
risk-taking and procedures for effective risk identification, monitoring and measurement.
Loan officers submit the credit applications for retail and micro exposures to the respective underwriting risk The Group adopts segmentand product-specific management units.
Depending on the amount of the loan, approaches for prudent and efficient credit risk a loan approval committee will review the loan request management.
Therefore, the corporate, MSME and based on specified limits regarding the risk level of the retail portfolios are managed separately to address the customer.
Corporate and MSME except micro borrowers have larger exposures and are The underwriting of unsecured retail loans, point-of-sale managed on an individual basis, whereas micro and retail loans and credit cards is largely automated, with decisions borrowers are managed on a portfolio basis.
Major credit based on internal scorecard models and ratings provided risk functions can be summarised as follows.
Different scorecard models are developed based on the type of product and the borrowers Credit approval segment, taking into consideration various internal and The Group strives to ensure a sound credit-granting external data.
The performance of scorecard models is process by establishing well-defined lending criteria closely monitored to ensure that decisions are in line with and building up an efficient process for the assessment predefined risk limits.
A comprehensive credit risk assessment framework is in place with a clear segregation The new regulations on responsible lending added new of duties among parties involved in the credit analysis and requirements to the documented income verification approval process.
The credit assessment process is distinct procedures that the Bank is performing in addition to its across segments, and is further differentiated across internal processes for underwriting decisions.
various product types to reflect the differing natures of these asset classes.
Corporate, SME and larger retail and micro loans are assessed on an individual basis, whereas the decision-making process for smaller retail and micro loans is largely automated.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 61 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Currency-induced credit risk Along with managing concentration levels in the portfolio, the Group estimates unexpected losses and respective The Group faces currency-induced credit risk, given that economic capital for concentrations of both single name a large part of its exposure is denominated in foreign borrowers and sectors using the Herfindahl-Hirschman currency.
However, limits have been established within Index, thus ensuring that sufficient capital is held against the risk appetite framework to ensure that the Group concentration risk.
continues its efforts toward minimising the share of foreign currencies in the portfolio.
Collateral management policy Collateral represents the most significant credit risk Various management tools and techniques are applied mitigation tool for the Group, making effective collateral to mitigate the inherent currency-induced credit risk management one of the key risk management components.
in the loan book, encompassing all phases of credit Collateral on loans extended by the Group may include, risk management.
In January 2019, the Government but is not limited to, real estate, cash deposits, vehicles, authorities continued their efforts to reduce the economys equipment, inventory, precious metals, securities and thirddependence on foreign currency financing by increasing party guarantees.
The collateral accepted against a loan the cap to GEL 200,000 under which loans are required to depends on the type of credit product and the borrowers be disbursed in local currency.
In addition, the NBG, under credit risk.
The Group has a largely collateralised portfolio its responsible lending initiative, which came into force on in all its segments, with real estate representing a major 1 January 2019, introduced significantly more conservative share of collateral.
PTI and LTV thresholds for unhedged retail borrowers further limiting the exposure to currency induced credit A centralised unit for collateral management governs risk.
The Group applies conservative lending standards the Groups view and strategy in relation to collateral to unhedged borrowers with exposures denominated management, and ensures that collateral serves as an in foreign currencies to ensure that they can withstand adequate mitigating factor for credit risk management a certain amount of forex depreciation without credit purposes.
The collateral management framework consists quality deterioration.
In addition to the measures in place of a sound independent valuation process, a haircut throughout the underwriting process, the Group actively system throughout the underwriting process, collateral monitors and assesses the quality of loans denominated monitoring including revaluations and statistical analysis, in foreign currencies through stress-testing exercises and revaluations and collateral portfolio analysis.
holds sufficient capital buffers against unexpected losses.
Throughout the underwriting process, the Collateral In the event of a material currency depreciation, the Management and Appraisal Department CMAD appraises Group has tools in place to accelerate its monitoring the provided collateral in accordance with International efforts, identify customers with potential weaknesses and Valuation Standards IVS, acting NBG regulations and introduce prompt mitigation.
In specific instances, such as lending to related parties and material transactions, Credit concentration risk valuations are implemented by external appraisers.
The Group is exposed to concentration risk, defined as the potential deterioration in portfolio quality due to large The collateral management function is fully automated exposures or individual industries.
It has established a set through web and mobile applications for field and desk of tools to efficiently manage concentration risk and, in activities.
The internal appraisal function as a part of the particular, concentrations of single names and sectors in CMAD is fully independent from the loan-granting process the portfolio.
to ensure that adequate appraisals are obtained and proper procedures are followed.
When appraising collateral, the The Group is subject to concentration limits on single Group applies haircuts to the assets market value based names and the largest 20 borrowers, and is focused on on the property type and its location.
optimising the structure and quality of the latter portfolio.
In addition, the Group imposes limits on individual sectors Collateral of significant value is revaluated annually with more conservative caps applied for high-risk sectors, through an individual approach.
While statistical methods which are defined based on comprehensive analysis of are used to monitor the value of collateral of non-significant industry cycles and outlook.
The collateral management function uses market Credit concentrations are monitored monthly.
Trends in the researches implemented under the projects real estate risk positions are analysed in detail and corrective actions market laboratory REM lab.
are recommended should new sources of risk or positive developments emerge.
62 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Credit monitoring Loan recovery plans may include all available sources The Groups risk management policies and processes are of loan recovery, such as selling the borrowers assets, designed to identify and analyse risk in a timely manner realising collateral or payments under guarantees.
The Groups goal in the recovery process is to negotiate a and to monitor adherence to predefined limits by means of loan recovery strategy with the borrower and secure cash reliable and timely data.
The Group dedicates considerable recoveries to the extent possible, or to negotiate repayment resources to gain a clear and accurate understanding of through the sale or repossession of collateral.
the credit risk faced across various business segments.
Collection functions for retail and micro loans support The Group uses a robust monitoring system to react customers who are experiencing difficulties in fulfilling promptly to macro and micro developments, identify their obligations.
Such customers may miss payments weaknesses in the credit portfolio and outline solutions to or notify the Group about their difficulty with loan make informed risk management decisions.
A centralised team monitors retail borrowers processes are tailored to the specifics of individual in delinquency which, coupled with branches efforts, aims segments, as well as encompassing individual credit to maximise collection.
Special software from FICO is used exposures, overall portfolio performance and external for early collection management purposes.
Collection trends that may impact on the portfolios risk profile.
strategies are defined based on the size and type of Early warning signals serve as an important advance alert exposure.
Specific strategies are tailored to different subsystem for the detection of credit deteriorations, leading to groups of customers, reflecting their respective risk levels, mitigating actions.
so that greater effort is dedicated to customers with a The RECC reviews reports relating to the credit quality higher risk profile.
of the loan portfolio quarterly.
By comparing current Retail and micro loans are generally transferred to the data with historical figures and analysing forecasts, the recovery unit at 60-90 days past due.
Collateralised loans management believes that it can identify risks and respond are transferred to the internal recovery unit, whereas to them by amending its policies in a timely manner.
the Group collaborates with external collection agencies Restructuring and collections for unsecured loans.
To recover collateralised loans, The Group uses a comprehensive portfolio supervision the recovery plan is outlined considering the individual system to identify weakened credit exposures and promptly borrowers specifics and may involve loan repayments take early remedial actions when necessary.
The collection under revised schedules or the sale of collateral.
Collection and recovery processes are initiated when the borrower agencies generally negotiate with the borrowers so that does not meet the agreed payments or the borrowers the full repayment of the loan or loans can be rescheduled financial standing is weakened, potentially jeopardising and repaid accordingly.
the repayment of the credit.
Once the exposure is transferred to the recovery unit, if Dedicated restructuring and recovery units manage the Group is unable to negotiate acceptable terms with the weakened borrowers across all business segments, borrower, the Group may initiate collateral repossession, with collection and recovery strategies tailored for which is usually a standard process with limited legal business segments and individual exposure categories.
complications, and may include court, arbitration or The restructuring units primary goal is to rehabilitate notary procedures.
Restructuring and recovery units are the borrower and transfer the exposure back to the supported by qualified incumbent lawyers for efficient performing category.
The sophistication and complexity accomplishment of litigation and repossession processes.
of the rehabilitation process differs based on the type and size of the exposure.
Corporate and SME borrowers are transferred to the recovery unit when there is a strong probability that a material portion of the principal amount will not be paid, and the main stream of recovery is no longer the borrowers cash flow.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 63 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Provision assessment repayment maturity and monitoring processes held by From January 2018, the Group moved to a new provisioning the Group affect the lifetime determination.
methodology in line with IFRS 9 requirements.
The Stage III instruments - a default event has already updated methodology makes it possible to assess loanincurred and the lifetime ECL is estimated based on the loss provisions and allowances accurately with the expected recoveries.
In addition, the new IT tool for provisioning was implemented along FY2018 was the first year after the transition to IFRS 9. with methodology development.
The Group actively reviewed and monitored the results produced from IFRS 9 models to ensure that respective The project was undertaken with the support of Deloitte results adequately capture expected losses.
and the representatives of the Groups risk, finance and IT departments were responsible for the methodology and IT tool implementation.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk management The new models are more complex and make it possible Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group either may not to incorporate expectations of macro developments based have sufficient financial resources available to meet all its on predefined scenarios.
The expected credit loss ECL obligations and commitments as they fall due, or may only measurement is based on four components used by the be able to access those resources at a high cost.
Group: i probability of default PD : ii exposure at default EAD : iii loss given default LGD : and iv Both funding and market liquidity risks can emerge from a discount rate.
number of factors that are beyond the Groups control.
Due to financial market instability, factors such as a downgrade The Group uses a three-stage model for the ECL in credit ratings or other negative developments may affect measurement and classifies its borrowers across three the price or ability to access the funding necessary to make stages: payments in respect of the Groups future indebtedness.
Liquidity risk is managed by the financial risk management Stage I - the Group classifies its exposures as Stage I if and treasury departments and is monitored by the no significant deterioration in credit quality has occurred Management Boards Risk Committee or the Assets and since the initial recognition and the instrument was not Liabilities Management Committee ALCO within their credit-impaired when initially recognised: predefined functions.
Stage II - the exposure is classified as Stage II if any significant deterioration in credit quality has been The principal objectives of the Groups Liquidity Risk identified since the initial recognition but the financial Management Policy are to: instrument is not considered credit-impaired: and i. ensure the availability of funds to meet claims arising Stage III - the exposures for which the credit-impaired from total liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments, indicators have been identified are classified as Stage III both actual and contingent, at an economic price: instruments.
recognise any structural mismatch existing within the The ECL amount differs depending on exposure allocation Groups statement of financial position and set monitoring to one of the three stages: ratios to manage funding in line with the Groups wellbalanced growth: and Stage I instruments - the ECL represents that portion of iii.
monitor liquidity and funding on an ongoing basis to the lifetime ECL that can be attributed to default events ensure that approved business targets are met without occurring within the next 12 months from the reporting compromising the Groups risk profile.
Stage II instruments - the ECL represents the lifetime The Management Board reviews the Liquidity Risk ECL, i. e. credit losses that can be attributed to Management Policy, which is then presented to the Board possible default events during the whole lifetime of a and the Supervisory Board for approval.
Generally, lifetime is set equal Liquidity risk is categorised into two risk types: funding to the remaining contractual maturity of the financial liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
Factors such as the existence of contractual repayment schedules, options for the extension of 64 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Funding liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not investors, local interbank short-duration term deposits be able to efficiently meet both expected and unexpected and loans, proceeds from sales of investment securities, current and future cash flows without affecting either its principal repayments on loans, interest income and fee daily operations or its financial condition under both normal and commission income.
To manage funding liquidity The Board believes that a strong and diversified funding risk, the Group has an internally developed model using a structure is one of the Groups differentiators.
The Group liquidity coverage ratio LCR and a net stable funding ratio relies on relatively stable deposits from Georgia as the NSFR, both under Basel III liquidity guidelines.
To maintain and further enhance its Additionally, the Group applies stress-tests and whatliability structure, the Group sets targets for retail deposits if scenario analyses and monitors the NBGs minimum in its strategy and sets loan-to-deposit ratio limits.
In 2017, the NBG introduced its own LCR The Group also sets deposit concentration limits for for liquidity risk management purposes.
In addition to large deposits and deposits of non-Georgian residents in the Basel III guidelines, the ratio applies conservative its deposit portfolio.
The Board believes that the Group approaches to the weighting of mandatory reserves and has sufficient liquidity to meet its current onand offdeposit withdrawal rates depending on the client groups balance-sheet obligations.
For further information on the concentration.
From September 2017, the Bank also management of liquidity risk, please refer to Note 36 to the monitors compliance with the NBGs LCR limits.
In addition Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
to the total LCR limit, the NBG has also defined limits per currency for the GEL and foreign currencies.
Market risk The Group follows the Basel Committees definition of The LCR is calculated by reference to the qualified liquid market risk as the risk of losses in onand off-balanceassets divided by 30-day cash net outflows.
It is used to sheet positions arising from movements in market prices.
help manage short-term liquidity risks.
The NSFR is These risks are principally: a risks pertaining to interestcalculated by dividing the available stable funding by the rate related instruments and equities in the trading book required stable funding.
It is used for long-term liquidity financial instruments or commodities held for trading risk management to promote resilience over a longer time purposes : and b foreign exchange risk and commodities horizon by creating additional incentives for the bank to rely risk throughout the Group.
on more stable sources of funding on a continuing basis.
The Groups strategy is not to be involved in trading Market liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot easily financial instruments or investments in commodities.
offset or eliminate a position at the then-current market Accordingly, the Groups only exposure to market risk is price because of inadequate market depth or market foreign exchange risk in its structural book, comprising disruption.
To manage market liquidity risk, the Group its regular commercial banking activities which have no follows the Basel III guidelines on high-quality liquidity trading, arbitrage or speculative intent.
asset eligibility to ensure that the Groups high-quality liquid assets can be sold without causing a significant Foreign exchange risk movement in price and with minimum loss of value.
The NBG requires the Bank to monitor both balance-sheet and total aggregate balance including off-balance-sheet In addition, the Group has a liquidity contingency plan, open currency positions and to maintain the latter within which forms part of the overall prudential liquidity policy.
20% of the Banks regulatory capital.
For the year ended The plan is designed to ensure that the Group can meet 31 December 2018, the Bank maintained an aggregate its funding and liquidity requirements and maintain its balance open currency position of 7.6%.
core business operations in any deteriorating liquidity conditions that could arise outside the ordinary course of In addition, the Supervisory Board sets further limits on its business.
The ALCO has set limits on the level of exposure by currency and for total aggregate Funding and maturity analysis position that are more conservative than those set by the The Groups principal sources of liquidity include NBG and the Supervisory Board.
The heads of the treasury customer deposits and accounts, borrowings from and financial risk management departments separately local and international banks and financial institutions, monitor the Banks compliance with these limits daily.
subordinated loans from international financial institution Compliance with these limits is also reported daily to the TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 65 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Management Board and periodically to the Supervisory Counterparty risk Board and its Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
On Through performing banking services, such as lending the Group-wide level, foreign-exchange risk is monitored in the interbank money market, settling a transaction in and reported monthly.
A value-at-risk analysis following the interbank foreign exchange market, entering into the Basel guidelines is used to assess the Banks minimum interbank transactions related to trade finance or investing capital requirements under the Internal Capital Adequacy in securities, TBC Bank is exposed to the risk of losses due Assessment Process ICAAP framework monthly.
to the failure of a counterparty bank to meet its obligations.
Interest rate risk management To manage counterparty risk, the Bank defines limits on an Interest rate risk arises from potential changes in market individual basis for each counterparty, while on a portfolio interest rates that can adversely affect the value of the basis it limits the expected loss from both treasury Groups financial assets and liabilities.
This risk can arise and trade finance exposures.
As of 31 December 2018, from maturity mismatches of assets and liabilities, as well TBC Banks interbank exposure was concentrated with as from the re-pricing characteristics of such assets and banks that external agencies, such as Fitch, Moodys and liabilities.
The deposits and most of the loans offered by Standard and Poors, have assigned high A-grade credit the Group are at fixed interest rates, while a portion of the ratings.
Groups borrowing is based on a floating interest rate.
NON-FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups floating rate borrowings are, to a certain extent, hedged because the NBG pays a floating interest Operational risk management rate on the minimum reserves that TBC Bank holds with One of the main risks that the Group faces is operational it.
Furthermore, many of TBC Banks loans to and deposits risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate from customers contain a clause allowing it to adjust or failed processes and systems, human error, fraud the interest rate on the loan deposit in case of adverse or external events.
It includes legal risk but excludes interest rate movements, thereby limiting exposure to strategic and reputational risk.
However, reputational risk interest rate risk.
The management also believes that TBC management is also given high importance and priority Banks interest rate margins provide a reasonable buffer and is an integral part of the organisations overall risk to mitigate the effect of a possible adverse interest rate culture.
The Group is exposed to many types of operational risk, The Group employs an advanced framework for the including: fraudulent and other internal and external management of interest rate risk by establishing criminal activities: breakdowns in processes, controls or appropriate limits, monitoring compliance with them and procedures: and system failures or cyber-attacks from preparing forecasts.
Interest rate risk is managed by the an external party with the intention of making the Groups financial risk management department and is monitored services or supporting infrastructure unavailable to its by the ALCO, which decides on actions that are necessary intended users, which in turn may jeopardise sensitive for effective interest rate risk management and follows information and the financial transactions of the Group, its up on their implementation.
The major aspects of interest clients, counterparties or customers.
rate risk management development and the respective reporting are periodically provided to the Management Moreover, the Group is subject to risks that cause disruption Board, the Supervisory Board, the Board and the RECC.
to systems performing critical functions or business disruption arising from events wholly or partially beyond The Group measures four types of interest-rate risk based its control, such as natural disasters, transport or utility on the source of the risk: i re-pricing risk: ii yield curve failures etc.
which may result in losses or reductions in risk: iii basis risk: and iv optionality embedded option service to customers and or economic losses to the Group.
The operational risks discussed above are also The Group considers numerous stress scenarios, applicable where the Group relies on outside suppliers including different yield curve shifts and behavioural of services.
Considering the fast-changing environment adjustments to cash flows such as deposit withdrawals and sophistication of both banking services and possible or loan prepayments, to calculate the impact on one-year fraudsters, the importance of constantly improving profitability and enterprise value.
Appropriate limits are processes, controls, procedures and systems is heightened set by the Supervisory Board and the Management Boards to ensure risk prevention and reduce the risk of loss to the Risk Committee.
66 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 To oversee and mitigate operational risk, the Group has Various policies, processes and procedures are in place to established an operational risk management framework, control and mitigate operational risks, including: which is an overarching document that outlines the general enacting an outsourcing risk management policy, which principles for effective operational risk management and enables the Group to control outsourcing vendor risk defines the roles and responsibilities of the various parties arising from adverse events and risk concentrations due involved in the process.
Policies and procedures enabling to failures in vendor selection, insufficient controls and effective management of operational risks are an integral oversight over a vendor and or services provided by a part of the framework.
vendor and other impacts to the vendor: The Management Board ensures a strong internal control implementing procedures to analyse systemic flaws and culture within the Group, where control activities are an take corrective measures to prevent the reoccurrence of integral part of operations.
The Board sets the operational significant losses: risk appetite and the Operational Risks Committee involving the operational risk management department oversees compliance with the limits.
The Operational in the approval process for new products and services to Risks Committee discusses the Groups operational risk minimise risks relating thereto: and profile and risk minimisation recommendations on a developing a special operational risk awareness regular basis.
programme for the Groups employees and providing regular training to further strengthen the Groups The operational risk management department acts as internal risk culture.
It is responsible for implementing the framework and appropriate policies and procedures to During the reporting period, one of the key operational risk enable the Group to manage operational risks, as well as management focus areas was the Risk and Control Selfmonitoring operational risk events, risk exposures against Assessment RCSA exercise, under which the Banks top risk appetite and material control issues.
The department priority processes were reviewed and areas of improvement is also responsible for the day-to-day management of were identified.
Additionally, the Bank was actively working operational risks using various techniques.
These include on development of a Bank-wide operational risk registry.
but are not limited to: Compliance running risk and control self-assessments, which are The compliance department is a key body executing the aimed at detecting possible gaps in operations and Banks compliance function, has a formal status and is processes with the purpose of suggesting appropriate independent from operating structural units and business corrective actions: lines.
The compliance functions role is executed by a forming an internal risk event database for further compliance officer, who acts as a compliance adviser and quantitative and qualitative analysis: coordinator, addressing compliance issues in structural performing internal control to detect systematic errors units or business lines.
The chief compliance officer in banking operations, internal fraud events and reports quarterly to the Risk, Ethics and Compliance monitoring key risk indicators: Committee, with a disciplinary reporting line to the CEO.
conducting scenario and root-cause analyses: The department is responsible for the Groups compliance providing business advisory services regarding nonand reputational risk management.
It implements and standard cases as well as assessments of new products monitors the fulfilment of requirements of the following and procedures: policies: monitoring IT incident occurrence and overseeing activities targeted at solving identified problems: and the Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Facilitation of obtaining insurance policies to transfer the risk of losses Tax Evasion Policy: from operational risk events.
the Related-Party Transaction Policy: the Share Dealing Policy: The operational risk management department has the Code of Ethics: and reinforced its internal control, risk assessment teams and the Whistleblowing Policy.
methodologies to further fine-tune the existing control environment.
The same applies to the set of actions The compliance department manages regulatory risk by directed to homogenise operational risk management conducting root cause analyses of customer complaints, processes throughout the Groups member companies.
the operational risk event database, internal audit findings The operational risk management department reports to the chief risk officer.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 67 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Conduct risk and litigation cases.
Based on the outcomes of these Conduct risk is defined as the risk to the delivery of fair analyses, it then initiates changes to internal instructions outcomes for customers and other stakeholders.
The or gives recommendations to the Banks structural units Group has adopted the Code of Conduct and the Code of on relevant process amendments.
The compliance officer Ethics, both of which set high ethical standards that each has the role of educator and adviser on compliance issues.
employee is responsible to uphold.
The compliance department delivers training courses via distance-learning and face-to face sessions to existing staff The Groups business holds a unique place of trust in members and newcomers, and promotes a compliance the lives of more than 2.4 million customers throughout culture within the Group.
Therefore, preserving market confidence through During 2018, the Bank was subject to an inspection by its the protection of our customers interests is of the utmost regulator, the NBG in connection with certain transactions importance for the financial stability of the Group and the which took place in 2007 and 2008.
The inspection alleged attainment of its strategic objectives.
that these transactions between Bank and certain entities The Groups employees undertake and perform their were not in technical compliance with the relevant Georgian responsibilities with honesty and integrity.
They are critical law relating to the regulation of conflicts of interest.
In to maintaining trust and confidence in its operations and February 2019, the Company, the Bank and the NBG issued upholding the important values of trust, loyalty, prudence a joint announcement, confirming that the Bank will: and care.
i pay approximately GEL 1 million: and ii implement a restructuring of the Banks Supervisory Board whereby the Additionally, the Groups management understands that it founding shareholders will step down from the Supervisory bears responsibility to a diversified group of domestic and Board.
In addition, TBC Bank continues to cooperate with international investors and needs to embrace the rules and the NBG to further improve the quality of the Banks mechanisms of protecting customers and maintaining the corporate governance and the Company will arrange an confidence of investors and financial markets.
The Groups external review of the Groups related party transactions, directors strive to establish the tone from the top, which practices and procedures.
The NBG also confirmed in the sets out the messages describing and illustrating the core joint statement that the Bank fully complies with economic components of good conduct.
normative requirements and limits set by the NBG.
In managing conduct risk, the Group entrusts different Separately, it is noted that the Georgian Office of Public departments and divisions with carrying out the task Prosecution has also launched an investigation into of managing, mitigating and eliminating conduct risk the same matter and there have not been any material across all the Groups operations with clients and other developments to date.
The compliance and operational risk departments cooperate to create a unified conduct risk Information Security Steering Committee management framework and assist the business lines and An Information Security Steering Committee has been departments in: established and charged with continuously improving information security and business continuity management 1. developing and maintaining policies and procedures processes and minimising information security risks.
The to ensure that the respective departments and committee has been formed to centralise the information individual employees comply with the provisions set security function, including physical security, HR security, out by regulatory provisions, best practice and the Code data security, IT security and business continuity.
of Conduct, the Code of Ethic and the Groups internal handbook: The Group invests in effective information security risk management, incident management and awareness 2. maintaining a liaison with the compliance department programmes, which are enhanced with automated tools regarding the administration of policies and procedures that ensure acceptable levels of information security risk and the investigation of complaints regarding the within the organisation.
Whenever preventive controls conduct of the department, its manager and or its are not applicable, comprehensive business continuity employees: and incident response plans ensure the Groups ability to operate on an ongoing basis and limit losses in the event of a severe business disruption.
68 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 3. ensuring that the product information provided The above approach ensures that the management of to clients by front-line employees is accurate and conduct risk is not limited to risk management units, complete, and is conveyed both in written and oral including the compliance department, but is fully form in a simple and understandable way regardless of embraced by front-line departments and that the proper the level of sophistication of a given client: conduct is fully integrated into required job skills.
4. maintaining records of client conversations and emails that contain sensitive and sales-related VIABILITY STATEMENT information, including information pertaining to the The assessment of principal risks underpins the Viability acquisition of new clients and making complex product Statement in the Directors Report for 2018 see pages offers to existing and prospective clients: 118 to 119.
The assessment involved consideration of 5. delivering timely on-going training for new the Groups current financial position over three years of employees regarding proper conduct and ensuring that coverage ending 1 January 2022, which is relevant to the all employees stay up to date on evolving compliance strategic considerations of the Group.
standards within the Group through periodic training: 6. developing an open culture that encourages employees to speak up without fear of punishment.
Specifically, this means setting up processes for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest, creating ethical incentives and bonus formulas, and aligning incentives and disciplinary practices to the Groups risk appetite: and 7. employing qualified staff and sufficient human and technological resources to investigate, analyse, implement and monitor sales and after-sales activities.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 69
