44 Principal risks and uncertainties The following table summarises the Groups TheBoard has finalised its assessment of these other sustainability issues that could affect the principal risks and uncertainties.
Control of each risks and has concluded that the likelihood of Group.
In addition, our climate change-related of these is critical to the ongoing success of the these principal risks affecting the business has risks and opportunities are available as part of business.
As such, their management is primarily remained at the level previously reported.
More information is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the We maintain a Sustainability and Climate available at www.
co. uk corporate GMT, together with the roles noted below.
Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor Robust risk management underpins our strategic approach, with each risk areaidentified and carefully monitored by the Board and management team.
Risks Risks A, C, D, A, B, C, E, F D, E, F Best in Customers and class efficient communities at the engine room heart of our strategy See pages 22 and 23 See pages 14 and 15 Becoming a customer-centric homebuilder Becoming the Build quality: employer getting itright first time of choice See pages 16 and 17 See pages 20 and 21 Risks Risks A, C, D, F D, F Optimising our strong landbank See pages 18 and 19 Risks A, D, E Key: A: Government policy and planning regulations The icons below help to signpost the B: Impact of the market environment on mortgage change in risk availability and housing demand Increase in risk C: Material costs and availability ofsubcontractors D: Ability to attract and retain high-calibre employees Decrease in risk E: Land purchasing F: Site and product safety Level risk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 A: Government policy and planningregulations leasehold properties, following their proposals to ban Overview Mitigation the sale of houses on a leasehold basis and plans to Additional initiatives and legislative and regulatory We operate within our comprehensive community-led lower future ground rents to a nominal fee.
Whilst amendments to the National Planning Policy planning strategy.
This improves communications with Taylor Wimpey no longer sells houses on a leasehold Framework NPPF were signalled by a Housing all parties, but especially local communities, thereby basis, like most other volume housebuilders, our White Paper in February 2017, to address the enhancing our ability to deliver developments that business model is to transfer the freehold, delivery of greater housing availability for the UK.
management and upkeep of apartments and other Consultations continued into 2018 and the We continually review changes to Building Regulations developments to third party organisations.
Government subsequently introduced amendments, and supporting guidance.
resulting in the issue in July 2018 of NPPF 2018 Responsibility We consult with Government agencies and Opposition and consequential changes to the National Planning parties on housing policy, both directly and indirectly Group Operations Director Policy Guidance.
as a member of industry groups, to highlight potential Regional Managing Directors The Government-backed Help to Buy HtB scheme issues and to understand any proposed changes to has helped to fund home deposits for certain regulations and policy.
During 2018, the Government We implemented the Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent announced that the current scheme would end as Review Assistance Scheme GRRAS in April 2017, for expected in 2021 and announced an extension our customers wishing to alter the terms of their lease scheme which will be in place from 2021 to 2023, to materially less expensive terms based on RPI.
We for first time buyers and which will be subject to Our ability to build great places to live is dependent take a prudent approach to the potential sale of regional home price caps.
The proposed changes upon creating site plans which inspire and delight freeholds with regard to our apartment schemes, by will allow an orderly unwind from the scheme, our customers, delivered at an affordable price.
excluding the potential for their sale revenues in our but as predicated will require a critical review of Obtaining timely planning permissions and achieving land purchasing decisions.
sales rates assumptions, unit mixes and likely other regulatory requirements and permits, is key to customer behaviour.
Progress in 2018 starting on site as soon as possible and to home In light of the Grenfell Tower tragedy, the Government delivery.
There remains a risk of delayed or refused Our customer and community engagement strategy is consulted on proposals to ban the use of combustible planning applications, increased timescales to the embedded and having a positive effect.
We have been materials in the external walls of high rise residential discharge of planning conditions and complexity successful in gaining planning consents throughout buildings.
Following the consultation, an amendment around Section 106 agreements and Community the year with particular emphasis on the conversion of to Approved Document B of the Building Regulations Infrastructure Levy CIL.
was issued in December 2018, implementing the As elements of the anticipated changes from the We continue to represent the Group, via the HBF, on proposals in full for works where an initial notice was introduction of the NPPF 2018 take effect, together broader planning and local plan matters, to ensure issued to the local authority on or after 21 December with the amendments to the HtB scheme announced local plans are robust and CIL charge schedules are 2018.
Changes to the Building Regulations are in October 2018, there could be a change in demand appropriate.
We have met with Government officials forward looking in terms of implementation.
In turn, this may lead to changes on a number of occasions through the year including In May 2018, Dame Judith Hackitts Independent to site mixes, and to extended time frames to gaining discussions on HtB, New Homes Ombudsman, Review of Building Regulations and Fire Safety the revised planning consents.
leasehold, and building remediation following the Hackitt Review was published, and the Government Hackitt Review.
subsequently committed to the full implementation Change in risk Following the amendment to Approved Document B of the recommendations contained within the review.
of the Building Regulations in December 2018, we The review was wide ranging, taking in the regulatory have taken measures to ensure all future home frameworks around the design, construction and designs will meet and fully comply with the relevant management of buildings, the advice and guidance amended regulations and standards.
Internally, we that supports those regulatory frameworks and the Potential impact on KPIs issued guidance in March 2018 which banned the use responsibilities of those involved throughout the life Unforeseen delays, our inability to obtain suitable of combustible materials on all new buildings over 18 cycle of the building.
The review recommended planning consents and disruption from changes to metres tall, and which also banned the use of desktop restrictions on the use of assessments in lieu of tests planning regulations, could impact on the number or studies as a means to demonstrate compliance with commonly referred to as desktop studies to type of homes that we build.
Approved Document B. demonstrate compliance with Approved Document B With the consultation on changes to developer of the Building Regulations.
The Government Following the implementation of the GRRAS, by the contributions and CIL, we may be required to meet consulted on this in spring 2018 and consequently end of 2018 we had varied over 2,600 leases, with a higher levels of planning obligations, so incurring included a full ban on the use of desktop studies further c. 1,900 accepted onto the scheme.
The locally produced CIL charge within the December 2018 amendment to schedules may increase costs, impacting the viability How does the Board review Approved Document B. of developments in our short term landbank.
Sir Oliver Letwin delivered his final report in Changes to Building Regulations on tall and other November 2018 the Letwin Review on the gap The Group Operations Director updates the Board on buildings, although likely to be limited in impact to the between planning permissions and starts on site.
developments concerning the planning and regulatory Group, could introduce delays to implementation, The Governments response to the recommendations backdrop, bringing to its attention any areas of concern.
re-work to sites and increased costs.
of the review is expected in early-2019.
Issues are then discussed by the Board which decides The end of HtB in 2021 and the extension scheme for Late in 2016, some customers expressed concern any necessary action.
first time buyers subject to regional caps until 2023, about the ground rent escalating terms of their The CEO Group Operations Director also report to the could see lower sales rates and potentially a greater leasehold agreements with their freeholder.
Board on areas of industry consultation with authorities.
number of smaller homes required by our customers.
These clauses exist for some Taylor Wimpey homes, Together, these changes could have a detrimental on sites commenced between 2007 and 2011, impact on the gross profit per plot.
and specified that ground rents will double every ten Read more on pages 8 to 11 years until the 50th year, at which point the rent is capped.
We resolved that such clauses were not consistent with our cultural values.
InOctober 2018, the Government launched a second consultation into 46 Principal risks and uncertainties continued B: Impact of the market environment on mortgage availability andhousing demand Overview Mitigation The cost of servicing a mortgage continues to be at historic lows.
However, a change Our local teams select the locations and home designs that best meet the needs of in business confidence, employment opportunities or significant changes in the the local community and customer demand in the present and future.
We evaluate Bank of England base rate that is not combined with wage growth could negatively new outlet openings on the basis of local market conditions and regularly review the impact the demand for housing, which may also lead to lower selling prices.
pricing and incentives that we offer.
We work closely with the financial services industry to ensure customers receive advice on the procurement of mortgage The ability of first time buyers to purchase homes is constrained by changes in products.
mortgage availability at the higher loan-to-value levels.
The Government-backed Help to Buy HtB scheme helps to fund the home deposit for these and other Progress in 2018 homebuyers.
During 2018, the Government announced that the current scheme We continue to promote the Government-backed HtB scheme and our customers would end as expected in 2021.
However, the Government also announced an demonstrate strong demand for the scheme.
We monitor usage of HtB by our extension scheme which will be in place between 2021 until 2023, for first time customer base to understand how the planned change to the scheme in 2021, and buyers only and which will be subject to regional home price caps.
its withdrawal in 2023, may impact the desired design and location of homes Sustained growth in interest rates, together with low wage inflation or reduced required in the future.
confidence in continued employment, could challenge mortgage affordability.
Strict Throughout 2018 we continued to develop good working relationships with guidelines are in place for lenders to assess mortgage affordability if interest rates established mainstream lenders and those wishing to increase volume within the were to rise.
Furthermore, the Bank of England has powers to set loan-to-value and new build market.
debt-to-income limits for financial institutions selling residential mortgages.
Responsibility How does the Board review thisrisk?
UK Sales and Marketing Director A suite of KPIs and leading indicators was introduced in 2011 to help the Board and GMT monitor economic conditions over the cycle.
Regional Sales and Marketing Directors Together with internal weekly sales data this provides a guide to prevailing market Relevance to strategy conditions.
A green, amber, red traffic lights system flags to the Board the nature and direction of risk.
The Board considers these in its decision making.
For example, we have piloted the Springboard rent to buy initiative to make home ownership possible for a greater number of people.
The majority of the homes that we build are sold to individual purchasers who take on mortgages to finance their purchases.
Loss of economic confidence as the UK leaves the EU may impact on demand for Read more on pages 26 to 27 new build housing and sales prices.
This may be tempered to some extent by the current imbalance between demand and supply.
Future decisions made by the Read more on pages 8 to 11 Government around homebuyer initiatives, new legislation or stamp duty, and by the Bank of England about interest rates, are likely to create both risks and opportunities for homebuilders and their customers.
Change in risk Potential impact on KPIs A reduction in demand for new homes below normal levels could negatively impact on both profit and cash generation, adversely affecting return on net operating assets.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 C: Material costs andavailability ofsubcontractors Overview Progress in 2018 A continued increase in housing demand and production may further strain the Availability of materials is generally in line with demand but there remain pinch points availability of skilled subcontractors and materials and put pressure on utility firms to with key products such as bricks, blocks, roof tiles and doors.
The Group has keep up with the pace of installation.
agreed product lines and volumes with key suppliers to mitigate long lead times and shortages, and can maintain a flexible level of particularly scarce materials at its Leaving the EU could reduce the availability of skilled workers given the relatively national warehouse.
large proportion of the labour force, particularly in the South East, that is from Eastern Europe.
We are continuing to trial several different build methods as alternatives to conventional brick and block.
The use of timber frame has been extended during Further, in the event that no deal is agreed between the UK and EU, on leaving the the year, with plans to increase its usage further over the coming 3-5 years.
EU the Group could experience some materials shortages as World Trade Employment of direct trades has been successfully trialled across Organisation rules are applied through the supply chain.
six regions in the country.
Together, this could result in build programme and completion delays and unexpected cost increases.
How does the Board review thisrisk?
The Group Operations Director reports to the Board on the national supplier Responsibility agreements.
This includes discussion of our meetings with key suppliers such as Group Operations Director brick contractors and any reporting by these companies.
Head of Procurement Any areas of concern such as labour or material supply are also reported on.
Regional Commercial Directors The suite of KPIs includes an assessment of build cost and market movements.
Relevance to strategy Read more on pages 26 to 27 Read more on page 34 We aim to commence work on new sites as soon as planning consents allow, to Q&A Read more on page 7 accelerate build progress and optimise return on capital employed.
The majority of work performed on our sites is subcontracted, providing flexibility and supporting Read more on page 29 our strategy.
Change in risk Potential impact on KPIs If the availability of subcontractors or materials is insufficient to meet demand, this could lead to longer build times and increased costs, thereby reducing profitability and return on capital employed.
Lack of skilled subcontractors could also result in higher levels of waste being produced from our sites and lower build quality.
Mitigation We maintain regular contact with suppliers, negotiating contract volumes, pricing and duration through our procurement and logistics function.
We provide high level and site-specific programme information to the subcontractor base to aid with demand planning.
When selecting our subcontractors, we consider competencies particularly in relation to health and safety, quality, previous performance and financial stability.
We announced a number of mitigating measures at our Capital Markets Day in May 2018.
We commenced a programme to take on more direct trades across key skills, adopting a hybrid labour model where we look to employ experienced hires and develop new talent for the industry through Apprenticeship and Career Conversion Schemes.
This supports Diversity and Inclusion and the Governments Social Mobility Pledge, Armed Forces Resettlement and working with disadvantaged groups such as ex-offenders and the homeless.
We are closely aligned with the Construction Industry Training Board and Home Builders Federation.
We also assess alternative build methods to reduce reliance on traditional brick and block techniques and resources.
48 Principal risks and uncertainties continued D: Ability to attract andretain high-calibre employees Overview Progress in 2018 Recruiting employees with inadequate skills or in insufficient numbers, or not being We extended the management training and graduate programme in response able to retain key staff with the right skills for the future, could have a detrimental to emerging gaps in our pipeline, leading to an increase in trainee and graduate impact on our business.
numbers and the types of programme we offer.
We have also increased our employment brand exposure through greater content being posted on channels Responsibility such as LinkedIn and Glassdoor.
In 2018, Taylor Wimpey was in the top 10 companies to work for according to Glassdoor, and we increased our LinkedIn Group HR Director following by over 30% and this now stands at 36,000.
Every employee managing people Since 2017, 227 Customer Service employees have been enrolled onto the Relevance to strategy Academy for Customer Excellence to improve the skills and confidence of our customer facing employees, and all new starters are automatically enrolled in the Learning the Essentials module.
The Production Academy provides a clear development pathway supported by an NVQ for Assistant Site Managers, Site Managers and Production Managers.
We are Our business model requires significant input from skilled people to deliver quality supporting over 250 site-based staff and c. 20 office-based Production Managers homes and communities.
There continues to be competition amongst employers in through the academy, with 77 people who have now achieved the Taylor Wimpey the housebuilding and construction industries for sector-specific staff.
We have increased the numbers of apprentices, both direct and indirect, exist across the industry in the main manual trades and in certain managerial and in the year.
This could impact our ability to achieve our strategic goals.
Change in risk The Board regularly reviews human resource and wider employee matters.
This is done through the consideration and discussion of regular reports submitted by Executive Directors and through regular reports and presentations from our senior management and external advisors.
The Board and individual Directors also undertake regular visits to our regional businesses and their development sites.
Potential impact on KPIs Not filling critical roles or having a significantly changing work force could lead to delays in build, quality issues, reduced sales levels, poor customer service and Read more on pages 20, 25, 32, 33 reduced profitability.
Read more on page 28 Mitigation We monitor employee turnover levels closely and conduct exit interviews to identify any areas for improvement.
We benchmark our remuneration to ensure that we are competitive within the industry.
Clear succession plans are in place for key roles within the Group.
Our renewed approach to succession planning enables more internal candidates to be promoted to senior roles.
We hold regular development reviews to identify training requirements.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 E: Land purchasing Overview Progress in 2018 The purchase of land of poor quality, at too high a price, or incorrect timing of The short term land market remained relatively benign throughout 2018, although land purchases in relation to the economic cycle could impact future profitability.
increasing competition was observed in a number of geographies particularly for smaller sites and good quality strategic land opportunities.
We continued to invest Responsibility in value-creating land opportunities, maintaining strong discipline on quality, margin and return on capital employed.
Divisional Managing Directors We are mindful of external factors and continue to critically assess opportunities Regional Managing Directors for robustness in changing circumstances.
The strong level of conversion from the Regional Land and Planning Directors strategic pipeline means our reliance on purchasing short term land is diminished, Strategic Land Managing Directors providing some insulation from land price increases.
Relevance to strategy How does the Board review thisrisk?
The Group Operations Director updates the Board on the latest developments in the land market and our material purchases and agreements.
The Board reviews the return on capital criteria for land in light of current market conditions.
For example, last year the Board raised the hurdle rate for Land is of primary importance to the Group.
Limited availability of good-quality new land acquisitions.
land at an attractive price can lead to significant and unsustainable competition.
The disciplined purchasing of land on attractive terms and at the right time and scale in the economic cycle, will support the Groups ability to deliver enhanced Read more on pages 26 to 27 and sustainable margins and returns on capital employed.
Read more on pages 9 and 18 Change in risk Potential impact on KPIs Purchasing poor-quality or mispriced land, or incorrectly timing land purchases, would have a detrimental impact on our profitability and return on capital employed.
Acquiring insufficient land would reduce our ability to actively manage our land portfolio and create value for shareholders.
Mitigation Our land teams prepare annual Land Strategy documents to guide their land searches to match the needs of each individual business.
They select and appraise each site, with the appraisal process ensuring that each project is financially viable, consistent with our strategy and appropriately authorised.
We strive to be the developer of choice, through a comprehensive approach encompassing land vendors, land agents, local councils and local communities.
Our strategic land teams work alongside regional businesses to identify and secure land with the potential for future development and to promote it through the planning system.
50 Principal risks and uncertainties continued F: Site and product safety Following guidance from the Governments Independent Expert Advisory Panel, we Overview have identified all buildings over 18 metres tall constructed by or for Taylor Wimpey, Construction sites and operations can present risks to health and safety.
Suitable and which incorporate Aluminium Composite Material ACM into their facade.
For all sufficient controls to eliminate or reduce the risks must be implemented and constantly such buildings, we have notified the persons responsible for the buildings and have monitored and measured.
Unsafe practices by our employees or subcontractors, directed them to the interim mitigation advice issued by Government.
In a number of and unsafe product quality, have the potential to cause death or serious injury.
instances where the special circumstances deemed it to be appropriate, we have In light of the Grenfell Tower tragedy, the Government consulted on proposals also followed Government guidance by seeking independent professional advice on to ban the use of combustible materials in the external walls of high rise residential any further action that should be taken.
Following the consultation, an amendment to Approved Document B HSE performance and issues are reviewed by the GMT on a timely basis and of the Building Regulations was issued in December 2018, implementing the actions put in place to continually drive improvement and rectify issues and help proposals in full for works where an initial notice was issued to the local authority on prevent a recurrence.
Changes to the Building Regulations are forward looking in terms of implementation.
Progress in 2018 In May 2018, Dame Judith Hackitts Independent Review of Building Regulations Our Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR for reportable injuries per 100,000 employees and Fire Safety the Hackitt Review was published.
The Government subsequently and contractors was 228 in 2018, an increase from our record low of 152 in 2017. committed to the full implementation of the recommendations contained within the Our AIIR for major injuries per 100,000 employees and contractors was 64 in 2018 review, including restricting the use of assessments in lieu of tests commonly 2017: 54.
Our AIIR remains below both the HBF Home Builder Average and the referred to as desktop studies to demonstrate compliance with Approved Health and Safety Executive Construction Industry Average, and we are committed Document B of the Building Regulations.
The Government consulted on this in to reducing it further.
spring 2018 and consequently included a full ban on the use of desktop studies We were deeply saddened by the death of a subcontractor on our Stoneley Park within the December 2018 amendment to Approved Document B. site in Crewe in July 2018 following a serious accident.
We are assisting the Health and Safety Executive with the ongoing accident investigation and await their Responsibility findings.
We have offered support to everyone working on the site, encouraging Director of Health, Safety and Environment them to access counselling via our employee assistance scheme.
Group Operations Director As a result of our incident analysis, we continued our increased focus on site Group Director of Design housekeeping and ensuring that both our site management teams and contractors Every employee and subcontractor check work areas prior to the commencement of new tasks and activities to ensure the relevant controls are in place and the work area is safe.
Relevance to strategy We continued to expand our successful Supervisory Safety initiative with over 5,000 Groundworks Supervisors trained to date.
Over 400 groundworkers were provided with HSE refresher training and HSE training for our Blue Hat support workers as part of our Creating a Site Team Approach.
Our operations involve, and interface with, a large number of people.
This ranges Following the amendment to Approved Document B of the Building Regulations in from employees and subcontractors to customers and their families who live on, or December 2018, we have taken measures to ensure all future designs will meet and visit, our sites each day.
We want everyone to go home at the end of the day fully comply with the relevant amended regulations and standards.
Internally, we uninjured and healthy.
issued guidance in March 2018 which banned the use of combustible materials on all new buildings over 18 metres tall, and which also banned the use of desktop Change in risk studies as a means to demonstrate compliance with Approved Document B.
Further, in light of Government advice on tall buildings, we have undertaken expert reviews on a number of buildings.
Where the ownership aspects and specific circumstances made this appropriate, we have worked with building owners, management companies, independent fire safety experts and local fire and Potential impact on KPIs rescue services to agree a schedule of works to remediate tall buildings with In addition to the potentially tragic personal impact of an accident on site or involving combustible ACM.
a customer after completion, there is potential for legal proceedings and civil action, financial penalties, reputational damage and subsequent delay to operations.
How does the Board review this risk?
HSE is the number one non-negotiable priority and is reviewed at every Board Mitigation meeting.
This includes a review of site safety status: incident rates: incident type A comprehensive Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Management System is with a focus on serious incidents.
Next steps, such as process and procedure embedded throughout the business, supported by policies and procedures to changes are reviewed and agreed upon.
ensure that we provide a safe and healthy working environment and build homes that comply with the required building standards and regulations.
Read more on pages 32 to 33 We provide extensive ongoing HSE training for our employees and provide HSE inductions and regular Site Safe Briefings for our contractors and operatives to supplement their HSE training.
Blue Hat support teams from our employee and contractor base on site, are integrated into our site management and support teams, where they assist our site managers to demonstrate and communicate the HSE ethos and support maintaining a safe site.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 regulation and the mortgage market.
However, the Board considers Assessment of Prospects that the Company has reasonable visibility over a five-year time horizon.
We consider the long term prospects of the Group in light of our This period aligns with the average build out time for a development business model.
Our strategy to deliver sustainable value is achieved phase from the point of land acquisition to final delivery to our customers.
through delivering high-quality homes in the locations where people want to live, with excellent customer service, whilst carefully managing The viability assessment includes the Groups income statement, our cost base and the Groups balance sheet.
Management rebalance sheet, cash flows, KPIs and debt covenants, and considers evaluates the medium to long term strategy, in the light of external, the potential impacts which may arise from the Principal Risks of the economic and industry changes.
If appropriate, management adapts business as described on pages 44 to 50.
It includes macro-economic the strategy accordingly, in light of changes: for example, for material and industry-wide projections as well as matters specific to the Group.
changes in planning and the wider housing market fundamentals.
The Group strategy is underpinned by our short term landbank, The assessment considers sensitivity analysis on a series of which supports c. 5.1 years of development at current completion realistically possible, but severe and prolonged, changes to principal levels.
Additionally, the Group ensures a strong, long term supply of assumptions.
This downside scenario reflects the potential impact of a land, with its Strategic Land business promoting land through the sharp decline in customer confidence, disposable incomes, and constrained planning process.
The Group has over eight-years supply higher mortgage interest rates as may be experienced as a secondary of land at current completion levels in its strategic land pipeline.
impact to the Group from the UK leaving the EU.
During 2019, we reduced volumes from 2018 levels by 30% and selling prices by 20%, Viability Statement with no recovery.
The assessment also reflects a one-off exceptional charge and cash cost of 150 million for an unanticipated event or fine.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the Finally, the recommencement of pension contributions at 40 million per annum has been modelled throughout the five-year period.
We prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board conducted their considered mitigating actions, assuming continued investment in land, albeit at a reduced level, and the continued payment of the annual viability assessment for a period of five years, having extended the assessment period from three to five years in 2017, and similarly ordinary dividend of 250 million throughout the period.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation extended the horizon of the 2018 operating plan to better reflect the forecast period that the Board considers.
The Company operates that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period of their assessment.
in a market which is prone to cyclicality, tending to follow the UK economic cycle.
It is impacted by Government policy, planning
