PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk management is a critical pillar of the Groups strategy.
It is essential to identify emerging risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact on the Groups performance, financial condition and prospects.
This section analyses the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
However, we cannot exclude the possibility of the Groups performance being affected by yet unknown risks and uncertainties other than those listed below.
More details regarding risk management practices can be found on pages 57 to 69.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and long-term viability of the Groups operations, in order to determine whether to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
For more information, please see the Going Concern and Viability Statements on pages 118 to 119.
The Group uses a robust monitoring system to react promptly 1.
PRINCIPAL RISK to macro and micro developments, identify weaknesses in Credit risk is an integral part of the Groups business the credit portfolio and outline solutions to make informed activities risk management decisions.
Monitoring processes are tailored to the specifics of individual segments, as well as As a provider of banking services, the Group is exposed to the encompassing individual credit exposures, overall portfolio risk of loss due to the failure of a customer or counterparty performance and external trends that may impact on to meet its obligations to settle outstanding amounts in the portfolios risk profile.
Additionally, The Group uses accordance with agreed terms.
a comprehensive portfolio supervision system to identify weakened credit exposures and promptly take early Risk description remedial actions when necessary.
Credit risk is the most material risk faced by the Group since it is engaged mainly in traditional lending activities.
The Groups credit portfolio is structurally highly diversified The Groups customers include legal entities as well as across customer types, product types and industry individual borrowers.
segments which minimizes credit risk at Group level.
As of 31 December 2018 retail segment represented 45.3% of Due to high level of dollarization of the Georgias economy, the total portfolio which was split between mortgage and currency-induced credit risk is a component of credit non-mortgage 57.7% and 42.3%, respectively.
In business risk, which relates to risks arising from foreign currencybanking, no single industry represented more than 7.5% of denominated loans to unhedged borrowers in the Groups the total portfolio at the end of 2018. portfolio.
Credit risk also includes concentration risk, which is the risk related to credit portfolio quality deterioration due Collateral represents the most significant credit risk to large exposures provided to single borrowers or groups mitigation tool for the Group, making effective collateral of connected borrowers, or loan concentration in certain management one of the key risk management components.
Loses may be further aggravated by Collateral on loans extended by the Group may include, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions.
These risks are but is not limited to, real estate, cash deposits, vehicles, described as a separate principal risks in more details.
equipment, inventory, precious metals, securities and third party guarantees.
Risk mitigation The Group has a largely collateralised portfolio in all its A comprehensive credit risk assessment framework is segments, with real estate representing a major share of in place with a clear segregation of duties among parties collateral.
As of 31 December 2018, 71.6% of the Groups involved in the credit analysis and approval process.
The portfolio was secured by cash, real estate or gold.
Sound credit assessment process is distinct across segments, collateral management framework ensures that collateral and is further differentiated across various product types serves as an adequate mitigating factor for credit risk to reflect the differing natures of these asset classes.
management purposes Corporate, SME and larger retail and micro loans are assessed on an individual basis, whereas the decisionmaking process for smaller retail and micro loans is 2.
Individual application underwriting and The Group faces currency-induced credit risk due to the automated underwriting rules are performed by units within high share of loans denominated in foreign currencies in the risk function that is independent from origination and the Groups portfolio.
The potential material GEL depreciation is one of the most significant risks that could negatively impact on the portfolio 50 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 quality due to the large presence of foreign currencies on 3.
PRINCIPAL RISK the Groups balance sheet.
Unhedged borrowers could The Groups performance may be compromised by adverse suffer from an increased debt burden when their liabilities developments in the economic environment.
denominated in foreign currencies are amplified.
A slowdown of economic growth in Georgia would have an Risk description adverse impact on the repayment capacity of the borrowers, A significant share of the Groups loans and a large share restraining their future investment and expansion plans.
of the total banking sector loans in Georgia is denominated These occurrences would be reflected in the Groups portfolio in currencies other than GEL, particularly in US$.
As of quality and profitability and would also impede the portfolio 31 December 2018, the NBG reported that 57.1% of the growth rates.
Negative macroeconomic developments could total banking sector loans were denominated in foreign compromise the Groups performance through various currencies.
As of the same date, 60.1% of the Groups total parameters, such as exchange rate depreciation, a spike in gross loans and advances to customers before provision for interest rates, rising unemployment, decrease in household loan impairment were denominated in foreign currencies.
disposable income, falling property values, worsening loan collateralisation, or falling debt service capabilities of The income of many customers is directly linked to the US$ companies as a result of decreasing sales.
via remittances, or exports in case of business borrowers.
Nevertheless, customers may not be protected against Potential political and economic instability in the significant fluctuations in the GEL exchange rate against the neighbouring and main trading partner countries could currency of the loan.
negatively impact Georgias economic outlook through a worsening current account e. g. decreased exports, tourism The US$ GEL rate remained volatile throughout the inflows, remittances and foreign direct investments.
2018, however YoY basis the US$ GEL appreciated only by 3.3%.
The NBG operates effectively under its inflationRisk description targeting framework.
The GEL remains in free float and is According to the Geostats initial estimates, real GDP exposed to many internal and external factors that in some increased by 4.8% in 2018.
This indicates a solid growth for circumstances could result in depreciation against the US$.
Georgian economy and underlines the economys resilience and strong growth potential, especially taking into account Risk mitigation the contractionary fiscal stance throughout the year and Particular attention is paid to currency-induced credit unfavourable developments in the region.
In addition to risk due to the high share of loans denominated in Georgias fiscal discipline, it is important to note that during foreign currencies in the portfolio.
The vulnerability to 2018: the exchange rate depreciation is monitored in order to promptly implement an action plan, as and when needed.
the inflation was low: The ability to withstand certain exchange rate depreciation the current account deficit has improved and performed is incorporated into the credit underwriting standards, below its long term trend: which also include significant currency devaluation buffers the real effective GEL exchange rate was below its long for unhedged borrowers.
In addition, the Group holds term trend and medium term average: and significant capital against currency-induced credit risk, there was a reduction in the FDI inflows, however, which was showed by the regulatory stress test as well.
Overall, FDI inflows remain Details of stress test are described on pages 118 to 119. main source of current account deficit.
Given the experience and knowledge built throughout the recent currency volatility, the Group is in a good position to Moreover, the NBG continued to build up its international promptly mitigate exchange rate depreciation risks.
reserves and there were no signs of overheating in Georgias housing market.
As for the system wide credit growth, while In January 2019, the Government authorities continued the penetration has increased, credit to GDP ratio was still their efforts to reduce the economys dependence on close to its long term trend, especially measured at constant foreign currency financing by increasing the cap to GEL exchange rate, and loan dollarization has been decreasing, 200,000 under which loans are required to be disbursed in though at a much slower pace in 2018. local currency.
In addition, the NBG, under its responsible lending initiative, which came into force on 1 January 2019, Overall, from a macro perspective there were no signs of introduced significantely more conservative PTI and LTV building up of system wide risks in 2018.
At the same time, thresholds for unhedged retail borrowers further limiting Georgia remains vulnerable to external and to some extent the exposure to currency induced credit risk.
internal shocks, which could have adverse impact on the TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 51 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Georgian economy resulting in lower growth or, in some period.
As of year-end 2018, the Banks minimum capital severe circumstances, a contraction of the economy.
These requirement increased by 1.5% for Tier 1 and 3.7% for negative developments could also have a negative impact on Total Capital compared to the end of 2017.
The increase in the GEL exchange rate.
minimum requirements is driven by introduction of systemic risk, concentration and GRAPE buffers.
Risk mitigation To decrease its vulnerability to economic cycles, the Group The Banks capitalisation as of December 2018 stood at 12.8% identifies cyclical industries and proactively manages its and 17.9% against the regulatory minimum requirement of underwriting approach and clients within its risk appetite 11.8% and 16.7% for Tier 1 and Total capital, respectively.
The ratios are well above the respective regulatory minimums.
As of December 2017 the Banks capitalisation The Group has in place a macroeconomic monitoring stood at 13.4% and 17.5% against the regulatory minimum process that relies on close, recurrent observations of requirement of 10.3% and 12.9% for Tier 1 and Total capital, the economic developments in Georgia, as well as its respectively.
neighbouring countries, to identify early warning signals indicating imminent economic risks.
This system allows From January 2018, the NBG has fully phased out the Basel I the Group to promptly assess significant economic and and Basel II III capital adequacy standards and has replaced political occurrences and analyse their implications for them with the updated capital framework, which is more the Group performance.
The identified implications are compliant with the Basel III guidelines.
duly translated into specific action plans with regards to Risk mitigation reviewing the underwriting standards, risk appetite metrics The Group undertakes stress-testing and sensitivity or limits, including the limits for each of the most vulnerable analysis to quantify extra capital consumption under industries.
Such analyses indicate that the Group Additionally, the stress-testing and scenario analysis holds sufficient capital to meet the minimum regulatory applied during the credit review and portfolio monitoring requirements.
processes enable the Group to have an advance evaluation Capital forecasts, as well as the results of the stress-testing of the impact of macroeconomic shocks on its business.
The and what-if scenarios, are actively monitored with the resilience towards a changing macroeconomic environment involvement of the Banks Management Board and Risk is incorporated into the Groups credit underwriting Committee to ensure prudent management and timely standards.
As such, borrowers are expected to withstand actions when needed.
certain adverse economic developments through prudent financials, debt-servicing capabilities and conservative collateral coverage.
PRINCIPAL RISK The Group is exposed to regulatory and enforcement 4.
The Group encounters the capital risk of not meeting The Banks activities are highly regulated and thus face the minimum regulatory requirements, which may regulatory risk.
The local regulator, the NBG, can increase compromise growth and strategic targets.
the prudential requirements across the whole sector as well as for specific institutions within it.
Therefore, the Groups The Bank is regulated by the National Bank of Georgia profitability and performance may be compromised by NBG.
The regulations and various terms of its funding and an increased regulatory burden, including higher capital other arrangements require compliance with certain capital requirements.
At the same time, the local regulator has the right to impose additional regulations on a Risk description bank if it perceives excessive risks and uncertainties in that The Bank is regulated by the NBG, who sets lending limits lender or in the market.
and other economic ratios including, inter alia, lending, liquidity and investment ratios in addition to mandatory Risk description capital adequacy ratios.
During 2018, the NBG introduced In December 2017 the NBG introduced a new capital several regulatory changes concerning the responsible adequacy framework.
The updated regulation divides lending standards.
The details are outlined in the RECC the current capital requirement across Pillar 1 and Pillar report on page 133 to 135.
2 buffers that are introduced gradually over a four-year 52 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 The NBG is also responsible for conducting investigations The dedicated compliance department reports directly to the into specific transactions to ensure compliance with Chief Executive Officer and bears the primary responsibility Georgian finance laws and regulations.
In that regard, the for regulatory compliance.
Bank was subject to an inspection by the NBG in connection The Groups RECC is responsible for regulatory compliance with certain transactions which took place in 2007 and at the Board level.
The inspection alleged that these transactions between the Bank and certain entities were not in technical In terms of banking regulations and Georgias taxation compliance with the Georgian law regulating conflicts of system, the Group is closely engaged with the regulator interest.
In February 2019, the Company, the Bank and the to ensure that new procedures and requirements are NBG issued a joint statement confirming the settlement discussed in detail before their implementation.
There was of this investigation and that the Bank fully complies with also an extensive dialogue with the regulator regarding the economic normative requirements and limits set by the new regulation on responsible lending.
Separately, it is noted that the Georgian Office of Public Prosecution has also launched an investigation into Together with the new regulation on responsible lending, the same matter and there have not been any material the government introduced initiatives to ensure continuous developments to date.
The respective regulatory disclosures broad access to financing.
These include simplification of in this regards can be found at www.
com the tax code to incentivize income registration rate.
Although decisions made by regulators are beyond the Under the Georgian banking regulations, the Bank is Groups control, significant regulatory changes are usually required, among other things, to comply with minimum preceded by a consultation period that allows all lending reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios and institutions to provide feedback and adjust their business regularly file periodic reports.
The Bank is also regulated by practice.
respective tax code or other relevant laws in Georgia.
As regarding the recent investigations by the NBG in Following the Companys listing on the London Stock February 2019, the Company, the Bank and the NBG issued Exchanges premium segment, the Group became subject a joint announcement, confirming that the Bank will: i to increased regulations from the UK Financial Conduct pay approximately GEL 1 million: and ii implement a Authority.
In addition to its banking operations, the Group restructuring of the Banks Supervisory Board whereby the also offers other regulated financial services products, founding shareholders will step down from the Supervisory including leasing, insurance and brokerage services.
In addition, TBC Bank continues to cooperate with the NBG to further improve the quality of the Banks corporate As part of the Groups international strategy, the ongoing governance and the Company will arrange an external merger between Nikoil Bank and TBC Kredit is subject to review of the Groups related party transactions, practices regulatory approval and the Groups intention is to increase and procedures.
over the four year period its shareholding in the merged entity to over 50%.
This will, in turn, increase the Groups exposure to the regulatory environment in Azerbaijan.
PRINCIPAL RISK addition, TBC Bank is working on the green field project The Group is exposed to concentration risk.
This project is currently in the development phase and is subject to approvals, including from the local Banks operating in developing markets are typically exposed authorities, which further increases regulatory compliance to both single-name and sector concentration risks.
The Groups operations remain in full compliance with all The Group has large individual exposures to single-name relevant legislation and regulations.
The Group is also borrowers whose potential default would entail increased subject to financial covenants in its debt agreements.
For credit losses and high impairment charges.
more information, see page 281 in the Groups Audited Financial Statements.
The Groups portfolio is well diversified across sectors, resulting in only a moderate vulnerability to sector Risk mitigation concentration risks.
However, should exposure to common risk drivers increase, the risks are expected to amplify The Group has established systems and processes to ensure correspondingly.
full regulatory compliance, which are ebedded in all levels of the Groups operations.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 53 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk description Risk description The Groups loan portfolio is diversified, with maximum Throughout 2018, the Group was in compliance with the exposure to the single largest industry energy and utility risk appetite limits, as well as the minimum liquidity standing at 7.5% of the loan portfolio as of 31 December requirements set by the NBG, which introduced a liquidity 2018.
This figure is reasonable and it demonstrates an coverage ratio in 2017.
This is in addition to the Basel III adequate credit portfolio diversification.
guidelines, under which a conservative approach was applied to the weighting of mandatory reserves and to the At the end of 2018 the exposure to the 20 largest borrowers deposit withdrawal rates, depending on the concentration stands at 14.2% of the loan portfolio, which is in line with the of client groups.
As of 31 December 2018, the net loan to Groups target of alleviating concentration risk.. deposits plus international financial institution funding ratio stood at 89.9%, the liquidity coverage ratio at 113.9%, and Risk mitigation the net stable funding ratio at 130.2%.
These figures are all The Group constantly checks the concentrations of its comfortably above the NBGs minimum requirements or exposure to single counterparties, as well as sectors guidance for such ratios.
and common risk drivers, and it introduces limits for risk mitigation.
Risk mitigation To mitigate this risk, the Group holds a solid liquidity position As part of its risk appetite framework, the Group limits both and performs an outflow scenario analysis for both normal single-name and sector concentrations.
Any considerable and stress circumstances to make sure that it has adequate change in the economic or political environment, in Georgia liquid assets and cash inflows.
The Group maintains a as well as its neighbouring countries, will trigger the Groups diversified funding structure to manage respective liquidity review of the risk appetite criteria to mitigate emerging risk risk.
The Board believes there is adequate liquidity to concentrations.
Stringent monitoring tools are in place to withstand significant withdrawals of customer deposits, ensure compliance with the established limits.
In addition, but the unexpected and rapid withdrawal of a substantial the Bank has dedicated restructuring teams to manage amount of deposits could have a material adverse impact borrowers with financial difficulties.
When it is deemed on the Groups business, financial condition, and results necessary, clients are transferred to such teams for a more of operations and or prospects.
As part of its liquidity efficient handling and, ultimately, to limit resulting credit risk management framework, the Group has a liquidity risk losses.
contingency plan in place outlining the risk indicators for different stress scenarios and respective action plans.
The NBGs new capital framework introduced a Liquidity risk position and compliance with internal limits is concentration buffer under Pillar 2 that helps to ensure closely monitored by the Assets and Liabilities Management that the Group remains adequately capitalised to mitigate Committee ALCO.
PRINCIPAL RISK Any decline in the Groups net interest income or net Liquidity risk is inherent in the Groups operations.
interest margin could lead to a reduction in profitability.
While the Board believes that the Group currently has Net interest income accounts for the majority of the Groups sufficient financial resources available to meet its total income.
Consequently, fluctuations in its NIM affect obligations as they fall due, liquidity risk is inherent in the results of operations.
The new regulation concerning banking operations and can be heightened by numerous responsible lending standards as well as high competition factors.
These include an overreliance on, or an inability to could drive interest rates down, compromising the Groups access, a particular source of funding, as well as changes profitability.
At the same time, the cost of funding is largely in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena, such as the exogenous to the Group and is derived based on both the global financial crisis that commenced in 2007.
Access to national and international markets.
credit for companies in emerging markets is significantly influenced by the level of investor confidence and, as such, Risk description any factors affecting investor confidence e. g. a downgrade The majority of the Groups total income derives from net in credit ratings, central bank or state interventions, or debt interest income.
Consequently, NIMs fluctuations affect restructurings in a relevant industry could influence the the Groups results.
In 2018, the NIM increased by 0.4 pp price or the availability of funding for companies operating YoY to 6.9%, in line with TBC Banks expectations which in any of these markets.
were included in the forecast that provides the basis for the Groups guidance.
54 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 The increase was driven by the advanced analytics across attacks, which have become more sophisticated, may lead the Bank concerning proper customer segmentation and to significant security breaches.
Such risks change rapidly pricing as well as targeting the right product mix, however and require continued focus and investment.
increased competition as well as downward trend of interest Risk description rates creates potential threat for the NIM.
No major cyber-attack attempts have targeted Georgian The Group manages its direct exposure to the LIBOR and commercial banks in recent years.
Nonetheless, the Groups local refinancing rates through respective limits and rising dependency on IT systems increases its exposure to appropriate pricing.
As of 31 December 2018, GEL 4,259 potential cyber-attacks.
million in assets 27% and GEL 1,785 million in liabilities Risk mitigation 13% were floating, related to the LIBOR FED ECB deposit The Group actively monitors, detects and prevents facility rates, whereas GEL 3,147 million of assets 20% and risks arising from cyber-attacks.
Staff monitors the GEL 2,286 million of liabilities 17% were floating, related developments on both the local and international markets to the NBGs refinancing rate.
However, the assets are still to increase awareness of emerging forms of cyber-attacks.
Intrusion prevention and Distributed Denial of Service The recent regulation regarding the responsible lending will DDoS protection systems are in place to protect the decrease the consumer portfolio growth rate in the short Group from external cyber-threats.
Security incident and and medium term, thus negatively impact the Groups NIM event monitoring systems, in conjunction with respective with the estimated range of 30 -50 bp.
The governments processes and procedures, are in place to handle cyberinitiative to decrease the cap on interest rates from 100% incidents effectively.
to 50% will also have negative impact on the NIM.
However, Processes are continuously updated and enhanced to considering that such portfolio is not material for the Bank, respond to new potential threats.
A data recovery policy is the respective impact on NIM will be limited.
in place to ensure business continuity in case of serious Risk mitigation cyber-attacks.
In addition, an Information Security Steering The current high margin levels, the increase in fee and Committee is actively involved in improving information commission income and continuous cost optimisation security and business continuity management processes to efforts safeguard against margin declines and profitability minimise information security risks.
During 2018, the Group continued to actively work on the margin management with the help of 10.
PRINCIPAL RISK a reputable external consultant.
The margin management program, which included an adequate pricing framework External and internal fraud risks are part of the operational and profitability analysis to further assist in the decision risk inherent in the Groups business.
Considering the making process, will remain one of the Groups key focus increased complexity and diversification of operations, areas in 2019. together with the digitalisation of the baking sector, fraud risks are evolving.
Unless proactively managed, fraud To mitigate asset-liability maturity mismatch, in cases where events may materially impact the Groups profitability and loans are extended on fixed rather than floating terms, reputation.
the interest rate risk is translated into price premiums, safeguarding against changes in the interest rates.
Risk description External fraud events may arise from the actions of third The Group expects that the margins will stabilise in the parties against the Group and, most frequently, this involved medium term and that the decreasing margins will be events related to banking cards and cash.
Internal frauds compensated by increased fee and commission income and arise from actions committed by the Groups employees and decreased unit cost spent per transaction.
The new NBG such events happen less frequently.
regulation, limiting consumer finance and shifting retail lending to mortgages, will positively impact the cost of credit During the reporting period, the Group faced only a few risk, thus supporting to sustain the risk adjusted NIM.
instances of fraud events, none of which had a material impact upon the Groups profit and loss statement.
Nonetheless, fraudsters are adopting new techniques and 9.
PRINCIPAL RISK approaches to exploit various possibilities to illegally obtain The threat posed by cyber-attacks has increased in recent years and it continues to grow.
The risk of potential cyberTBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 55 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED funds.
Therefore, unless properly monitored and managed, oil exports.
The economy of Azerbaijan started to recover in the potential impact can become substantial.
2017 after the contraction in 2016 caused by the significant decline in oil prices in the period of 2014-2016 years.
The Risk mitigation IMF projects Azerbaijans economic growth rate to improve The Group actively monitors, detects and prevents risks to 3.6% in 2019 and to average at 2.7% over the next 5 years.
arising from fraud events and permanent monitoring Along with the stabilisation in oil prices and exchange rate, processes are in place to timely detect unusual activities.
annual inflation has also decreased in 2018.
Azerbaijans The risk and control self-assessment exercise focuses economic recovery has also contributed to the strengthening on identifying residual risks in key processes, subject to of its financial sector and gradual recovery of the lending to respective corrective actions.
Given our continuous efforts the economy.
Despite relatively more stable environment, to monitor and mitigate fraud risks, together with the high Azerbaijans growth is still significantly depends on oil sophistication of our internal processes, the Group ensures prices and any adverse developments in oil prices could a timely identification and control of fraud-related activities.
negatively affect the growth perspectives and exchange rate.
Furthermore, potential political instability and unfavorable 11.
PRINCIPAL RISK developments in the state regulations can also negatively affect the Groups business in Azerbaijan.
The Group is exposed to the risks inherent in international operations.
Risk mitigation The Group strategy is to follow an asset-light, limited capital The Group is expanding its international presence in investment approach with a strong focus on digital channels Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
The expansion exposes the and to invest in stages to make sure that we are comfortable Group to new macro-economic, political and regulatory with the results and the operating environment before environments, including exposure to risks arising from committing additional investment.
credit, market, operational and capital adequacy risks in local jurisdictions.
The Group plans to serve retail and MSME customers leading to non-concentrated portfolio, leading to the lower Currently, the Groups business activities are mainly credit risk.
concentrated in Georgia, but international activities are expected to contribute to around 30% of the Groups loan The Group will maintain close relationship with the IFIs book over the medium to long-term.
to ensure business plan funding flexibility across many different options.
In particular, the IFIs will be the Groups Risk description partners in Uzbekistan.
The risk posed by the external environment in Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan may change the Groups risk profile as a The Group has been operating in Azerbaijan through a result of international expansion.
According to the latest IMF small microfinance organisation for a number of years, forecasts, Uzbekistan is a rapidly developing economy with which provides experience and knowledge of local banking above 5% real GDP growth projection in the medium term.
In addition, in Azerbaijan the exposure is The Uzbekistani economy is well diversified with no major limited before the option is exercised.
The Group will reliance on a particular industry.
It has one of the lowest exercise the option only after it becomes comfortable with public debts as a percentage of GDP in the region and high the development, including operating environment.
international reserve implying the macroeconomic stability The management will focus on establishing strong risk as well as room for future high growth.
The new government management function to ensure that all risks are managed of Uzbekistan plans to reform the economy and open it up to and mitigated properly.
The Group will leverage on its foreign investments.
strong risk management expertise to establish sound risk While the operational environment in Uzbekistan can be management practices in new jurisdictions.
assessed as attractive, there are important risks, which can materially affect the Groups performance in the country.
Overall, from the Group perspective international expansion These risks include, but are not limited to, the political will result in diversification of business lines, macroeconomic instability, low pace of reforms, adverse developments in cycles and revenue streams balancing overall risk profile of inflation and fluctuations in the exchange rate.
Azerbaijan is a small open economy with high reliance on 56 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018
