42 Our approach to risk management Robust risk management Our risk management framework includes risk The registers feed into a formal risk assessment to As with any business, registers which are maintained for each site and summarise the sources, impact and likelihood of Taylor Wimpey faces risks business unit, and which is supported by an risks, and consider the controlling activities already evaluation of the risk environment by divisional in place or planned.
Similarly-rated risk events are and uncertainties in the management.
The risk framework also includes considered together, and categorised into three registers for all functions at a Group-wide level.
This summary position is course of its operations.
Collectively, the registers detail each issue which discussed and approved by the Group Management Itis only by timely may be faced by the site, business unit, function or Team GMT, and this ensures the correct identification Group.
The registers identify key potential of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties see pages identification and effective exposures arising from factors both internal and 44 to 51.
Our Sustainability and Climate Change management of these external to the Group, as well as risks to and from Risk and Opportunity Register highlights the material the delivery of our strategy.
risks and opportunities facing the Company in risks that we are able to relation to sustainability and climate change.
A standard methodology is applied to the Together, these support both the Audit Committee deliver our strategy and assessment of business risk, which requires each and the Board in their evaluation of the identified five-year goals.
identified item to be measured according to a risk risks facing theGroup.
This matrix considers the potential impact Our risk management and internal control of each risk after putting mitigating activities in The registers also consider health, safety and frameworks define the procedures to manage and place, the likelihood of the event occurring, and environmental issues HSE, together with social mitigate risks facing the business, rather than hence provides an assessment of the remaining or and governance matters relating to the Group.
eliminate risk altogether and can only provide residual risk.
The definition of impact assessment reasonable and not absolute assurance against includes a number of different measures, including More information is provided in our 2018 material misstatement or loss.
those concerning health, safety and environmental Sustainability Report.
impacts, financial and reputational impacts.
Our risk registers are refreshed on an ongoing basis at site level and at a broader level as a part of our financial planning cycle.
Our risk assessment process Board Top down Similarly-rated riskevents are Heads of Functions perform functional summarised into Audit Committee review the three key Groupregisters: High impact low probability GMT for review Priority Significant Source of risk Internal risks External risks Strategic risks Bottom up Divisional Managing Directors summarise BUs complete risk registers divisional risks Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Risk materiality process remediated as soon as possible.
Our Group-wide Specific risk areas other than the The Board determines approach has been enhanced in the year through principal risks the Groups appetite for development of new tools and processes, In addition to the principal industry-related risks which when fully embedded will further support exposure to the principal set out in the following pages, we also monitor the delivery of our homes as promised to closely several other key factors.
These may be risks in achievement of its our customers.
risks with an increasing potential impact or strategy, and is responsible likelihood, individual risks with a potentially high Housing remains high on the agendas of the impact but which are very unlikely to occur, or for maintaining sound risk Government and the main political parties.
risks arising as a result of a combination of unlikely The sector continues to face scrutiny and management and internal events which together create a major event.
pressure from social media and pressure groups, control systems.
with the potential for greater oversight from The Group considers risk from a wider technology Government through a Design Champion and a and cyber perspective.
We have continued to The Board oversees the risk management and single New Homes Ombudsman.
We endeavour improve and invest in our information technology internal control framework of the Group.
The to deliver both the letter and the spirit of to mitigate increasing cyber threats and data loss, Chief Executive is responsible for implementing regulations and maintain this same ethos in theft or corruption.
In 2018, we have adopted a any necessary improvements, with the support our relationships with our customers.
series of measures to reduce our exposure to of the GMT.
In line with the UK Corporate breaching the EUs General Data Protection Governance Code, the Board holds formal risk Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower, Regulation GDPR, which was implemented in we conducted a detailed internal review into reviews at least half yearly and also routinely May 2018, and we continue to deliver against the considers risk at each Board meeting as Aluminium Composite Material ACM cladding recommendations from an independent cyber used in the construction of our recent and historic appropriate.
The Board reviews the risk profile security audit that was conducted in the year.
of the Group and the significant risks alongside developments, working with building owners, management companies, independent fire safety mitigating factors.
Our customers and our corporate obligations are experts and local fire and rescue services as at the heart of Taylor Wimpeys cultural values, At the Board meeting in February 2019, the appropriate.
Where ACM cladding was identified with our Customer Journey heavily focused on Board completed its annual assessment of on defined tall buildings in which we retain an product quality and delivering an enhanced buying risks.
This followed the Audit Committees ongoing interest, we sought advice from experience.
The Group considers the potential formal assessment of risk, which was independent fire safety experts, and, where impact to the business in the event that either of supported by the detailed risk assessment by required, took action with those responsible these were to fall below our high standards.
We the GMT, and their review of the effectiveness to ensure that the buildings are fully compliant acknowledge concerns raised by some of our of internal controls.
The key risks affecting the with the Governments guidance on interim fire customers in connection with mortar durability at a Group were identified and agreed with safety measures.
During the year, the Group development in Peebles, Scotland.
recognised an exceptional provision amounting significant number of houses on the development to 30.0 million for the removal of ACM cladding are unaffected, a robust technical solution, at a small number of sites where the ownership supported by an appointed structural engineer aspects and specific circumstances made and the NHBC, to fix the durability of the mortar this appropriate.
has been identified and homes are being Group appetite for risk Risk level Low Medium High Balance sheet strength and financial risk, Our description of the Groups risk dependent on current position in the land cycle appetite is the foundation of our Risk Management framework.
Landbank quality The Group has identified operational categories against which our current Brand and reputation and customer risk profile and our risk tolerance satisfaction range have been defined.
Certain Operational strength risk categories are dependent on where we believe we are in the Health, safety and environment economic cycle, and may adjust accordingly.
In defining our risk appetite, the Board has taken into Employee retention account the expectations of the Companys shareholders, regulators Legal, regulatory and IT security and other stakeholders.
Current risk profile Tolerance range The current risk profile is within our tolerance range and overall is described as: The Group is willing to accept a moderate level of risk in order to deliver financial returns.
There may be occasions where these risks could have a moderate adverse impact to the Group, be it financially or operationally, although it is considered that the effect could be mitigated through management actions.
