Internal and external audit STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND In addition, the Group has established a Risk Committee Having considered the key risks inherent in the business and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are UNCERTAINTIES that includes the Finance Director and various members of the the system of control necessary to manage such risks, the assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with Executive Board and heads of department.
The Risk Committee Finance Director presents the Risk Committees findings to a variety of internal or external sources including control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system helps the Executive Board review the risk management and the Board on a regular basis.
In addition, the Chief Executive breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its control process in each key business area on an ongoing basis, reports to the Board on changes in the business and the natural catastrophes and regulatory requirements, and also effectiveness, and for determining the Groups risk appetite.
and provides a platform for management to drive improvement external environment which affect significant risks.
with reference to the Groups five year strategic and financial The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for across the business.
The Risk Committee considers: In turn, the Audit Committee assesses the findings plan.
During the period, the Board has continued to place identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and recommendations of the Risk Committee and the Groups significant focus on risk management.
Following the Audit faced by the Group, which has been in place for the period and the authority, resources and co-ordination of those external and internal audit processes and looks critically Committees engagement of  LLP up to the date of approval of these financial statements, and involved in the identification, assessment and at how the business responds, as well as investigating PwC to undertake a detailed review of the Groups risk that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
However, management of significant risks faced by the Group: material issues and what actions they implement to prevent framework and internal audit function in the prior period, the such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the response to the significant risks which have been future issues.
Board has again retained PwC to assist the Risk Committee the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can identified by management and others: On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and Audit Committee in managing the Groups risk profile and provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against the maintenance of a controlled environment directed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and increasing engagement with stakeholders in the Group.
towards the proper management of risk: and internal control during the period, covering all material The Group has an independent internal audit function the annual reporting procedures.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance whose findings are regularly reviewed by the Board and the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS controls.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process Executive Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and In order to help manage the Groups risks and uncertainties, An overview of the Groups Risk Management Process is for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
the Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the set out below: the business and the policies and procedures by which The Chief Operating Officer and Group Finance Director effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and these risks are managed.
Management is responsible for the provides the Board with monthly financial information risk management to the Audit Committee.
identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable which includes updates by reference to the Groups key to their areas of the business together with the design and performance indicators.
TED BAKER PLC BOARD Ultimately responsible for risk management AUDIT COMMITTEE Monitors the effectiveness of system of risk management and internal controls EXECUTIVE BOARD Oversees the Groups risk management processes and monitors mitigating actions RISK COMMITTEE Reviews and challenges key risks, associated controls and management action plans RISK FRAMEWORK Ensures consistent approach across Group WIDER BUSINESS Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 22 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE IN The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the identified by the Group which are not shown in order of LEVEL OF RISK principal risks facing the Group, including those that would importance.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently OPERATIONAL Infrastructure There is a risk of operational problems, including The business continuity plan is constantly No material threaten its business model, future performance, solvency known, or currently considered to be less material, may also RISKS disruption to the infrastructure that supports our reviewed and updated by the Risk Committee.
The following list highlights the principal risks have an adverse effect on the Group: CONTINUED business, which may lead to a loss of revenue, In addition, business disruption is covered by data and inventory.
ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE IN Social We are committed to operating in a responsible A sub-committee of the Executive Committee No material LEVEL OF responsibility and sustainable manner as regards our supply has been tasked with overseeing specific change RISK chain, environment and community.
If we areas of our social responsibility agenda.
Teds fail to operate in a manner that supports our Conscience Team is responsible for monitoring STRATEGIC Brand and The strength and reputation of the Ted Baker We carefully consider each new partner with No material philosophy, this could damage the trust and this agenda and ensure our practices fall in line RISKS reputational risk brand is important to the business.
There is whom we do business.
Such partners are change confidence of our stakeholders.
More information is set out on page 28 a risk that our brand may be undermined or subject to due diligence and are monitored on an Sustainability.
damaged by our actions or those of our partners ongoing basis to ensure they remain appropriate or supply chain.
Cybersecurity The business is subject to threats from hacking The Group has invested in additional specialist Increased risk or viruses or other unauthorised data breaches.
Our dedicated social media team closely monitors social media channels and addresses There is the possibility of unintentional loss of The continual upgrading of security equipment any reputational issues in accordance with controlled data by authorised users.
and software also mitigates these risks.
Tightly controlled security controls, an extensive penetration testing programme, and data Development Failure in growing the international business We perform extensive due diligence on all No material recovery and business continuity plans have of overseas through franchise operations, licensees and potential partners and territories and to assess change been implemented with the support of specialist markets e-commerce.
Risk that the Group fails to our appropriate routes to market.
prioritise the right territories or investment or in a range of international markets, which helps fails to support these markets with systems and to mitigate over-reliance and exposure to any IT infrastructure The Groups IT infrastructure is key to the The Groups IT Steering Committee meets on a No material supply chain capability.
and operation of its business.
two weekly basis to review the implementation change implementation and all other major IT projects.
This Committee Fashion and As with all fashion brands there is a risk that our We maintain a high level of market awareness No material We are in the process of implementing the final of ERP comprises members of the Executive Committee design offer will not satisfy the needs of our customers and an understanding of consumer trends and change phases of Microsoft Dynamics AX across the and is advised by external professional advisers.
or we fail to correctly identify trends in an fashion to ensure that we remain able to respond business.
With any project of this scale, there The IT Steering Committee has established a increasingly competitive market, resulting in to changes in consumer preference.
We use is a risk of a poorly managed implementation Design Authority charged with overseeing lower sales and reduced market share.
customer data to develop targeted marketing or take-up of new systems, which could lead the scheduling of the implementation of any and promotional activity.
We continue to focus on product design, quality This, and the implementation of other new Robust change management and professional and attention to detail.
business systems, has potential to impact project managers recruited to oversee the interdependent systems and the business.
External events External events may occur which may affect These risk factors are monitored closely on an Increased risk project team which includes key business the global, economic and financial environment ongoing basis ensuring that we are prepared for stakeholders.
These events can affect and can react to changes in the external People Our performance is linked to the performance of Identification and retention of key talent is No material our suppliers, customers and partners, environment, allowing us to reduce our exposure our people and, in particular, to the leadership important and we take active steps to provide change increasing our cost base and adversely as early as possible.
The loss of a key individual stability and security to the key team.
We carry affecting our revenue.
The geographic spread of our business and whether at management level or within a out an annual benchmarking review to ensure supply chain also helps to mitigate these risks.
specialist skill set could have a detrimental that we provide competitive remuneration and effect on our operations and, in some cases, total reward packages.
We also utilise longBrexit The UKs decision to leave the European Union The Group has established a Brexit Committee Increased risk the creative vision for the brand.
term incentive schemes to retain key talent.
has increased the level of economic and which, together with its external advisers, Employee engagement through our culture and consumer uncertainty.
continues to carefully monitor the potential environment strengthen the commitment of impact of Brexit.
Scenario planning includes the team members and has a positive impact on our impact of additional customs duties, VAT and retention rate.
customs duty declarations: and the restriction on the free movement of people.
Succession plans are in place and have been reviewed during the period.
In addition to this ongoing monitoring and mitigation, our presence in a range of Regulatory and We operate in a range of international markets The Group closely monitors changes in the legal No material international markets helps mitigate the impact legal framework and must comply with various regulatory and regulatory framework within the markets change of this risk.
Failure to do so could lead to in which it operates.
We work closely with financial penalties and or reputational damage.
specialist advisers in each market to ensure OPERATIONAL Supply chain If garments do not reach us on time and to Our supply chain is diversified across a number No material compliance with local laws and regulations.
RISKS specification, there is a risk of a loss of revenue of suppliers in different regions, reducing change and customer confidence.
Over-reliance on reliance on a small number of key suppliers.
For example, the Group has established a key suppliers could also have an impact on Suppliers are treated as key business partners cross-functional GDPR steering committee our business.
and we work closely with them to mitigate these that has worked with external advisers to risks.
The Group continues to improve and ensure the Groups policies and procedures evolve its supply chain are GDPR compliant.
Retail sector Outlook in the retail sector remains uncertain, The Groups Credit Committee closely monitors Increased risk Infringement Unauthorised use of the Groups designs, The Group, with its external advisers, rigorously No material outlook with increasing pressures on the Groups any outstanding debts and takes appropriate of the Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights manages and defends its intellectual property.
intellectual could damage the Ted Baker brand and the The Group deals with counterfeit goods in property Groups reputation.
The Group manages its credit risk through accordance with its robust enforcement strategy.
insurance, standby letters of credit or other supplier financing products wherever possible.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 24 25 STRATEGIC REPORT ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE IN LEVEL OF RISK FINANCIAL Currency, In the course of its operations, the Group is The Groups policies for dealing with these No material RISKS interest, exposed to these financial risks which, if they risks are discussed in detail in Note 23 to the change credit and were to arise, may have material financial financial statements.
counterparty impacts on the Group.
credit risks, including financial covenants under the Groups credit facilities Foreign The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the The Groups Foreign Exchange strategy is No material exchange exchange rates of key currencies.
closely managed by the Finance Director and change the Groups external advisers.
The Group has adopted a hedging policy to mitigate short-term foreign exchange risk.
VIABILITY STATEMENT principal risks, and taking into account the effectiveness of any In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate mitigating actions.
In addition, the Board has considered the Governance Code dated April 2016 the Code, the Directors impact on the Groups cash flows, headroom, covenants and have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group over other key financial ratios having stress tested the potential a five year period, taking into account the Groups current impact of these scenarios, both individually and in combination.
position and the potential impact of the principal risks Sensitivity analysis was also used to stress test the Groups documented above.
strategic plan and to confirm that sufficient headroom would The Group operates a five year plan, which is updated remain available under the Groups credit facilities.
The Board and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Within the five year plan, considers that under each scenario tested, the mitigating detailed scenario planning and stress testing has been carried actions would be effective and sufficient to ensure the out over a five year period.
The Directors therefore consider continued viability of the Group.
For the reasons stated above, the five year period to 29 January 2022 to be the appropriate based on the robust assessment undertaken, the Directors period to assess the viability and prospects of the Group with confirm they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will a high level of certainty.
be able to continue in operation, and meet its liabilities as they The Directors assessment has been further enhanced by fall due, over the period of assessment.
analysing the current and future risks, controls and assurances available, resulting in a clear picture of the risk profile across GOING CONCERN the whole business.
The principal risks, including specific The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets and longoperational risks, that could affect the future viability of the term projections.
After making enquiries, the Directors have Group over the next five years are identified on pages 22 to 26 a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group in Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence In making this assessment the Directors have considered for twelve months from the approval of these accounts.
For the resilience of the Group to the occurrence of these risks in this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of severe but plausible scenarios, including by reference to certain accounting in preparing the financial statements.
