Principal risks and uncertainties A robust review.
The Board considers these We have an established risk management process We maintain risk registers for the principal risks to identify, assess and monitor the principal risks faced by the Group and this is an important to be the most significant that we face as a business.
We have performed component of our governance framework and risks faced by the Group that a robust review of those risks that we believe how we manage our business.
As part of our could seriously affect the Groups performance, risk management process, risks are reviewed as may impact the achievement future prospects, reputation or its ability to a top down and bottom up activity at the Group of our six strategic drivers.
This review included and the business unit level.
The content of the risk an assessment of those risks that we believe registers are considered and discussed through would threaten the Groups business model, regular meetings with senior management and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Each principal risk is reviewed at least annually by Following the review of the principal risks and our the Board.
strategic drivers we have included two additional shorter-term risks.
These relate to the ongoing The table opposite sets out our principal risks, uncertainty and approach to Brexit, and the timely their link to our strategic drivers, their movement synergy realisation and integration of Booker during the year and a summary of key controls into the wider Group, set out on pages 24 and 25. as well as any mitigating factors.
The Board Additionally, we have reframed our product safety considers these to be the most significant and supply chain risks, currently reflected at the risks faced by the Group that may impact the business unit level to form a new principal risk achievement of our six strategic drivers as set responsible sourcing and supply chain, set out out on pages 8 and 9.
They do not comprise all on page 24.
This risk relates to the social and of the risks associated with our business and are environmental challenges facing our business, our not set out in priority order.
Additional risks not customers and our communities.
Our approach is presently known to management, or currently outlined in our Little Helps Plan on pages 16 to 21. deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
The risk management process relies on our assessment of the risk likelihood and impact and on the development and monitoring of appropriate internal controls.
Our process for identifying and managing risk is set out in more detail on page 43.
Strategic drivers Risks Oversight 1 A differentiated brand Board Overall responsibility for risk Customer 2 Reduce operating costs management, engages directly Tesco Bank Transformation b y 1.5bn with risk assessment, mitigations and risk appetite.
3 Generate 9bn cash from Brexit operations Liquidity Audit Committee Oversight of the risk framework 4 Maximise the mix to achieve and controls on behalf of the Board.
a 3.5% - 4.0% margin Booker synergy Group Chief Executive Competition realisation and 5 Maximise value from property and markets and Executive Committee integration The Group Chief Executive has 6 Principal risks Innovation overall accountability for control and the management of risk.
Responsible Brand, Individual members, reporting s ourcing and reputation to the Group Chief Executive, are s upply chain and trust accountable for specific risks.
Group Risk and People Technology Compliance Committee Oversight of key regulatory and compliance risks on behalf Data Health and security and of the Executive Committee, Political, Safety d ata privacy reporting biannually to the regulatory and Audit Committee.
22 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 22 20 04 2018 15:43 Strategic report A robust review.
Key to risk movement Risk increasing No risk movement Risk decreasing Link to strategic drivers on page 22 Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Customer Ongoing fragmentation of We now have a more consistent approach to building impactful customer Failure to have a coherent, connected and our customer engagement propositions, offering high quality, competitive value, while improving the engaging customer journey and in-store channels exposes us to an customer experience.
Propositions are now developed across channels experience will lead us to be less competitive increased risk of diluting and geographies to ensure consistency in the engagement with customers.
our customer experience Group-wide customer insight management is undertaken to understand and ability to differentiate customer behaviour, expectations and experience, and leverage more 1 3 4 6 our brand.
consistently across the different parts of the business.
We monitor the effectiveness of our processes by regular tracking of our business, and those of our competitors, against measures that customers tell us are important to their shopping experience.
We have well established product development and quality management processes, which keep the needs of our customers central to our decision making.
Transformation Achieving our We have multiple transformation programmes underway to simplify our business Failure to achieve our transformation transformation goals with clear market strategies and business plans in place.
Our service model objectives due to poor prioritisation, continues to demand processes provide a framework for implementing change.
We have appropriate ineffective change management and a failure further effort and executive level oversight for all the transformation activities.
to understand and deliver the technology investment, especially Transformation programmes are supported by experienced resources from required, resulting in an inability to progress with regard to technology within the business and externally as required.
sufficiently quickly to maintain or increase changes, as both internal operating margin and generate sufficient and external expectations cash to meet business objectives.
3 4 6 Liquidity We have a disciplined and We maintain an infrastructure of systems, policies and reports to ensure discipline Failure of our business performance to deliver policy-based approach to and oversight on liquidity matters, including specific treasury and debt-related cash as expected: access to funding markets treasury management.
Our treasury policies are communicated across the Group and are or facilities is restricted: failures in operational We have reduced our debt regularly reviewed by the Board, Executive Committee and management.
liquidity and currency risk management: Tesco levels and have improving The Groups funding strategy is approved annually by the Board and includes Bank cash call: or adverse changes to the debt metrics.
Liquidity maintaining appropriate levels of working capital, undrawn committed facilities pension deficit funding requirement, create levels and sources of cash and access to the capital markets.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves calls on cash higher than anticipated, leading to are regularly reviewed annually the viability and going concern statements and reports into the Board.
impacts on financial performance, cash liquidity and the Group maintains There is a long-term funding framework in place for the pension deficit and there or the ability to continue to fund operations.
access to committed is ongoing communication and engagement with the Pension Trustees.
3 4 5 While recognising that Tesco Bank is financially separate from Tesco PLC, there is ongoing monitoring of the activities of Tesco Bank that could give rise to risks to Tesco PLC.
Competition and markets We continue to face Our Board actively develops and regularly challenges the strategic direction of Failure to deliver an effective, coherent the ongoing challenge our business and we actively seek to be competitive on price, range and service, and consistent strategy to respond to our of a changing competitive as well as developing our online and multiple formats to allow us to compete in competitors and changes in macroeconomic landscape and price different markets.
conditions in the operating environment, pressure across most Our Executive Committee and operational management regularly review markets, resulting in a loss of market share and failure of our markets.
trading opportunities, competitor strategy and activity and, additionally, we engage to improve profitability.
in market scanning and competitor analysis to refine our customer proposition.
1 2 6 Brand, reputation and trust A broad range of factors We continue to develop communication and engagement programmes to listen Failure to create brand reappraisal impact our brand, to our customers and stakeholders and reflect their needs in our plans.
This opportunities to improve quality, value reputation and trust includes the supplier viewpoint programme and the integration of local community and service perceptions thus failing to in the year and, on and local marketing programmes.
We continue to maximise the value and impact rebuild trust in our brand.
balance, the level of risk of our brand with the advice of specialist external agencies and in-house marketing remains unchanged.
Maintaining a differentiated brand is one of our strategic priorities and 1 our Group processes, policies and our Code of Business Conduct sets out how we can make the right decisions for our customers, colleagues, suppliers, communities and investors.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee is in place to oversee all corporate responsibility activities and initiatives ensuring alignment with customer priorities and our brand.
Further details can be found on page 39.
Technology Our technology We continue to assess our technology resilience capabilities and have identified Failure of our IT infrastructure or key IT systems landscape continues opportunities to make significant enhancements.
We are progressing greater result in loss of information, inability to operate to require further adoption of cloud computing technologies to provide further resilience.
effectively, financial or regulatory penalties and investment as external We have combined governance processes covering both technology disaster negatively impacts our reputation.
threats increase and recovery and business continuity to ensure alignment.
the challenges around Failure to build resilience capabilities at Our technology security programme is designed to continuously strengthen securing the right the time of investing in and implementing our infrastructure and Information Technology General Controls.
capability to deliver new technology.
1 6 Indicates that the principal risk has been included as part of the longer term viability scenarios.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 23 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 23 20 04 2018 15:43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Data security and data privacy We continue to enhance Our multi-year data security programme has been driving the enhancement Failure to comply with legal or regulatory our data security to keep of our security capabilities.
We continue to work towards meeting regulatory requirements relating to data security or data pace with increasing requirements and regularly report the status of the security programme to privacy in the course of our business activities, threats on a global scale.
results in reputational damage, fines or other As a retail organisation we We have established a team to detect, report and respond to security incidents adverse consequences, including criminal hold a large amount of data in a timely fashion.
We have a third-party supplier assurance programme focusing penalties and consequential litigation, adverse and are working to ensure on data security and privacy risks.
impact on our financial results or unfavourable we comply with the We are making significant investment across the Group to ensure we comply with effects on our ability to do business.
General Data Protection the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in Europe, and Regulations.
1 6 any other relevant legislation globally.
We put our customers and our colleagues at the heart of all decisions we make in relation to the processing of personal data.
Our privacy compliance programme, driven by the Group Privacy Officer continues to drive compliance throughout our global business.
Political, regulatory and compliance We continue to monitor Wherever we operate, we aim to ensure that the impact of political and regulatory Failure to comply with legal and other and improve our controls changes is incorporated in our strategic planning.
We manage regulatory risks requirements as the regulatory environment to ensure we comply through the use of our risk management framework and we have implemented becomes more restrictive, due to changes in with legal and regulatory compliance programmes to manage our most important risks e. g. bribery and the global political landscape, results in fines, requirements across competition law.
criminal penalties for Tesco or colleagues, the Group.
Given the Our compliance programmes ensure that sustainable controls are implemented consequential litigation and an adverse impact ongoing uncertainty to mitigate the risk and we conduct assurance activities for each risk area.
on our reputation, financial results, and or around Brexit, we have Our Code of Business Conduct is supported by new starter and annual compliance our ability to do business.
separated this out as an training and other tools such as our whistleblowing hotline.
independent risk for the Long-term changes in the global political The engagement of leadership and senior management is critical in the successful current year.
environment mean that in some markets management of this risk area and leaders provide clear tone from the top there is a push towards greater regulation for colleagues.
of foreign investors and a favouring of local companies.
1 Health and safety We continue to focus our We have a business-wide, risk-based safety framework which defines how we Failure to meet safety standards in relation efforts on controls which implement safety controls to ensure that colleagues, contractors and customers to workplace, resulting in death or injury ensure colleague and have a safe place to work and shop.
to our colleagues or third parties.
Each business is required to maintain a Safety Improvement Plan to document and track enhancements.
Overall governance is provided by the Group Risk and 1 Compliance Committee, with each business unit operating their own Health and Safety Committee.
Our annual colleague survey programme allows us to measure safety behaviour improvements Group-wide.
The survey results alongside other inputs through the year, informs the delivery of safety initiatives and targeted communications.
People We continue to operate We seek to understand and respond to colleagues needs by listening to their Failure to attract and retain the required in a fast changing and feedback from open conversations, social media, colleague surveys and capability and continue to evolve our culture complex legislative performance reviews.
could impact delivery of our purpose and environment.
Market Talent planning and people development processes are well established across strategic drivers.
Talent and succession planning is discussed annually by the Board and volatility affects our three times a year at the Executive Committee and Nominations and Governance 1 6 ability to attract and Committee.
The Remuneration Committee agrees objectives and remuneration retain key specialist talent arrangements for senior management, and the current remuneration policy is thereby increasing this risk.
due for review at this years Annual General Meeting.
There is a change programme in place, supported by Executive Committee and Audit Committee governance, to deliver technology and processes that are simple, helpful and trusted to all our markets.
Responsible sourcing and supply chain New principal risk.
We have product standards, policies and guidance covering both food and Failure to meet product safety standards non-food, as well as goods and services not for resale, ensuring that products resulting in death, injury or illness to customers.
are safe, legal and of the required quality, and that the human rights of workers are respected and environmental impacts are managed responsibly.
Refer to Failure to ensure that products are sourced pages 16 to 21 for specific actions highlighted under our Little Helps Plan.
responsibly and sustainably across the supply chain including fair pay for workers, adhering Supplier audit programmes are in place to monitor product safety, traceability to human rights, clean and safe working and integrity, human rights and environmental standards, including unannounced environments and that all social and specification inspections of suppliers and facilities.
environmental standards are met, leading We run colleague training programmes on food and product safety, responsible to breaches of regulations, illness, injury sourcing, hygiene controls and provide support for stores.
We also provide or death to workers and communities.
targeted training for colleagues and suppliers dealing with specific challenges such as modern slavery.
Our store audit programme seeks to ensure we comply 1 6 with safety and legal requirements.
Booker synergy realisation and integration New principal risk.
A detailed synergy realisation and integration plan is being implemented Failure to successfully integrate Booker with period-end reporting and tracking of targeted benefits and key is dependent upon a number of factors, performance indicators.
leading to a risk to our planned synergy For further information on the Tesco and Booker merger see page 7. commitments and value creation.
1 3 4 5 6 Indicates that the principal risk has been included as part of the longer term viability scenarios.
24 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 24 20 04 2018 15:43 Strategic report Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Brexit New principal risk.
The nature of the UKs future trading relationship with the EU is still to be Failure to prepare for the UKs departure from determined.
We continue to contribute to important public policy discussions the EU causes disruption to and creates and engage with government, regulatory bodies and industry.
uncertainty around our business including: As further details of the terms of our departure from the EU emerge, we will our ability to recruit: as well as impacting continue to assess and monitor the potential risks and impacts of these on our relationships with existing and future Tesco customers, colleagues and shareholders and take appropriate measures.
These disruptions and uncertainties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations.
1 Tesco Bank The Bank continues to The Bank has a defined risk appetite, which is approved and reviewed regularly by Tesco Bank is exposed to a number of risks, actively manage the risks both the Banks Board and the Tesco PLC Board.
The risk appetite defines the type the most significant of which are operational to which it is exposed.
and amount of risk that the Group is prepared to accept to achieve its objectives risk, regulatory risk, credit risk, capital risk, and forms a key link between the day-to-day risk management of the business and funding and liquidity risk, market risk and its strategic priorities, long-term plan, capital planning and liquidity management.
Adherence to risk appetite is monitored through a series of ratios and limits.
The Bank operates a risk management framework that is underpinned by governance, 1 policies, processes and controls, reporting, assurance and stress testing.
There is Bank Board risk reporting throughout the year, with updates to the Tesco PLC Audit Committee by the Banks Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Audit Committee Chairman.
A member of the Tesco PLC Board is also a member of the Banks Board.
Indicates that the principal risk has been included as part of the longer term viability scenarios.
Associated Longer term viability statement Scenario principal risks Description Competitive Brand, reputation Failure to respond to fierce 1.
The context for assessment pressure and trust competition and changes in the The aim of the viability statement is for the Directors to report on the Competition retail market drives sustained assessment of the prospects of the Company meeting its liabilities over and markets significant like-for-like volume the assessment period, taking into account the current financial position, Customer decline in core food categories outlook and principal risks.
with no offsetting price inflation, putting pressure on margins.
The Directors have based their assessment of viability on the Groups Data security Brand, reputation A serious data security or or regulatory and trust regulatory breach results current strategic plan, which is updated and approved annually by the breach Data security in a significant monetary penalty Board, delivering the Groups purpose of serving shoppers a little better and data privacy and a loss of reputation among every day and underpinned by the six strategic drivers detailed on pages Political, regulatory customers.
The strategic plan necessarily makes assumptions relating to: and compliance the prevailing economic climate and global economy: the structural Brexit impact Competition Brexit continues to drive higher challenges facing our sector: competitor actions: market dynamics: and markets UK domestic inflation and changing customer behaviours: and the costs associated with delivering Political, regulatory increased import costs from a the strategy.
Strategic plans also address and respond to the Groups and compliance weaker Sterling, compounded by principal risks.
Brexit new import duties and tariffs, with a consequential economic impact.
Reduction in Transformation Failure to achieve the Groups 2.
The assessment period cost savings and Liquidity transformation objectives, The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a cash generation resulting in an inability to progress three-year period to February 2021.
The Directors have determined sufficiently quickly to maintain or that a three-year period is an appropriate timeframe for assessment, increase operating margin and given the dynamic nature of the retail sector and product offering, generate sufficient cash to meet and is in line with the Companys strategic planning period.
Assessment of viability The scenarios above are hypothetical and purposefully severe for the The viability of the Company has been assessed taking into account the purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability Companys current financial position, including external funding in place of the Group.
In the case of these scenarios arising, various options are over the assessment period, and after modelling the impact of certain available to the Group in order to maintain liquidity so as to continue in scenarios arising from the principal risks which have the greatest potential operation such as: accessing new external funding early: more radical impact on viability in that period.
short-term cost reduction actions: and reducing capital expenditure.
None of these actions are assumed in our current scenario modelling.
Four scenarios have been modelled, considered severe but plausible, that encompass these identified risks.
None of these scenarios individually 4.
Conclusion threaten the viability of the Company, therefore the compound impact Based on these severe but plausible scenarios, the Directors of these scenarios has been evaluated as the most severe stress scenario.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year These scenarios assumed that external debt is repaid as it becomes due period considered.
and includes consolidation of the Booker business and associated synergies.
This Strategic report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Robert Welch Group Company Secretary 10 April 2018 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 25 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
