Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management in a complex global environment is critical to the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties Global light vehicle production volumes The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
The Audit & Risk Committee Description supports the Board by advising on the TI Fluid Systems has 114 manufacturing locations in 28 Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and countries on five continents and a substantial amount of its strategy, current risk exposures and future revenue is closely linked to the economic cycle and the general risk strategy.
Impact A review of the Groups risk management Historically, there has been close correlation between framework used to collate, report and economic growth and the global light vehicle production manage business critical risks was volumes.
The cost structure of the business, operating across presented to the Audit & Risk Committee manufacturing facilities in 114 locations, means that a large in March 2019.
The Board has concluded reduction in revenue will have an impact on profitability.
that a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks had been undertaken.
Controls and mitigation TI Fluid Systems presence in 28 countries supplying a wide TI Fluid Systems global operations are range of customers acts as a hedge to neutralise localised exposed to a number of risks which could, economic volatility.
either on their own, or in combination with The Group has an extensive manufacturing presence in others, have an adverse impact on the emerging and other low-cost markets which currently have Groups results, strategy, business relatively low rates of light vehicle penetration per head of performance and reputation which, in population and are believed to have strong growth potential.
turn, could impact upon shareholder Although the Groups products are primarily for light vehicles, returns.
The following section highlights it operates across both a broad geographic footprint and a the major risks that may affect the diversified range of vehicle platforms, brands and models.
Groups ability to deliver the strategy, as A proportion of the Groups workforce in a number of local set out on pages 18 to 19.
The mitigating markets are employed on temporary contracts, which activities described below will help to provides some flexibility in the cost-base.
reduce the impact or likelihood of the The Group monitors closely and responds to any changes major risk occurring, although the Board in customer demand on a local or group-wide basis.
recognises it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
The Board recognises there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later prove to be significant.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Product quality Business continuity Description Description TI Fluid Systems business is based on the repeatable supply TI Fluid Systems business is based upon achieving assurance and delivery of components and parts to an agreed in quality and reliability across all its locations and their specification and time.
Business continuity encompasses a number of areas of risk to the Group, including key supplier failure, sourcing of Impact raw materials, exposure to price fluctuations of key raw Failure to meet customer requirements or specifications can materials, maintaining stable labour relations, and ensuring the cause long-term damage to the Groups reputation and have reliability of the Groups management systems and IT financial consequences, such as the loss of a customer, infrastructure.
In addition, the Group is exposed to risks from warranty claims and product liability.
accidents and incidents arising from health and safety failures.
Controls and mitigation Impact TI Fluid Systems operates rigorous quality control systems A loss of production capability at a facility, or quality failings in designed to ensure a high-quality standard for all products, products, could lead to an inability to supply customers, reduce including testing and validation during the design and volumes and or increase claims made against the business production phases.
In periods of high demand or in the event The Group collaborates with key customers to evaluate and of supplier difficulties, availability of raw materials may be improve quality control standards and to confirm the constrained which could result in rapid movements in price compliance of its manufacturing processes with customers and have an impact on the profitability of the Groups quality standards.
In certain circumstances the loss of a supplier, Quality systems and processes operated at local or supplier quality failing, could lead to an inability to supply manufacturing level are subject to oversight by divisional products in a timely or efficient manner or risk impacting quality teams.
Where necessary, the Groups manufacturing facilities maintain relevant industry accreditations, such as TS 16949.
The loss of systems capability at a Group facility as a result of The Group monitors the field performance of its products in IT failure, or other events such as strike action by employees, order to seek to continuously improve product quality.
could impact the Groups ability to supply customers.
Injuries arising from health and safety incidents could result in lost time, reduce employee morale and possible changes in Competition and customer pricing pressure working practices.
Serious incidents can also have a detrimental impact on the Groups reputation.
Description Controls and mitigation This risk encompasses a number of identified global trends in The Group continues to expand its business continuity the markets in which TI Fluid Systems operates.
The Group planning BCP to enhance the localised continuity planning operates in a dynamic competitive environment and faces strategy operated at each facility.
competition from other manufacturers and suppliers of The Groups global network of facilities provides a degree of automotive components in each of the market segments in backup capacity.
The Group may be subject to pressure from The Group maintains a scheduled programme of customers to reduce costs on current contracts.
The maintenance and inspection of all equipment.
environment for bidding and securing new contract awards The wide geographic spread of operations, purchasing and from OEMs is competitive.
supply chain functions allows the Group to use a range of techniques to address potential supply disruption, such as Impact long-term purchase contracts, dual sourcing and ongoing The Groups customers face constant pressure to lower their research and development into alternative materials and selling and production costs to be competitive against their solutions.
peers and may require reductions in the selling price of the In certain markets the Group uses preferred suppliers for Groups systems and components over the term of a vehicle major materials.
Commercial activity by competitors, or The Group maintains business interruption insurance and has changes in their products or technologies, could impact upon added cyber incident coverage.
the Groups market share and profitability.
The Group participates in a number of works councils and other represented employee forums and seeks to establish Controls and mitigation and maintain good relationships with its employees and The Group seeks to offset pricing pressure by achieving unions.
improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions.
The Group continues to assess and strengthen its cyber A growing trend by customers to standardise and globalise security programme.
vehicle platforms has the potential to minimise the Groups The Groups decentralised IT systems worldwide provide exposure to the cancellation of any single vehicle platform some resilience against the loss of production or systems or model.
capability to the Group as a whole.
TI Fluid Systems has a strong brand and industry leading IT has developed and implemented a disruption recovery technology which supports its status as a key supplier to plan for the organisation.
The Group has an embedded health and safety culture and The Group engages in extensive and regular dialogue and operates a global health and safety policy, with local health has strong commercial and engineering relationships with and safety operations in place in each manufacturing facility.
Health and safety performance is monitored regularly by The Group uses market intelligence and competitor analysis each division and by the Group.
to support its market activities and inform investment decisions.
Across the Group there is an emphasis on research and development and improving the technical content of products.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Product development and changes in technology Operating globally and regulatory compliance Description Description The automotive industry is subject to changes in technology TI Fluid Systems has operations globally, with manufacturing and the Groups products are subject to changes in regulatory facilities in 28 countries across five continents.
The markets in requirements to reduce emissions and increase fuel economy.
which the Group operates are covered by a range of different Operating across numerous markets and territories requires regulatory systems and complex compliance requirements compliance with a wide variety of regulations.
Changes in and may also be subject to cycles, structural change and consumer demand, e. g. the popularity of a particular vehicle other external factors, such as changes in tariffs, customs type, model, platform or technology such as HEVs and EVs arrangements and other regulations.
In addition, operating may also impact on demand for the Groups products.
In across a number of territories exposes the Group to currency addition, the Groups products have performance-critical variations.
applications and have high levels of technical content and Impact know-how.
A substantial downturn in one or more key markets could have Impact a material adverse impact on the Groups profitability, cash Failure to keep up with changes in technology in the light flow and carrying value of its assets.
Significant changes to the vehicle automotive industry or in competitive technologies different regulatory systems and compliance requirements in may render certain existing products obsolete or less attractive and between the countries and regions in which the Group as well as damaging the Groups market position and brand operates may have a negative impact on the Groups strength.
Failure to comply with all relevant regulatory operations in a particular country or market.
The risks requirements could affect the Groups reputation and or its associated with Brexit are not considered material to the ability to operate in certain markets or territories.
High foreign exchange volatility may increase financing environmental regulations could affect demand for certain costs.
The Groups technologies and intellectual property Controls and mitigation rights need to be kept current through continuous The Groups international footprint provides some protection improvement and research and development and are against a downturn in particular territories or regions.
susceptible to theft, infringement, loss and or replication The markets and any changes to the regulatory environment by competitors.
in which TI Fluid Systems operates, including tariffs and Controls and mitigation trade policies, are continually monitored and assessed.
The Group is engaged in continued investment in alternative Changes to the Groups investment strategy and crossengineering solutions and the development of more border relocation might result from a significant change in advanced designs and innovative products to ensure the regulatory environment in a particular country or region.
compliance with changes to environmental regulations and The Groups treasury policy covers, inter alia, the use of customer demand.
currency contracts, investment hedging policy and regular TI Fluid Systems has an international network of five reporting of foreign exchange exposure.
technical centres which focus on research and development.
Focus throughout the Group on adherence to our Code of The Group seeks to maintain close relationships and Business Conduct COBC, including ongoing training and technical partnerships with key customers.
review of policies and procedures.
The Group has established seven regional application centres which focus on application engineering worldwide.
Both Group and divisional management monitor and assess Key personnel dependencies relevant regulatory requirements and the likelihood and impact of any changes.
Description The Groups products, materials and processes are The future success of TI Fluid Systems is dependent upon the continually developed and enhanced through research and continued services of key personnel.
Succession is a routine development and technical input.
consideration given some of the Groups key global positions TI Fluid Systems actively registers, manages and enforces at all levels, including business unit, division and Group.
Impact TI Fluid Systems competes globally to attract and retain personnel in a number of key roles.
A lack of new talent, the inability to retain and develop existing talent, or replace retiring senior management could hinder the Groups operations and strategy.
A loss of key personnel, with associated intellectual property and know-how, could disrupt our business and strategy.
In a number of local markets the Group may experience a shortage of skilled and experienced personnel for certain key roles.
Controls and mitigation The Group applies bespoke terms and conditions of employment for key personnel where appropriate.
The Group has in place incentive arrangements, including bonuses, pensions and long-term incentive plans.
The Group operates established recruitment and development programmes.
Succession plans continue to be reviewed for relevant key positions.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23
