38 Strategic report Risk management Effective risk management is essential to The Board recognises that embedding a First line of defence the financial strength and resilience of the sound risk management culture throughout Risk management within the business Group and for setting and achieving its the Group is fundamental to the effective The first line of defence comprises the business objectives.
This section provides operation of the Group, specifically to ensure management of the business units and a summary of how risk is managed by that all employees are aware of, and act support functions.
the Group through its enterprise risk in conformity with, the desired values and The first line of defence has primary management framework ERMF and behaviours adopted by the Group in their responsibility for ensuring that the business describes the Groups principal risks.
operates within risk appetite on a day-toEnterprise risk management framework The Group seeks to achieve the day basis.
The ERMF enables the Group to understand implementation of its risk management Second line of defence and manage the risks it is exposed to and culture through a combination of frameworks, Risk oversight and challenge seize opportunities in line with its business policies, practices, and incentive schemes.
The second line of defence comprises the objectives and within the defined risk Risk and Compliance functions, which are appetite.
The ERMF comprises four mutually Governance separate from operational management.
reinforcing components: risk management The Group has implemented a risk philosophy, risk management culture, risk management governance structure based The functions are responsible for overseeing management governance and risk on the industry-standard three lines of and challenging the first line of defence in its management processes.
The Group is defence that segregates risk management identification, assessment and management undertaking a range of actions to develop first line of defence from risk oversight of the risks it is exposed to, and for assisting and embed its risk management framework second line of defence and independent the Board and its various committees in in response to changes in the business and risk assurance third line of defence.
discharging its overall risk oversight regulatory feedback.
continues to evolve with the objective of The Board has overall responsibility for improving the Groups risk management the management of risk within the Group Third line of defence capability and supporting the delivery of which includes: Independent assurance the Groups business strategy.
Internal Audit provides independent determining the Groups risk appetite assurance on the design and operational Philosophy and culture and defining expectations for the effectiveness of the Groups risk management The Groups risk management philosophy is Groups risk culture: framework and associated activity, including underpinned by a set of core principles that ensuring that the Group has an the performance of the business units and establish the context for risk management appropriate and effective risk support and oversight functions.
The principles dictate that risk management and internal control management is value enhancing, addresses framework: and 1 As of March 2019, this Committee became the Group the expectations and requirements of key monitoring the Groups risk profile Risk, Conduct and Culture Committee GRCCC.
stakeholders, and is integrated into business to ensure that it remains within the processes.
The risk management approach Groups defined risk appetite.
is proportionate to the type and complexity of the business model and the nature of the The Groups risk governance structure associated risks.
Furthermore, risk oversight ensures the effective oversight and and assurance functions are sufficiently management of risk through the independent of business decision taking implementation and operation and supported by adequate resources.
It comprises: Board Risk Committee BRC : 1 Group Executive Risk Committee GERC : regional risk committees in EMEA, Americas and Asia Pacific : and other function-specific committees.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 39 Risk management processes The ERMF sets out the core risk management activities undertaken by the Group to identify, assess and manage its risk profile within the prescribed risk appetite.
Business Risk and risk governance strategy Capital and Risk liquidity identication assessment Stress and Risk Risk scenario culture appetite analysis Risk Risk assessment response and evaluation Monitoring Policies and and controls reporting Risk appetite The Groups risk appetite represents the type and level of risk which it is willing to accept in pursuit of its long-term strategic business objectives.
Risk appetite is articulated by the Board through the Groups risk appetite statements, which are reviewed at least on an annual basis.
The Group sets its risk appetite against five core risk categories which include the following: Category Summary statement Capital The Group must ensure it holds or has access to sufficient capital resources to meet any applicable regulatory capital requirements in both expected and stressed business conditions.
Liquidity The Groups objective is to ensure that each operating entity must maintain, or have access to, sufficient liquidity to meet all of its funding obligations and comply with any minimum regulatory requirements, in both normal and stressed conditions.
Reputation The Groups objective is to maintain its reputation for being a sound, trusted and reliable market intermediary, with market integrity at the heart of its business.
Regulatory standing The Groups objective is to maintain its good standing with all of its regulators and to fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations to which the Group is subject.
Access to capital markets The Groups objective is to ensure that it maintains access to the capital markets, and complies with existing bank lending covenants, even in stressed operating conditions.
The Group implements its risk appetite statements through the adoption of risk metrics and thresholds at individual risk level.
These thresholds constitute the operational parameters within which the first line of defence must operate on a day-to-day basis.
