TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties In delivering long-term returns to shareholders, the Board must also identify and monitor the risks that have been taken in order to achieve that return.
The Board has included below details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the appropriate measures taken in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The risks are all in line with the prior period and none are considered more or less significant than in the prior year.
Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation l The Board monitors the level of discount or premium Share price performs poorly in comparison at which the shares are trading over the short and to the underlying NAV longer-term.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London l The Board encourages engagement with the Stock Exchange and the share price is determined by shareholders.
The Board receives reports at each supply and demand.
The shares may trade at a discount meeting on the activity of the Companys brokers, or premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this PR agent and meetings and events attended by the discount or premium may uctuate over time.
l The Companys shares are available through the F&C share schemes and the Company participates in the active marketing of these schemes.
The shares are also widely available on open architecture platforms and can be held directly through the Companys registrar.
l The Board takes the powers to buy-back and to issue shares at each AGM.
l The Managers objective is to outperform the Poor investment performance of the benchmark.
The Board regularly reviews the portfolio relative to the benchmark.
Companys long-term strategy and investment The Companys portfolio is actively managed.
In addition guidelines and the managers relative positions to investment securities the Company also invests in against these.
commercial property and accordingly, the portfolio may l The Management Engagement Committee reviews not follow or outperform the return of the benchmark.
The Board has the powers to change the Manager if deemed appropriate.
l The Board receives and considers a regular report Market risk from the Manager detailing asset allocation, Both share prices and exchange rates may move rapidly investment decisions, currency exposures, gearing and adversely impact the value of the Companys portfolio.
levels and rationale in relation to the prevailing market conditions.
Although the portfolio is diversied across a number of geographical regions, the investment mandate is focused l The report considers the potential impact of Brexit and on a single sector and therefore the portfolio will be the Managers response in positioning the portfolio.
sensitive towards the property sector, as well as global equity markets more generally.
Property companies are subject to many factors which can adversely affect their investment performance, these TR Property Investment Trust 28 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation include the general economic and financial environment in which their tenants operate, interest rates, availability of investment and development finance and regulations issued by governments and authorities.
As highlighted since the result of the UK referendum in June 2016, parts of the UK property market may be adversely affected by Brexit.
The negotiations are still in progress and the implications are unclear together with the impact on occupation across each sector.
l The Board receives and considers regular income The Company is unable to maintain forecasts.
dividend growth l Income forecast sensitivity to changes in FX rates is Lower earnings in the underlying portfolio putting pressure also monitored.
on the Companys ability to grow the dividend could result from a number of factors: l The Company has revenue reserves which can be l lower earnings and distributions in investee companies drawn upon when required.
l prolonged vacancies in the direct property portfolio l strengthening sterling reducing the value of overseas dividend receipts in sterling terms l adverse changes in the tax treatment of dividends or other income received by the company l changes in the timing of dividend receipts from investee companies.
The Company has seen a material increase in the level of earnings in the last two years.
A significant factor in this has been the weakening of sterling following the Brexit decision.
This may reverse in the near or medium term as the negotiations progress, leading to a fall in earnings.
l Third party service providers produce periodic reports Accounting and operational risks to the Board on their control environments and Disruption or failure of systems and processes business continuation provisions on a regular basis.
underpinning the services provided by third parties and l The Management Engagement Committee considers the risk that these suppliers provide a sub-standard the performance of each of the service providers on service.
a regular basis and considers their ongoing appointment and terms and conditions.
l The Custodian and Depository are responsible for the safeguarding of assets.
In the event of a loss of assets the Depository must return assets of an identical type or corresponding amount unless able to demonstrate that the loss was the result of an event beyond their reasonable control.
TR Property Investment Trust 29 TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation l Details of these risks together with the policies for Financial risks managing these risks are found in the Notes to the The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety Financial Statements on pages 63 to 88. of financial risks which include counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk and the valuation of financial instruments.
l The Investment Manager monitors the investment Loss of Investment Trust Status portfolio, income and proposed dividend levels to The Company has been accepted by HM Revenue & ensure that the provisions of CTA 2010 are not Customs as an investment trust, subject to continuing to breached.
The results are reported to the Board meet the relevant eligibility conditions.
As such the at each meeting.
Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the profits realised from the sale of investments.
l The income forecasts are reviewed by the Companys tax advisor through the year who also reports to the Any breach of the relevant eligibility conditions could lead Board on the year-end tax position and on CTA 2010 to the Company losing investment trust status and being compliance.
subject to corporation tax on capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio.
l The Board receives regular regulatory updates from Legal, regulatory and reporting risks the Manager, Company Secretary, legal advisors and Failure to comply with the London Stock Exchange Listing Auditors.
The Board considers these reports and Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency rules: recommendations and takes action accordingly.
failure to meet the requirements under the Alternative Investment Funds Directive, the provisions of the l The Board receives an annual report and update from Companies Act 2006 and other UK, European and the Depository.
overseas legislation affecting UK companies.
Failure to l Internal checklists and review procedures are in place meet the required accounting standards or make at service providers.
appropriate disclosures in the Interim and Annual Reports.
l External auditors review Interim & Annual Reports and audit year end Financial Statements.
l The Board receives regular reports from the Manager Inappropriate use of gearing on the levels of gearing in the portfolio.
These are Gearing, either through the use of bank debt or through considered against the gearing limits set in the the use of derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
Investment Guidelines and also in the context of Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance the NAV current market conditions and sentiment.
total return, it will have the opposite effect when the return of the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
l The Chairman conducts regular meetings with the Personnel changes at Investment Manager Fund Management team.
Loss of portfolio manager or other key staff.
l The fee basis protects the core infrastructure and depth and quality of resources.
The fee structure incentivises good performance and is fundamental in the ability to retain key staff.
TR Property Investment Trust 30 STRATEGIC REPORT
