Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 26.
Financial instruments Accounting policy Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity investments Investments and other financial assets at fair value.
Where the Groups management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in Classification: OCI, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains From 1 January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in and losses to profit or loss following the derecognition of the the following measurement categories: investment.
Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive those to be measured subsequently at fair value either payments isestablished.
through Other Comprehensive Income FVOCI, or through profit or loss FVTPL : and Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVTPL are recognised in finance income or finance costs in the income those to be measured at amortised cost.
Impairment losses and the reversal The classification depends on the business model for of impairment losses on equity investments measured at managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the FVOCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair cash flows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either Put options on non-controlling interests be recorded in profit or loss or OCI.
For investments in equity Put options on non-controlling interests are initially recognised instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on directly in equity at the present value of the redemption liability.
whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the Subsequent movements in fair value are recognised directly time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment inequity.
The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its Impairment: business model for managing those assets changes.
From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its Measurement: debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI.
The At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset impairment methodology applied depends on whether there at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair has been a significant increase in credit risk.
value through profit or loss FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVTPL are approach permitted by IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments, which expensed in profit or loss.
requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Debt instruments Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Groups business model for managing the asset and the cash The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge flow characteristics of the asset.
There are two measurement its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks categories into which the Group classifies its debt instruments: arising from financing activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative financial instruments.
In accordance with its Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of treasury policy, theGroup does not hold or issue derivative contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent financial instruments for derivative trading purposes.
solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Interest income from these financial assets Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The is included in finance income using the effective interest fair value of derivative financial instruments is the estimated rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is amount the Group would receive or pay to transfer to a market recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in finance participant the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into income or finance costs, together with foreign exchange account current interest and exchange rates and the current gains and losses.
Impairment losses are presented as a creditworthiness of the counterparties.
separate line item in the income statement.
Foreign currency forward contracts are marked-to-market at FVTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised the balance sheet date, with any gains or losses being taken cost or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL.
A gain or loss on a through the income statement.
debt instrument that is subsequently measured at FVTPL is Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics gains losses in the period in which it arises.
are not closely related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or losses being reported in the incomestatement.
152 Income and Expenses Assets and Liabilities Capital Risks Group Structure People Other Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 26.
Impact of adoption of IFRS 9 - Financial instruments As at 1 January 2018 the date of initial application of IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments the Groups management assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments categories.
The main effects resulting from this reclassification are as follows: New classification under Note Original classification IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments Financial Assets: Derivative financial instruments a Designated as FVTPL Mandatorily at FVTPL Cash and cash equivalents Available-for-sale Amortised cost Trade and other receivables b Loans and receivables Amortised cost Available-for-sale investments c Available-for-sale Designated instrument by instrument as either FVOCI or FVTPL Financial Liabilities: Derivative financial instruments a Designated as FVTPL Mandatorily at FVTPL a Under IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, these foreign currency forward contracts were designated as fair value through profit and loss FVTPL because they were managed on a fair value basis and their performance was monitored on this basis.
These assets have been classified as mandatorily measured at FVTPL under IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments.
b Trade and other receivables that were classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are now classified at amortised cost as the business model is to hold the financial asset to collect contractual cash flows which represent solely the payment of principal and interest.
An increase of 2.4m in the allowance for impairment over these receivables was recognised in opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018 on transition to IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments.
c These equity securities represent investments that the Group intends to hold for the long-term for strategic purposes.
As permitted by IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments, the Group has designated these investments on an instrument by instrument basis as either fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI or FVTPL.
The carrying value of categories of financial instruments The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m Financial assets: Mandatorily at FVTPL 0.6 - 0.6 - Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents at amortised cost 1,422.3 1,326.0 195.3 230.3 Designated  as either FVTPL or FVOCI 2.2 4.7 1.0 1.0 1,425.1 1,330.7 196.9 231.3 Financial liabilities: Mandatorily at FVTPL - 1.2 - 1.2 Borrowings note 20a 609.0 618.3 555.2 557.1 Put options on non-controlling interests 5.6 4.9 5.6 4.9 Trade and other payables at amortised cost note 15 1,343.1 1,241.9 - 20.4 1,957.7 1,866.3 560.8 583.6 Loans and receivables exclude prepayments of 134.6m 2017: 116.2m.
Trade and other payables exclude taxation and social security and accruals and deferred income totalling 290.7m 2017: 220.4m.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group has considered the impact of credit risk on its financial instruments and because the counterparties are banks with strong credit ratings considers its impact to be immaterial.
153 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 26.
Financial instruments continued c. Fair value of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities designated as FVTPL Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from comprise foreign currency forward contracts and are measured inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are using quoted forward exchange rates.
observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or value is observable: liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets There were no transfers between levels during the year.
orliabilities The Group The Company m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Included in liabilities: Level 2 Foreign currency forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss - 1.2 - 1.2 Level 3 Deferred consideration at fair value through equity 5.6 4.9 5.6 4.9 5.6 6.1 5.6 6.1 d. Interest risk management e. Currency forward contracts The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group The Group acquires goods for sale from overseas, which when borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
The risk not denominated in Sterling are paid for principally in US dollars.
is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts between fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of all of which are less than one year in duration to buy US dollars interest rate swap contracts and forward interest rate contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated when appropriate.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to future purchases.
At the balance sheet date the total notional align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring value of contracts to which the Group was committed was optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning the US$41.1m 2017: US$75.8m.
The fair value of these derivatives balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different was 0.6m asset 2017: 1.2m liability.
These contracts are interest rate cycles.
At 31 December 2018 no interest rate risks not designated cash flow hedges and accordingly the fair value were hedged 2017: none.
movement has been reflected in the incomestatement.
f. Interest rate sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming that the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 1.0% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel.
At the 31 December 2018 the Group had no floating rate liabilities.
There was 190m on short-term deposit at 31 December 2018.
A 1.0% increase decrease in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would have the following impact on: Profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have increased decreased by 1.9m 2017: increased decreased by 2.2m due to the short-term deposits Net equity would have increased decreased by 1.5m 2017: increased decreased by 1.8m 154 Income and Expenses Assets and Liabilities Capital Risks Group Structure People Other Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 26.
Financial instruments continued g. Liquidity analysis The following table details the Groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash flows on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross cash flows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest and foreign currency rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reportingdate.
2018 m 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Total gross settled - foreign exchange forward contracts 31.5 - - - 31.5 Net settled - - - - - Put options on non-controlling interests - 5.6 - - 5.6 Total derivative financial instruments 31.5 5.6 - - 37.1 Net settled: Borrowings - - 559.2 32.8 592.0 Trade and other payables at amortised cost note 26b 1,343.1 - - - 1,343.1 Finance leases note 20d 4.4 4.3 10.6 6.7 26.0 Total financial instruments 1,379.0 9.9 569.8 39.5 1,998.2 2017 m 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Total gross settled - foreign exchange forward contracts 57.1 - - - 57.1 Net settled Put options on non-controlling interests - 4.9 - - 4.9 Total derivative financial instruments 57.1 4.9 - - 62.0 Net settled: Borrowings - - - 596.3 596.3 Trade and other payables at amortised cost note 26b 1,241.9 - - - 1,241.9 Finance leases note 20d 7.0 4.4 14.0 7.8 33.2 Total financial instruments 1,306.0 9.3 14.0 604.1 1,933.4 155 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 27.
Impairment Accounting policy reversed in the income statement up to the net book value Impairment of tangible and intangible assets that the relevant asset would have had if it had not been The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible written down and if it had beendepreciated.
assets with a definite useful life are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the impairment to their value.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to sheetdate.
Wherethe asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group Measuring recoverable amounts estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating The Group tests goodwill and other non-monetary assets unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable with indefinite useful lives for impairment annually or more amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less frequently if there are indications that an impairment may disposal cost and its value-in-use thepresent value of the have occurred.
The recoverable amounts of the goodwill future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate.
In and other non-monetary assets with indefinite useful lives determining value in use the present value of future cash are determined from value in use calculations.
The key flows is discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects assumptions for the value in use calculations are those current market assessments of the time value of money in regarding the discount rates, growth rates and like-for-like relation to the period of the investment and the risksspecific market volume changes which impact sales and therefore to the asset concerned.
cash flow projections and maintenance capital expenditure.
Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount Management estimates pre-tax discount rates that reflect aprovision for the impairment loss is established with a current market assessments of the time value of money and charge being made to the income statement.
When the the risks specific to the CGU groupings that are not reflected reasons for a write down no longer exist the write down is in the cash flow projections.
Measuring recoverable amounts At the beginning and end of the financial year the recoverable Cash flows beyond the corporate plan period 2022 and amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful beyond have been determined using a growth rate of 1.5% lives in all segments was in excess of their book value except 2017: 2.0%.
This represents the forecast 2022 GDP growth in for Wickes and Tile Giant as outlined below.
In the absence of a the Office for Budget Responsibilitys October 2018 Economic binding agreement to sell the assets and active reference market and Fiscal Outlook report.
on which fair value can be determined, the recoverable amount of Impairment the goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives was As disclosed in 2018 interim financial statements, the Group has determined according to value in use.
The Directors calculations recognised an impairment charge in respect of Wickes goodwill have shown that no impairments have occurred other than of 246.3m due to Wickes underperforming its forecasts.
The detailed in the table below.
The key variables applied to the value Directors have revisited the value-in-use calculation for this in use calculations were: CGU as at 31 December 2018 and concluded that no further impairment was needed.
Cash flow forecasts, which were derived from the most recent board approved corporate plans updated for changes in current An impairment charge of 5.8m was also recognised in relation trading conditions.
The sales market volume assumptions underlying the cash flow Cash generating unit m forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes based on historic performance excluding future investment Wickes 246.3 and enhancements and the current outlook for both the UK Tile Giant 5.8 economy and the UK building materials industry.
This is viewed Total 252.1 as the key operating assumption because the state of the building materials market determines the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance.
A pre-tax discount rate is calculated by reference to the weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group.
For 2018 the pre-tax discount rate ranged between 8.5% and 9.3% 2017: 8.3% to 8.6%, which is not significantly different for any individual CGU or CGU grouping.
156 Income and Expenses Assets and Liabilities Capital Risks Group Structure People Other Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 27.
Impairment continued The key variables applied to the value-in-use calculations for The performance of kitchen and bathroom sales and forecast Wickes were: cost savings are key drivers of operational cash flows.
A pre-tax discount rate is calculated by reference to the Cash flow forecasts are risk-adjusted and were derived from weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group the most recent board approved corporate plan, updated for calculated with reference to market information and changes in current trading conditions.
The sales market volume assumptions underlying the cash flow Cash flows beyond the corporate plan period 2022 and forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes beyond have been determined using a growth rate of 1.5% based on historical performance excluding future investment 2017: 2.0%.
This represents the forecast 2022 GDP growth in and enhancements and the current outlook for both the UK the Office for Budget Responsibilitys October 2018 Economic economy and the UK DIY market.
This is a key operating and Fiscal Outlook report.
assumption because the state of the DIY market determines the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance.
Sensitivity of results to changes in assumptions Whilst the Directors believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible that a materially different impairment would have been identified in the impairment review undertaken as at 30 June 2018 if any of the above key assumptions were changed significantly in Wickes value-in-use calculations.
The impact on the impairment charge recognised of a change in each assumption, all other assumptions remaining the same, is shown in the table below.
CGU grouping Terminal value Discount rate Long-term growth rate Reduction Impact Increase Impact Reduction Impact Wickes 5% 30m 1% 119m 0.5% 54m The Directors further conducted a sensitivity analysis on the value-in-use calculation used at 31 December 2018 to determine the specific value for each assumption, all other assumptions remaining the same, that would result in the carrying value of goodwill and other fixed assets equalling their recoverable amounts.
These are shown in the following table.
CGU grouping Headroom Like-for-like market volume Discount rate Long-term growth rate Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity Assumption Sensitivity Wickes 16m 1.5 1.4 8.65% 8.81% 1.50% 1.35% The impairment review calculations are based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows.
For all other material CGU groupings, given the prudence already built into the Groups corporate plan and the level of headroom they show, the Directors do not envisage reasonably possible changes to the key operating assumptions that are sufficient to generate a different outcome to the impairment calculations undertaken.
Key estimates over assumptions used in value-in-use calculations In testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of goodwill and intangible assets is determined by reference to the value-in-use of the CGU grouping to which they are attributed.
In addition the Directors have made certain estimates concerning discount rates, future cash flows and the future development of the business that are consistent with its corporate plan.
Whilst the Directors consider their assumptions to be realistic, should actual results, including those for market volume changes, be different from expectations, for instance due to a worsening of the UK economy, then it is possible that the value of goodwill and other intangible assets included in the balance sheet could becomeimpaired.
The pre-tax discount rate is derived from the Groups weightedaverage cost of capital WACC calculated by the Groups advisors.
The WACC is based upon the risk free rate for twenty-year UK gilts, adjusted for the UK market risk premium, which reflects the increased risk of investing in UK equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to themarket as a whole.
The Directors have applied risk-based adjustments to cash flows to reflect their view of the relative risk of the Groups operations.
Key judgement over cash generating unit In the Directors judgement individual assets do not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets.
Consequently each branch or distribution network in the Group is a cash generating unit CGU for the purposes of impairment testing of property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill and other intangibles impairment testing is carried out at brand level as described in note 8.
Different judgements on the definition of the Groups CGUs and the levels at which impairment testing should be performed could result in material differences in the conclusions of the Groups impairment testing.
