Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Statement of principal risks and uncertainties For the year ended 31 December 2018 The Group operates in markets and an industry which by their nature are subject to a number of inherent risks.
The Group is able to mitigate those risks by adopting different strategies and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
However, regardless of the approach that is taken, the Group must accept a certain level of risk in order to generate suitable returns for shareholders and for that reason the risk management process is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
Connor Wylde - Travis Perkins, Tilbury Distribution Centre 34 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures to achieve greater simplification and focus on serving trade it has visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts customers through advantaged businesses, activities are on the Group and how and to what extent those risks are underway to reshape the portfolio with the proposed divestment mitigated.
The Board has assessed its risk appetite, which is set of the Plumbing&Heating businesses.
As a result, the Directors to balance opportunities for growth and business development in have concluded that acquisition and disposal activity, previously areas of potentially higher risk and return, whilst maintaining its combined with risks associated with business transformation reputation, legal and regulatory compliance and high levels projects, is a key area of focus and heightened risk for the Group of customer service and satisfaction.
As part of its risk and it is now described separately.
The Directors have also management process, the principal risks stated in the Groups extended the description of health and safety risk to consider in risk register are reviewed, challenged and updated by more detail the transport related risk faced by the Group, due to the Board and monitored throughout the year.
the scale of the fleet it operates and the associated regulatory and compliance requirements.
Finally, the reduction in the deficit Each operating business within the Group monitors a separate for the Groups two main defined benefit schemes, supported risk register.
These risk registers are used to determine strategies by the closure of the schemes to future accrual in 2018 and a adopted by the Groups various businesses to mitigate the continued focus on liability management, means that the Board identified risks and are embedded in their operating plans.
no longer believes that this area represents a principalrisk.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are given in The nature of risk is that its scope and potential impact will the Corporate Governance report on page 59. change over time.
As such the list below should not be In common with most large organisations, the Group regarded as a comprehensive statement of all potential risks is subject to general commercial risks: for example, political and uncertainties that may manifest in the future.
Additional risks and economic developments, changes in the cost of goods and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Directors for resale, increased competition in its markets and the threat or which are currently deemed immaterial could also have of emerging and disruptive competitors, material failures in the an adverse effect on the Groups future operating results, supply chain, failure to secure supply of goods for resale on financial condition or prospects.
competitive terms, cyber-security breaches and failure The table on pages 36 to 41 sets out, in no particular order, of our ITinfrastructure.
the current principal risks that the Board considers to be The risk environment in which the Group operates does not material, their potential impacts, the factors that mitigate them remain static.
During the year, the Directors have reviewed the and those areas of the businesses strategies they potentially Groups principal risks and have concluded that as the nature impact.
The inherent risk before the operation of control is of the business and the environment in which it operates stated for each risk area together with an indication of the remain broadly the same, the principal risks it faces are current trend for that risk.
However, following the announcement in December2018 that the Group strategy is being refined 35 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Changing customer and competitor landscape INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION HIGH The Group sells and distributes building materials Changes to market practice are tracked on an through a number of channels.
The number of ongoing basis and reported to the Board.
outlets and channels where building materials TREND: The Group continues to build multi-channel can be purchased continues to grow with new capabilities that complement its existing operations STATIC competitors entering the market.
These new and provide its customers with the opportunity to entrants may operate business models which differ transact with the Group through channels that best STRATEGY: significantly from the traditional merchanting, suit theirneeds.
retail and online formats from which the Group The Groups strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
operates and may take market share.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, At the same time, customer purchasing habits including maintaining smaller stores and implanting IMPACT: continue to evolve with increasing online additional services into existing branches.
Customers preference for purchasing The development of new, innovative and competitive on financial results materials through a range of supply channels and supply solutions is a key strength of the Group.
It not just through the Groups traditional competitors Loss of market share works closely with customers and suppliers on a may affect the Groups performance and adversely programme of continuous improvement designed to impact the profitability of branch-based operations.
Increasing price transparency could lead to a Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly perception that the Group is less price competitive reviewed and where necessary refined to ensure leading to downward pressure on price andmargins.
Colleague recruitment, retention and succession plans do not deliver the required skills and experience INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM The ability to recruit, develop, retain and motivate The Groups employment policies and practices are suitably qualified staff is an important driver of kept under regular review.
The Group may TREND: Staff engagement and turnover by job type is also be exposed to skills shortages in certain reported regularly to the Executive Committee and STATIC areas which can result in salary cost pressures.
Succession plans are established for Theavailability of suitably qualified commercial the most senior positions within the Group and STRATEGY: drivers is one such area of focus for the Group, these are reviewed annually.
which is critical to the operation of its fleet to meet The Groups reward and recognition systems customer delivery expectations.
are actively managed to ensure high levels of The strength of the Groups customer proposition IMPACT: employee engagement.
is underpinned by the quality of people working Inability to develop and Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked throughout the Group, particularly in customer execute development regularly to ensure that the Group remains facing roles.
Many of them have worked for Travis and successionplans competitive and the Group operates incentive Perkins for some considerable time, during which structures to ensure that high performing Adverse effect on delivery they have gained valuable product and customer colleagues are adequately rewarded and retained.
of strategy knowledge and expertise.
A wide range of training programmes are Competitive disadvantage The Group faces competition for the best people in place to encourage staff development, from other organisations.
Ensuring the retention whilst management development programmes and development of employees and that robust are available to those identified for more succession plans exist for key positions is important seniorpositions.
for the Group to deliver on its strategic objectives.
36 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Supplier dependency, relationship and disintermediation leading to adverse impacts on ranging and price INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM The Group is the largest customer to a number Making decent returns is one of the Groups of its suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers cornerstones which requires it to treat both are large enough to cause significant supply customers and suppliers fairly.
The commercial TREND: difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet and financial teams have established strong STATIC their supply obligations due to either economic or relationships with the Groups key suppliers and operationalfactors.
work closely with them to ensure contracts that STRATEGY: are beneficial to both parties and the continuity of Alternative sourcing may be available, but the quality materials.
volumes required and the time it may take those suppliers to increase production could result in To spread the risk where possible contracts exist significant stock-outs for some considerable time with more than one supplier for key products.
IMPACT: leading to poor customer service.
The Group has made a significant investment in its Adverse effect on The Group has increased the sourcing of products Far East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing financial result from overseas factories.
This has increased the operation which allows the development of own Adverse effect Groups exposure to sourcing, quality, trading, brand products, thereby reducing the reliance on on reputation warranty and currency issues, which again may branded suppliers.
The Group has also adopted a lead to an adverse impact on customer service.
conservative hedging policy to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
Manufacturers of building materials sold by the Group may also look to sell their products directly Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the to end customers in the future diminishing the factories manufacturing products and the quality role of distributors such as merchanting and retail and the suitability of those products before they are distribution businesses.
Unsafe practices result in harm to colleagues, customers, suppliers or the public INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION MEDIUM The Groups regular Divisional leadership meetings Keeping the Groups colleagues, customers, also focus on performance and continuous suppliers and the public safe is a cornerstone improvement in this area.
These forums also of the business.
The Group operates over 2,000 TREND: monitor the achievement of transport-related sites, many with complex and busy yards.
It also STATIC compliance requirements, including driver licencing operates one of the largest vehicle fleets in the and professional competence.
UK, distributing heavy and bulky materials.
Poorly STRATEGY: implemented safety practices on site, on the road Incidents are monitored, investigated and corrective or at delivery locations could result in significant action taken to reduce the likelihood of similar harm to people which would damage the Groups incidents in future.
Stay Safe assurance reviews are reputation and could impact tradingperformance.
regularly undertaken at sites by dedicated safety IMPACT: professionals with any resulting improvement Harm to our colleagues, RISK MITIGATION actions tracked to completion.
customers and the The Group continues to challenge its thinking and fide-risking the Groups operations, improving health widercommunity approach to improving its safety performance and safety awareness and implementing improved Potential legal action, through its Stay Safe brand.
ways of working are at the forefront of the Groups fines and penalties activities.
Further information on progress made Governance of Stay Safe is well-established and Adverse effect on during 2018 can be found in the Health and Safety designed to promote a continual focus on health financial results report on pages 47 to 49. and safety.
Stay Safe performance is reviewed at all Adverse effect Board meetings, by the Executive Committee and on reputation by the dedicated Stay Safe Committee, which is chaired by a Non-executive Director.
Link to strategy: Best-in-class service Focus on trade Financial strength Advantaged businesses Simplifying the Group 37 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Group allocates capital inefficiently or under invests in advantaged business and does not achieve desired returns INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM The Group operates a number of different Return on capital is one of the Groups key businesses in the UK which operate in different performance indicators as shown on page 19. but complementary channels.
As the Groups The Groups decision to refine its strategy and TREND: markets continue to develop, it is investing to focus on trade customers in the most advantaged STATIC enhance its existing businesses and to develop new businesses will impact the allocation of capital with propositions to better serve itscustomers.
more focused management attention and capital STRATEGY: deployment in areas of higher return.
Whilst the Group operates a disciplined capital allocation process, there is a risk that it may be Responsibility for identifying and implementing over-investing in channels which may decline or opportunities to expand, improve or modify the that it may not be allocating sufficient capital to Groups operations rests with each of the Divisional IMPACT: new propositions resulting in sub-optimal returns Boards.
Capital is deployed or re-deployed through Adverse effect on on capital.
a Group-led forum to the  financial results opportunities expected to achieve the best return on capital.
Major projects are kept under review to monitor progress and ensure the deployment of capital remains appropriate.
Post-implementation reviews are undertaken on all major projects and returns are monitored on an ongoing basis to ensure that the expected returns are achieved and allow the Group to modify its capital allocation when appropriate.
Business transformation and improvement projects fail to deliver the expected benefits, cost more or take longer to implement than anticipated INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM The Group undertakes a variety of projects All potentially significant projects are subject to throughout its business in order to generate returns detailed investigation, assessment and approval for its shareholders.
These projects include the prior to commencement.
TREND: transformation of the Groups core IT systems and Dedicated teams, including financial resource, are STATIC infrastructure, ongoing development of its supply allocated to each project, with additional expertise chain operations and its branch and store networks, brought into the Group to supplement existing STRATEGY: and the simplification of the Group to speed up resource when necessary.
decision making and reduce costs.
All strategic projects are supported by an By their nature, such strategic projects are appropriate governance structure and are closely often complicated, interlinked and may require monitored by the Executive Committee with regular IMPACT: considerable resource to deliver them.
As a result, reporting to theBoard.
Adverse effect on the expected benefits, timescale for delivery and Regular communications are undertaken to keep financial results costs of implementation of each project may affected colleagues informed.
deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Adverse effect on Colleague engagement may be impacted during a shareholder value period of significant change and cost-focus.
38 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Uncertainty caused by the UKs decision to leave the European Union INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION HIGH The result of the UK vote to leave the European It remains too early to determine the full impact of Union and the subsequent process to determine the UKs decision to leave the European Union, TREND: the terms of the withdrawal agreement continues to but the Board is closely monitoring market conditions cause considerable market uncertainty.
It remains and will reactaccordingly.
INCREASING difficult to predict the economic outlook and The Board has undertaken a process to assess the impact to the Group in the short-term.
The Group known and proximate risks associated with Brexit.
STRATEGY: continued to experience significant volatility in the This includes assessment of existing risk mitigations value of Sterling against the principal currencies and actions in progress and is updated on a used to pay for imported goods during 2018. regularbasis.
Future trading relationships with foreign markets The Board has already taken steps to reduce some IMPACT: have yet to be determined and these may result in costs, but is carefully balancing the current needs Adverse effect on higher tariffs or duties on imports of construction of the business against what may or may not occur financial results products as well as extended lead times on in the future.
imported supplies or result in the need to source The Group continues to invest in the business some products elsewhere.
These risks have the where those investments are expected to realise potential to impact the Group significantly.
Of less acceptable returns, but it is prepared to reduce risk to the Group, but potentially significant for its activity levels should market conditions so dictate.
customers, are the significant numbers of non-UK Exercises have been undertaken by the divisional nationals employed in the construction industry leadership teams to assess the level of stock and the distribution and logistics markets.
If the holding required in each business unit to minimise UK becomes a less attractive place for them to disruption to customers.
A customer statement is work this could result in labour shortages and in place and will be reassessed as the terms of the consequent salary cost pressures and could UKs withdrawal are clarified.
Engagement with the change dynamics in our key markets.
Whilst Groups key suppliers is ongoing.
significant changes to product standards and legislative requirements more generally are not Where the cost of goods increases due to the anticipated in the short-term, they could impact exchange rate deteriorating or additional tariffs the Group if introduced in the future.
and duties, the Group will seek to pass those price increases through to its customers, but its ability The continued uncertainties that surround Brexit to do so will depend upon market conditions at mean that a more precise assessment of the thetime.
impact on the Groups operations is unlikely to be possible until the terms of the withdrawal The processes in place around the recruitment and agreement are confirmed.
retention of people are set out in the principal risk pertaining to such matters on page 36.
Link to strategy: Best-in-class service Focus on trade Financial strength Advantaged businesses Simplifying the Group 39 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Market conditions leading to demand uncertainty INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION HIGH The Groups products are sold to businesses, The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, trade professionals and retail customers for a which includes an assessment of likely competitor broad range of end uses in the built environment.
activity, market forecasts and possible future TREND: The Groups markets are cyclical in nature and trends in products, channels of distribution and INCREASING the performance of those markets is affected customer behaviour.
by general economic conditions and specific The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking STRATEGY: drivers of construction, Renovation, Maintenance system for lead indicators that influence the market and Improvement and DIY activity.
These for the consumption of building materials in the UK.
include mortgage availability and affordability, Significant events including those in the supply housing transactions and the timing and nature chain that may affect the Group are monitored by of government activity to stimulate activity, net IMPACT: the Executive Committee and reported to the Board disposable income, house price inflation, consumer Adverse effect on monthly by the Group CEO.
confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
financial results Should market conditions deteriorate then the A significant downturn in economic conditions or Board has a range of options dependent upon alternatively major uncertainty about the future the severity of the change.
Historically these have outlook could affect the levels of construction included amending the Groups trading stance, cost activity in the Groups markets and the confidence reduction, lowering capital investment and cutting levels of the Groups customers, which could reduce the dividend.
their propensity to purchase products and services from the Groups businesses.
Execution of planned disposals and potential acquisitions fails to deliver the expected benefits to the expected cost and timescale INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM The Group undertakes acquisition and disposal All merger, acquisition and disposal activities activity to optimise its portfolio of businesses are subject to a detailed appraisal process and and drive shareholder return.
In December 2018, ultimate approval by the Board.
TREND: the Group announced its intention to explore the A formal programme of work with dedicated INCREASING potential divestment of the Plumbing & Heating resource has been put in place to support the division, as part of the broader strategy of execution of the Plumbing & Heating disposal.
This division comprises a External expertise and advisors are involved number of businesses of varying size which operate as required to support the programme team.
on a range of systems, some of which are shared All activity of this kind is supported by robust with the wider Group.
The Plumbing&Heating IMPACT: The programme to separate the Plumbing programme is closely monitored by a programme Adverse effect & Heating businesses for a potential sale is Steering Committee, with Executive sponsorship on financial results complex with many linkages to Group systems and representation.
There is regular reporting to the Adverse effect on and processes.
The Group has not undertaken a Executive Committee and Board.
shareholder value restructure and disposal on this scale for some time and it requires careful management.
The costs and timescale for the separation may deviate from those originally planned, which could in turn impact the progression of a sale process and the valuerealised.
40 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Data security INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MITIGATION MEDIUM Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a The strategic demands of the business, the significant and increasing threat to all businesses resources available to IT, the performance levels of including the Group.
A major breach of cyber key systems and IT security are kept under review TREND: security could result in disruption to customerby the Executive Committee, with responsibility INCREASING facing, supplier-facing and financial systems for monitoring and maintaining cyber security through theft and misuse of confidential data, delegated to a data security committee.
STRATEGY: damage to or manipulation of operationally critical Investments in best-of-breed solutions are made data or interruption to IT services, any of which may that continually adapt and are updated to mitigate have serious impacts on the Groups reputation or the risk associated with the most advanced threats ability to trade.
and the evolution of Group technology adoption.
IMPACT: Cyber security controls are in place to protect Adverse effect IT systems and data including firewalls, virus on financial results protection and penetration testing.
A programme Adverse effect on of risk-oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the the Groups reputation level of control around IT systems remains robust.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a business continuity plan.
Arrangements are in place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
The changing regulatory framework increases the risk of non-compliance and fines INHERENT RISK: RISK DESCRIPTION MEDIUM The Group is subject to a broad range of comply with the law and other regulations affecting existing and evolving governance requirements, the Group at all times.
environmental, health and safety and other laws, TREND: The Group provides online training to colleagues regulations, standards and best practices which in key areas of legal and regulatory compliance, STATIC affect the way the Group operates and give rise to including a suite of mandatory training for those significant compliance costs, potential legal liability that join the Group.
During 2018 Group-wide STRATEGY: for non-compliance and potential limitations on the training was undertaken in respect of GDPR.
The Executive Committee and the Board regularly monitor compliance with laws and regulations.
RISK MITIGATION The Group operates a whistleblowing process IMPACT: The Groups in-house legal team is responsible that allows the anonymous reporting through an Adverse effect on the for monitoring changes to laws and regulations independent hotline of any suspected wrongdoing Companys reputation that affect the business and is supported by or unethical behaviour, including reporting instances external advisors.
Adverse effect on financial of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
All and operational performance The Group has a comprehensive framework of reported cases are investigated.
policies in place that sets out the ways employees Potential legal action, fines and suppliers are expected to conduct themselves.
and penalties Those expectations are widely disseminated using a range of methods to ensure colleagues and suppliers understand their responsibilities to Link to strategy: Best-in-class service Focus on trade Financial strength Advantaged businesses Simplifying the Group 41
