Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls, with the Audit & Risk Committee reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process on our behalf.
We aim to operate in a low-risk environment, focusing on a single Risk appetite subsector of the UK real estate market to deliver an attractive, We have a specific Investment Policy, which we adhere to and growing and secure income for Shareholders, together with the for which the Board has overall responsibility.
In November 2018, opportunity for capital appreciation.
The Board recognises that Shareholders approved a change to the Investment Policy the effective risk management is key to the Groups success.
Risk principal effect of which was to increase the level of exposure the management ensures a defined approach to decision making that Company can have to land and options over land and, within that, decreases uncertainty surrounding anticipated outcomes, balanced to allow for a limited level of speculative development.
Our exposure against the objective of creating value for Shareholders.
to land can be up to 15% of gross asset value, of which up to 5% can be invested in speculative development.
Approach to managing risk Our risk management process is designed to identify, evaluate and We have a specific Investment Policy, which we adhere to and mitigate rather than eliminate the significant risks we face.
The for which the Board has overall responsibility.
process can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
As an investment company, we outsource key services Principal risks and uncertainties to the Manager, the Administrator and other service providers, and Further details of our principal risks and uncertainties are set out rely on their systems and controls.
They have the potential to materially affect our business, either favourably or unfavourably.
Some risks are currently At least twice a year, the Board undertakes a formal risk review, unknown, while others that we currently regard as immaterial, and with the assistance of the Audit & Risk Committee, to assess the have therefore not included here, may turn out to be material in the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
Most of the principal risks are the same as detailed in the During these reviews, the Board has not identified or been advised 2017 Annual Report, with the key changes relating to the increase in of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be development activity following the change to our Investment Policy material.
in November 2018 and the subsequent acquisition of db symmetry in February 2019.
Risk management framework The Board Audit & Risk Committee Policy procedure and controls Audit Committee Review of key performance indicators and management reports Risk identification The Manager Risk assessment financial and operational Risk mitigation implementation of risk mitigants Risk monitoring evaluation and revaluation of financial and operational metrics Risk reporting to Audit & Risk Committee and Board 60 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For Our Investment Policy, see Our Objectives and Strategy on pages 20-21 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks Principal risks The Board considers these risks have increased since last year 1 Default of one or more tenants 5 Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than investment in standing investments 6 The purchase of land may involve a higher degree of risk than that associated with existing and built investments or pre-let development activities 10 We rely on the continuance of the Manager The Board considers all the other risks to be broadly 8 unchanged from last year 2 The performance and valuation of the property portfolio 4 Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector, specifically the continued growth of 6 online retail 9 We must be able to operate within our banking covenants 11 We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders 12 The vote to leave the EU in June 2016 could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company Rare Low Medium High Probability The Board considers these risks have decreased since last year The matrix above illustrates our assessment of the impact 3 Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition and probability of the principal risks identified.
The rationale for investment properties in the Big Box sector for perceived increases or decreases in the risks identified is 7 Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying interest rate movements contained within the commentary for each risk category.
8 A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability to grow Property risks 1 Default of one or more tenants Probability: Impact: Mitigation moderate moderate Our investment policy limits our exposure to any one tenant The default of one or more of our to 20% of gross assets or, where tenants are members of the tenants would immediately reduce FTSE, up to 30% each for two such tenants.
This prevents revenue from the relevant asset s. significant exposure to a single Customer.
To mitigate If the tenant cannot remedy the geographical shifts in tenants focus, we invest in assets in a default and we have to evict the range of locations, with easy access to large ports and key tenant, there may be a continuing motorway junctions.
Before investing, we undertake thorough reduction in revenues until we are due diligence, particularly over the strength of the underlying able to find a suitable replacement covenant, while continuing to monitor the covenant strength tenant, which may affect our ability once forming part of the portfolio.
We select assets with to pay dividends to Shareholders.
strong property fundamentals good location, modern design, sound fabric, which should be attractive to other tenants if the current tenant fails.
In addition, we focus on assets let to tenants with strong financial covenant strength that are strategically important to the tenants business.
Our maximum exposure to any one tenant calculated by contracted rental income is less than 13.7% as at 31 December 2018.
See Asset Management pages 40-45 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 61 Impact Rare Low Medium High Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Property risks continued 2 The performance and valuation of the property portfolio Probability: Impact: Mitigation moderate to high low As at 31 December 2018, our property portfolio was 100% An adverse change in our property let or pre-let, with long unexpired weighted average lease valuations may lead to a breach of our terms and an institutional-grade tenant base.
All the leases banking covenants.
Market conditions contain upward-only rent reviews, which are either fixed, may also reduce the revenues we earn RPI CPI linked or at open market value.
These factors help from our property assets, which may maintain our asset values.
affect our ability to pay dividends to We have agreed banking covenants with appropriate Shareholders.
A severe fall in values headroom and manage our activities to operate well within may result in us selling assets to repay these covenants.
We constantly monitor our covenant our loan commitments, resulting in headroom on LTV, gearing and interest cover.
The level a fall in our NAV.
See Asset of headroom is currently significant.
The EMTN has less Management pages 40-45 restrictive covenants.
3 Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition for investment properties in the Big Box sector Probability: Impact: Mitigation low low We have extensive contacts in the sector and often benefit Competitors in the sector may from off-market transactions.
We also maintain close be better placed to secure property relationships with a number of investors and developers acquisitions, as they may have greater in the sector, giving us the best possible opportunity to financial resources, thereby restricting secure future acquisitions.
We are not exclusively reliant on our ability to grow our NAV.
acquisitions to grow the portfolio.
In particular, our acquisition of db symmetry in February 2019 has secured a pipeline of development opportunities for the longer term.
Our leases contain upward-only rent review clauses and we have a number of current asset management initiatives within the portfolio, which means we can generate additional income and value from the existing portfolio.
We are, however, disciplined in our investment of capital and will not pay a price which we believe is above market value, just to secure a purchase, nor will we commit funds to the development of See Our Objectives and Strategy pages 20-21 a larger scale Big Box on a speculative basis.
62 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 4 Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector, specifically the continued growth of online retail Probability: Impact: Mitigation low low The diversity of our institutional-grade tenant base means the Our focus on the Big Box sector impact of default of any one of our tenants is low.
In addition means we rely directly on the to our due diligence on tenants before an acquisition or, in the distribution requirements of UK case of forward funded developments, before agreeing the retailers.
Insolvencies among the lease terms, we regularly review the performance of the retail larger retailers and online retailers sector, the position of our tenants against their competitors could affect our revenues and and, in particular, the financial performance of our tenants.
E-commerce is expected to grow to 25.8% of UK retail sales See The Logistics by 2021.
Which is driving strong occupational demand across Property Market pages 16-17 the sector.
5 Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than investment in standing investments Probability: Impact: Mitigation low to medium medium The Company had seven forward funded development Our development activities are assets, totalling 6.6 million sq ft, under construction as at likely to involve a higher degree 31 December 2018.
All of these assets are pre-let to of risk than is associated with institutional grade tenants.
Any risk of investment into standing investments.
This could forward funded projects is minimal, as the developer takes include general construction risks, on a significant amount of construction risk and the risk of delays in the development or the cost overruns.
Funds for these developments remain with development not being completed, us and are only released to the developer on a controlled cost overruns or developer basis subject to milestones as assessed by our independent contractor default.
Inaccurate project monitoring surveyors see also risk below on land and assessment of a development development activities.
Post the period end, the Company opportunity or a decrease in tenant acquired the db symmetry portfolio of land assets which demand, particularly in relation to any included a further five smaller scale logistics assets under speculative developments, could result construction, totalling c. 600,000 sq ft, which are being in the development remaining vacant.
developed space on a speculative basis.
It is not anticipated that larger scale Big Boxes will be speculatively developed on See The Logistics If any of the risks associated with our any of the other schemes acquired.
The vertical construction Property Market developments materialised, this could pages 16-17 of any future developments will be subject to securing reduce the value of these assets and pre-let agreements except where small scale speculative See Our Objectives and our portfolio.
Strategy pages 20-21 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 63 Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Property risks continued 6 The purchase of land may involve a higher degree of risk than that associated with existing and built investments or development activities Probability: Impact: Mitigation medium low The purchase of land is subject to a maximum level of 15% of The inability to obtain planning consent gross assets, at the time of purchase.
The Company can also means that the land would have to be only undertake limited speculative development of buildings held or sold prior to any development.
although it can undertake land preparation works but we will The value of the land may be reduced continue to seek a pre-let prior to commencing the vertical due to the refusal of planning consent construction of a larger scale Big Box.
and the costs incurred to that date The acquisition of db symmetry in February 2019 has could be significant and may be provided us with access to one of the UKs largest strategic irrecoverable: this would reduce the land portfolios for the development of Big Box real estate Company NAV.
If the Company fails assets and related logistics facilities, including land and to attract a suitable pre-let it cannot options over land.
The db symmetry assets have been proceed with the development of a Big subjected to due diligence by the Company but prior to the Box.
This would impact on the future exercise of any option to acquire any land, the Company revenues the Company could make will carry out an extensive due diligence exercise to limit from the land and failure to secure a exposure to environmental risk and other hazards.
Once a pre-let may have a negative effect on pre-let is agreed with a suitable tenant, the Company will the valuation.
structure the development of the asset as it does its forward Postponement or cancellation of a funded development projects, therefore minimising risk development may result in the Group see risk above on development activities.
The Company holding too much development land also undertakes a significant level of due diligence on the which may dilute returns due to capital land, the surrounding power and highways infrastructure, being invested into non-income the surrounding environment and the state of the market producing assets.
prior to embarking on a land purchase to mitigate any risk around the viability of the site for development as much The land may be subject to an as possible.
The Company will usually also work in tandem environmental risk which requires with an experienced and respected development partner to significant investment to remediate prior manage any preparatory works and or development.
Upon to commencing the development works.
See The Logistics completion of the acquisition of db symmetry, the Company Property Market The costs associated with developing entered into an agreement with db symmetry Management pages 16-17 land may fluctuate over the course Limited, which will manage the development of these assets, of the development due to market See Our Objectives and in particular.
64 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7 Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying interest rate movements Probability: Impact: Mitigation moderate low The Company has entered into interest rate derivatives to Interest on our variable rate debt hedge our direct exposure to movements in Libor.
These facilities is payable based on a margin derivatives cap our exposure to the level to which Libor can over Libor.
Any adverse movements rise and have terms coterminous with the loans.
We aim, in Libor could significantly impair where reasonable, to minimise the level of unhedged debt our profitability and ability to pay with Libor exposure, by taking out hedging instruments with dividends to Shareholders.
a view to keeping variable rate debt approximately 90% hedged.
During 2018, we agreed a significant amount of Robust financing and fixed-rate debt further reducing our exposure to Libor, hedging with strong liquidity pages 46-49 currently represents only 27% of our committel debt facilities.
8 A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability to grow Probability: Impact: Mitigation low moderate During the year the Company agreed further long-term Without sufficient debt funding, we unsecured borrowings.
This is in addition to the EMTN which may be unable to pursue suitable should enable the Company to raise future debt in a more investment opportunities in line with efficient and effective manner on an unsecured basis.
If we cannot Board keeps our liquidity and gearing levels under review.
source debt funding at appropriate We only enter into forward funding or other development rates, either to increase the level of commitments if they are supported by available uncommitted debt or refinance existing debt, this funds.
In December 2018, we agreed a 400m senior will impair our ability to maintain our unsecured fixed-rate loan note which was drawn in February targeted level of dividend or impair our 2019.
We also extended the maturity of 325 million of our ability to grow.
350 million unsecured revolving credit facility by one year.
We had headroom of 229 million within the 350 million Robust financing and hedging with strong credit facility at the year end.
Whilst our 250 million shortliquidity pages46-49 term RCF remained undrawn.
9 We must be able to operate within our debt covenants Probability: Impact: Mitigation low low We continually monitor our debt covenant compliance, to If we were unable to operate within ensure we have sufficient headroom and to give us early our debt covenants, this could lead warning of any issues that may arise.
Our LTV is low and we to default and our debt funding being enter into interest rate caps to mitigate the risk of interest rate recalled.
This may result in us selling rises.
During 2018, we moved closer to a predominantly fixedassets to repay loan commitments, rate debt platform through the agreement or issue of further resulting in a fall in NAV.
This will mitigate the effect on the Company from interest rate rises.
We invest in assets let to  Statement grade tenants and we also seek to maintain a long WAULT, page 89 which should reduce the volatility in our property values.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 65 Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Property risks continued 10 We rely on the continuance of the Manager Probability: Impact: Mitigation low moderate to high Unless there is a default, either party may terminate the We continue to rely on the Managers Investment Management Agreement by giving not less than services and its reputation in the 24 months written notice, which may not be served before property market.
Companys performance will, to a large extent, depend on the The Development Management Agreement has a minimum Managers abilities in the property term of eight years from February 2019 and is terminable market.
Termination of the Investment by the Group on 12 months written notice thereafter.
The Management Agreement would DBS management team is incentivised to progress the severely affect our ability to manage developments through their 13% economic interest in Tritax our operations and may have a Symmetry Limited.
negative impact on the share price of the Company.
The Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews and monitors the Managers performance and, going forward, See Our Objectives and will review the performance of db symmetry Management Strategy pages 20-21 Limited in relation to development activities.
In addition, the Board meets regularly with the Manager, to ensure it See Management Engagement Committee maintains a positive working relationship and this relationship Report pages 94-97 will extend to the DBS management team.
66 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Taxation risk 11 We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders Probability: Impact: Mitigation low to moderate low The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring we adhere to If the Company fails to remain a the UK REIT regime.
It monitors the REIT compliance reports REIT for UK tax purposes, our provided by: profits and gains will be subject to the Manager on potential transactions: UK corporation tax.
the Administrator on asset levels: and See The Logistics Property Market our Registrar and broker on shareholdings.
pages 16-17 The Board has also engaged third-party tax advisers to help See Our Objectives and monitor REIT compliance requirements.
Strategy pages 20-21 Political risk 12 The vote to leave the EU could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company Probability: Impact: Mitigation low low to moderate The Group operates with a sole focus on the UK Big Box The UK has triggered Article 50, market which has a significant supply shortage against which sets the expected date of the current levels of demand: this will assist in supporting property UKs departure from the EU in March capital values.
It is currently well positioned with long and 2019.
Economic volatility is not a new secure leases and a diverse blue-chip tenant line up, with risk for the Group: however, until the a focus on tenants with financial strength, which are well terms of Brexit become clearer the positioned to withstand any downturn in the UK economy.
Robust financing exact outcome for the business is and hedging with strong difficult to predict at this stage.
liquidity pages 46-49 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 67
