RISKS We have a framework of Code Policies that underpins the Code OUR RISK APPETITE AND APPROACH of Business Principles and set out the non-negotiable standards TO RISK MANAGEMENT of behaviour expected from all our employees.
Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the For each of our principal risks we have a risk management framework achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an detailing the controls we have in place and who is responsible for organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the managing both the overall risk and the individual controls mitigating opportunities generated by our business and the markets we are in.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core of the Board Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements across agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our vision to grow our business, while decoupling our environmental footprint from PROCESSES our growth and increasing our positive social impact.
Our appetite Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across all for risk is driven by the following: its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and performance Our growth should be consistent, competitive, profitable management.
Risk management is integrated into every stage of this and responsible.
These procedures are formalised and documented and Our behaviours must be in line with our Code of Business are increasingly being centralised and automated into transactional Principles and Code Policies.
and other information technology systems.
We strive to continuously improve our operational efficiency and effectiveness.
ASSURANCE AND RE-ASSURANCE We aim to maintain a single A credit rating on a long-term basis.
Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever management Our approach to risk management is designed to provide reasonable, via a formal Code declaration.
In addition, there are specialist but not absolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the awareness and training programmes which are run throughout the risks facing the business are being assessed and mitigated and year and vary depending on the business priorities.
These specialist all information that may be required to be disclosed is reported compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our to Unilevers senior management including, where appropriate, Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
management and the Boards an objective and independent review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems ORGANISATION throughout Unilever.
The Boards assume overall accountability for the management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of Unilevers risk management and internal control systems.
BOARDS ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH The Boards have established a clear organisational structure with well defined accountabilities for the principal risks that Unilever faces in THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS the short, medium and long term.
This organisational structure and The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, regularly distribution of accountabilities and responsibilities ensure that every review the significant risks and decisions that could have a material country in which we operate has specific resources and processes impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the level of risk that for risk reviews and risk mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit of the business strategy and Leadership Executive, which takes active responsibility for focusing the effectiveness of the management controls in place to mitigate on the principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review the risk exposure.
these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social and governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining the The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also considered the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the year covered by this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval FOUNDATION AND PRINCIPLES by the Boards.
Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Purpose and values see page 1.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can the standards of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 43 to 45. to.
Day-to-day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Unilever rests with senior management across categories, Further statements on compliance with the specific risk management geographies and functions.
A network of Business Integrity Officers and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, and Committees supports the activities necessary to communicate the the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Securities Exchange Act Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Act can be found on pages 41 support lines to report and respond to alleged breaches, and to and 42. capture and communicate learnings.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 27 RISKS CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have reviewed the long-term prospects of the Group in order to assess its viability.
This review incorporated the activities and key risks of the Group together with the factors likely to affect the Groups future development, performance, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities as described on pages 1 to 26.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages 104 to 120 the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
ASSESSMENT In order to report on the long-term viability of the Group, the Directors reviewed the overall funding capacity and headroom available to withstand severe events and carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The assessment assumes that any debt maturing in the next three years can be re-financed at commercially acceptable terms or via our current standby facility.
This assessment also included reviewing and understanding the mitigation factors in respect of each of those risks.
The risks and mitigating factors are summarised on pages 29 to 33.
The viability assessment has two parts: First, the Directors considered the period over which they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, taking into account current debt facilities and debt headroom: and Second, they considered the potential impact of severe but plausible scenarios over this period, including: assessing scenarios for each individual principal risk, for example the termination of our relationships with the three largest global customers: the loss of all material litigation cases: a major IT data breach and the lost cost and growth opportunities from not keeping up with technological changes: and assessing scenarios that involve more than one principal risk including the following multi risk scenarios: Multi risk Level of Link to scenarios modelled severity reviewed principal risk Contamination issue with one of our products A fine equal to 1% of Group turnover was Safe and high-quality products considered along with damage to our largest leading to lower sales of products of this brand and Brand preference brand and disruption to supply chain.
the temporary closure of our largest sourcing unit.
Supply chain Major global incident affecting one or more of The complete loss of all of our turnover in our Economic and political instability the Groups key locations resulting in an outage largest geographic market was considered along Supply chain for a year in a key sourcing unit and significant with destruction of a key sourcing unit and reduced Climate change water shortages in our key developing markets.
demand for our products that require water.
Global economic downturn leading to an Significant business disruption in our largest Economic and political instability increase in funding costs and the loss of emerging market was considered with the impact Treasury and pensions our three largest customers.
of losing our three key customers.
Customer relationships FINDINGS Firstly, a three-year period is considered appropriate for this viability assessment because it is the period covered by the strategic plan: and it enables a high level of confidence in assessing viability, even in extreme adverse events, due to a number of factors such as: the Group has considerable financial resources together with established business relationships with many customers and suppliers in countries throughout the world: high cash generation by the Groups operations and access to the external debt markets: flexibility of cash outflow with respect to significant marketing programmes and capital expenditure projects which usually have a 2-3 year horizon: and the Groups diverse product and geographical activities which are impacted by continuously evolving technology and innovation.
Secondly, for each of our 14 principal risks, worst case plausible scenarios have been assessed together with multiple risk scenarios.
None of the scenarios reviewed, either individually or in aggregate would cause Unilever to cease to be viable.
CONCLUSION On the basis described above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
PRINCIPAL RISKS Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following pages we have identified the risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business.
These are the risks that we see as most material to Unilevers business and performance at this time.
There may be other risks that could emerge in the future.
All the principal risks could impact our business within the next two years ie short-term risks, or could impact our business over the next three to five years ie medium-term risks.
Some principal risks, such as climate change, could also impact over the longer term ie beyond five years.
Our principal risks have not fundamentally changed this year apart from the addition of a plastic packaging risk.
Given the nature of our business, a reduction in the amount of plastic packaging and increase in the use of recyclable content in our packaging is critical to our future success.
28 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As well as identifying the most relevant risks for our business we reflect on whether we think the level of risk associated with each of our principal risks is increasing or decreasing.
In addition to our plastic packaging risk there are three areas where we believe there is an increased level of risk: Customer Relationships: technology is changing our channel landscape and hence changing the nature of the relationships with our traditional customers as well as requiring us to develop relationships with new customers who are driving e-commerce development: Systems and Information: the number of cybersecurity attacks is still increasing significantly, and incidents are becoming more sophisticated as technology further evolves: and Business Transformation: this risk has increased as a result of the speed of technological change which means the pressure to digitalise our business to take advantage of the opportunities it presents, both in terms of growth and cost efficiency, is increasing.
We also comment below on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, our cash flow, operating results, financial position, business and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from those described, which may include forward-looking statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BRAND PREFERENCE As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends We monitor external market trends and collate consumer, on the value and relevance of our brands and products to customer and shopper insights in order to develop category consumers around the world and on our ability to innovate and brand strategies.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are changing more which we identify as attractive because we have already built, rapidly than ever before, and Unilevers ability to identify and or are confident that we can build, competitive advantage.
respond to these changes is vital to our business success.
Our brand communication strategies are designed to optimise Technological change is disrupting our traditional brand digital communication opportunities.
We develop and customise communication models.
Our ability to develop and deploy the right brand messaging content specifically for each of our chosen communication, both in terms of messaging content and medium communication channels both traditional and digital to ensure is critical to the continued strength of our brands.
that our brand messages reach our target consumers.
We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue to Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways meet the needs of our consumers and getting these new products in which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste to market with speed.
If we are unable to innovate effectively, into new technologies for incorporation into future products.
Unilevers sales or margins could be materially adversely affected.
Our innovation management process converts category strategies into projects which deliver new products to market.
We develop product ideas both in house and with selected partners to enable us to respond to rapidly changing consumer trends with speed.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment choices will affect the long-term Our strategy and our business plans are designed to ensure that growth and profits of our business.
resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long-term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve over time.
Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment decisions, a clear, defined evaluation process.
then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term solutions to support long-term growth.
commitments to improve health and well-being, reduce environmental impact and enhance livelihoods.
Underpinning these are targets Unilevers vision to grow our business, while decoupling our in areas such as hygiene, nutrition, sustainable sourcing, fairness environmental footprint from our growth and increasing our positive in the workplace, opportunities for women and inclusive business as social impact, will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
well as greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste.
These targets In a world where resources are scarce and demand for them and more sustainable ways of operating are being integrated into continues to increase, it is critical that we succeed in reducing our Unilevers day-to-day business through initiatives such as efficient resource consumption and converting to sustainably sourced supplies.
packaging design, waste reduction and recycling and converting to In doing this we are dependent on the efforts of partners and various use of renewable energy.
We are also committed to improving health and well-being and enhancing livelihoods around the world so Unilever Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored and our communities grow successfully together.
There can be no by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
The Unilever assurance that sustainable business solutions will be developed Sustainable Living Plan Advisory Council, comprising seven external and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth and profit potential specialists in sustainability, guides and critiques the development and damage our corporate reputation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 29 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK CLIMATE CHANGE Climate changes and governmental actions to reduce such changes As part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan we monitor climate may disrupt our operations and or reduce consumer demand for change and are responding by developing operations and products our products.
Climate changes are occurring around the globe which may impact We seek to develop products that will require less water during our business in various ways.
They could lead to water shortages consumer use.
which would reduce demand for those of our products that require We aim to minimise our impact on climate change through a significant amount of water during consumer use.
They could also committing to emission reduction targets and have developed lead to an increase in raw material and packaging prices or reduced a roadmap to be carbon positive by 2030. availability.
Governments may take action to reduce climate change such as the introduction of a carbon tax or zero net deforestation We monitor trends in raw material availability and pricing, and requirements which could impact our business through higher costs proactively reformulate our products where appropriate.
or reduced flexibility of operations.
We monitor governmental developments around actions to combat Increased frequency of extreme weather storms and floods could climate change and act to minimise the impact on our operations.
cause increased incidence of disruption to our manufacturing and distribution network.
Climate change could result therefore in making products less affordable or less available for our consumers resulting in reduced growth and profitability.
PLASTIC PACKAGING A reduction in the amount of plastic and an increase in the use of We are committed to reducing the amount of post-consumer plastic recyclable content in our packaging is critical to our future success.
packaging waste going to landfill.
We have a clear strategy to use less plastic, better plastic ie plastic with a lower environmental footprint Both consumer and customer responses to the environmental impact or to avoid plastic completely where a better alternative exists.
of plastic waste and emerging regulation by governments to tax or ban the use of certain plastics requires us to find solutions to reduce We aim to do this by developing a circular economy approach which the amount of plastic we use: increase recycling post-consumer use: involves: Redesigning products by considering modular packaging, and to source recycled plastic for use in our packaging.
We are also design for disassembly and reassembly, wider use of refills, recycling dependent on the work of our industry partners to create and improve and using post-consumer recycled materials in innovative ways: recycling infrastructures throughout the globe.
Driving systematic change in circular thinking at an industry level by working with partners such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation: Not only is there a risk around finding appropriate replacement Working with governments, industry partners, suppliers and materials, due to high demand the cost of recycled plastic or other consumers to raise awareness and find solutions to improve the alternative packaging materials could significantly increase in the recycling infrastructure for plastics: Working with consumers foreseeable future and this could impact our business performance.
to help them understand disposal methods and collection facilities: We could also be exposed to higher costs as a result of taxes or fines Working on innovative solutions through new business models.
if we are unable to comply with plastic regulations which would again impact our profitability and reputation.
We also seek to provide greater transparency to the consumer on the amount of plastic in our products through on-pack labelling.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Successful customer relationships are vital to our business We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad and continued growth.
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed via distributors in Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers many developing countries.
We identify changing shopper habits and and building relationships with new customers who have built new build relationships with new customers, such as those serving the technology-enabled business models to serve changing shopper e-commerce channel.
habits are necessary to ensure our brands are well presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with our key customers that include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives and we The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability regularly monitor progress.
to obtain pricing and competitive trade terms.
Failure to maintain strong relationships with customers could negatively impact our We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design terms of business with affected customers and reduce the which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance availability of our products to consumers.
and enhance our customer relationships.
We invest in technology to optimise order and stock management processes for our distributive trade customers.
30 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK TALENT A skilled workforce and agile ways of working are essential Resource committees have been established and implemented for the continued success of our business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career paths Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
We have an appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete integrated management development process which includes regular and grow effectively.
performance reviews underpinned by a common set of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent and we of management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, actively monitor our performance in retaining talent within Unilever.
attract and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to manage the business and could adversely affect operations and We regularly review our ways of working to drive speed and simplicity financial results.
through our business in order to remain agile and responsive to market place trends.
SUPPLY CHAIN Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure alternative manufacturing and the timely distribution of products key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share production to our customers.
between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents, We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and safety trade restrictions or disruptions at a key supplier, which could impact of our employees and the products in our facilities, and to deal with major our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
incidents including business continuity and disaster recovery.
The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward buying of the underlying commodities and materials from which they are of traded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our to the consumer through pricing.
Changes in trade relationships between Europe and the UK as a result Contingency plans are being developed to minimise any disruption.
of Brexit could give rise to both a supply and cost issue.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS The quality and safety of our products are of paramount importance Our product quality processes and controls are comprehensive, for our brands and our reputation.
from product design to customer shelf.
They are verified annually and regularly monitored through performance indicators that drive The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously improvement activities.
Our key suppliers are externally certified and contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product the quality of material received is regularly monitored to ensure that defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other it meets the rigorous quality standards that our products require.
factors cannot be excluded.
In the event of an incident relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products, incident management teams are activated in the affected markets under the direction of our product quality, science and communications experts, to ensure timely and effective market place action.
SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems To reduce the impact of external cyber-attacks impacting our and the management of information.
business we have firewalls and threat monitoring systems in place, complete with immediate response capabilities to mitigate identified The cyber-attack threat of unauthorised access and misuse of threats.
We also maintain a global system for the control and sensitive information or disruption to operations continues to reporting of access to our critical IT systems.
Such an attack could inhibit our business operations by an annual programme of testing of access controls.
in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
We have policies covering the protection of both business and personal information, as well as the use of IT systems and In addition, increasing digital interactions with customers, suppliers applications by our employees.
Our employees are trained to and consumers place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure understand these requirements.
We also have a set of IT security and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful management standards and closely monitor their operation to protect our systems of the information that is in our possession to ensure data privacy.
Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully backed up with separate contingency systems to provide real-time backup operations should they ever be required.
We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance with appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 31 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business transformation projects is key All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects are to delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding sponsored by a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive.
disruption to other business activities.
All such projects have steering groups in place led by a senior executive and regular progress updates are provided to the Unilever Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including Leadership Executive.
acquisitions, disposals and organisational transformation, to drive continuous improvement in our business and to strengthen our A dedicated change programme management team has been portfolio and capabilities.
A number of key projects were announced established for the accelerating shareholder value creation in 2017 to accelerate sustainable shareholder value creation.
ULE reviews progress on a monthly basis and to execute such initiatives successfully could result in under-delivery the Boards receive regular updates to ensure that this important of the expected benefits and there could be a significant impact on programme remains on track to deliver the expected transformation.
the value of the business.
The digitalisation of our business is led by a dedicated team together Continued digitalisation of our business models and processes with representatives from all parts of the business to ensure an together with enhancing data management capabilities is a integrated and holistic approach.
critical part of our transformation.
Failure to keep pace with Sound project disciplines are used in all acquisitions, disposals such technological change would significantly impact our growth and organisational transformation projects and these projects are and profitability.
resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes under way in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure minimal disruption.
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL INSTABILITY Unilever operates around the globe and is exposed to economic The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help and political instability that may reduce consumer demand for our to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk.
Our flexible products, disrupt sales operations and or impact the profitability business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond quickly of our operations.
to develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers changing needs during economic downturns.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as foreign exchange or price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local operations.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets have given us experience of operating and developing our business Unilever has more than half its turnover in emerging markets which successfully during periods of economic and political volatility.
can offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to related economic and political volatility.
TREASURY AND PENSIONS Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by in relation to Treasury and Pensions.
the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local The relative values of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
We also a significant impact on business results.
Further, because Unilever hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign currency consolidates its financial statements in euros it is subject to exchange borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on expected net debt.
We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining access paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
to global debt markets through short-term and long-term debt programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit facilities Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, for general corporate purposes.
associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, Group treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to counter-party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages raise funds.
its banking exposures on a daily basis.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating We regularly assess and monitor counter-party risk in our customers rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range of future borrowings.
of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash such that the In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the to counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled investment closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in interest vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers and are regularly rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and increased life monitored by pension trustees and central pensions and investment teams.
Changes in any or all of these inputs could potentially Further information on financial instruments and capital and treasury increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and therefore risk management is included in note 16 on pages 110 to 115. have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
32 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK ETHICAL Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the of customers, consumers and other stakeholders, is essential behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third for the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the way in Our processes for identifying and resolving breaches of our Code of which we operate, contribute to society and engage with the world Business Principles and our Code Policies are clearly defined and around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
Data relating to such Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical business and the breaches is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by steps we take to adhere to this commitment, there remains a relevant Board Committees and helps to determine the allocation risk that activities or events cause us to fall short of our desired of resources for future policy development, process improvement, standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers corporate reputation training and awareness initiatives.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part Unilever is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of Unilevers business operations.
of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or local levels are responsible for setting Unilever is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, of and comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant to copyright, patents, competition, employee health and safety, data their roles.
privacy, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever assurance that we remain aware of and in line with all relevant to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and laws and legal obligations.
criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation.
Our Global Tax Principles provide overarching governance and we have a Tax Risk Framework in place which sets out the controls Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on established to assess and monitor tax risk for direct and indirect the cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area where taxes.
We monitor proposed changes in taxation legislation and laws and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the ensure these are taken into account when we consider our future risk of unexpected tax exposures.
International tax reform remains a business plans.
key focus of attention with the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project and further potential tax reform in the EU and Switzerland.
UNDERSTANDING IMPACT IN FOCUS: CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS Climate change has been identified as a principal risk to Unilever AND OPPORTUNITIES which has the potential to impact our business in the short, medium and long-term.
Further details on the nature of climate risks and UNILEVER HAS PUBLICLY COMMITTED TO IMPLEMENTING opportunities for Unilever can be found in our 2018 CDP Climate THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TASK FORCE ON submission see further climate change disclosures on pages 7 and 14.
Unilever recognises the importance of disclosing climate-related To further understand the impact that climate change could have risks and opportunities.
Adopting the Taskforce on Climate-Related on Unilevers business we performed a high-level assessment of Financial Disclosures TCFD recommendations is an important step the impact of 2C and 4C global warming scenarios.
The 2C and forward in enabling market forces to drive efficient allocation of 4C scenarios are constructed on the basis that average global capital and support a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy.
temperatures will have increased by 2C and 4C in the year 2100.
In this Annual Report and Accounts, we continue to integrate climate-related Between today and 2100 there will be gradual changes towards disclosures throughout the Strategic Report narrative.
However, in these endpoints and we have looked at the impact on our business recognition of the growing significance of the impacts of climate change in 2030 assuming we have the same business activities as we do today.
on our business, we have also summarised the risks and opportunities We also made the following simplifying assumptions: arising from climate change, and our response below.
In the 2C scenario, we assumed that in the period to 2030 society The Boards take overall accountability for the management of climate acts rapidly to limit greenhouse gas emissions and puts in place change risks and opportunities with support from the ULE and the measures to restrain deforestation and discourage emissions for USLP Steering Team see page 46.
Chaired by Keith Weed in 2018, the example implementing carbon pricing at $75-$100 per tonne, taken USLP Steering Team includes nine members of the ULE and meets from the International Energy Agencys 450 scenario.
During 2018, there were numerous agenda items on assumed that there will be no significant impact to our business topics related to climate change including our overall climate strategy from the physical ramifications of climate change by 2030 ie from and our renewable electricity target.
greater scarcity of water or increased impact of severe weather events.
The scenario assesses the impact on our business from For management employees including the ULE, incentives include regulatory changes.
fixed pay, a bonus as a percentage of fixed pay and a long-term In the 4C scenario, we assumed climate policy is less ambitious management co-investment plan MCIP linked to financial and USLP and emissions remain high so the physical manifestations of climate performance.
The USLP component accounts for 25% of total MCIP change are increasingly apparent by 2030.
Given this we have not award.
The sustainability component of MCIP includes consideration included impacts from regulatory restrictions but focus on those of our progress against climate change, water and palm oil targets, which among others, underpin our climate strategy.
See pages 52 to resulting from the physical impacts.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 33 RISKS CONTINUED We identified the material impacts on Unilevers business arising specific to soy and cant be applied to other crops.
We have therefore decided to get broader understanding on the climate change risks from each of these scenarios based on existing internal and external to our agricultural sourcing and extend our analysis to two other data.
The impacts were assessed without considering any actions that important crops to Unilever: Palm Oil and Tea, for which suitable Unilever might take to mitigate or adapt to the adverse impacts or to climate change models for yield predictions will be available in 2019. introduce new products which might offer new sources of revenue as consumers adjust to the new circumstances.
RESPONDING TO RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES The main impacts of the 2C scenario were as follows: Unilevers vision is to grow our business whilst decoupling our growth Carbon pricing is introduced in key countries and hence there are from our environmental footprint and increasing positive social impact.
increases in both manufacturing costs and the costs of raw materials This vision explicitly recognises that sustainable growth including such as dairy ingredients and the metals used in packaging.
management of climate-related risks and opportunities is the only Zero net deforestation requirements are introduced and a shift to way to create long-term value for all our stakeholders.
sustainable agriculture puts pressure on agricultural production, The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP was developed to deliver raising the price of certain raw materials.
It is fully integrated with our business strategy.
ClimateThe main impacts of the 4C scenario were as follows: related issues are integral to the USLP.
Two of our GHG reduction Chronic and acute water stress reduces agricultural productivity targets included in the USLP are recognised as science-based: in some regions, raising prices of raw materials.
Halve the greenhouse gas impact of our products across the Increased frequency of extreme weather storms and floods lifecycle by 2030 this target covers all the phases across the causes increased incidence of disruption to our manufacturing lifecycle of our products: ingredients raw materials, manufacturing, and distribution networks.
distribution, retail, packaging, consumer use and disposal Temperature increase and extreme weather events reduce Reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 100% from economic activity, GDP growth and hence sales levels fall.
our own operations by 2030 this is part of our ambition to be become carbon positive in our manufacturing by 2030 Our analysis shows that, without action, both scenarios present financial risks to Unilever by 2030, predominantly due to increased We are taking action across our value chain to reduce our emissions, costs.
However, while there are financial risks which would need to creating growth opportunities and minimising risk.
Our commitment be managed, we would not have to materially change our business to source 100% of our palm oil from sustainable sources is helping model.
The most significant impacts of both scenarios are on our to avoid emissions from deforestation see pages 14 and 47.
Our supply chain where costs of raw materials and packaging rise, due efforts to reduce energy and GHG emissions in manufacturing are to carbon pricing and rapid shift to sustainable agriculture in a 2C helping us to save costs.
For example, by using less energy, we have scenario and due to chronic water stress and extreme weather in already avoided energy costs in our factories of over 600 million since a 4C scenario.
The impacts on sales and our own manufacturing our baseline year of 2008. operations are relatively small.
Our divisions are taking action to reduce emissions.
In Home Care we The results of this analysis confirm the importance of doing further are focusing on concentrated liquid laundry detergents such as Persil, work to ensure that we understand the critical dependencies of Omo and Surf Small & Mighty which help consumers to wash clothes climate change on our business and to ensure we have action plans at lower temperatures, reducing GHG by up to 50% per load.
We have in place to help mitigate these risks and thus prepare the business removed phosphates from all laundry powders worldwide, resulting in for the future environment in which we will operate.
lower greenhouse gas emissions of up to 50% per consumer use.
Our Foods & Refreshment division has prioritised reducing greenhouse During 2018 we developed and piloted an approach to assess the impact gas emissions from ice cream freezers since 2008.
As the worlds of climate change on our key commodities.
We selected soy for this pilot largest producer of ice cream, we have committed to accelerating the based on its importance to Unilever large purchased volume, it being roll-out of freezer cabinets that use more climate-friendly natural a high-profile crop in the countries where it is grown and the availability hydrocarbon refrigerants.
By 2018 our total purchase of these of good historical price data and suitable climate models.
cabinets had increased to around 2.9 million.
We developed a methodology which combined forecasting future Detailed Lifecycle Analysis has shown that our GHG contribution from yields and quantifying the impact on commodity prices of soybean oil.
animal-based agriculture, including fats and proteins, is relatively Climate change was the only price factor accounted for in the model low: 7.5% for Foods & Refreshment and 2.5% for total Unilever.
used to calculate the impact.
Other factors which impact price, such as While emissions are comparatively low, the business opportunity is technology and acreage, were excluded.
The model considered the direct significant for natural and plant-based foods and beverages.
We have risks from climate change to the price of soybean oil, such as change a range of vegan and vegetarian variants such as Hellmanns vegan in yield and change in supply.
Three modelling steps were performed: mayonnaise, Ben & Jerrys non-dairy ice creams, Magnum vegan and Yield estimation: We analysed multiple agriculture and climate other options see pages 11 to 12.
We continue to actively promote models to provide a forecast range of expected yields in key vegetarian and vegan recipes, notably via our Knorr brand websites.
A number of our targets directly address risks and opportunities Price relationship: An econometric model was developed, based related to water scarcity caused by climate change.
We estimate on an analysis of the soybean oil market and historical trends, to that the sale of products which address water scarcity issues could estimate the impact of climate-induced yield changes on future increase in our Home Care and Beauty & Personal Care divisions where prices.
This model considered the importance of co-products a number of products are available which address water scarcity and eg soybean meal, substitution potential eg with sunflower oil and or have a lower GHG in use.
For example, our Beauty & Personal Care industrial uses of soybean oil, as well as the impact of yield on price.
division is investing in water smart product innovations such as dry Impact estimation: Future yields and price impacts were then shampoo and cleansing conditioner which help consumers use less translated into an estimated financial exposure from climate water while also offering relevant benefits such as reduced colour change for our business, using our forecast procurement volumes.
loss and damage which can arise from frequent washing.
Home Care is combining insights in consumer behaviour and water consumption Our pilot analysis showed that soybean yields may increase over with innovative technology to develop new market opportunities, the 2030 and 2050-time horizon and that subsequent lower prices launching products and formulations that address water scarcity may then lead to small potential reductions in our procurement and help our consumers save water.
Day2, the world's first dry wash spend on soy.
While the results may indicate a low financial risk spray is made with only 0.02% of the water in a normal laundry load.
to our business, we would need to consider a wider range of risk Sunlight 2-in-1 Handwashing Laundry Powder and Rin Radiant factors when determining our strategic response.
Indirect risks detergent bar are also helping to reduce water consumption at point from climate change, such as catastrophic events or external policy of use in water-stressed countries.
response and adaptation could also have an impact but were not included in our modelling.
Furthermore, these pilot results are 34 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Home Care is home to three brands, Pureit, Truliva Qinyuan and Blueair, The GHG data below relates to emissions during the 12-month period which are responding directly to issues related to climate change.
Pureit from 1 October to 30 September.
This period is different from the and Truliva, our water purification businesses, offer products which Strategic Report, Directors' Report and Financial Statements which provide safe drinking water to millions of people with a lower carbon are calendar year.
Our detailed lifecycle analysis shows that Pureits total carbon footprint is at least 80% lower than boiled or bottled UNILEVER GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY ACTIVITY water.
Blueair, our indoor air purification business acquired in 2016, 2018 2017 removes contaminants from the air, including hazardous sooty particles associated with the combustion of fossil fuels.
Manufacturing scope 1 and 2 Scope 1 tonnes CO 711,875 773,856 2 Several other targets in our USLP indirectly address climate risk and opportunities by aiming to support groups who are vulnerable to the Scope 2 tonnes CO 726,167 793,472 2 effects of climate change and who are critical to our future growth, Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes CO 1,438,042 1,567,328 2 notably smallholder farmers and women in low income countries.
Intensity ratio kg CO per tonne 2 of production 70.46 76.77 Unilever continues to support a number of policy measures to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, including the Distribution centres, research laboratories, marketing and sales pricing of carbon and removal of fossil fuel subsidies which act offices scope 1 and 2 as negative carbon prices.
We believe that carbon pricing is a Scope 1 tonnes CO 20,052 20,039 2 fundamental part of the global response to climate change and Scope 2 tonnes CO 100,924 102,292 without it, the world is unlikely to meet its greenhouse gas reduction 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes CO 120,976 122,331 targets.
We have publicly supported calls for carbon pricing and are 2 members of The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, hosted by the Upstream and downstream of Unilever operations World Bank.
In 2016, we implemented an internal price on carbon top 3 emissions sources scope 3 as part of the business case appraisal for large capital expenditure Consumer use projects.
The carbon price is also applied to emissions from our downstream tonnes CO e 39,895,946 38,697,432 manufacturing sites to raise a clean-tech fund.
So far, 73 million 2 has been allocated to this fund for energy and water saving projects.
Ingredients and packaging In January 2018 the price of carbon was 40 per tonne.
upstream tonnes CO e 14,985,897 15,000,941 2 Distribution and retail MEASURING AND REPORTING downstream tonnes CO e 4,368,626 3,895,589 2 We have been measuring and reporting on our energy and water Carbon emission factors are used to convert energy used in our operations consumption and carbon emissions since 1995.
The USLP includes to emissions of CO.
Carbon emission factors for fuels are provided by the 2 a number of stretching targets which relate to climate risks and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
opportunities across our value chain.
Performance against key targets For manufacturing we have selected an intensity ratio based on production.
can be found on page 7 with commentary on page 13 and 14.
Our This aligns with our long-standing reporting of manufacturing performance.
Emissions from the combustion of biogenic fuels biomass, fuel crops website contains detailed commentary on our USLP targets as well etc within our operations are reported separately to other Scope 1 and as actions we are taking to achieve them.
2 emissions, as recommended by the GHG Protocol, and excluded from Our ability to meet our climate-related targets partly depends on our intensity ratio calculation.
The data also excludes Scope 3 emissions including consumer use of our products which we report as part of our changes in the energy markets worldwide, such as the rate of installation Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
of renewable electricity in many countries.
We have a role to play Carbon emission factors for grid electricity calculated according to the marketas an industry leader to help shape those markets.
We are working based method are supplier-specific emissions factors reflecting contractual collaboratively with partners, suppliers and others to achieve our ambition.
Where supplier-specific emissions factors are not available, carbon emissions factors reflect the country where each Weve created a detailed plan to annually assess the feasibility for Unilever operation is located and are provided by the International Energy Agency IEA.
to reach our target to halve the greenhouse gas impact of our products We measure the full GHG footprint of our product portfolio and annual sales across the lifecycle by 2030, taking both external transitions towards a using an LCA method compliant with the ISO 14040 standard.
We measure the low-carbon economy as well as the latest available data and assumptions consumer use phase using a combination of primary habits data and on pack about our GHG footprint into account.
The basis of this plan is the set of recommendations of use combined with lifecycle inventory data.
We measure a representative sample of products across 14 countries which account for around 2,800 products representative of our global portfolio across all around 60-70% of our annual sales volume.
divisions for which we have full value-chain lifecycle analysis results.
We use a combination of external lifecycle inventory databases secondary data and supplier specific data primary data eg for surfactants, perfumes We recalculated the footprint of these products using the latest 2030 and some of food ingredients to measure the GHG emissions of purchased projections on external transitions to a low-carbon economy eg ingredients and packaging materials used in the production of our products.
International Energy Agency 2030 projection on grid changes to renewable Downstream distribution is calculated using average distances and modes energy, low-carbon transition plans in our operations eg achieving zero of transport derived from data collected from our distribution network and net deforestation by 2020, using 100% renewable energy by 2020 and logistic providers.
Innovation Roadmaps eg redesign for lower embedded carbon emissions, FURTHER CLIMATE CHANGE DISCLOSURES transforming the  supply chain.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains additional disclosures In line with the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups on our climate change risks and opportunities: Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended by the Companies Governance and remuneration: pages 46 to 47 and 52 to 54 Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 our Strategy for climate change: page 14 greenhouse gas GHG emissions are set out below.
For Scope 1 and 2 Risk management: page 30 we report our CO emissions only but not other GHG emissions as 2 Metrics and targets: pages 7 and 13 to 14 these are considered to be not material.
For Scope 3 we report our GHG emissions eg CO, CH, N O in terms of CO equivalents.
Our website contains disclosures on our greenhouse gas and water 2 4 2 2 USLP targets.
We report our emissions with reference to the latest Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard www.
com sustainable-living  Protocol to calculate emissions of carbon dioxide from the report-hub combustion of fuels and the operation of facilities Scope 1 and from Our CDP Climate submission contains extensive disclosure on purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2, market-based our climate risks, opportunities, impacts and mitigating actions method.
Each year PwC assure selected manufacturing environmental password required.
metrics including carbon emissions from energy use and energy use per tonne of production.
net Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 35
