Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Market risks 1.
Demand reduction driven by Brexit uncertainty, Government policy or other macro events Possible events Impact Brexit impacting numbers of EU students coming to study in the UK.
Potential reduction in demand and hence profitability and asset values.
Changes in Government policy on Higher Education funding.
Departure from EU impacting EU research grants and EU students coming to the UK.
Immigration policy changes affecting international student numbers and behaviour.
What happened in 2018 Risk management Brexit uncertainty continued through 2018 with its complexity and disruption becoming more certain.
We identified our key Brexit operational risks.
These Very time-consuming for Government, resulting in distractions from other policy initiatives.
focus on our People, Procurement and Development.
UK continues as second most popular international destination for students after the US.
With this, we developed our Brexit Disruption Plan for The Higher Education Funding Review continues and is expected to report early in 2019.
The ONS reported the inevitable disruption that Brexit will bring, whether on the student loan book accounting treatment.
2018 student intake broadly in line with 2017.
EU and international numbers slightly up, offsetting the current Ongoing monitoring of Government policy and its UK demographic reduction in numbers.
impact on UK, EU and international student numbers Stronger growth in the highand mid-tariff Universities continued in 2018. studying in the UK.
Regularly reviewing our portfolio EU students funding arrangements for duration of study confirmed for 2019 2020. to ensure we have the highest-quality portfolio, Increased focus on quality and length of nominations agreements 60% secured through nominations appropriately sized and in the right locations.
agreements with six years average maturity.
Read more about Market drivers on page 10 and Quality partnerships on page 12 Risk mitigation in 2018 Strategic objective Develop and implement our Brexit Disruption Plan.
Offering great service is key to helping us address any reduction in demand.
Ensuring we have high-quality Through implementation of Home for Success our core purpose to provide environments that help students properties and growing and sustainable earnings to achieve more during their time at University we are seeing consistently high customer satisfaction and manage any demand deficit.
R ead more about Read more about Key performance indicators KPIs on pages 22 and 23 Business model and strategy on page 12 Focus for 2019 Preparedness for the impact of Brexit and the outcome of the HE funding review.
Demand reduction due to societal change Possible events Impact Concerns over the costs of a University education affordability and More competition for value and reduced demand for year-round student value for money.
accommodation in the longer term resulting in lower profitability and asset values.
Alternative course delivery such as Massive Open Online Courses.
What happened in 2018 Risk management Strong service delivery evidenced by record levels of customer satisfaction and University trust scores.
Ongoing monitoring of affordability and value for Our digital operating platform, PRISM, is fully implemented.
2018 efficiency targets delivered and new money and the evolution of digital learning and EBIT target of 74% set for 2021. ensuring we partner with stronger Universities Increasing proportion of second and third years choosing PBSA.
Over two thirds of Unites direct lets are with properties in the best locations.
Developed our Unite apps to improve connectivity with our digital native customers.
Continued our Student Ambassador programme and University-adopted Welcome programme.
Read more about Quality service platform on page 12 Risk mitigation activity in 2018 Strategic objective Ensuring delivery of online and more flexible tenancies through PRISM.
Offering quality service is key to ensuring we have relationships with the highand mediumContinued investment in market knowledge and building on our relationships with the strongest Universities, tariff Universities the ones most likely to sustain driven by Home for Success and our University partnerships team.
PRISM helps us deliver the best customer service efficiently.
R ead more about Business model and strategy on page 12 Focus for 2019 Developing our product proposition and specification to deliver exactly what our customers tell us they want.
Continued focus on Home for Success and our partnerships with stronger Universities.
28 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Key Quality properties Quality service platform Quality University partnerships 3.
Supply increase maturing PBSA sector and increasing supply of PBSA beds Possible events Impact New supply as sustained high levels of investment demand filter into the More competition for the best sites.
development market, primarily through investors providing forward commitments Potential impact on rental growth and occupancy.
What happened in 2018 Continued high level of individual PBSA assets and portfolios traded in 2018.
PBSA sector continues to mature and becomes increasingly professionalised.
Unite 98% occupancy for the 2018 2019 academic year, underpinned by 60% nominations agreements.
Seven new properties delivered in 2018.
Active property recycling, resulting in higher-quality Unite portfolio.
Read more about Property review on page 36 and our Operations review on page 32 Risk mitigation in 2018 Strategic objective We continue with our focus and strategy on: Offering great service as well as having high-quality properties is critical to mitigating any supply surplus.
Markets with supply demand imbalance.
Exposure to the best Universities underpinned with new developments secured with nominations agreements.
Investment in our brand and student experience creating better environments within our new developments through Home for Success.
Maintaining strong relationships with key Higher Education partners.
Read more about Operations review on page 32 Focus for 2019 Our portfolio: delivery of three new properties for the 2019 20 academic year with continued focus in the towns and cities with the strongest growth prospects.
Our people and our operating platform: ensure our People and PRISM continue to help us deliver consistently high levels of service to students and Universities alike.
Our capital structure: ensuring we have a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately as supply grows.
Major health and safety H&S incident in a property or a development site Possible events Impact Fatality or major injury from a fire or other incident at a property.
Impact to students living with us, contractors working on-site and visitors.
Multiple contractor injuries at a development or operational site.
Reputational damage and trust in Unite Students as a reliable partner.
What happened in 2018 Risk management The Hackitt Review and Building Regulations change continues the focus on fire safety especially in high-rise H&S is given direct Board supervision by the H&S residential properties.
Committee a sub-committee of the Board which Fire safety management improved our policies and procedures, risk assessments, training and fire records.
actively supervises H&S, ensuring robust policies Maintenance regimes improved testing and planned preventative maintenance.
and procedures are in place and consistently Reviewed the development journey for our fire strategy decisions and developed the specification for new builds complied with.
Continued working closely with Department for Communities and Local Government DCLG and local fire authorities R ead more about and fire safety experts to ensure fire safety and address any remedial actions following Grenfell Tower learnings.
H&S Committee report on page 72 Continued good performance against our KPIs.
H&S is also actively reviewed in the Operations and Property Boards, ensuring that H&S is top of mind in Read more about KPIs in H&S Committee report on page 72 our day-to-day operations and regularly assessed and validated.
Risk mitigation activity in 2018 Strategic objective Our ongoing internal inspections of our properties, with external assurance sought through the British Safety Council, Ensuring the H&S of our customers, contractors our external safety auditor.
and employees is fundamental to us offering quality service.
Working in partnership with the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire Authority, to ensure best practice in fire safety.
Student safety campaigns for students during their first six weeks living with Unite.
These were run in conjunction with R ead more about Business model and strategy on page 12 local fire and rescue services and Police Community Support Officers.
Student personal safety Focus for 2019 Implement Hackitt Review recommendations ensure the golden thread per property a digital, single repository of information per building from design through to construction and any later changes in occupation.
Continued focus on fire safety and education, reinforcing fire as our biggest safety risk.
British Safety Council Five Star Occupational H&S Audit.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 29 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Property development risks 5.
Inability to secure the best sites on the right terms.
Failure or delay to complete a development within budget and on time for the scheduled academic year Possible events Impact Site acquisition risk increasing competition for the best sites.
NAV and EPS affected by aborted schemes and or reduced financial returns, Planning risk delays or failure to get planning.
with cash tied up in development.
Construction risk build cost inflation due to increasing development albeit tempered by Brexit uncertainty.
Construction execution risk pressure on EU labour materials due to Brexit.
What happened in 2018 Risk management Seven schemes delivered, on time and to budget.
Experienced development team with extensive Secured development and partnerships pipeline of 6,579 beds for delivery over the next four years, site selection and planning expertise, coupled with generating 7.0% yield on cost.
strong track record and focus on project delivery and strong relationships with construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Group Board approval Read more about Property review on page 36 for commitments above a certain threshold.
Financial investment in schemes carefully managed prior to grant of planning.
Risk mitigation activity in 2018 Strategic objective Regular development team and property review, with Group Board director oversight to ensure failure to secure sites Quality properties.
or complete on time are managed in the budget.
R ead more about Detailed planning pre-applications and due diligence before site acquisition.
Business model and strategy on page 12 Read more about Development activity on pages 14 to 16 Build cost inflation regularly appraised and refreshed.
Mid-sized framework contractors used and longer-term relationships established to mitigate cyclical swings.
Focus for 2019 Ensuring delivery of our three properties scheduled for 2019 20 academic year opening.
Managing Brexit disruption for these properties and later pipeline.
Read more about Secured development pipeline on page 39 6.
Property markets are cyclical and performance depends on general economic conditions Possible events Impact Buying, or developing, or selling properties at the wrong point in the cycle.
Reduction in asset values reducing financial returns.
What happened in 2018 Risk management Continued high level of individual PBSA assets and portfolios traded in 2018.
Group Board and Property Board ongoing monitoring The value of the Groups property portfolio including our share of co-investment vehicles increased of property market, direction and values.
to 2.967 million as at December 2018 31 December 2017: 2.595 million.
Forecast rental growth and recurring profit offsets Successfully recycled our portfolio with a disposal of 3,436 beds for 180 million 85 million Unite share any yield movement.
supporting our increased focus on high-quality Universities.
Ensuring we have a strong yet flexible capital structure Read more about Asset disposals on page 40 so we can adapt appropriately to market conditions.
Clear and active asset management strategy.
Customer satisfaction continues at high levels supporting rental growth and our portfolio value.
Read more about Property portfolio on page 36 Risk mitigation activity in 2018 Strategic objective Disposals ongoing monitoring of our portfolio and a successful portfolio disposal.
Acquisitions disciplined acquisitions strategy exercising caution over portfolio premiums being paid in the market.
R ead more about Business model and strategy on page 12 Careful management of net debt and LTV.
Maintaining disciplined approach to new development transactions by maintaining Group hurdle rates.
Focus for 2019 Ongoing monitoring of Brexit and its impact on the property market and general economic conditions.
Ensuring a strong yet flexible capital structure to manage the property cycle.
30 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Financial risks 7.
Unable to arrange new debt or expiring debt facilities cannot be replaced or only at high cost.
Possible events Impact Unite breaches a loan covenant or fails to replace debt on expiry.
If unable to replace debt, then possible forced sale of assets potentially leading Interest rate increase.
Adverse rate movements can lead to reduced profitability and reduction in property values through resulting expansion of valuation yields and lower valuations.
What happened in 2018 Risk management Unite Group plc assigned an investment grade corporate rating of BBB from Standard & Poors and Baa2 from Moodys.
Proactively managing debt maturities to refinance these facilities at least 612 months before maturity Transition to unsecured borrowing structure following issuance of 275 million unsecured corporate bond, backed by and in parallel diversifying our sources of finance to investment-grade credit rating.
repay more expensive and less flexible borrowings.
Weighted average debt maturity increased from 5.3 years to 5.8 years and average cost of debt reduced to 3.8% Control of future cash commitments in line with 31 December 2017: 4.1%.
Interest rates monitored by the funding team as an integral part of our At as 31 December 2018, LTV 29% December 2017: 31% and net debt of 856m 31 December 2017: 803m.
refinancing activity owned by the CFO and 99% of debt at fixed rate swapped.
Gearing ratios defined in our Capital Operating Guidelines.
Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps and refinance facilities with fixed rates.
Read more about Financial review on page 41 Risk mitigation activity in 2018 Strategic objective Regular and reliable engagement with lenders.
With a benign interest rate environment, we continue to take advantage of historically low rates both on new debt R ead more about Business model and strategy and also entering into forward-starting interest rate swaps locking in rates for our development pipeline.
on page 12 Read more about Debt financing and interest rate hedging arrangements and cost of debt on page 42 Focus for 2019 Unsecured capital structure and funding future development acquisitions beyond 2021.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 31
