Strategic report A framework designed to manage risks and harness RISK MANAGEMENT opportunities to support sustainable growth.
purpose-built student accommodation Our risk management PBSA sector is maturing, the Higher Education sector and broader economy framework face Brexit uncertainty and potential Government policy change on tuition fees, The Group continues to make real progress Higher Education funding and immigration.
against our core strategic objectives and deliver sustainable growth in recurring Our values are the foundation for this risk earnings and cash flows.
This delivery is management framework and ultimately underpinned by a number of external combine in our purpose to provide a Home and internal dynamic factors.
Our risk management framework is Our risk management framework and how designed to monitor these dynamic factors, we assess our principal risks and manage Chris Szpojnarowicz ensuring we have the appropriate insight, them are set out on the following pages.
Company Secretary and flexibility and resilience to manage them.
Group Legal Director This is especially critical at a time when the Assessing our risk profile and our Board leads principal risks.
risk review 1 Identifying a wide range of strategic Top-down review and emerging risks and opportunities.
2 Challenging risks identified by operational Bottom-up review management and more technical risks such as information technology, security, 3 continuity, GDPR, financing and treasury.
Engaging with senior leaders in the Board searches Higher Education sector and technical externally for experts on key issues such as fire safety.
best practice 4 Output four risk categories Market risks Property supply and Operational risks Financing risks development risks demand Read more page 28 Read more page 29 Read more page 30 Read more page 31 The Groups principal risks mapped across these four risk categories, their impact on our strategic objectives and how we mitigate these risks are set out on pages 28 to 31.
24 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Key risk developments in 2018 Risk profile category What happened in 2018 Unite risk activity Operational risks Following the Grenfell Tower Reviewed and updated our fire strategy decisions.
tragedy, the Hackitt Review and Building Regulations Fire safety management improved our policies and procedures, risk assessments, change continues the focus training and fire records.
on fire safety, especially in high-rise residential properties.
Maintenance regimes improved testing and planned preventative maintenance.
Continued working closely with Department for Communities and Local Government DCLG, local fire authorities and fire safety experts to ensure fire safety and address any remedial actions following Grenfell Tower learnings.
Ensured aligned national approach through the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire Authority.
R ead more about Fire safety and cladding on page 72 Market risks Maturing PBSA sector and Active property recycling, with 90% of Unites portfolio aligned to midto high-ranking supply increase increasing supply of PBSA beds.
Universities increasing to 91% on completion of our development and University partnership pipeline and planned acquisitions and disposals.
98% occupancy in 2018 19, underpinned by 60% nominations agreements, with an average remaining life of six years providing income and rental growth certainty.
Disposed of 3,436 beds which no longer fit our strategy.
R ead more about Quality partnerships on page 12 and our Property Review on page 36 Market risks Continuing Brexit uncertainty The ongoing quality of the UK higher education continues to address growing numbers reduction in and the UKs stance on of international students.
EU and non-EU acceptances increased in 2018 EU 2.8% and demand immigration creating non-EU 6.5% which offset the current UK 18-year-old demographic reduction.
uncertainty for the Higher R ead more about Market drivers on page 10 Education sector.
Market risks Customer expectations continue Record customer satisfaction and Higher Education trust scores evidencing supply and demand to increase.
Value for money and continued strong service delivery.
affordability is even more critical.
Developed our Unite app to improve connectivity with our digital native customers.
Continued the roll-out of our Student Ambassador programme and comprehensive Welcome programmes to ensure that students settle in quickly and feel safe and secure.
R ead more about the Operations review on page 32 During the year, the Board reviewed our Our risk appetite risk appetite in light of the key in-year risk The Groups risk appetite is considered as a developments set out above.
This considered fundamental part of the Boards strategy setting both threats to and opportunities in our and annual budget it does not happen in business in the context of macro and minor isolation.
Our risk appetite is underpinned by developments, not only in the PBSA sector, our principal financial aim to continue delivering but also the broader Higher Education sector, low double-digit total returns and sustainable, property market and economy.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 25 Strategic report Stress testing our strategic planning RISK MANAGEMENT Each year, the Board develops and refreshes the Groups Strategic Plan.
This is based on detailed CONTINUED three-year strategic financial projections with related scenario planning and rolls forward for a Increase in Yield further two years using more generic assumptions.
The Board maps our strategic objectives against interest rates expansion our risk profile.
Then, always conscious that risk The influences of multiple events do not necessarily happen in isolation, the combined Board stress tests these projections against multiple risk events combined risk events.
Through this process, a base case and stress-tested Strategic Plan are developed.
During 2018, consistent with prior years, this stressReduction in EU tested scenario planning considered a material international reduction in the number of European and international students students, a material rise in long-term interest rates and yield expansion, together with a combination of all these events occurring at the same time.
Our strategic objectives compared to our risk profile Strategic objective Risk profile category Principal risks Quality properties Property development Increasing competition and customer expectations underline the need to constantly improve the quality of our portfolio, while navigating site selection, development planning risks and building cost inflation as well as disposal risks.
Quality service Market The health, safety, wellbeing and security of the c. 50,000 students who make Unite Students platform supply and demand their home is the foundation of our reputation and continued focus on Health & Safety is key Operational to building and maintaining this trust.
Health and Safety Affordability and value for money are ever more critical in the increasingly competitive market place.
Delivering the highest service levels in the sector continues to be critical to our sustainable and longer-term success.
In an increasingly competitive market with more demanding customers developing and retaining our talent is critical to ensure market leadership.
Quality University Market With the increasing supply and maturing PBSA sector, enhancing strong and sustainable University partnerships supply and demand relationships is increasingly important.
The culture of the organisation recognises A twice yearly formal review by the Board Creating the right corporate culture and accepts that risk is inherent in business of principal risks, how they are changing for effective risk management and encourages an open and proactive and considering any emerging risks The Groups risk management framework approach to risk management as opposed is designed to identify the principal risks to a blame culture.
By viewing our risks through Risk Committee reviews the principal risks and ensure that risks are being appropriately the lens of our strategic objectives, the Group is that the Group is facing or should consider monitored, controls are in place and able to ensure risk management is pro-active required actions have clear ownership and pre-emptive and not a tick box exercise.
Specific risk management in dedicated with requisite accountability.
Board sub-Committees allowing focus The Board has the overall responsibility for on specific risk areas for example, the The organisation has an open and accountable the governance of risks and ensures there Audit Committee and Health and culture, led by a stable and experienced are adequate and effective systems in place.
Safety Committee leadership team operating in the sector for It does this in various ways: a number of years.
This culture is set by the Risk Committee scrutiny and challenge of Board in the way it conducts its Board and Risks are considered by the Board as management activity allowing a focused Committee meetings and cascades through an intrinsic part of strategy setting and forum for risk identification and review the organisation enabling the same culture consideration of new opportunities for risk management.
risk is recognised as an inherent part Risk assurance through external and of each opportunity internal auditors as well as specialist third party risk assurance where appropriate e. g. British Safety Council providing specialist independent health and safety assurance.
26 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Our risk management framework The Board Composition Risks assessed as part of strategy Owned by the Board and its Committees of Risk Committee setting and risk oversight Twice yearly formal risk review and ongoing monitoring Chris Szpojnarowicz of risk integral to Board meetings Company Secretary and Group Legal Director, and Chair of Risk Committee Richard Smith Risk management Policies and controls Chief Executive Officer Owned by the Risk Committee and the Underpinning risk management such as Capital Joe Lister Operations Property Boards Operating Guidelines: Treasury Policy: Anti-Bribery Chief Financial Officer Policy: Major Investment Approvals Committee Monthly risk tracker review at Operations and the internal controls framework Nick Hayes Property Boards Group Property Director Risk Committee review and challenge of all risk trackers and related risk and opportunity activity John Blanshard Chief Customer Officer People and culture Embedded risk management culture Openness, transparency and clear ownership of risk management through risk trackers cascades through the organisation Strategic objective KPIs the Board, the plan is cascaded down across Robust assessment of principal risks the Group and provides a basis for setting all The Directors confirm that they have conducted Quality properties Gross asset value detailed financial budgets and strategic actions a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Asset age that are subsequently used by the Board to the Group.
The process for how the Board monitor performance.
The forecast performance determined these principal risks is explained Occupancy outlook is also used by the Remuneration above and the specific principal risks are set Rental growth Committee to establish the targets for both out on pages 28 to 31.
Safety the annual and longer-term incentive schemes.
Quality service platform Customer satisfaction Viability statement The financing risks of the Group are considered The Directors have assessed the viability of the Employee engagement to have the greatest potential impact on the Group over a three-year period to December Quality University Safety Groups financial viability.
The two principal 2021, taking account of the Groups current partnerships financing risks for the Group are: position and the potential impact of its principal University trust risks.
The Directors consider the three-year lookout Customer satisfaction the Groups ability to arrange new debt period to be the most appropriate as this aligns % Noms v. Direct Let replace expiring debt facilities: and with the Groups own strategic planning period combined with the levels of planning certainty any adverse interest rate movements.
that can be derived from the development pipeline.
Based on this assessment of all principal The Group has secured funding for the risks, which includes the risks that could arise as committed future development pipeline, a result of Brexit, the Directors have a reasonable which includes the bonds issued in 2018 and expectation that the Group will be able to the unsecured loan facility which is currently continue in operation and meet its liabilities as undrawn, and prepares its Strategic Plan on they fall due over the period to December 2021. a fully-funded basis in line with the three-year outlook period.
To hedge against the potential As explained above, the Group has an of adverse interest rate movements the Group annual business planning process, which manages its exposure with a combination comprises a Strategic Plan, a financial forecast of fixed rate facilities and using interest rate for the current year and a financial projection swaps for its floating rate debt.
During the year for the forthcoming three years which includes the Group has complied with all covenant stress testing and scenario planning and also requirements attached to its financing facilities.
rolls forwards for another two years.
This plan is reviewed each year by the Board as part of its Read more about Financial review on page 41 strategy setting process.
Once approved by THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 27
