Strategic report Principal risks Principal risks The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there are other risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
Drive Differentiate Create & deliver Underpin KEY TO STRATEGY Safety, health and Core business growth Recruitment and retention environment ofthe right people Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Delivery of our strategy is dependent on us Growth in our core business depends Our success depends on recruiting and conducting our business safely.
Given the oninnovation in our core product range, retaining the right people in all areas of our nature of our various manufacturing facilities, theevolution of our technical service business.
Victrex relies heavily on the skills, a significant operational disruption could offeringand continuous improvement in experience and competence of our people to adversely affect the safety of people on or ouroperations.
A failure to maintain our comply with internal procedures and external close to our sites.
Disruption could also impact investment in these areas could lead to regulations, to drive business in existing our ability to make and supply products.
competitive pressure, as well as the loss andnew markets, to deliver our strategy, ofbusiness to competitors and or tooperate our manufacturing assets The environment in which Victrex operates is competingmaterials.
safelyandwith a strong regard to the subject to numerous legislative and regulatory environment, and to successfully execute requirements.
A failure to comply could ourdownstream strategy.
adversely impact the local environment, our employees, our manufacturing capability, or the attractiveness of our business or products to various stakeholders.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We employ a dedicated Safety, Health and We aim to address price pressure by being We have strategies in place collectively our Environment SHE department to assist line focused on cost efficiency and continuous People Strategy to determine our future management and to provide expert guidance.
improvement in our operations, by having resourcing needs and attract and retain the anappropriate pricing policy and by offering best talent.
We have policies and procedures to a strong value proposition as a solutions efficiently, safely and compliantly manage all Our employees have clear objectives, aligned company unique chemistry, specification our operations: protect the safety and health to our strategy, personal development plans ofproducts with end users, quality and of our employees, contractors and visitors: and regular reviews to assess their performance technical service, the performance benefits and both manage our environmental and support their development.
ofour products and the ability to develop responsibility and continually improve our We have succession plans in place for key new applications.
roles and develop our future leaders so that We keep abreast of technological changes to As our manufacturing facilities are regulated, we are able to promote internally as well as materials and potential threats to PEEK and we are subject to close review, for example bringing in new talent from the outside.
PAEK polymers by developing new grades by the Environment Agency and the Health Where necessary, we will supplement the skills with differing properties, as well as creating and Safety Executive.
of our own employees with those ofthird parties new markets for PEEK PAEK polymers.
Further detail is contained in the in order to deliver our downstream strategy.
Sustainability report on pages 28 to 39.
We operate an equal opportunities policy andregard this as a commitment to make fulluse of the talents and resources of all ouremployees.
Change Change Change No change No change No change Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 23 Strategic report Principal risks continued KEY TO STRATEGY Drive Differentiate Create & deliver Underpin Foreign currency risk Business continuity Network and IT systems Product liability Ethics and Future business growth ofsupplychain andsecurity regulatorycompliance Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description The Group exports the majority of its product It is essential to ensure continuity of supply Significant failure or interruption to our We sell into highly demanding end-use The global regulatory landscape continues The success of our future business growth out of the UK, but has a significant Sterling and service to our customers and that we can ITsystems, could lead to business process applications and regulated markets.
Any tobecome more complex for our teams.
Our will depend on the effective implementation cost base.
Fluctuations in exchange rates operate even if a significant event did occur.
disruption interrupting key business services.
failure to supply our products in accordance future opportunities in Automotive, Aerospace of our Polymer and Parts strategy.
Risks between Sterling and US Dollar, and Euro with the specification could potentially lead and Medical will bring new regulatory include failure to: innovate new products at Failure to maintain a secure supply of high Cyber-attack breach could result in the theft, andYen could cause profit and balance to consumer harm or a potential product challenges, alongside other existing and new the right pace: recruit employees of sufficient quality products to our customers caused by, manipulation or destruction of confidential sheetvolatility.
This in turn could lead to a loss markets.
Any failure to comply with ethical calibre: develop scalable manufacturing for example, incapacity of our production and sensitive information and severely disrupt of business and reputational damage.
and regulatory standards has the potential solutions: and develop the Groups facilities or restricted access to raw material business operations.
tosignificantly affect our ability to deliver infrastructure to be able to support supplies and transport links could lead to ourbusiness strategy.
insufficient inventory, significant delay and loss of earnings.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The Group adopts a hedging policy to It is our policy to keep capacity ahead of Victrex operates a multi-layered approach Robust regulatory standards and accredited We continue to invest where appropriate in Our principal mitigation is to manage each mitigate short-term currency risk.
Currency demand by continual investment in our supply toproviding IT system continuity and to quality management systems are in place our Legal and Compliance teams, including growth programme as a clearly defined movement can have either a positive or chain so that our customers can be confident protecting information assets.
relevant to our different markets, including the Quality teams and the Safety, Health and project.
Technical development, manufacturing, anegative impact on the Group.
that we can meet their requirements today Medical Devices and Aerospace.
Environment team, supplemented by external sales and HR plans are aligned to each We appropriately invest in our core IT and in the future.
resources as necessary, to ensure that we project, whilst also being driven functionally The currency policy is managed by infrastructure and defences, using best of Monitoring and auditing plans are completed have access to the right resources.
to achieve high standards of performance.
The Our sales and operations planning process is breed storage, firewall and machine learning and reported to management, including AProject Management team oversees the Committee regularly assess whether intended to maintain supplies to our customers anti-virus technologies.
details of remedial actions as required.
Our Code of Conduct policies are reviewed projects and governance is achieved through theimpact of major events, including during any short-term disruption.
Work to regularly and training is provided.
Compliance Independent external experts are engaged to A Management of Change process is in place.
geopolitical events such as Brexit, requires mitigate potential effects of Brexit has begun is monitored and reported to Executive conduct assessments, including penetration Supply contracts, including agreed any modification to that policy.
including setting up a European warehouse Management.
For example, this year It is also Victrexs policy to invest in small testing, cyber health and awareness.
specifications, are used to mitigate the risk to complement our other global warehousing changeswere made to policies and training butscaleable manufacturing facilities for We align to the nationally recognised ISO where practicable.
In addition the Group locations.
Additionally we work with our key provided toreflect the new General Data newtechnologies ahead of growth.
This is 27001 standard for Information Security and maintains appropriate levels of product suppliers to maintain appropriate stocks of Protection Regulation.
ensuring that Victrex is ready with capacity have dedicated InfoSec resource in place.
Commercial contracts and our pricing We support our user community by We have business continuity plans in place strategy are reviewed by our Legal and mandatory training on information security, that are regularly reviewed to ensure their Product Management teams.
security policies and best practices.
A central team is continuing to assess We continuously review the latest threats and andtake relevant actions to mitigate the trends in information security and governance impacts of Brexit and we are engaged with to ensure our multi-layered protection is trade associations which are in contact always current and effective.
Change Change Change Change Change Change No change Risk decreased No change Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis 24 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report KEY TO STRATEGY Drive Differentiate Create & deliver Underpin Foreign currency risk Business continuity Network and IT systems Product liability Ethics and Future business growth ofsupplychain andsecurity regulatorycompliance Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description The Group exports the majority of its product It is essential to ensure continuity of supply Significant failure or interruption to our We sell into highly demanding end-use The global regulatory landscape continues The success of our future business growth out of the UK, but has a significant Sterling and service to our customers and that we can ITsystems, could lead to business process applications and regulated markets.
Change Change Change Change Change Change No change No change No change Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 25
