Strategic Report 38 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Risk management Identifying and managing our risks Our global framework allows us to identify, measure, manage and monitor strategic and operational risks across our footprint.
It provides management with a clear line of sight over risk to enable informed decision making.
which are then approved by the Executive Linking risk to budget we have worked Process for identifying Committee, and reviewed by the Audit with colleagues in Finance to ensure that ourprincipal risks andRisk Committee and the Board.
any actions required to achieve target risk Defining our principal risks begins with all tolerance levels are flagged and tracked local markets and entities reporting their as part of the Groups main budget and Strengthening our framework biggest risks to create a Group-wide view.
We constantly strive to improve risk The output is used in interviews with around management and have made the following Extending the risk management 40 of our senior leaders to gather their enhancements over the last 12 months: framework we have created specialist insights.
The results of both exercises are then frameworks within our Security function aggregated, and considered through the lens Linking risk to decision making we have and our Enterprise business to improve of the Companys strategic objectives for the launched a new process to improve visibility the link between strategic and operational year ahead, to produce our principal risks of risk in decision making in relation to our risk management.
Our principal risks Key changes in the year Principal risks The principal risks have been updated to reflect developments in our strategic priorities as well as progress made in managing them.
Key changes: Disintermediation risk 5 has been separated from market 1 disruption risk 3 as the potential causes for these risks are 11 2 managed differently.
4 3 New risks: 6 5 Effective digital and technological transformation 10 9 thisrisk has increased due to the importance of delivering the 8 7 Digital Vodafone agenda to transform the core business, drive efficiencies and explore new growth areas.
It continues to address the associated risk of failing to deliver a differentiated customer experience and has been expanded to include the risk of an IT transformation failure a separate principal risk in 2018.
Effective data management this newly formulated risk reinforces the importance of General Data Protection Regulation GDPR as a business transformation programme and also recognises the strategic value of effectively managing our data Low Likelihood High assets in a digital economy.
Risk movement Allocation of the Groups capital this risk covers failure Risk increased Risk stable Risk decreased todeliver long-term value to shareholders if we were unable tomanage our capital effectively and successfully integrate What we do with our principal risks strategic acquisitions and disposals.
Accountability Informed decisions Assign ownership for risks Inform budget and strategic decisions Risks removed: and mitigations Oversight The Convergence and Enterprise profitability risks have Tolerance Focal point for Executive Committee dropped below the materiality level for principal risks due to Set tolerance for risk taking and Board deep dives positivetrends in 2018. and benchmark against our Assurance current position Audit and Compliance teams use the risks to inform assurance planning Risk reduction Identify and track actions when out and test how effectively risks are being managed of tolerance Low Impact High Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 39 Risk management in action: Brexit implications The Board continues to keep the possible implications of Brexit for Vodafones Although we are a UK headquartered company, a very large majority of our operations under review.
customers are in other countries, accounting for most of our revenue and cash flow.
Each of our national operating companies is stand-alone business, A cross-functional team, led by two Executive Committee members, has identified incorporated and licensed in the jurisdiction in which it operates, and able to adapt ways in which Brexit might affect the Groups operations.
Despite the Article 50 to a wide range of local developments.
As such, our ability to provide services Notice having been served, there remains insufficient information about the to our customers in the countries in which we operate, inside or outside the likely terms of the post-Brexit arrangements between the UK and the EU, as well EU, is unlikely to be affected by Brexit.
We are not a major international trading as about any possible transitional arrangements, to draw any conclusions about company, and do not use passporting for any of our major services or processes.
There is however more clarity on the timetable, as any future arrangement regarding the future relationship between the EU and the UK would Depending on the arrangements agreed between the UK and the EU, two issues have to enter into force either at the formal date of exit 30 March 2019 or at the that could directly affect our operations, in both cases potentially causing expiration of a potential transition period 31 December 2020 to avoid a so-called us to incur additional cost, are: cliff edge scenario.
creation of a data frontier between the UK and the EU: the inability to move data freely between the UK and EU countries might cause us to have to move some technical facilities, and affect future network design: and inability to access the talent we need to run a multinational Group operation from the UK: increased controls over or restrictions to our ability to employ leading talent from non UK markets could cause us to have to adjust our operating model to ensure that we attract and retain the best people for the roles we have.
A further, indirect, issue that could affect our future performance would arise if the Brexit process caused significant revisions to macro-economic performance in our major European markets including the UK, thus affecting the economic climate in which we operate, and in turn impacting the performance of the operating companies in those markets.
Key to principal risks Interconnected risks 1 Cyber threat and information security Our principal risks are presented individually but in managing these risks, we also consider External or internal attack resulting in service how they relate to each other and the potential cumulative effects.
Identifying the unavailability or data breach interconnectivity between risks allows us to prioritise areas that require increased oversight 2 Adverse political and regulatory measures and remedial action.
Excessive pricing of 5G licences, tax authority challenges, incumbent re-monopolisation Market 3 Market disruption disruption New telco entrants with lean & agile models Digital and unlimited offers creating increased transformation 3 competitive pressure EMF Legal and Commercial 4 Effective digital and 11 4 regulatory risks technological transformation risks Failure to create an agile, digital telco able to deliver a differentiated customer experience 5 Disintermediation 5 9 Tech players gaining customer relevance through emerging technology Disintermediation Legal and 6 Global economic disruption regulatory adequate liquidity Economic disruption and uncertainty reducing consumer spending and our ability to refinance 2 8 7 Technology resilience Failure of critical IT, fixed or mobile assets causing Political Data service disruption measures management 8 Effective data management Data management failures leading to missed commercial opportunities or a GDPR breach 6 1 10 0 9 Legal and regulatory compliance Allocation of Non compliance with laws and regulations including Economic the Groups customer registration, anti-bribery, competition law, antidisruption capital Financial money laundering, sanctions and intellectual property 7 1 rights requirements risks Technology resilience Cyber threat 10 Allocation of the Groups capital Failure to maximise returns to shareholders due Technology to inefficient use of capital risks 11 EMF health related risks EMF found to pose health risks causing reduction in mobile usage or litigation Strategic Report 40 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Risk management continued Cyber threat and information security What is the risk?
What is our target tolerance position?
An external attack, insider threat or supplier breach could Failing to protect our customer information and service We aim for a secure digital future for our customers.
cause service interruption or confidential data breaches.
availability could have major customer, financial, Security underpins our commitment to protecting our reputational and regulatory impact in all markets in which customers with reliable connections and keeping their we operate.
We seek to avoid material breach, loss of data or reputational impact from a cyber event.
Adverse political and regulatory measures What is the risk?
The scale and complexity of political and regulatory risk If the cost of operations were to significantly increase, We seek actively to engage with governments, regulators is increasing especially as digital becomes the backbone directly or indirectly, this would impact our profitability and tax authorities to encourage good working of economic growth, potentially resulting in political and returns to shareholders.
relationships and to help shape potential impacts intervention and competitive disadvantage.
of legislative change on the Group.
5G spectrum auctions are also underway in many We look for spectrum auctions to be fair for all jurisdictions which could lead to unfair spectrum participants both in terms of ability to access auctions allocation or pricing.
Market disruption What is the risk?
New entrants to markets or competitors with lean models Our market position and revenues could be damaged We will evolve our offer and adopt an agile operating could create pricing pressure.
As more competitors push by failing to provide the services that our customers want model to mitigate competitive risks.
We will do this unlimited bundles, it might impact profitability in the at a fair price.
through targeted offers, smart pricing models and short to medium term through price erosion.
Effective digital and technological transformation What is the risk?
We plan to accelerate the evolution of Vodafone Failure to deliver on our digital and customer experience We aim to be a leading digital company with modern towards a digital future to improve customer experience, objectives could result in lack of differentiation leading systems, skills and talent to ensure a world-class offering increase speed to market and operate in an efficient to increased customer churn and eventual loss and customer experience.
Failure to do this could lead to missed of market share.
commercial opportunities, increased cost of working and customer service failures.
Disintermediaton What is the risk?
We face increased competition from a variety If we do not provide the digital experience and service We offer a superior customer experience and continually of new technology platforms which could impact our customers want, we may lose customer relevance, improve our offering through a wide set of innovative our customer relationships and experience.
We must market share and revenue.
products and services, including fixed and mobile be able to keep pace with new technology to compete content, IoT and voice over LTE.
We also develop in changing markets while maintaining high levels innovative new products and explore new growth areas of customer service.
such as 5G, IoT, convergence, digital services, data analytics, AI and security so that we continue to meet our customers needs.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 41 Key to core programmes: Network Leadership Customer eXperience eXcellence Fit for Growth Digital Vodafone Risk owners: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Johan Wibergh Joakim Reiter Stable Technology programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We protect Vodafone and our customers from cyber We monitor multiple trends including: We continue to make progress with our security threats through strong basic security, a leading strategies and have seen improvements in our control Confirmed security incidents Cyber Defence team and customer-focused security effectiveness.
We have launched a new Security Risk, supported by simple risk led processes centrally and Security control effectiveness Control and Assurance Framework to provide guidance in local markets.
and oversight across all Security risks.
Independent measurements of security on our networks Risk owners: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Nick Read Joakim Reiter Stable Legal and regulatory programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We engage with top level policy makers and influencers, We monitor: We continue to engage with governments, regulatory and addressing issues openly, with clear arguments to find public bodies and have seen some success in our strategy, Public sentiment, changes to laws and regulations, mutually acceptable ways forward.
We are seeing increasing regulatory number and value of disputes across the Group intervention in areas like privacy, security and net neutrality.
We plan our approach to spectrum auctions to ensure Benchmarking of spectrum cost between countries we achieve fair access at sustainable prices.
We have had recent success in spectrum auctions which will allow us to continue to maintain network leadership positions.
Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Serpil Timuray Stable Commercial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We monitor the competitor landscape in all markets, Our joint venture in India is close to receiving Trends in competitor behaviour and react appropriately: working to make sure each regulatory approval.
The merged entity should market has a fair and competitive environment.
Level of customers actively using our new products be better able to compete in its marketplace.
We face and services increasing competition in some European markets We will continue to improve our Consumer and Enterprise and are managing this through developing new propositions using our digital strategies and our ability commercial strategies and differentiated offerings and to create personalised offerings.
Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Serpil Timuray Increased Commercial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We are running a company wide transformation This is a new risk which encompasses the previous CXX Measurement of NPS programme, Digital Vodafone, with direct sponsorship and IT Transformation risks.
The program has specific modules Tracking of digital KPIs and objectives across across each functional area, coordinated centrally and all markets executed locally, to drive our key digital priorities.
We are also implementing a new operating model Digital Vodafone in our operating companies to ensure a fast pace of change on digital.
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We continuously create innovative propositions and This risk was previously managed as part of the wider Trends in new technologies services whole evolving our customer experience Market Disruption risk but has now been split out to strengthen the relationship with our customers.
Level of customers actively using our new products to ensure appropriate consideration is given to our and services product and service offering.
Over the last 12 months, we have seen the strengthening of OTTs message and voice platforms, the boom of digital assistants powered by AI and the continuing growth of Enterprise OTTs.
Strategic Report 42 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Risk management continued Global economic disruption adequate liquidity What is the risk?
As a multinational business, we operate in many Economic instability and subsequent reductions We take a conservative approach to financial risks which countries and currencies, so changes to global economic in corporate and consumer spending or an impact reflects our diverse business.
Any major economic on capital markets could restrict our refinancing We carefully manage our liquidity and access disruption could result in reduced spending power for options.
A relative strengthening or weakening of the to capital markets to limit our exposure to unstable our customers and impact our ability to access capital major currencies in which we transact could impact economic conditions.
A relative strengthening or weakening of the our profitability.
major currencies in which we transact could impact our profitability.
Technology resilience What is the risk?
A technology site loss could result in a major impact Major incidents caused by suppliers, natural disasters Our customer promise is based on reliable availability on our customers, revenues and reputation.
This could or an extreme technology failure, although rare, could of our network, therefore the recovery of critical mobile, involve all major technology sites including: mobile, fixed, result in the complete loss of a key technology site fixed and IT services must be fast and robust.
causing severe impact on our customers, revenues and reputation.
Effective data management What is the risk?
What is our target tolerance level?
We process vast amounts of data and are subject Failure to achieve data governance could lead to data We aim to use data to improve the efficiency of our to numerous compliance, security, privacy, data quality mismanagement thereby preventing us achieving our operations and to continually develop data centric and regulatory requirements.
Processing and using data strategic goals, and processing of data ethically business models.
this data is critical to fulfilling our customers service in line with our values.
If we do not use data with We seek to process personal data honestly, ethically, with expectations in a digital world, but must be done appropriate permissions to inform our services and integrity, and always consistent with applicable laws and according to an informed consent framework with clear offers, we will not be able to meet customer expectations, our values.
which will have a negative effect on both NPS and customer lifetime value.
We provide our customers with transparency, choice and understanding of their rights through our permissions framework.
Legal and regulatory compliance What is the risk?
Vodafone must comply with a multitude of local and Non-compliance with legislation or regulatory We seek to comply with all applicable laws and international laws as well as more specific regulations.
requirements could lead to reputational damage, regulations in all of our markets.
These include licence requirements, customer financial penalties and or suspension of our license registrations, anti-money laundering, competition to operate.
law, anti-bribery law, intellectual property rights and economic sanctions.
Allocation of the Groups capital What is the risk?
We may not effectively allocate the Groups capital If we fail to make the make the correct investment We seek opportunities to improve the effective to maximise returns by failing to identify opportunities, decisions or to execute our strategy in line with deployment of our capital.
agree appropriate terms, legally complete and expectations, our cash flow, revenue and profitability successfully execute strategically important acquisitions, could be negatively impacted.
partnerships including joint ventures and disposals.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 43 Key to core programmes: Network Leadership Customer eXperience eXcellence Fit for Growth Digital Vodafone Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Nick Read Stable Financial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We maintain access to long and short term capital There are no significant changes to this risk.
We continue Current credit rating markets through diversified sources of funding.
to take action to increase the average life of our bond Average life and cost of debt debt and interest rate fixing.
We forecast with contingencies in our business plans to cater for negative operational impacts that could occur Currency and interest rate exposures from a variety of drivers including the impact from lower Monitoring of economic and financial market drivers economic growth than is generally expected.
Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Johan Wibergh Stable Technology programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report Unique recovery targets are set for critical sites to limit Our technology resilience levels continue to mature Number of critical sites able to meet the the impact of service outages.
A global policy supports across all sites.
Resilience levels were tested following recovery targets these targets with mandatory controls to ensure network outages in some markets and we have worked effective resilience.
Levels of incidents near misses to make improvements based on the lessons learned from these incidents.
We monitor the lifespan of critical assets and maintain Results of simulated recovery testing back up where necessary.
Building a resilient future by evolving our services to cloud based solutions Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Serpil Timuray Increased Commercial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We are enhancing our data governance framework Included in the principal risks for the first time.
Compliance with GDPR requirements to ensure quality data supports our strategy.
Adherence to customer permissions framework Our Privacy and Security teams work to ensure that we collect, process and store data in line with our own Security testing and audits policies and applicable law.
Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Rosemary Martin Decreasing Legal and Regulatory programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We have subject matter experts in legal and regulatory Data privacy has now moved into our Data management Results of the annual compliance testing programme teams at a local and global level, and a robust overarching risk.
Due to an increase in patent infringement threats and policy compliance framework with underlying specialist Number of Speak Up cases in each market claims, intellectual property rights are now considered compliance programmes.
Changes to applicable legal and We train our employees in Doing whats right, regulatory requirements our training and awareness programme which sets our ethical culture across the organisation and ensures employees understand their role in ensuring compliance.
Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Nick Read Increased Commercial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report Our strategic planning process identifies both risks and Included in the principal risks for the first time.
Achievement of synergies opportunities for effective deployment of capital.
Any opportunities for change are carefully scoped before Compliance with policies and standards agreements are made to ensure we take the correct level of risk.
We carefully manage the external approval processes and the subsequent integration of acquired operations.
We manage integration through the alignment of policies, processes and systems to ensure maximum benefit is delivered.
Strategic Report 44 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Risk management continued Electro-magnetic fields related health risks What is the risk?
Electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile devices This is an unlikely risk: however, it would have a major Vodafone does not want to expose anyone to levels and base stations may be found to pose health risks, impact on services used by our customers in all our of EMF above those mandated by regulators.
with potential impacts including: changes to national markets particularly in countries that have a greater We comply with national standards, where existing, legislation, a reduction in mobile phone usage concern for environmental and health related risks.
and with our own EMF policy, based on international or litigation.
Our vision is to lead within the industry in responding to public concern about mobiles, masts and health.
Long-Term Viability Statement The UK Corporate Governance Code The Vodafone methodology Viability statement the Code The Board carried out an assessment Having considered the principal risks facing The Code requires the Directors to assess of the principal risks facing the Group the Group and their inherent uncertainty, the prospects of the Group over a period that would threaten its business model, as well as the likely effectiveness of the significantly longer than 12 months and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
planned mitigating actions, the Directors whether they have a reasonable expectation The assessment starts with the available deem that the process of stress-testing that the Company will be able to continue headroom as of 31 March 2018 and follows the Groups prospects is reasonable and in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall a three-stage approach to stress test it appropriate.
The cash and facilities available due over the period of their assessment.
to the Group as of 31 March 2018, along with options available to reduce cash outgoings, The review period Key assumptions provide sufficient headroom, which remained The Board has concluded that the most The plans and projections prepared positive in all scenarios tested.
Therefore, relevant time period for this assessment as part of this forecasting cycle include the Directors confirm that they have continues to be three years, as the period the Groups cash flows, committed and a reasonable expectation that the Group in which the principal risks particularly required funding and other key financial remains in operation and is able to meet its those of an operational nature are expected ratios.
They were drawn up on the basis liabilities as they fall due up to 31 March 2021. to develop, in what is a fairly dynamic industry that debt refinance will be available in all sector with the potential impact from digital plausible market conditions and that there transformation a fast evolving risk.
This time will be no material changes to the business horizon is also supported by the business structure over the review period.
The Group planning and forecasting cycle.
has also taken into account the liquidity implications of merger and acquisition activity not yet completed.
As of 31 March 2018, the Group had sources of liquidity comprised mainly of cash and cash equivalents, and available facilities of 18.9bn, excluding cash in the held for sale Indian subsidiary.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 45 Key to core programmes: Network Leadership Customer eXperience eXcellence Fit for Growth Digital Vodafone Risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to core Joakim Reiter Stable Legal and regulatory programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report Our Group EMF Board manages potential risks through We monitor: There are no material changes to the risk.
cross sector initiatives and oversees a global programme Scientific research to respond to public concern.
International standards and guidelines We monitor scientific developments and engage with relevant bodies to support the delivery and transparent Public perception communication of the scientific research agenda set Compliance with EMF policies by the World Health Organisation.
The Vodafone methodology Assessment of prospects Assessment of viability Principal risks Combined risk scenario Sensitivity analysis Headroom The available headroom is calculated using the cash and cash equivalents, plus available facilities, at year end Long Range Plan Three-year forecast is used to calculate cash position and available headroom over the period Severe but plausible scenarios Quantification of the cash impact Long range plan output used modelled for each of the principal of a combined scenario where multiple to perform a sensitivity analysis, risks to quantify the cash impact risks materialise, including the following: reviewing central debt profile and cash of an individual risk materialising headroom analysis, including a review a. F ailure to respond to market disruption over the three-year period.
of sensitivity to business as usual risks resulting in loss of market share.
to revenue and profit growth.
The top three risks with the highest b. M arket disruption exacerbated potential financial impact relate The analysis focuses on the maximum by economic downturn, resulting to global economic disruption, tolerable revenue and adjusted EBITDA in restricted access to capital markets adverse political and regulatory decline over the three-year period, and devaluation of emerging measures, and executing the digital as well as significant cash flow drivers, market currencies.
such as capital expenditure and c. M ajor data breach resulting in litigation debt financing.
Overall viability headroom cash impact of risks additional liquidity options
