OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MANAGEMENT OUR APPROACH Active risk management is a key priority for the Group and is an important component of our strategy framework.
Success as an organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit emerging business opportunities inthe markets where we operate, which comes with an element of risk.
To achieve our risk management objectives, First line of defence As the first line of OUR RISK APPETITE wehave embedded risk management defence, local functional managers own and The Board is committed to adopt a risk profile activities in the operational responsibilities manage their risks.
They have ownership, and approve a risk management framework of management and made these activities responsibility and accountability for directly that is in line with our vision and culture.
an integral part of our overall governance, assessing, controlling and mitigating risks We ensure the risk management framework planning, decision making, organisational in line with the guidance, policies and is adequately communicated, integrated in all andaccountability structure.
requirements set by the Group.
They are areas of the organisation and that accountability responsible for implementing corrective is assigned at all appropriate levels.
OUR APPROACH actions for control deficiencies identified TORISKMANAGEMENT through the KPI reporting and goal zero RISK ASSESSMENT checklists a monthly check completed Our approach to risk is based on the byManagement which evidences that For each risk or category of risks, our risk underlyingprinciple of line managements controls are operating as intended.
management process includes activities accountability for risk and control management.
performed in a continuous cycle, covering Second line of defence Financial and The Group has a risk-based approach to both actual and emerging risk.
Risk assessment, nonfinancial risk management functions internal control and management is responsible includes risk identification, analysis and are in place at Group level to oversee and for implementing, operating and monitoring evaluation, and ensures each risk is analysed monitor risks and provide an objective the internal control environment.
The Board to identify the consequence and likelihood challenge to the first line of defence.
is ultimately responsible for reviewing and of the risk occurring and the adequacy of They can intervene directly by modifying monitoring the overall risks profile, the existing controls.
Each reportable entity is internal controls, policies and procedures adequacy of the Groups risk management responsible for implementing the appropriate aswell asdeveloping risk systems.
andthe effectiveness of internal controls.
structures, processes and tools to allow Third line of defence The Groups The Groups risk management framework properidentification of risks.
In the current independent Internal Audit Function is underpinned by a three lines of defence year, we introduced a risk register that and the Audit and Risk Committee are approach, which defines how risk management facilitatesquarterly reporting and evaluation inplace to provide assurance to the activities are organised and where responsibility ofexisting and new risks by functional heads.
Board on the effectiveness of governance, and accountability for these lie within risk management and internal controls.
This includes the extent to which the first and second lines of defence have achieved their risk management and control objectives.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ESTABLISH THE CONTEXT RISK ASSESSMENT RISK IDENTIFICATION RISK ANALYSIS RISK EVALUATION RISK TREATMENT MONITOR & REVIEW VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 49 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The various risk reporting channels are In addition to these structured self-appraisals, The acquisition of Engen completed on consolidated into one streamlined escalation the assurance framework relies upon objective 1 March 2019 and is expected to increase process which is used by the Board to appraisals by Internal Audit and the Central legaland regulatory risk as we will be operating assess and analyse the risk of the Group and Internal Control team.
The results of these in eight new markets, with each country implement an action plan when necessary.
teams risk-based reviews of operations bringing their own regulatory requirements Once the risks have been identified, analysed, provide an independent view regarding the to which we have not previously been managed and evaluated, risk mitigation identifies effectiveness of risk and control management exposed to.
We appointed a specialised the actions to be implemented by management.
These established reviews, reporting teamto monitor each aspect of the transition Each reportable entity has implemented risk and assurance processes enable us to regularly and ensure compliance with all regulations management processes that are embedded consider the overall effectiveness of the affectingtheirarea of business.
system of internal control and to perform a As we are a listed company on the full annual review of the systems effectiveness.
MainMarketof the London Stock Exchange, MONITOR AND REVIEW Taken together, these processes and practices we have considered the implications of the provide confirmation that relevant policies are Annually, our Internal Audit team assesses UKs imminent exit from the European Union adopted and procedures implemented with our significant risks and communicates Brexit on the business of the Group.
respect to risk and control management.
them to senior management who in turn As atthe date of the Annual Report, no develop action plans to address the identified agreement has been reached between the UK OUR DYNAMIC RISK ENVIRONMENT risks.
Internal Audit reports directly to the and the European Union regarding the terms of Audit and Risk Committee on the principal As part of the risk management framework any transitional or longer-term agreement after risks.
The Committee will review and we regularly consider changes in the nature, Brexit and it is not possible to predict whether assess the status of each risk.
Reviews and likelihood and impact of existing and or not such an agreement will be reached recommendations are presented to senior new risks, including the Groups ability to or, if one is reached, what the terms of that management to continuously strengthen respond to changes in its business and the agreement will be.
In view of their geographical ourinternal controls framework.
location, we do not expect our business operations to be impacted.
We do however Our listing on the London Stock Exchange and INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM maintain close monitoring and assessment of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange brought Brexit developments and will seek to mitigate The approach to internal control includes about many changes to our risk environment.
any adverse impact that may occur as a result a number of general and specific risk We have seen an increase in cyber threats, of Brexit.
regulatory risks and fraud risk.
Within theessential framework provided As a result of the increased visibility as a byour General Business Principles, publiccompany, we have noted an increase theprimarycontrol mechanisms are inphishing, hacking and fraud attempts on selfappraisal processes, in combination ourbusiness.
To adequately address these with strict accountability for results.
riskswe have formalised the Forensics function, These mechanisms are underpinned by with the focus on monitoring of risks and established policies, standards and guidance investigation ofincidents.
The function acts that relate to particular types of risk: independently ofthe business and reports structure investment decision processes, directly to the Head of Internal Audit.
a timely and effective reporting system, performance appraisal and cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
50 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VIVO ENERGY 1 To remain a responsible 3 To maximise the value HAS FIVE KEY andrespected business ofourexisting assets STRATEGIC inthe communities in OBJECTIVES: 4 To pursue value-accretive growth whichweoperate 5 To maintain attractive and 2 To preserve our lean sustainable returns through organisational structure and disciplined financial management performance-driven culture 5 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our activities are exposed to various risks and uncertainties.
These are Overall, our risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability risks that we assess as relevant and significant to our business at this ofthe global market and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on time, however there might be other risks that could emerge in the future.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 1.
PARTNER REPUTATION A deterioration to our brand We require all our contractors and 1 ANDRELATIONSHIPS name may prevent collaboration business partners to manage their opportunities with other companies, HSSE policies and practices in line Our business identity depends thus hindering growthplans of with ours.
on itsrelationship with our brand theGroup.
partners and the reputation of Stringent Know Your Counterparty thosebrands, in particular our A decline in consumer confidence KYC procedures are performed relationship with Shell.
may drive down volumes and prior to entering any contract over resultinlower margins.
We promote and develop the communities in which we operate tohelp build the Vivo Energy brand as the most respected in Africa.
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, Violations of antibribery, We provide compliance training 1 FRAUD, BRIBERY AND anticorruption laws, and other programmes to employees at COMPLIANCE RISK regulatory requirements may alllevels.
2 result in significant criminal or civil As a result of business in Africa The Code of Conduct and sanctions, which could disrupt our ourcountries are exposed to KYCprocedures, along with various 4 business, damage its reputation high levels of risk relating to other policies and safeguards have andresult in a material adverse criminalactivity, fraud, bribery, been designed to prevent the effecton the business, results of theftand corruption.
occurrence of fraud, bribery, theft operations and financial condition.
and corruption within the Group.
There are a number of regulatory requirements applicable to the We have a confidential whistle Group and the related risk of blowing helpline for employees, noncompliance with these contractors, customers and regulations have increased other third parties to raise followingthe listing.
We regularly maintain and update the information technology and control systems within the Group.
The Head of Ethics and Compliance and the Head of Forensics are involved inmitigating fraudulent activities inthe Group.
We strive to ensure our antibribery management systems will continue tobe certified compliant under the ISO 37001 standard.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 51 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRICING NO.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 3.
OIL PRICE FLUCTUATIONS Higher supply costs in deregulated Exposure to commodity price risk is 3 markets result in higher prices mitigated through careful inventory The price of oil and oil products may forour products and could reduce management and dynamic pricing.
fluctuate preventing us from realising 4 our ability to achieve targeted our targeted margins, specifically unitmargins.
inthe deregulated markets in 5 whichwe operate.
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK Depreciation of foreign currency Our treasury policy requires each 2 exchange rates could result country to manage their foreign We are exposed to foreign inseverefinancial losses.
The Central exchangerisk, currency exchange 3 Treasury team approves all hedging controls, currency shortage and plans before they are actioned to other currencyrelated risks.
4 ensurethey are alignedwith our strategic focus.
Currency exchange risks are mitigated by margin and pricing strategies.
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT NO.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 5.
HEALTH AND SAFETY We may incur potential We ensure all safety measures for 1 liabilitiesarising from our retail service stations, storage We are exposed to accidents or HSSE accidents incidents.
sites, and employees are maintained incidents relating to health, safety 2 atinternational standards.
and the environment and from Brand reputation can be remediation of such accidents severely impacted, along We invest significantly in training relating to employees.
and technology to improve road transport safety.
We are further subject to HSSE Regulators and authorities laws and regulations andindustry may impose fines, disruptions The highest emphasis is placed standards related to ouroperations to operations and disallow on process safety, and minimising in each of thecountries in which permitsforfuture ventures.
security risks to our people, weoperate.
ourfacilities and the communities inwhich we operate.
We require all our contractors andpartners to manage their HSSEpolicies and practices inlinewith ours.
On an ongoing basis, safety and security drills, campaigns and programmes are conducted to ensure widespread knowledge ofthe Groups HSSE principles andprocedures.
In addition to our ongoing, daily attention to HSSE, we hold an annual Safety Day, which creates anopportunity for all employees torefocus on the importance of HSSE of our Group.
The day is used to reinforce safety measures as well as raise awareness of key issues.
52 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LEGAL, REGULATORY AND POLITICAL INSTABILITY NO.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 6.
ECONOMIC AND An economic slowdown which We closely monitor evolving issues 1 GOVERNMENTAL INSTABILITY adversely affects, for example, inmarkets.
disposable income, vehicle Several countries and regions in We ensure appropriate responses 4 distance driven, or infrastructure which we operate have experienced and business continuity plans are development, in one or more of economic and political instability that developed to minimise disruptions.
these regions could negatively impact could adversely affect the economy our sales and have a material adverse All local regulatory environments of our markets.
effect on the business, financial andchanges are closely monitored.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7.
PRODUCT AVAILABILITY The increased procurement We ensure optimal inventory 1 ANDSUPPLY costscould lower our margins.
management through close monitoring of inventory days, We are dependent upon the Limited supply of products and 3 salesand other factors whichmay supplyof fuels, lubricants, and storage facilities may result in stock require additional inventory levels.
This could further result in When raw materials are needed breach of contract and disruptions Attention to our suppliers political urgently, asymmetric negotiations toour operations, leaving us and social environments are occur.
The bargaining power shifts susceptible to fines orpenalties.
performed and our purchasing tothe supplier who in turn can strategies realigned as necessary.
The Group now has increased Furthermore we are restricted storage capacity at strategic bylimited storage capacity locationswithin Africa, following withinsome country facilities.
8. BUSINESS Any unfavourable changes in market Overall diversification is the key 1 CONCENTRATIONRISK dynamics, such as the reimposition strategy and control measure.
of pricing regulations for fuel, or A large part of the Groups The completion of the Engen 5 downturns in the performance of operations and margins are transaction has increased the the operations overall, may lead to a derivedfrom Morocco when geographic diversification, as the decline in the Groups performance.
Group has expanded its footprint inAfrica.
NEW ERP IMPLEMENTATION Inadequate processes and The project is managed by one of the 2 segregationof duties may impact the Groups Leadership Team members.
Our organisation is currently quality of the operations, controls Processes have been thoroughly migrating to a new ERP, a critical 3 and make fraud detection difficult.
The new project that will redesign some Data quality and management issues platform has been already rolled out of our operations, functions may have financial, operational or and is operational in the two selected andcontrols.
compliance consequences leading pilot countries.
Segregation of duties toincreased financial and operating and data quality have been assessed costs and missed opportunities.
through both internal and external audits.
The remaining deployment will be executed in successive waves across the Group throughout 2019.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 53 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED STRATEGIC NO.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 10.
ACQUISITION INTEGRATION We may incur writedowns, All acquisition decisions are 2 impairment charges or intensively reviewed at several We may be unable to identify , placing stages with ultimate approval by the or accurately evaluate suitable 4 strainonfinancial resources.
This ensures risks at all levels acquisition candidates or to are being assessed and mitigated completeor integrate past Occurrences of indebtedness 5 throughout the process.
or prospective acquisitions couldresult in increased successfullyand or in a timely obligationsand include covenants We ensure there are detailed manner, which could materially or other restrictions that limit integration plans with realistic time adversely affectgrowth.
lines as well as designated teams toexecute the plan.
Tailored onboarding and training is delivered postacquisition to ensure asmooth and efficient transition.
OUR RISK RISK IMPACT OUR MITIGATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 11. CREDIT MANAGEMENT This may result in financial loss as a We maintain Credit Policy Manuals 2 result of bad debts and lost revenue.
These The Group faces risks arising Manuals ensure a harmonised, from credit exposure to Exceeding payment terms will 4 cost effective and valueadding commercial and retail customers resultin lower working capital, credit process in all classes as well as governments, including potentially creating liquidity ofbusiness.
 and challenges for the business.
Continuous monitoring of outstanding credit balances are performed to ensure our overall riskremains within our tolerance.
We impose strict guidelines and procedures should customers exceed the credit limits set.
Credit limits are set on an individual basis after having assessed the customer through KYC procedures.
We use debtor factorisation whenconsidered necessary.
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS 1.
Criminal activity, fraud, bribery and compliance risk 5 2 9 10 3.
Product availability and supply 4 3 7 8. Business concentration risk 9.
Acquisition integration 11. Credit management 11 RISK IMPACT ASSESSMENT Decreased LOW MEDIUM HIGH Unchanged Increased LIKELIHOOD 1 Based on the Company, excluding Engen transaction considerations.
2 Residual risk after consideration of controls.
54 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 IMPACT LOW MEDIUM HIGH
