Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 51 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has conducted a robust assessment The extent to which each of the principal of the principal risks, alongside the Risk Appetite risks could impact upon the Groups viability, Introduction Statement set out on page 49, meeting the in financial or operational terms, due to their Boards responsibilities in connection with Risk potential effects on the business plan, solvency As in any business, there are risks Management and Internal Control detailed in the or liquidity.
and uncertainties which could impact UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each of the The principal risks set out on pages 51 to 55 are the Groups ability to achieve its principal risks is assigned an owner from amongst those which we believe to have the greatest objectives in the future.
The Groups the Board or Group senior management team and potential to impact our ability to achieve the risk management and assurance is either a standing agenda item at each Board Groups strategic objectives or which have the framework is designed to make this meeting or subject to formal periodic review by greatest potential impact on the Groups solvency less likely by clearly identifying and the Board.
A summary of principal risks and the or liquidity.
seeking to mitigate key risks.
Groups mitigating controls is presented at every Board meeting.
The Directors reviewed the Groups risk register, Strategy Risk Trend reassessed the validity of the principal risks identified in the prior year and considered People Increasing whether any new principal risks have emerged Customers Decreasing or a risk is no longer considered a principal risk.
The identified principal risks were subjected Technology No change to a detailed assessment based on the following considerations: Performance Severity of each risk: Existence and effectiveness of actions and Viability Statement internal controls which serve to mitigate the risk: The overall effectiveness of the Groups control environment, including assurance and any identified control weaknesses: and Technology and innovation Failure to innovate or to react to emerging technology developments, and therefore fail to ensure that the business continues to deliver sustainable and attractive solutions for our customers.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 The strength of our business is built upon Our existing research and development Technological innovation continues to be a history of delivering innovative and initiatives within the business, at Weir at the forefront of the business due to the sustainable solutions for our customers.
Advanced Research Centre, are enhanced increasingly competitive market and the If we fail to keep abreast of market needs through partnerships with certain pressure to provide customers solutions to or to innovate solutions, we are at risk of leading universities around the world.
improve the efficiency of their operations.
losing market share to our competitors and These partnerships are designed to help the Further information on progress made lowering margins as demand will reduce.
Group develop game-changing solutions to in this area is set out in the Products and our customers challenges and respond to Technology section of the Technology their changing needs.
We devote skilled resource to reviewing Continued execution of the Technology and responding to developing technologies, Vision and Strategy through the year.
with our agreements with specialist external The Innovation Strategy process has parties to develop Internet of Things IoT been defined, organisational structures technology.
established, and Group and divisional Engineering strategies are in place at engineering strategies are in place.
Group and divisional levels with strategic The Weir Innovation Network was innovation areas defined as part of the Risk trend developed in order to improve knowledge innovation strategy.
sharing and collaboration across the Group.
The Weir Group PLC 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Market volatility Changes in key markets, including commodity prices affecting mining and oil and gas, have an adverse impact on customers expenditure plans.
This may include delaying existing expenditure commitments.
As markets improve we may fail to effectively upscale operations to meet customer needs.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 We need to remain sufficiently flexible to We maintain regular engagement with our Global macroeconomic concerns around allow us to anticipate downturns, to allow customers to understand their needs and demand and geopolitical concerns around us to adjust our operations accordingly, challenges, and ensure our business is supply have caused oil prices to decline and equally to meet growth in demand appropriately aligned.
sharply in last quarter of 2018. when our customers markets are buoyant Improved demand planning and forecasting Other commodity markets are showing and therefore capital investment is high.
including Sales and Operations Planning continued signs of recovery.
Otherwise, we are at risk of incurring within VCE.
We continue to focus on customer unnecessary costs during downturns, and Our strategic planning utilises extensive relationships, technology development and not maximising our potential for growth in market intelligence to assist in forecasting Value Chain Excellence to manage this risk.
opportunities and dips in markets.
In challenging market conditions, our We maintain contingency plans value chain risks are increased.
described in more detail on page 53.
Risk trend Information Technology and Cyber Security Failure to maintain business systems or technical infrastructure that serves the business needs.
Failure to successfully execute changes to these business systems or technical infrastructure: together with failure to minimise disruption and maintain business as usual activity during technical infrastructure or business system changes.
Failure to adequately protect the business operations from cybercrime.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 Up-to-date data allows us to make informed We have an IT Governance Framework with IT security and continuity continues to be a decisions about our business.
Therefore, a focus on structured change management matter of strategic priority for the Group in we require reliable and efficient IT systems techniques, including setting project an environment of increasingly sophisticated and infrastructure to support our data governance levels in line with risk.
Breaches of our IT security strengthen the Groups defences in this Policies, procedures and baseline standards could have serious consequences for our respect is being made through our IT in relation to cyber risk and IT security more business, including: interruption to business Next programme.
generally are continuously updated and rolled operations: and loss of intellectual property out to operations.
A programme of user We continually review the effectiveness of and other sensitive data.
training in relation to cyber risk is in place.
our key IT security controls in consultation The Group is investing in a significant IT with external experts.
We report upon any All security related incidents are reported to transformation programme.
If this is not unplanned outages and potential security the Group Executive.
managed effectively, the consequences breaches, with lessons learned across Security Incident Responder teams monitor could include interruption to business the Group.
operations if data is unavailable due to Internal Audit coverage has been extended unsuccessful execution of change, impacting Risk trend in 2018 to include increased focus on IT our ability to compete and our reputation in security and resilience.
At present, the Groups principal exposures to cybercrime relate to the misappropriation of cash and data.
Our revenue streams are largely protected as our products are not currently electronic in nature and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Value Chain Excellence Failure to achieve Value Chain Excellence improvements and the associated reduction in costs and enhanced flexibility.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 If we fail to improve our value chain Regular KPI monitoring of the value chain Value chain excellence is a key area of throughout the organisation.
strategic focus for the Group with Value management, we risk: Losing the opportunity to invest Chain Excellence initiatives continually All businesses complete VCE selfcapital into alternative value developing and the Group realising the assessments, including value stream creating opportunities: benefits of these.
segmentation, model design and Damaging our reputation and as a improvement project identification.
The VCE model has continued to develop consequence losing customers and market share: with audits being performed across the Value Chain Excellence initiatives have Losing market position if the Group fails to Group providing additional assurance.
been operating throughout the Group to demonstrate to customers the value of our drive value chain improvements including products and services: expanding production in best cost countries.
Incurring penalties as a result of late delivery contractual clauses: The Groups forward purchase Reducing margins by incurring commitments are being closely monitored unnecessary additional costs associated to manage inventories at levels appropriate with late remedial actions taken to avoid to market conditions.
missing delivery targets: and Failing to respond to market upturns or Risk trend Our credit risk management procedures are downturns quickly enough to respond to under continuous appraisal and review.
market demand or manage costs.
We regularly monitor market activity to ensure we remain competitive.
Safety, Health and Environment SHE Failure to adequately protect our people and other stakeholders from harm associated with a breach of SHE standards.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 We operate in hazardous environments, The Weir Behavioural Safety system is in The Group continues to set higher and therefore have a fundamental duty to place to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
benchmarks for SHE compliance and roll protect our people and other stakeholders out cohesive programmes to address In addition, there are initiatives to prevent from harm whilst conducting our business.
SHE risks and drive safe and sustainable the most common accident types.
As well as the personal impact on our working practices.
The Weir global SHE standards are people resulting from a failure to meet this continually reviewed.
Onsite SHE audit assessments have obligation, we would also be at risk of: been developed and are now operational.
The SHE Excellence Committee is Reputational damage leading to a loss Life saving behaviours and improved training responsible for monitoring performance and of customers: and on boarding is being rolled out.
The first compliance with Group objectives, policies Legal action from regulators, including formal Groupwide recognition programme and standards relating to SHE.
fines and penalties: and delivered in 2018.
Exclusion from markets important for our The Chief Executives Safety Committee future growth.
With the creation of a new Strategy and meets monthly and is committed to Sustainability function at the Group, there is achieving the highest of SHE standards.
increased focus in this area and a number of Risk trend There is a formal SHE assurance programme new projects being piloted.
with issues escalated as required through the reporting structures.
Improved SHE incident reporting tools which provide visibility and responsive action of any SHE related issues have now been embedded.
The Weir Group PLC 54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Political and social Adverse political action, or political and social instability, in territories in which we operate may result in strategic, financial or personnel loss to the Group.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 We operate across the globe and therefore Regular review of market attractiveness.
Given the introduction of tariffs imposed have to work within a wide range of political by the United States, we are continuing to Monitoring travel by Weir employees to and social conditions.
Adverse events may assess the impact of these on our business higher risk locations in accordance with the occur in the territories in which we operate and implement mitigating courses of action.
that may require us to act swiftly to protect We will continue to monitor Brexit External expert risk assessments and our people and our property and regulatory negotiations and risk assess the potential regular monitoring in higher risk locations.
changes could impact our competitiveness.
impacts on our UK manufacturing base.
We need to be flexible and able to anticipate Contingency plans and exit such issues.
Expansions into new territories are only Our strategic planning assists in forecasting undertaken after rigorous assessment of potential political and social instability the risks, including the social and political in regions.
Proactive monitoring of evolving policy and development of contingency plans as situations materialise.
Risk trend Staff recruitment, development and retention Failure to recruit, develop or retain key management and staff may lead to disruption to the Groups operations, functions and processes.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 Our people represent our biggest asset Promotion of the Weir Group Values & Senior Leadership Conference was held and failure to attract, develop and retain Behaviours, Code of Conduct and HR during 2018 to build on the understanding of key management and staff would have a Policies sets the standards and expectations current priorities.
detrimental impact on the Groups ability to for all our staff, reinforcing our stated The Talent Development and Succession deliver our key strategic objectives.
commitment to attracting and retaining the Planning process is developed and very best people.
As markets improve we need to continue to implementation underway.
recruit high quality staff building on existing High performer assessments are The People Strategy was approved in capability while recruiting skilled expertise undertaken to identify and develop our very February 2018. in the right areas of the business and at the best talent.
The inaugural global employee engagement Succession plans are in place and survey was launched in December 2018. periodically reviewed for all of our key management.
Personal Development Plans are set and reviewed for the effective development of all of our staff.
Risk trend We continue to offer competitive compensation and benefits packages.
Personal development programmes including Weir University and the Weir Leadership Programme are open to participation by high potential staff members and these continue to attract high calibre individuals.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Ethics, governance and control Interactions with our people, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders are not conducted with the highest standards of integrity which devalues our reputation.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 We are unwilling to accept dishonest The Code of Conduct, supplemented with The governance and legislative environment Group policies on related topics, provides in which the Group operates continues or corrupt behaviour from our people, a clear benchmark for how we expect our to evolve and become more complex.
or external parties acting on our behalf, business will be conducted.
We routinely review operations in whilst conducting our business.
If we geographies where ethical standards fail to act with integrity, we are at Regular training is provided using a range may not be as well established as in of mechanisms including Town Hall style risk of: other countries.
Reputational damage leading to a loss sessions, online and induction training.
of customers: With the introduction of General Data The financial control framework is Increased scrutiny from regulators: Protection Regulation GDPR, we have continually monitored for effectiveness.
Legal action from regulators including taken proportionate measures to ensure fines, penalties and imprisonment: and Internal Audits remit includes regular compliance with the regulations.
Exclusion from markets important for our review of the anti-bribery and corruption future growth.
Compliance sub-function within Group and financial controls across the Group.
Failure to meet required social standards Legal created to enhance global focus The Group Legal team is responsible for to maintain licence to operate in on compliance.
monitoring compliance with the Code our communities.
We expect all areas of the business to do the right thing and conduct Risk trend A Whistleblower hotline is available to all business in compliance with procedures, members of staff.
Reports are investigated applicable laws, Weir Group operating on a timely basis and summary reports policies and procedures, and the highest provided to Group Executive and Board.
Contract risk Failure to adequately manage contract risk and, as a result, commit to obligations which the Group is unable to meet without incurring significant unplanned costs.
In addition, failure to follow Group policies and procedures may lead to commitments without the desired level of contractual protections.
Impact on Why we think How we are Changes during strategy this is important mitigating the risk 2018 We operate in an increasingly complex The Group has policies and procedures for Given the competitive environment and competitive environment where contract acceptance and approval.
in which the Group operates contact customers are not only highly focused management continues to be a key area These are under continuous review and on price and service but are also more of focus.
Existing policies and procedures improvement to ensure they are adequate challenging in contract negotiations.
are continually reviewed and refreshed to for current and future circumstances.
Business models are also changing, provide employees with improved tools to The tools and training available to employees reflecting these developments.
assist them in their contract training and responsible for contract management are management activities.
As we offer a broader range of products similarly under continuous review.
and services to our customers, including those that are more technologically advanced, we risk exposing the Group to reputational and financial loss should Risk trend our contract acceptance, negotiation and approval processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
