y M f i i t t i n g e a d t I e Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties All principal business functions compile risk registers and Risk management framework summary risk maps to identify key risks, assess them in Our risk management framework is designed so that material terms of their likelihood and potential impact, and determine business risks throughout the Group can be identified, assessed appropriate control strategies to mitigate the impact of these and effectively managed.
This framework incorporates the risks taking account of risk appetite.
The ongoing monitoring following core elements: of this framework is overseen by the respective Business Risk Committees and the Group Audit Committee.
During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls systems.
This review included the discussion and review of the risk registers and the internal controls across all business functions, as part of an annual exercise facilitated by the Internal Audit team.
During the year, the Board also received presentations from management on specific risk areas such as cyber risk, international expansion, and the ongoing risk monitoring processes and appropriate mitigating controls.
Board review of principal risks and uncertainties The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks are described on the following pages, along with explanations of how they are managed and mitigated.
The Group recognises that the profile of risks constantly changes and additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business objectives and performance.
Our risk Identify Risk registers compiled by each business function management framework is therefore designed to manage rather Risk mapping to identify emerging issues than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and, as such, can only provide reasonable and not absolute Assess Determining the likelihood of risk occurrence assurance against these principal uncertainties impacting on Evaluating the potential impact business performance.
Mitigate Agreeing actions to manage the identified risks Changes in principal risks compared to Ensuring control measures are in place last year Monitor Reviewing the effectiveness of controls The table on the following page summarises the principal risks and uncertainties agreed by the Board.
The table incorporates Maintaining continued oversight and tracking further information relating to the movement in the level of these risk exposures during the year, to highlight whether, inour view, exposure to each of the principal risks is increasing, decreasing or remains broadly the same.
Where the consequences of Brexit negotiations may impact the business, we have incorporated these considerations into our assessment in relation to each of the principal risk headings asreferenced in the table.
WH Smith PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 r A o s t i s n e o s M s Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Key: Change in risk level higher no change lower Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level Economic, political, competitive and market risks The Group operates in highly competitive markets The Groups performance is dependent upon and in the event of failing to compete effectively effectively predicting and quickly responding Uncertainties relating to the with travel, convenience and other similar product to changing consumer demands.
The Group nature and resulting impact category retailers, this may affect revenues obtained conducts customer research to understand of the UKs exit from the EU.
Failure to keep abreast of market current demands and preferences in order developments, including the use of new technology, to help translate market trends into saleable could threaten our competitive position.
Factors such as the economic climate, levels The Group continues to monitor the implications of household disposable income that may be arising from the process of exiting the European impacted by Brexit, seasonality of sales, changing Union and is a member of a number of key demographics and customer shopping patterns, industry bodies which provide insight and and raw material costs could also impact on profit updateson this process.
The Group may also be impacted by political developments such as exiting the European Union, regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny by competition authorities and other changes in the general condition of the retail and travel markets.
Brand and reputation The WHSmith brand is an important asset and The Group monitors the Companys reputation, failure to protect it from unfavourable publicity brand standards and key service and compliance could materially damage its standing and the measures to ensure the maintenance of widerreputation of the business, adversely operating standards and regulatory compliance affectingrevenues.
across all of our operations.
We undertake regular customer engagement to understand As the Group continues to expand its convenience and adapt our product, offer and store food offer in travel locations, associated risks environment.
include compliance with food hygiene and health and safety procedures, product and service quality, We operate a framework for monitoring environmental or ethical sourcing, and associated compliance with all regulatory, hygiene and legislative and regulatory requirements.
safety standards, encompassing supplier and store audits and clearly defined sourcing policies and procedures.
Our corporate responsibility programme monitors our performance in respect of our key themes of the Marketplace, Workplace, Environment and Impact on the Community.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level Key suppliers and supply chain management The Group has agreements with key suppliers in the The Group conducts risk assessments of all its UK, Europe, the Far East and other countries in which key suppliers to identify alternatives and develop it operates.
The interruption or loss of supply of core contingency plans in the event that any of these category products from these suppliers to our stores key suppliers fail.
may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues Suppliers are required to comply with the may also impact the Groups reputation and impact conditions laid out in our Supplier Code of our ability to trade.
Conduct, which covers areas such as production Changes to import procedures and customs methods, employee working conditions and declarations on EU imports and exports to our quality control.
We continue to work closely European stores could impact supply chain lead fines, with our suppliers to manage any changes in tariff and duty costs.
Product availability could also the supply chain as part of our ongoing Brexit beimpacted by any change in customs procedures planning.
The Group has contractual and other that result in process delays at UK ports.
arrangements with numerous third parties insupport of its business activities.
None of thesearrangements alone are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio The Group undertakes research of key markets are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
Retailing and demographics to ensure that we continue from a portfolio of good quality real estate in prime to occupy prime sites and identify appropriate retail areas and key travel hubs at commercially locations to acquire new space.
reasonable rates remains critical to the performance We maintain regular dialogue and good of the Group.
Changes to passenger numbers, flight relationships with our landlords, discussing any scheduling or tax and duty rates could impact on our business or potential space changes.
The Group landlords allocation of space.
also conducts extensive customer research All of High Streets stores are held under operating and analysis to gather feedback on changing leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to consumer requirements which is shared with the extent that any store becomes unviable as a landlords as part of this ongoing relationship result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held management programme.
under concession agreements on average for five to ten years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
Business interruption An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a The Group has a framework of operational pandemic disease, could reduce the number of procedures and business continuity plans that customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing a decline are regularly reviewed, updated and tested, in revenue and profit.
In the past, our Travel business including our planning for the impact of Brexit.
has been particularly impacted by geopolitical events The Group also has a comprehensive insurance such as major terrorist attacks, which have led to programme covering our global assets, providing reductions in customer traffic.
Closure of travel cover ranging from property damage and product routes, both planned and unplanned, such as the and public liability, to business interruption and disruption caused by natural disasters or weatherterrorism.
Back-up facilities and contingency related events, may also have a material effect on plans are in place and are reviewed and tested business.
The Group operates from three distribution regularly to ensure that business interruptions centres and the closure of any one of them may cause are minimised.
The Groups IT systems receive ongoing In common with most retail businesses, the Group investment to ensure that they are able to also relies on a number of important IT systems, respond to the needs of the business.
Back-up where any system performance problems, cyber risks facilities and contingency plans are in place or other breaches in data security could affect our and are reviewed and tested regularly to ensure ability to trade.
that data is protected from corruption or unauthoriseduse.
WH Smith PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level Reliance on key personnel The performance of the Group depends on its The Group reviews key roles and succession ability tocontinue to attract, motivate and retain key plans.
The Remuneration Committee monitors head office and store staff.
The retail sector is very the levels and structure of remuneration for competitive and the Groups personnel are frequently directors and senior management and seeks targeted by other companies for recruitment.
toensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the key personnel to run the Group Labour retention may also be impacted in some areas successfully.
in the event of Brexit restrictions to migrant labour.
International expansion The Group continues to expand internationally.
In each The Group utilises three business models to country in which the Group operates, the Group may manage risk in our overseas locations: directly This is an area of increasing be impacted by political or regulatory developments, run, joint venture and franchise.
risk, reflecting the growth or changes in the economic climate or the general The Group uses external consultants to ofour International condition of the travel market.
advise on compliance with international business, with over 280 legislative and regulatory requirements, to stores now open.
monitor developments that may impact on our operations in overseas territories and to conduct reputational due diligence on potential new business partners.
Our geographical spread of activity mitigates against the material concentration of risk in any one area.
Treasury, financial and credit risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency exposures to interest rates, foreign exchange risk are analysed further in Note 24 on page 99 of the and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient financial statements.
The Group also has credit risk liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs in relation to its trade, other receivables and sale or and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on shortterm and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
Cyber risk and data security The Group is subject to the risk of systems breach The Group employs a framework of IT controls or data loss from various sources including external to protect against unauthorised access to While the external threat hackers or the infiltration of computer viruses.
our systems and data, including monitoring level is ever changing, there Theftor loss of Company or customer data or developments in cyber security.
This control has been a general increase potential damage to any systems from viruses, framework encompasses the maintenance of in the number of externally ransomware or other malware could result in fines firewalls and intruder detection, encryption of reported cyber attacks and reputational damage to the business that could data, regular penetration testing conducted affecting businesses.
by our appointed external quality assurance providers and engagement with third party specialists, where appropriate.
We have a Steering Group overseeing our approach and response to cyber risk, and monitoring our programme of ongoing compliance with the Payment Card Industry DataSecurity Standard and the GDPR.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties continued Assessing the impact of our principal risks on our strategic priorities The table below maps our strategic priorities with our principal risks, to demonstrate which of these risks could have an impact on the ongoing achievement of these strategic priorities.
Economic, political, Key suppliers Treasury, competitive and supply financial and Cyber risk and market Brand and chain Store Business Reliance on International credit risk and data risks reputation management portfolio interruption key personnel expansion management security 1.
Winning new space developing new formats in UK and internationally ii.
Managing our space to meet the changing needs of our customers iii.
High Street i. Optimise returns on space ii.
Margin growth from mix management iii.
Utilising our assets and third party partnerships 3.
Focused use of cash Brexit Viability statement Following the UK referendum to leave the EU, there will be a In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate period of uncertainty until an agreement on exit has been agreed Governance Code 2016, the directors are required to issue between the UK and the EU.
The extent to which our operations aviability statement declaring whether we believe the Company and financial performance are likely to be affected in the is able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities over longer term should therefore become clearer as details of this aperiod greater than 12 months, taking into account its current agreement emerge.
Where the consequences of Brexit may impact the business, The Groups strategy is highlighted on page 5.
The key wehave incorporated these considerations into our assessment factors are: in relation to each of the principal risk headings listed above.
In Travel: driving like-for-like sales, profit growth and cash Our Brexit Working Party continues to review and monitor generation: better understanding of space and category theseissues, as part of our ongoing Risk Management returns to meet changing consumer needs: winning framework.
This includes consideration of those risks that new space: and developing new formats both in the UK could arise in the event of a possible no deal outcome, where and internationally.
we continue to work closely with our suppliers to manage the In High Street: optimising returns from a forensic focus on impact of any amendments in tariff and duty rates, changes space: margin growth from category mix management: and toimport procedures for EU imports, and availability.
acontinuous focus on efficiency and hence cost reduction.
WH Smith PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
