Strategic report Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding and responding to risks Understanding and responding to risks in our operations means we can make informed decisions that enhance our capacity to build value.
Risk management Viability statement forecasted cash flows, including a Risk arises from the operations of, The Corporate Governance Code downturn in like for like growth rates and strategic decisions taken by, every requires that the directors have as well as the potential impacts should business.
It is not something that can considered the viability of the Group the principal risks, outlined on pages beavoided but should be actively over an appropriate period of time 54 to 55 actually occur.
Consideration managed and harnessed inpursuit selected by them, in this case a was also given to the availability and of business objectives.
In making this likely effectiveness ofmitigating actions assessment, the directors took into that could be taken to avoid or reduce The Board has ultimate responsibility account the current financial and the impact or occurrence of the forrisk management throughout the operational positions of the Group identified risk.
Group and determines the nature and and the potential impact of the risks extent of the risks Whitbread is willing In particular, it should be noted that the and uncertainties as outlined on totake to achieve its objectives to Group is currently spending a substantial pages 54 and 55. determine its risk appetite.
Risk is part of its cash from operations on managed proactively by the Executive The business planning process reviewed discretionary growth capital c. 30% Committee.
Certain responsibilities, by the Board, as part of the annual on average which allows the Group suchas overseeing the systems of risk strategic planning process, considers considerable flexibility to manage cash management and internal control, have both three and five-year timelines, with flows and would provide significant been delegated by the Board to the the Board acknowledging that there is mitigation if required.
Audit Committee, which completes an more certainty over the firstthree years Based upon this assessment, the annual review of the effectiveness of of the plan in light of fluctuations in directors confirm that they have these processes.
the global economy, the entry of new reasonable expectation that the Group competitors and customer preferences.
Both the Premier Inn and the Costa will be able to continue in operation and Therefore the directors have determined businesses complete an annual review to meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three-year period isan appropriate ofthe risks to the achievement of their the threeyear assessment period.
period over which to provide its viability strategic goals, whilst also taking into statement.
In making the viability account the key operational risks, which statement, the Board carried out a are updated regularly.
A top-down risk robust assessment of the principal risks assessment is also completed to capture and uncertainties facing the Group, the Boards views on the principal risks which could impact the business model, facing Whitbread and its risk appetite future performance, solvency and for each.
Actions required to manage liquidity, including the proposed these risks are monitored and reviewed demerger of Costa which is expected to on a regular basis.
The principal risks complete within the viability assessment identified, together with a summary of period.
Scenario modelling and key mitigations, can be found on pages sensitivity analysis was applied to 54 and 55.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 52 Strategic report Group risk framework Board Audit Committee Accountable for strategic risk Oversight and challenge of the management, including the assessment effectiveness of risk management of risk appetite, and ensuring a sound and mitigating controls system of internal control and risk management is in place Executive Committee Internal Audit Review, challenge and Coordination and analysis approval of Group risks Group Costa Premier Inn functions Accountable for risk management in the respective business and risk submissions to the Executive Committee Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 53 Risk management reporting and escalation Governance, strategy, oversight and communications Strategic report Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic priorities 01 02 03 Grow and innovate Focus on our strengths to Build capacity and infrastructure in our core UK businesses grow internationally to support long-term growth Higher Level Lower Principal Risks Strategic Movement Risk priorities Risk vs prior year appetite Key mitigations Cyber and Data Security Low We have a series of IT security controls in place, 03 Cyber and data security including up-to-date antivirus software across the remains a key risk as it estate, network system monitoring and regular reduces the effectiveness penetration testing to identify vulnerabilities.
A of our systems or results continuous security improvement programme is in in a loss of data.
This in place improving security and data controls.
Specifically, turn could result in loss during the year we have enhanced network security and ofincome and or we are in the process of implementing a framework of reputational damage.
Innovation Medium To ensure we maintain and improve the strength of our 01|02 and brand strength brands, we continually complete market research and A long-term decline in the monitor opinion with focus groups and net guest scores customer perception of to ensure we maintain the right levels of investment and our brands would impact innovation in our customer offerings.
We monitor the our ability to grow and rate and level of investment in the refurbishment of our achieve appropriate levels Premier Inn hotels and Costa stores along with our net of return.
Change High We have embarked on an extensive programme of 01|02|03 Our ability to execute the change to replace our legacy finance, POS, CRM and HR significant volume of systems, whilst also delivering an ongoing efficiency change, including the programme and upgrading our digital capability and proposed demerger customer propositions enabling Whitbread to deliver its of Costa.
growth plans over the coming years.
To help ensure the successful delivery of these change projects, including the proposed demerger of Costa, we have significantly enhanced our internal project delivery expertise and capability and put in place a robust assurance management framework coupled with regular reporting to the Executive Committee.
Economic climate N A There is a rigorous business planning process in place 01|02 Uncertain volatile political which considers many scenarios with appropriate and economic climate responses.
We also have strong site selection teams with results in a decline in GDP, well-established processes in place based on market and consumer and business economic fundamentals, both at a macro and micro level.
spending, a fall in RevPAR These are supported by sensitivity analysis and a robust and inflation pressure investment appraisal process to help deliver good levels impacting growth plans.
of return and we are making good progress with our efficiency programme that aims to deliver 250 million of savings over five years.
Retention Low The success of our businesses would not be possible 01 and wage inflation without the passion and commitment of our teams.
Failure to maintain staff Team engagement is fundamental.
We monitor this closely engagement and through our annual engagement survey YourSay, the results retention in a tightening of which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and labour market.
the Board, with trends analysed and appropriate actions reviewed and agreed.
We are also upgrading our HR systems to provide greater insight.
Team retention is a key component of our WINcard and Annual Incentive Scheme.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 54 Strategic report The strategic report on pages 4 to 55 was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Chris Vaughan, General Counsel on 24 April 2018.
Strategic Movement Risk priorities Risk vs prior year appetite Key mitigations Pandemic Terrorism N A The safety and security of our customers, employees and 01|02 The risk of a pandemic or suppliers is of utmost importance.
Failure to prevent or terrorism on the safety respond to a major safety or security incident could and security of our adversely impact our operations and financial customers or staff and performance.
We invest in site level training to help the consequent impact identify hostile reconnaissance activities and to ensure on trading.
wehave an appropriate response should such events takeplace.
The executive team also hold regular crisis management exercises to ensure we are prepared for such events.
Food safety and hygiene Low The health and wellbeing of our customers is 01|02|03 The preparation or fundamental to our business.
We have stringent food storage of food and or safety and sourcing policies with traceability and testing supply chain failure requirements in place in respect of meat and other results in food poisoning products.
Independent food safety audits are completed and reputational damage.
regularly at our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops and the results are closely monitored.
We invest considerable resources in employee training in the proper storage, handling and preparation of food.
Health and safety Low The safety of our guests and employees is of paramount 01|02|03 Health and safety risk, importance.
NSF, an independent company, carries out death or serious injury as health and safety audits on every site and we have a a result of company programme of fire safety training for our employees.
addition, C. S. Todd & Associates Ltd, independent fire safety consultants, have been working with us on the fire safety of our hotels.
Health and safety is a measure on theWINcard and acts as a hurdle for incentive payments.
Regular health and safety updates are provided to the Executive Committees and the Board.
Third party Low Whitbread has several key supplier relationships that help 02|03 arrangements ensure the efficient delivery of our multi-site and support Business interruption as a centre operations.
The failure or withdrawal of services result of the withdrawal of from one or more of these suppliers may result in some services provision of business interruption.
To safeguard against this, we services below acceptable continually review our suppliers and business continuity standards support or arrangements.
We expect our suppliers practices to be reputational damage as inline with our values and standards.
Suppliers are result of unethical thoroughly vetted before we enter into any arrangements supplier practices.
to ensure they are reputable and then monitored though our supplier management arrangements.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 55
