STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks and uncertainties Risks are inherent in investment and The guiding principles remain The directors have carried corporate management.
It is important watchfulness, proper analysis, prudence out a robust assessment of toidentify important risks and ways to and a clear system of risk management.
the principal risks facing the control or avoid them.
Witan Investment Company, including those that Services Limited WIS has a Risk Where appropriate, the Witan and WIS would threaten its business model, Committee in order to monitor Boards meet jointly to cover matters of future performance, solvency or compliance with its risk management common interest.
The WIS Board consists liquidity.
These risks, and the actions andreporting obligations as Witans of six non-executive directors and one taken to mitigate them, areset out Alternative Investment Fund Manager executive director who are also directors on pages 21 and 22.
The Company maintains a of Witan, and one executive director who framework of the key risks, with the policies isa Company employee.
and processes devised to manage them.
Its detailed risk map is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and the WIS Risk Committee, which report on pertinent issues to their respective Boards.
The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Market and investment portfolio Risk Mitigation Equity exposure is unlikely to drop below 80% The Board seeks to manage these risks through: of net assets in normal conditions, so a key risk a broadly diversified equity benchmark: of investing in Witan is a general fall in equity prices, which could be exacerbated by gearing.
appropriate asset allocation decisions: Other risks are the portfolios exposure to country, currency, industrial sector and stock-specific selecting competent managers and regularly monitoring factors.
There are also risks associated with performance: the performance of its investment managers and changes in Witans share price rating.
paying attention to key economic and political events: active management of risk, whether to preserve capital or capitalise onopportunities: the application of relevant policies on gearing and liquidity: and share buybacks and issuance to respond to market supply and demand.
During the year, Andrew Bell the Chief Executive Officer CEO managed theoverall business and the investment portfolio in accordance with limits determined by the Board and its AIFM, onwhich the CEO reports at each Board meeting.
The Board alsoregularly reviews investment strategy and performance, supported by comprehensive management information andanalysis.
Operational Risk Mitigation Many of the Groups financial systems are BNPSS, as the Companys depositary, has a key responsibility for outsourced to third parties, principally BNP monitoring such issues on behalf of the Company.
DST Services acts as Paribas Securities Services BNPSS.
Disruption the administrator for the current Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings to their accounting, payment systems or custody schemes so the effectiveness of its systems and controls is also key.
records could prevent the accurate reporting and Details of the Boards monitoring and control processes are explained monitoring of the Companys financial position.
further in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 34 to 39.
Witan Investment Trust plc 21 Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties continued Compliance and regulatory change Risk Mitigation The Company breaches compliance regulatory The Board takes its regulatory responsibilities very seriously and requirements or fails to assess the impact.
compliance issues and potential regulatory changes are regularly reviewed by the Board and its AIFM.
Details of the Companys corporate governance policies are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 34 to 39.
The Board conducts an annual assessment of the effectiveness of its governance processes.
There is also a three-yearly independent external review, the most recent of which was in late 2016.
See page 36 for further details.
Operational and regulatory risks are regularly reviewed by Witans Audit Committee and WISs Risk Committee.
WIS is subject to its own operating rules and regulations and is regulated by the FCA.
The Company has established a modus operandi for the effective coordination of its responsibilities and those of WIS, as its AIFM.
Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as the investment managers, the custodian and the fund accountants keep their own records which are regularly reconciled.
The depositary, the AIFMand the Board provide additional checks and safeguards.
Management monitors the activities of all third parties and reports any significant issues to the Board.
Accounting, taxation and legal Risk Mitigation The Company must comply with sections 1158-59 The accounting criteria are monitored by the CEO and AIFM and the of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA.
A breach Company carefully monitors compliance with the applicable rules.
could result in the Company losing investment These requirements offer significant protection for shareholders.
trust status and, as a consequence, capital gains TheBoard relies on the CEO, the AIFM, the Company Secretary and the realised would be subject to corporation tax.
Groups professional advisers to ensure compliance with all applicable The Company must comply with the provisions rules.
WIS is authorised and regulated by the FCA to act as the AIFM for of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act Witan, for the administration of savings plans and to provide marketing and with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules services and investment advice to professional clients.
and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
Abreach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the directors being fined or becoming the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares which would itself constitute a breach of the provisions of the CTA.
Liquidity Risk Mitigation The Companys portfolio of securities The Companys portfolio consists mainly of readily realisable securities.
The Company and its AIFM regularly review liquidity needs forexample, operational costs, loan servicing and repayment, shareholder dividends and share buybacks relative to the Companys portfolio income and the value and tradability of theCompanys assets.
Most of the likely liquidity requirements areforeseeable for example, timetabled loan payments and dividends while others such as share buybacks are subject to the Companys discretion.
The Board is satisfied that unexpected liquidity needs are not significant and could readily be met without compromising normal portfolio management.
22 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018
