e t a g i t i M e t a u l a v E Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Risk MANAGING OUR RISKS The achievement of our six priorities depends on our ability tomake sound, risk-informed decisions.
Managing risk anduncertainty is an integral part of doing business The risk management process The risk management framework Top Board of Directors down Maintains sound risk management and control systems, assesses principal risks Audit Committee Sets risk management framework, assesses effectiveness of risk and control systems and maintains oversight of risk monitoring Executive Committee Assesses principal and operational risks and undertakes regular monitoring of risk Risk and Internal Audit Coordinates risk management activity through review of risk registers, agreement of risk mitigation plans and preparation of risk reporting Operational Management Bottom Reviews operational risks, operates controls and implements risk mitigation plans up Risk management approach Where potential weaknesses are identified, the Risk and Internal Audit teams work with the business to agree robust actions to mitigate these.
We manage uncertainty as we respond to changes in our industry and the wider political-economic climate by maintaining a business-wide The Audit Committee supports the Board in maintaining a robust risk understanding of our key risks and how to manage them.
This assists in management framework by approving the risk management process and delivering our promises to all of our stakeholders and means that we are reviewing the Groups principal risks and key risk indicator reporting on in a better position to achieve our objectives, respond to emerging risks a regular basis.
Read more on risk governance in the Audit Committee and create opportunities.
The risk management process Principal risks Our risk management framework has been built to identify, evaluate, The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks mitigate and monitor those risks which threaten the achievement of our facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, six priorities.
The framework incorporates both a top-down approach to achievement of the six priorities, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors identify the Groups principal risks and a bottom-up approach to identify consider these to be the most significant risks facing the business, they operational risks.
do not comprise all the risks that the business is facing.
These principal risks are set out on the following page.
At the core of the risk management process are the risk registers for each of the key business functions.
These detail the main operating risks and The impact of the UKs exit from the EU continues to be an important are used to assess the gross level of risk likelihood and impact, mitigating area of discussion.
There are some continuing uncertainties around the controls, and the resultant net level of risk and risk mitigation plans with impact of the Brexit negotiations, particularly in relation to the impact on dates and target level of risk.
Target levels of risks are assigned to each imported food prices, labour availability and costs, consumer confidence risk based on the risk appetite framework established and agreed with and potential changes to access to EU labour.
These uncertainties impact the Board.
The risk registers are owned and managed by operational a number of the established Group risks and have therefore been management, with the head of each function certifying annually that factored into the assessment of the relevant risk where appropriate and these have been reviewed and action plans are in place where required.
A dedicated steering group is in place that The risk registers are formally reviewed and challenged by a sub-group monitors the risks associated with the outcome of the Brexit negotiations of the Executive Committee.
and the mitigating actions the business has put in place.
The Group risk register is formally reviewed twice a year by the As we expand the wholesale business the potential impact on ongoing Executive Committee.
The register details the Groups principal operations is an area of focus.
This increases complexity, and there are risks, owners, the level of risk and mitigating actions.
The Executive plans in place to address this.
Committees assessment of these risks takes into account the operating Certain risks are inherent in the business and are fundamental to the risks, strategic risks, external factors and any emerging risks.
The principal achievement of all of our key priorities.
Other risks could directly impact risks are monitored every month by the Executive Committee using key the achievement of certain key priorities.
risk indicator reporting, supplemented by more detailed reviews as appropriate to identify any changes in the risk landscape.
The Risk and Internal Audit function facilitates the preparation of both functional and Group risk registers.
It supports the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems and has established a rotational monitoring process for key financial controls.
23 y f i t n e d I r o t i n o M Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Risk continued PRINCIPAL RISKS The risks, which are shown in no particular order, are disclosed along with their alignment to the six priorities and the movement in residual risk during the year.
Residual risk is stated after considering the actions taken by management in response to new and emerging issues impacting the identified risks.
Risk Description Mitigation There is a risk that a major incident, We have recovery plans in place covering our stores, depots, sites and offices: Business such as a significant failure of These plans include, where appropriate, secondary locations which would be used Interruption technology, a natural disaster or as backup in case of an incident: # strike action, could cause significant Business continuity resilience exercises are undertaken to test processes and disruption to business operations.
managements ability to respond effectively: The Groups response must be appropriate to minimise disruption A Crisis Management Group is in place to oversee these plans and to manage and respond to any major incidents: and reputational damage.
The growing wholesale business increases We conduct supplier risk assessments and have contingency plans in place, where the complexity of operations possible, to manage the risk of loss of supply: and and technology.
The Technology plan is aligned with the business strategy and considers the future needs of the business including greater investment in cloud technologies to provide further resilience.
The Grocery sector continues to We review and actively manage our pricing, trade plan and promotional and Competitiveness have high levels of competitive marketing campaigns: 1 activity.
The continued impact of We have simplified how we work with suppliers building joint business plans, ensuring the EU referendum, and subsequent a competitive customer offer: negotiations, on exchange rates and We continually review our range, category plan, and quality and respond to customer the supply chain has affected costs feedback, for example the Best premium own brand range has grown to meet of goods.
customer demand: If we do not engage with our suppliers Competitor pricing positions and market trends are reviewed on a weekly basis: and and effectively manage our trade plan Our strong balance sheet and strong cash flow will allow us to continue to invest to remain competitive there is a risk in our proposition.
this will adversely impact performance.
There is a risk that we do not meet One of our six priorities is to serve customers better and we have a range of Customer the needs of our customers in respect activities to support that: 1 2 3 of price, range, quality and service.
A large scale programme of customer listening groups is in place to gain a deep We need to be responsive to changes understanding of what our customers want and, where we can improve, these 4 6 in customer confidence and trends have informed key activities such as our store Fresh Look programme and changes which have been impacted by changes to range: to the economy and the UKs planned We closely monitor research on customer perceptions and respond quickly wherever exit from the EU.
If we do not provide possible.
For example, with a steering group to address any particular risks arising the shopping trip that customers want, from the UKs planned exit from the EU: and we could lose sales and market share.
We have worked with wholesale partners to make Morrisons products accessible to more customers and have continued to expand the geography covered by our online offering.
A security breach leading to loss The Groups Data Steering Group has the responsibility for overseeing data Data of customer, colleague or Group management practices, policies, regulatory awareness and training: # confidential data is a key aspect of Information security policies and procedures are in place, including encryption, this principal risk.
A major data security network security, systems access and data protection: breach could lead to significant This is supported by ongoing monitoring, reporting and rectification reputational damage and fines.
of vulnerabilities: The risk environment is challenging, Focused working groups are in place looking at the management of data across with increased levels of cybercrime the business including colleague data, customer data, commercial data and financial and regulatory requirements.
data: and A project team is in place which is implementing the plan to meet General Data Protection Regulations GDPR in advance of May 2018.
Key Link to our six priorities Increase in net risk 1 To be more competitive 5 To simplify and speed up the organisation No change in net risk 2 To serve customers better 6 To make the core supermarkets strong again Decrease in net risk 3 Find local solutions # Underpins all six priorities 4 Develop popular and useful services 24 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Risk Description Mitigation The main areas of this principal risk The Groups Treasury function is responsible for the forward planning and Financial and are the availability of funding and management of funding, interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and certain Treasury management of cash flow to meet commodity price risks.
They report to the Treasury Committee and operate within business needs.
There is a risk of clear policies and procedures which are approved by the Board: # a working capital outflow if there The Groups treasury policy is to maintain an appropriate borrowing maturity was a significant reduction in payment profile and a sufficient level of headroom in committed facilities.
This includes terms to suppliers.
Some suppliers an assumption that supply chain finance facilities are not available for the benefit benefit from access to supply chain of suppliers: finance facilities.
The withdrawal of There are governance processes in place to control purchases in foreign currency and these facilities may require some management of commodity prices: and terms to be reviewed.
In addition, For livestock and produce, we track prices and forecasts and enter into long-term fluctuations in commodity prices and contracts where appropriate to ensure stability of price and supply.
foreign exchange rates could impact the Groups profitability.
There is a risk that the products we Monitoring processes are in place to manage food safety and product integrity Food Safety sell are unsafe or not of the integrity throughout the Group and supply chain: and Product that our customers expect.
It is of Regular assessments of our suppliers and own manufacturing and store facilities Integrity utmost importance to us, and to the are undertaken to ensure adherence to standards: confidence that customers have in our # Our vertical integration model gives us control over the integrity of a significant business, that we meet the required proportion of our fresh food: standards.
If we do not do this it Management regularly monitors food safety and product integrity performance and could impact business reputation and compliance as well as conducting horizon scanning to anticipate emerging issues: and financial performance.
The process is supported by external accreditation and internal training programmes.
The main aspect of this principal risk We have clear policies and procedures detailing the controls required to manage Health is of injury or harm to customers or health and safety risks across the business: and Safety colleagues.
Failure to prevent incidents An ongoing training programme is in place for front line operators and management: could impact business reputation and # A programme of health and safety audits is in place across our stores, depots, sites customer confidence and lead and offices with resources dedicated to manage this risk effectively: and to financial penalties.
Management regularly monitors health and safety performance and compliance.
Our colleagues are key to the We have fair employment policies, and competitive remuneration and People achievement of our plan, particularly benefits packages: # as we improve the business.
There is A Group-wide reward framework is in place and roles are evaluated against a risk that if we fail to attract, retain an external framework, driving stronger consistency of rewards: or motivate talented colleagues, we Our training and development programmes are designed to give colleagues the skills will not provide the quality of service they need to do their job and support their career aspirations: that our customers expect.
Line managers conduct regular talent reviews and processes are in place to identify Business change and the challenging and actively manage talent: trading environment may impact on Colleague engagement surveys, listening sessions and networking forums are used colleagues leading to an increase in to understand and respond to our colleagues: and this risk.
There is uncertainty about A steering group is in place to monitor and take action on any particular people risks potential changes to employment relating to the UKs exit from the EU.
regulations when the UK leaves the EU and this could result in a retention and recruitment risk, particularly at some manufacturing sites.
The Group operates in an environment We have a GSCOP compliance framework in place including training for relevant Regulation governed by numerous regulations colleagues and processes to monitor compliance: # including GSCOP Groceries Supply Code We have a senior level working group in place to review and improve GSCOP of Practice, competition, employment, compliance activity: health and safety, and regulations We have an independent whistleblowing line for suppliers to provide feedback to over the Groups products.
There is the Group and a Code Compliance Officer so that action can be taken as necessary: uncertainty about any potential changes We have a senior level steering group in place to monitor and take action on any to regulations relating to the UKs exit potential regulatory change resulting from the UKs exit from the EU: from the EU.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously and We have training, policies and legal guidance in place to support compliance with Competition Law and other regulations: and recognises that breach of regulation can lead to reputational damage and We actively engage with government and regulatory bodies on policy changes which financial damages to the Group.
could impact our colleagues and our customers.
25 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Risk continued Viability statement The scenarios which have been modelled encompass the Groups principal risks.
The Groups business model and strategy, as outlined on pages 2 to 3, are central to an understanding of its future viability.
The Group continues Description Principal Risks to progress against its turnaround strategy, focusing on strengthening the core supermarkets and delivering capital light growth whilst maintaining Failure to remain competitive e. g. through price discipline and control in relation to costs and maintaining a strong or keeping pace with changes in the market.
Competitiveness and Customer Increased inflation, labour and import costs The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year as a result of the UKs decision to leave the period to January 2021.
The Groups business model is not dependent European Union.
on any particular contract or resource with fixed end dates.
The period was selected because the Groups forecasts associated with the detailed A serious data security or regulatory breach Business strategic and financial plans are prepared over this period and were resulting in a significant monetary penalty and interruption considered to be the most robust and appropriate means to support a loss of reputation among customers.
and Compliance its viability statement.
A banking crisis leading to one or more of the The Board assesses the Groups prospects primarily through the strategic Financial and members of the Groups banking syndicate planning process.
The latest strategic planning update with the Board was treasury choosing not to, or being unable to honour held in November 2017 with involvement of all relevant functions across the facility agreement.
As part of the strategic planning process, the Directors make a number Furthermore, reverse stress testing was performed to understand the of assumptions about business performance and the ability of the level of performance decline that the Group could withstand.
Group to raise debt financing.
The Group carefully plans and reviews Based on this assessment, and taking into account the Groups current the maturity profile of debt facilities to avoid coterminous maturity dates position, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and liquidity forecasting gives visibility of headroom under committed will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall facilities over the period of the financial plans.
due over the three year period of their assessment.
Key metrics in the plan, such as cash flow, interest cover, liquidity and the ability to raise debt financing, were subject to sensitivity testing by flexing a number of the main financial assumptions in order to assess the impact of principal risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
Approval of the Strategic report Pages 1 to 26 of the Annual Report form the Strategic report.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 13 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Jonathan Burke Company Secretary 13 March 2018 26
