STRATEGIC REPORT ASSESSING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS RISK MANAGEMENT AND obligations in our supply chain.
Our Policy RISK ASSESSMENT INTERNAL CONTROL Book includes required practices in many We use a three lines of defence model The success of our strategic objectives operational, tax, legal andhuman inrelation to risk management: discussed in this report depends to a resourceareas.
significant extent on understanding and COMPANY REVIEWS responding to the risks we face.
The Board, Breaches of our Code are investigated by 1.
Each company undertakes monthly and assisted by the Audit Committee, has overall ourlegal and business integrity teams and quarterly procedures and day-to-day responsibility for the system of our internal external advisors where appropriate.
management activities to review their control and risk management.
It has operations and business risks, supported reviewed the design and effectiveness of We relaunched our independently by our policies, training and guidance on thesystem during the year and up to the operatedhelpline, Right to Speak, in 2018. required internal controls over financial date of this report and carried out a robust Weencourage a culture of transparency and reporting and monitoring controls and assessment of the principal risks we face.
integrity and part of this culture is making reviews within their network.
The system of controls described below is sure our people and stakeholders have the designed to manage and mitigate, but may confidence to speak up and raise concerns EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REVIEWS not eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve ifthey experience or hear about behaviour 2.
The reviews are formally communicated to our strategic objectives and is not an which conflicts with the principles stated in executive management in monthly reports absolute assurance against material our Code.
In 2018 we saw an increase in the and quarterly review meetings and, in turn, misstatement orloss.
number of issues raised to us through Right to the Board.
At each Board meeting, the to Speak.
There were 200 reports 2017: 106, management team presents a business CONTROL, CULTURE AND all of which have been followed through, review of each of the operations, including ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION investigated and disciplinary action taken an assessment of the risks in each The quality and competence of our people, where appropriate, and the details reported business, and details of any change in the their integrity, ethics and behaviour and the to the Audit Committee.
risk profile since the last Board meeting.
culture embedded within our businesses The business review includes the areall vital to the maintenance of our The Compensation Committee continues to possibility of winning or losing major systemof internal control which is review how the Groups performance business: succession and the addition maintained and reviewed in accordance rewards support the risk management and orloss of a key employee: regulatory withthe UK Corporate Governance Code internal control systems.
changes: sustainability, including risks and FRC guidance on risk management relating to marketing ethics, privacy, andinternalcontrol.
CONTROL ACTIVITIES diversity and employment: political ANDMONITORING instability: and changes in accounting Our Code of Business Conduct, which is Our policies and procedures are set out and orcorporate governance practice.
regularly reviewed by the Board, sets out the communicated in our Policy Book, internal principal obligations of all of our people.
Our control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
INTERNAL AUDIT AND AUDIT senior managers are required to sign our The application of these policies and COMMITTEEOVERSIGHT Code each year and all employees are procedures is monitored within each 3.
The internal audit function, with Audit required on joining, and at regular intervals, company and by the internal audit, legal Committee oversight and external to complete the How We Behave, Antiandcompliance functions.
resource as required, provides an Bribery & Corruption and Privacy & Data independent review of risk management Security Awareness training courses, which Our companies must maintain and update and internal control via internal audits embed all of the principles of the Code in documentation of their internal controls and andmanagement of the testing addition to individual training programmes.
This documentation incorporates programme for SOX.
Our Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy an analysis of business risks, detailed control prohibits any form of bribery across the activities and monitoring, together with IT Group and is supported by the Advisor andfinancial controls and controls over Payment Policy which restricts the use of security of data and the provision of timely advisors and details the due diligence that and reliable information to management.
must be undertaken in the limited cases where advisors may be used.
Our gifts and The internal audit function was responsible entertainment policy sets limits on values for reviews and testing of the documentation that may be given or received, supported in and the relevant controls for a majority of the each company by a gift register.
Our Code businesses during 2018 and the results ofConduct for suppliers replicates these reported to the Audit Committee.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RISK STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORTING At each year-end, all companies supply their PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Each company annually updates a three-year full-year financial results.
This information is The Board has carried out a robust strategic plan, which incorporates financial consolidated to allow the Group to present assessment of the principal risks and objectives.
These are reviewed by executive the necessary disclosures for International uncertainties affecting the Group and management and are agreed with the Chief Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as themarkets we operate in and strategic Executive of the relevant company.
adopted by the European Union and issued decisions taken by the Board as at by the IASB.
31December 2018 and up to the date We operate a rigorous procedure for the ofthisreport and which are described development of company budgets, which The Disclosure Committee gives further inthetable on the following pages.
build up the Groups budget.
During the final assurance that publicly-released information quarter of each financial year, operating is free from material omission or A risk dashboard and map are discussed companies prepare detailed budgets for the misstatement.
regularly by the Audit Committee and following year for our review.
The Groups bi-annually by the Board.
budget is reviewed by the Board before RISK REVIEW AND RISK APPETITE being adopted formally.
Company results are The Audit Committee instigated a review reported monthly and are reviewed locally, ofrisk management in 2018 to evolve our regionally and globally by the business enterprise risk management process.
groups and by Group management on a RiskCommittees are being established at consolidated basis and ultimately by the network level during 2019, the first of Board.
The results are compared to budget whichhas been formed at GroupM, and and the previous year, with full-year forecasts riskassessments conducted with the aim prepared and updated quarterly throughout ofensuring accountability at network level the year.
Risk appetite statements, drivers and tolerances will be finalised with the Audit Committee during 2019 and new technology implemented for monitoring and tracking risks.
VIABILITY STATEMENT RISK ASSESSMENT VIABILITY STATEMENT This period has been chosen as it aligns with our ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS The Directors assessment of the Groups viability three-year transformation programme and An understanding of the Groups business model for the next three years has been made with strategic plan and budgets.
Sensitivity analysis has and strategy is key to understanding its prospects reference to: been applied to reflect the potential impact of and this has been discussed in detail from page 40. the Groups current position and prospects: oneor a combination of the principal risks on the the transformation programme detailed in Group and consequential contract breach, loss of The Groups business model, transformation thisreport: reputation, client loss and inability to win new programme and diversification across marketing the short-term notice periods or assignment business and the impact of revenue loss.
communication services sectors which operate nature of many of the client contracts: in112 countries worldwide and with a broad the volatility of global economic conditions and GOING CONCERN spectrum of clients and suppliers, provide uncertainty for our clients and people created The Directors are required to consider whether resilience which is relevant to any consideration byBrexit: itisappropriate to prepare the financial statements ofprospects and viability.
the changing competitive landscape: on the basis that the Company and the Group are the long-term impact of technological going concerns.
As part of its normal business The Directors assess the Groups prospects on disruption: practice, the Group prepares annual and aregular basis through the financial reporting and the need for simplification of the Group longer-term plans and in reviewing this information planning process which is detailed above, the structure and integrated service offering to and, in particular, the three-year plan and business reviews which take place at each Board clients: and budget, the Directors believe that the Company meeting, quarterly reviews of our businesses by the Companys ability to achieve the stated and the Group have adequate resources for the the executive team and ongoing reviews of the dividend policy and cover interest payments foreseeable future.
Therefore, the Company and Groups profitability, cash flows and funding onthe Groups debt.
the Group continue to adopt the going concern requirements.
The Board considers the longer-term basis inpreparing the financial statements.
risks and opportunities for the Group discussed in the strategic report and the potential impact of economic volatility, competition for talent and competition from consulting firms, technological disruption and regulation.
79 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK HOW IT IS MANAGED AND REFLECTED PRINCIPAL RISKS POTENTIAL IMPACT IN OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CLIENTS We compete for clients in a highly-competitive The competitive landscape in our industry is Three-year transformation plan commenced in and evolving industry which is undergoing constantly evolving and the role of traditional December 2018.
Emphasis on providing faster, structural change.
Client loss to competitors or agencies is being challenged.
Competitors more agile and more effectively integrated asa consequence of client consolidation or a include multinational advertising and marketing solutions for our clients.
reduction in marketing budgets due to economic communication groups, regional and national conditions or a shift in client spending may have marketing services companies, database Continue to simplify our organisational amaterial adverse effect on our market share, marketing information and measurement, social structuresuch as the creation of VMLY&R and business, revenues, results of operations, media and professional services and consultants Wunderman Thompson and the disposal of financialcondition or prospects.
Client contracts can generally be terminated on Launch of further Campus co-locations.
90 days notice or are on an assignment basis and Embedding data and technology more deeply clients put their business up for competitive into our offer to clients.
The ability to attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount CEO focus on the importance of a positive and of work from existing clients may be impacted if inclusive culture across our business to attract we fail to react quickly enough to changes in the and retain talent and clients.
market and to evolve our structure and by loss of reputation and may be limited by clients policies Continuous improvement of our creative on conflicts of interest.
capability and reputation of our businesses.
The global economy continues to be volatile with The development and implementation of senior uncertainties such as those caused by Brexit in incentives to align more closely with our strategy the UK and Europe and technological disruption and performance.
In the past clients have responded to weak economic and financial Business review at every Board meeting to conditions by reducing or shifting their marketing identify the potential risk of client loss.
budgets which are easier to reduce in the short term than their other operating expenses.
The risk Formation of new central team with key of client loss or reduction in marketing budgets appointments including Chief Client Officer, Chief has increased.
Technology Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
We receive a significant portion of our revenues A relatively small number of clients contribute a Increase flexibility in the cost structure including from a limited number of large clients and the significant percentage of our consolidated incentives, consultants and freelancers.
netloss of one or more of these clients could revenues.
Our 10 largest clients accounted for have a material adverse effect on our 14.4% of revenues in the year ended 31 December Business review at every Board meeting and prospects, business, financial condition 2018.
Clients can reduce their marketing spend, regular engagement at executive level with and results of operations.
terminate contracts, or cancel projects on short ourclients.
The loss of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by new accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our financial condition.
KEY Increased risk No change from last year Reduced risk New risk in 2018 80 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RISK STRATEGIC REPORT HOW IT IS MANAGED AND REFLECTED PRINCIPAL RISKS POTENTIAL IMPACT IN OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CYBER AND DATA SECURITY We are subject to strict data protection and We may be subject to investigative or We develop principles on privacy and data privacy legislation in the jurisdictions in which we enforcement action or legal claims or incur fines, protection and compliance with local laws.
operate and rely extensively on information damages, or costs and client loss if we fail to Weimplemented extensive training ahead of technology systems.
We store, transmit and rely adequately protect data or observe privacy GDPR implementation in 2018 and the roll out on critical and sensitive data such as strategic legislation in every instance.
A system breakdown ofaGDPR toolkit to assist our people to prepare plans, personally identifiable information and trade or intrusion could have a material adverse effect for implementation and will do the same as new secrets.
Security of this type of data is exposed to on our business, revenues, results of operations, legislation is adopted in other markets.
escalating external threats that are increasing in financial condition or prospects.
sophistication, as well as internal data breaches.
A Chief Privacy Officer and Data Protection Officer have been appointed at the Company and Existing and new data protection laws, GDPR and DataProtection Officers are in place at a number e-privacy regulation in the EU concerning user of our companies.
privacy, use of personal information, consent and online tracking may restrict some of our activities Our people must take Privacy & Data Security and increase costs.
Awareness training and understand the WPP Data Code of Conduct and WPP policies on data We are part way through an IT transformation privacy and security.
project and rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our The Data Health Checker survey is performed worldwide information technology and annually to understand the scale and breadth of operations functions.
A failure to provide these data we collect so the level of risk associated with functions could have an adverse effect on our this can be assessed.
During the transformation, we are still reliant on legacy systems which could restrict our The IT transformation project will enhance our ability to change rapidly.
In addition, we have established aglobal internal IT company responsible for providing core IT shared services to our companies and manage externaltechnology providers.
FINANCIAL We are subject to credit risk through the default We are generally paid in arrears for our Evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing of a client or other counterparty.
Invoices are typically payable within creditworthiness and in some cases requiring 30to 60 days.
credit insurance or payments in advance.
We commit to media and production purchases Our treasury position is a recurring agenda item on behalf of some of our clients as principal or for the Audit Committee and the Board.
agent depending on the client and market circumstances.
If a client is unable to pay sums We are cash generative and working capital due, media and production companies may look management remains a key focus for the Board.
to us to pay those amounts.
81 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK HOW IT IS MANAGED AND REFLECTED PRINCIPAL RISKS POTENTIAL IMPACT IN OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OPERATIONAL Our performance could be adversely Failure to ensure that trading activities are Transparency and contract compliance are impactedifwe failed to ensure adequate compliant with client obligations could adversely embedded through the networks and reinforced internalcontrol procedures are in place in impact client relationships and business volumes.
byaudits at a WPP and network level.
Regular monitoring of key performance indicatorsfor trading are undertaken to identify trends and issues.
An authorisation matrix on inventory trading is agreed with the Company and the Audit Committee.
We have commenced a three-year strategic plan A failure or delay in implementing the Board oversight of the implementation of the to return the business to growth by the end of transformation plan may have a material adverse transformation plan.
2021 which includes the merger of some effect on our market share and our business, operations, disposals and the simplification of revenues, results of operations, financial condition Formation of new central team with key our structure.
appointments including Chief Client Officer, Chief Technology Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
PEOPLE AND SUCCESSION Our performance could be adversely affected if We are highly dependent on the talent, creative Our incentive plans are structured to provide we do not react quickly enough to changes in our abilities and technical skills of our personnel as retention value, for example by paying part of market and fail to attract, develop and retain key well as their relationships with clients.
We are annual incentives in shares that vest two years after creative, commercial and management talent.
vulnerable to the loss of personnel to competitors grant date.
traditional and emerging and clients, leading to disruption to the business.
We are working across the businesses to embed collaboration and investing in training and development to retain and attract talented people.
The investment in co-located properties is increasing the co-operation across our companies and provides extremely attractive and motivating working environments.
Succession planning for the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and key executives of the Company is undertaken by the Board and Nomination and Governance Committee on a regular basis and a pool of potential internal and external candidates identified in emergency and planned scenarios.
Compensation Committee oversight for the Groups incentive plans and compensation.
KEY Increased risk No change from last year Reduced risk New risk in 2018 82 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RISK STRATEGIC REPORT HOW IT IS MANAGED AND REFLECTED PRINCIPAL RISKS POTENTIAL IMPACT IN OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES REGULATORY, SANCTIONS, ANTI-TRUST AND TAXATION We may be subject to regulations restricting our Changes in local or international tax rules, for We actively monitor any proposed regulatory or activities or effecting changes in taxation.
example prompted by the OECDs Base Erosion statutory changes and consult with government and Profit Shifting project a global initiative to agencies and regulatory bodies where possible on improve the fairness and integrity of tax systems, such proposed changes.
changes arising from the application of existing rules, or new challenges by tax or competition Annual briefings to the Audit Committee of authorities, for example, the European significant changes in tax laws and their application Commissions State Aid investigation into the UK and regular briefings to executive management.
CFC rules, may expose us to significant additional We engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain tax liabilities or impact the carrying value of our opinions on tax legislation and principles.
deferred tax assets, which would affect the future tax charge.
We are subject to strict anti-corruption, We operate in a number of markets where the Online and in-country ethics, anti-bribery, anti-bribery and anti-trust legislation and corruption risk has been identified as high by corruption and anti-trust training on a Group-wide enforcement in the countries in which we groups such as Transparency International.
Failure basis to raise awareness and seek compliance with operate.
to comply or to create a culture opposed to our Code of Conduct and the Anti-Bribery & corruption or failing to instil business practices Corruption Policy.
that prevent corruption could expose us to civil and criminal sanctions.
Extension of our business integrity internal function to ensure compliance with our codes and policies and remediation of any breaches of policy.
Relaunch of the Right to Speak confidential, independently operated helpline for our people and stakeholders to raise any potential breaches of our Code and policies, which are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee on a regularbasis.
Due diligence on acquisitions and on selecting and appointing suppliers and restrictions on the use of third-party consultants in connection with any client pitches.
The establishment during 2019 of Risk Committees across the networks to monitor risk and compliance at the network level and the enhancement of our business integrity function across our markets.
Gift and hospitality register and approvals process.
We are subject to the laws of the US, the EU and Failure to comply with these laws could expose us Online training to raise awareness and seek other jurisdictions that impose sanctions and to civil and criminal penalties including fines and compliance and updates to our companies regulate the supply of services to the imposition of economic sanctions against us onanynew sanctions.
and reputational damage and withdrawal of banking facilities which could materially impact Regular briefings to the Audit Committee and our results.
constant monitoring by the WPP legal team with assistance from external advisors of the sanctionsregimes.
