3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 04 Strategic report Chief Executives review 2016 was another strong year for 3i andbuilt on the success of our recent restructuring.
The Groups performance has been resilient in the face of challenging macro-economic conditions and volatile markets.
Another year of resilient financial performance We have continued to execute our Private Equity had an excellent year, generating a gross wellestablished strategy, making good investment return of 1,011 million, or 32% of opening value 2015: 719 million, 24%.
This reects strong performance progress against our key performance fromour larger investments, particularly Action, Basic-Fit indicators, with all three of our andScandlines.
Action, the leading non-food discounter in continental Europe, businesses building on the momentum had another outstanding year with a 36% increase in EBITDA and seen in previous years.
3i generated like-for-like sales growth of 7.6%.
Action continued its successful store roll-out programme, opening 141 net new stores in the year, an excellent total return on opening and at the end of 2015 had 655 stores in six countries with a total shareholders funds of 21.7% of 410 opened since our investment in 2011.
Actions international expansion has been a key driver of its success to date, with 2015: 19.9% and a NAV per share of Franceand Germany now the main markets for growth.
Inaddition, Action entered Austria and Luxembourg in 2015: 463 pence 31 March 2015: 396 pence.
earlyprogress isencouraging and provides further evidence that This years financial and operational Actions store concept travels well across borders.
To enhance Actions international growth plans, a third distribution centre performance, against a backdrop opened north of Paris in early 2016 and a fourth and fifth are planned for Toulouse and Mannheim respectively.
2016 promises ofvolatile market sentiment, to be another strong year for Action as it plans to open more demonstrates the depth of the stores than last year.
We acquired Actionin 2011 as a Benelux retailer but in 2015, Action opened more stores in France and Groups investment capabilities and Germany than in the Benelux and it hasnowbecome a truly pan-European retailer.
potential to generate attractive returns I joined the Board of Peer Holding BV, Actions parent company, for investors through the cycle.
last year in recognition of the importance of this investment to 3iand in order to foster closer links between the two groups.
Scandlines, a large ferry operator with two high frequency, large capacity routes between Germany and Denmark, continues to perform well due to strong volume growth and a shift in mix towards higher margin booking classes.
The Danish Transport Ministry has confirmed that the opening date of a competing tunnel, the Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link, on Scandlines key route between Rdby and Puttgarden will be delayed further, which isan important development for Scandlines.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 05 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Positive momentum continues at Basic-Fit, the leading discount Action completed a 1.2 billion senior debt renancing, despite tness operator in continental Europe, with very good earnings deteriorating conditions in the debt markets, in February 2016. growth and ongoing capital investment to upgrade its existing Actions performance and strong cash generation meant it had gym portfolio and open new units.
Basic-Fit is now Europes been able to fide-lever rapidly since its prior renancing in 2015. largest discount gym chain and had 351 gyms and 1.1 million Such is the strength of the Action proposition that we have already members at 31 March 2016.
It is another pan-European business, returned a 3.5x euro cash multiple on our original investment growing strongly in France and Spain, having established market without reducing our equity ownership.
This transaction leadership in the Netherlands and Belgium.
On 17 May 2016, contributed 168 million to the 185 million ofrealisations Basic-Fit announced its intention to launch an Initial Public receivedfrom renancings this year.
Offering and Listing on Euronext Amsterdam.
We closed the year with a strong realisation pipeline and post year The wider portfolio continues to perform well, notwithstanding end we announced the disposal of Amor, the market leader for the slowing macro-economic conditions, with encouraging medium price jewellery in Germany, for estimated proceeds of performance from some of our newer investments.
Our decision 89 million and 2.5x original euro cost 2.3x in sterling as well as in 2012 to focus our Private Equity resources on core sectors Mayborn, owner of the Tommee Tippee baby products brand, andgeographies has limited the negative impact from broader for 135 million 3.5x.
Our monthly portfolio We have maintained the investment momentum seen in FY2015.
monitoring means that potential issues are highlighted early and In a competitive market, our pricing discipline is paramount but any remedial actions put in place promptly.
However, we cannot we were nevertheless able to secure three interesting new be immune to issues in the markets in which we operate.
In investment opportunities through careful and well managed particular, the impact of the lower oil price on the wider energy processes.
Weinvested 406 million of which 365 million was and industrial sectors has impacted our investments in JMJ and 3i Group proprietary capital in Weener Plastic Packaging Group Dynatect.
Reduced capital expenditure by oil and gas companies Weener Plastic, Euro-Diesel and Audley Travel as well as a has continued to affect JMJ, which provides consultancy services further investment in ATESTEO formerly known as GIF through to the sector.
It has also had a negative effect on Dynatect, the buyout of the founding familys remaining interest.
Further a specialist provider of protection equipment.
Dynatect has a details on the new investments can be found on pages 18 and 19. number of large customers which supply the capital goods sector, including oil and gas, in the US and suffered from reduced orders The number of portfolio companies in Private Equity was 47 in 2015.
Foreign exchange volatility has also hindered trading for unquoted assets and five quoted stakes at 31 March 2016 anumber of our companies and the decline in Russian consumer 31 March 2015: 61 unquoted assets and four quoted stakes spending has had a negative impact on trading at our lingerie andwe remain on target to meet our medium-term objective retailer, Agent Provocateur.
However, the portfolio is performing ofholding 3040 Private Equity assets.
well overall, with only a small minority of our investments seeing Finally, we reached an important milestone at 31 March 2016 with earnings decline in 2015.
Value weighted earnings increased by the accounting recognition of carry receivable for Eurofund V. 17% 2015: 19% over theyear.
Thisis an excellent achievement as the fund performance has The ow of realisations has continued and Private Equity realised recovered from a low point of 0.6x in 2009 to 1.7x at 31 March 2016. total proceeds of 743 million 2015: 831 million.
A supportive The Infrastructure team built on FY2015s excellent performance market for realisations in the first half of our financial year meant and its core portfolio of European economic infrastructure assets that we continued to make good progress in reshaping our continues to perform well and underpins good levels of income portfolio.
In total we disposed of 11 smaller or older assets in for the Group.
The business generated cash income of 49 million theyear which freed up investment executive time to focus on 2015: 47 million through its fund advisory and management origination and managing and ultimately maximising value in activities and dividend income from 3i Infrastructure plc 3iN.
The good portfolio performance also resulted in a NAV based As we noted at the half-year, we have reached a point in the performance fee for 3i of 20 million 2015: 45 million.
In evolution of the portfolio where more of our realisations will addition, 3i received a special dividend of 51 million 2015: nil come from our stronger assets.
Despite a more challenging from 3iN following its sale of Eversholt Rail.
macro-economic environment for realisations in the second half of FY2016, we sold Element Materials Technology Element, one of our largest and highest growth investments.
Under 3is ownership, Element completed and successfully integrated 10 acquisitions which also delivered an increase in EBITDA margin from 16% to 26%.
As a result, revenue nearly trebled to c. US$290 million and EBITDA quadrupled to US$80 million.
Total cash proceeds to 3i on the sale were 188 million with amoney multiple of 3.9x 4.5x in euro.
In total, cash returns were217 million, including the renancing completed in 2014.
This was an excellent result and all credit to the management team at Element as well as our own Private Equity team.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 06 Strategic report Chief Executives review Against a backdrop of intense competition for infrastructure Fragile market conditions create challenges assets, and particularly for large core economic infrastructure and opportunities assets, the team advised 3iN on a revised return target, Throughout FY2016, we operated through periods of significant announced in May 2015, and changed their investment focus economic, financial and geo-political volatility driven by concerns towards mid-market economic infrastructure businesses and about Chinese growth and the significant falls in oil and primary PPP and low-risk energy projects, which offer more commodity prices.
Although the triggering events may change, attractive risk-adjusted returns.
The new leadership team has we expect this volatility to continue to be a feature throughout made a number of senior hires, including a new origination FY2017 and beyond.
This uncertainty is reducing M&A volumes partner, to support the strategic development and momentum and creates volatility in thin equity markets.
The change in focus and high level recruitment the private equity sector raised over $500 billion of new funds, has led to a material increase in origination activity.
Infrastructure increasing uninvested capital, or dry powder, to a record level announced the completion of four new investments two further of $1.3 trillion in 2015 source: Bain & Company Inc.. terminals alongside Oiltanking, ESVAGT, the West of Duddon Sands Offshore Transmission Owner and a French PPP investment In our Private Equity business, our systematic approach to in Condorcet Campus totalling 193 million in the year.
3iN also planning for realisations allows us to be well prepared to maximise announced a 75 million investment in Wireless Infrastructure value in competitive processes and through the IPO market when Group and a c. 154 million investment in TCR, Europes largest conditions allow.
The same factors drive our emphasis on the independent asset owner of airport ground support equipment, need to remain selective in making new investments.
Our strategy in April 2016. of maintaining long-standing geographic teams with strong local relationships means we can often originate investments outside The success of the new investment strategy led to 3iNs competitive processes and differentiate ourselves with announcement on 12 May 2016 of its intention to raise new management teams.
equity of up to 350 million to fund new investments and its future pipeline.
We have indicated our intention to support the As we do not have the pressure of a future third-party fund transaction, and maintain our 34% interest in 3iN.
mandate and timeline, we can step away from aggressive processes but act with exibility and speed using our proprietary The Debt Management business had a successful year of fund capital when suitable opportunities that meet our strict raising in Europe and the US and AUM increased to 8.1 billion investment criteria arise.
For example, in December 2015, we were 31 March 2015: 7.2 billion.
We closed four CLOs in the year, able to move rapidly to secure the acquisition of Audley Travel raising AUM of 1.3 billion 2015: 2.2 billion of CLO AUM before by using the Groups strong balance sheet to underwrite the negative investor sentiment around oil and gas, commodities and debt as well as provide the equity for thisfast growing business.
utilities effectively closed the US CLO market between January After securing the acquisition, werenanced the debt facilities and March 2016.
The European market, which generally has less with a consortium of banks inJanuary 2016. exposure to these sectors, was impacted to a lesser degree, although it was effectively also closed for part of calendar Q1 Finally, our monthly portfolio monitoring process allows us to 2016.
This market volatility has reduced the mark to market react promptly and decisively to indications that the wider market valuation of our CLO portfolio but, as long-term holders ofCLO uncertainty is having a more direct effect on individual investment equity, our returns are ultimately driven by the cash ows, rather strategies, as it is bound to do given current weak growth in than short-term unrealised fair value movements.
This does not mean we can be completely immune to the markets in which we operate, but it The team continued to make important progress in diversifying substantially reduces the risk of material and realised losses that the business and launched an open-ended senior debt fund, were a feature of 3is past.
the Global Income Fund, with US$75 million of seed money from 3i.
Both the Global Income Fund and the US Senior Loan Our Infrastructure team has responded to the low yield Fund outperformed their benchmarks in the year.
In total, environment by resetting its investment strategy away from the Debt Management contributed 38 million of fee income larger infrastructure assets and projects, which are attracting 2015: 34 million to the Group during the year.
investors with lower return expectations.
This has created a muchmore active pipeline of investment opportunities.
One of the key components of our improved financial DebtManagement maintains an active trading approach to the performance and resilience since 2012 has been a disciplined underlying credit investments in its funds to minimise the risk of control over operating expenses.
Although we have recruited defaults.
This, in turn, reinforces its successful credit management selectively within our Private Equity and Infrastructure teams to track record to support future fund raising.
support origination and business development activity, costs remain tightly controlled at 1% of AUM 2015: 1%.
Cash income increased by 8% to 171 million 2015: 158 million due to fee income and distributions from our three businesses.
As a result, operating cash profit increased to 37 million 2015: 28 million.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 07 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Cash generation and usage Average over FY10FY12 Year to 31 March 2016 1,031m 967m 27% 13% 6% 20% 41% 61% 3% 29% Realisations Operating costs, Debt Shareholder Funds to Realisations Operating costs, Debt Shareholder Funds to Fees and net carried repayment distributions invest Fees and net carried repayment distributions invest portfolio interest and interest portfolio interest and interest income and tax costs income and tax costs We ended the year with a healthy cash position, out of which we Well positioned to deliver good returns will repay the 2017 331 million bond 2016: 262 million which to shareholders matures on 17 March 2017.
As we announced separately today, We are navigating these challenging market conditions with we intend to buy back the bond early to the extent there is aconservative and well-funded balance sheet.
Our capital investor appetite to do so.
We also intend to support 3iNs allocation approach is unchanged since we announced our equity fund raising.
strategy in 2012 and the progress we have made in how we In recognition of this years strong performance, we have useour cash can be seen in the charts above.
announced an increased total dividend for FY2016 of 22 pence The majority of our proprietary capital 83% is invested in Private per share 2015: 20 pence per share and our strong balance Equity.
Our planned rate of new investment in Private Equity sheetand capital allocation approach underpins the enhancement remains 500750 million in four to seven investments per of our dividend policy going forward as set out in the annum.
After allowing for this, we expect to remain a significant Chairmansstatement.
net divestor throughout the next five years, through a combination of re-shaping the portfolio and, more fundamentally, achieving our objective of generating at least a 2x money multiple on newinvestments.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 08 Strategic report Chief Executives review Outlook Our restructuring and simplied strategy has re-established 3i as a more resilient business both commercially and nancially.
This clear and consistent approach with its emphasis on active asset management, cash generation and cost control has demonstrated its value over the last 12 months as macroeconomic pressures and volatile debt and equity markets dampened market sentiment and challenged individual businesses.
As an investment company, we also face the continual increase in financial and governance regulation which is often not appropriate for our specic circumstances and which inevitably leads to further cost and complexity for the Group.
We enter our new financial year with those challenging conditions still in place, but we remain confident that we can deliver another resilient performance.
We must maintain our price and cost discipline and use the sector and geographic capabilities within our investment platforms to produce consistently strong returns for our shareholders and investment partners.
This approach, along with our strong balance sheet and a proprietorial focus, gives us a fundamental competitive advantage in mid-market private equity and infrastructure investment and underpins our confidence in producing attractive financial returns.
The mid-market is limited in the scale of opportunity within it but the breadth of our international platform and the long-term nature ofour proprietary capital make 3i an attractive partner for management teams compared to many of our fund-nanced competitors.
This was an excellent year for the Group and I would like to thank the 3i team for their good work and rigour.
Our disciplined approach, capable investment and management teams and strong balance sheet underpin our objective of delivering mid tohigh-teens returns to shareholders, accompanied by attractive cash distributions.
Simon Borrows Chief Executive 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 09 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Action highlights Since its establishment in 1993, Benelux-based Action has grown into the leading European non-food discount retailer with more than 650 stores in six countries and over 29,000 employees.
This compares to 245 stores across the Benelux and Germany and more than 7,000 employees when 3i and Funds invested in the business in June 2011.
EBITDA has almost tripled from77 million in 2010 to 226 million in 2015.
The business now generatesrevenues of c. 2.0 billion per annum, up from 600 million.
The majority of sales are now outside Actions home country.
Actions business model differs from that of more traditional retailers because only a third of articles are part of its standard range.
Large-scale procurement, optimal distribution and a cost-conscious corporate culture ensure very low prices.
Action was voted European Retailer of the Year for the second consecutive year in 2015.
