Strategic Report: Chief Executives Statement What a great performance Admirals success has always been about embracing change when thats in the interest of our customers and shareholders David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer Very few people can claim to have contributed I disagree.
The highlights as much to Admirals success as Alastair Lyons.
I say that not because the ideas emerging arent So itd be wrong to start my first Chief Executive interesting, far from it.
Nor because many of the report with anything other than a tribute to his Insurtech pioneers arent very bright and creative contribution over the last 16 years.
The Board and its great to see that creativity focussed collectively, Admirals senior managers, and Henry on insurance.
and myself in particular, have benefitted from his I disagree for two reasons.
wisdom, experience and thoughtfulness, and during our occasional moments of crisis, his composure.
The first reason is that many of the ideas wont work in practice.
Many, while technologically 13% Perhaps most importantly, notwithstanding an feasible, even impressive, involve an underapparently conservative profile as a Chartered UK Motor appreciation of the complexity of insurance: the Accountant and financial services veteran, Alastair importance, for example, of avoiding customers market share has consistently been an encouraging supporter of you really dont want to insure or the challenge Admirals distinctiveness rather than an advocate of engaging policyholders in a deeper interaction of the apparently safe option of convergence to with their insurance when, in truth, most of our industry norms.
Insurtech startIn his statement, Alastair has laid out the ups promising on-again, off-again, item by item transformation, in scale and breadth, of Admiral insurance are offering a consumer benefit that over the 16 years of his stewardship.
He describes most of our customers wouldnt recognise as such.
how 2016 has been another year of substantial The second reason is that Admiral already, in many growth both in our core UK car insurance business 3rd year important respects, is Insurtech.
The two most and across the Group as a whole.
fundamental Insurtech sectors: fundamental in of ConTe profits Rather than re-visit 2016 myself and to duck terms of their ability to transform the competitive the challenge of trying to find a pithy culinary landscape and substantially re-distribute market metaphor to describe the year see previous Chief share, are auto-comparison and telematics.
Executive Statements, Ill look forward and answer On auto-comparison we are leading players with a question some shareholders may be asking.
established businesses in the UK, Spain and France Namely: Should I sell Admiral and buy Insurtech?
and a pioneering, potentially transformational US For those of you with limited time, or for whom the price comparison business in compare.
And suspense is too much, the short answer, in my view, as for telematics, we sell telematics-based car is no.
Read on for a longer answer.
insurance in three countries and in the UK we are, by some margin, the largest player in the market with Insurtech is generating lots of excitement.
Beyond those sectors, 50% investment bankers, who historically would have our ever-evolving range of products Airbnb home arrived with fat packs on attractive big ticket growth in insurance, Admiral short-term cover, insurance acquisitions, now also include charts showing UK Household cover for the peer to peer car sharing sites show the explosive growth in Insurtech, along with a customers were not neglecting the interesting, if at this point busy Insurtech landscape page, packed with more marginal, emerging opportunities.
Admirals the colourful logos of whizzily named Insurtech success has always been about embracing change start-ups, bunched sometimes shoe-horned when thats in the interest of our customers and into helpful categories sharing economy, shareholders.
So stick with us and enjoy the best P2P, mobile insurance, telematics, auto of insurance, and Insurtech, all in one bundle.
A big brand consulting firm recently shared the results of a survey suggesting that insurance CEOs expect 17 new entrants to capture 30% of the insurance consecutive years market over the next five years.
Best Companies to David Stevens Work For Awards Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2017 16 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information My priorities My priorities for the forthcoming year are set out below.
I expect them to remain my priorities for a number of years to come.
Ensure Admiral remains one of, if not the, best car insurers in the UK Admiral has built its success on doing car insurance more effectively that its peers.
Maintaining our lead in cost efficiency, rigorous risk selection and effective claims management has required Admiral to keep evolving and innovating and we need to continue to do so in the future.
Demonstrate Admiral can be a great car insurer beyond the UK Our insurance operations beyond the UK are at different stages of development and relative competitive competence.
Mobilising, ideally, all the collective talents of the Group, to ensure most, or all, of these operations become sources of sustainable profitable growth is a priority.
Develop sources of growth and profits beyond car insurance Admirals first major diversification from car insurance was household insurance, launched three years ago in the UK.
I expect the second will be personal lending in the UK.
Both take us into huge markets and in both cases our car insurance heritage provides some of the necessary skills and assets to succeed.
Our priority will be to grow both, focussing on a long term objective of developing sources of competitive advantage, not short term top or bottomline objectives.
Ensure Admiral stays a great place to work I dont run Admiral purely for the benefit of shareholders.
Its important that those of us who work for Admiral are glad we do, most of the time.
Happily, whats good for staff is normally good for shareholders.
A key reason for Admirals success over the last 25 years has been the loyalty of talented staff to the company, and the collective sense of shared endeavour that has helped us do lots of things a little better than our competitors.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
