STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE HAVE DELIVERED A CREDITABLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN WHAT HAS ULTIMATELY BEEN A SUCCESSFUL BUT CHALLENGING YEAR FOR THE BUSINESS.
ROGER WHITE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 08 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUILDING AN EVEN STRONGER BUSINESS We have delivered a creditable financial performance MARKET PERFORMANCE in what has ultimately been a successful but challenging The UK soft drinks market has not yet appeared to year for the business.
benefit from the improvement in underlying consumer purchasing power.
Using data from our new data provider The markets we operate in have seen significant levels IRI IRI Marketplace data to 31 January 2016 we can see of change and volatility and the consumers in our core the impact of general price deflation, poor summer UK business have continued to develop their tastes, weather and retail competition feeding through into habits and preferences for products, shopping and the overall soft drinks category performance.
Although we recognised the changes in our marketplace some time ago, we have The market was down in value terms by 1.8% with volume accelerated our actions over the last 12 months to ensure flat.
Within this performance carbonates were down we are set to meet the challenges now and in the future.
c. 1.5% in both value and volume, and stills, although 09 slightly up in volume terms, were down 2.0% in value.
In the reporting period we maintained overall market share in UK soft drinks and total Group revenue was The growth driver in overall soft drinks was once again 258.6m 2015: 260.9m.
water, offset by significant value declines in fruit juice, Statutory profit before tax increased from 38.6m to dilutables, sports drinks and some areas of carbonates.
At a channel level, soft drinks performance was Adjusted profit before interest and tax increased influenced by deflation and poor weather, the latter by 7.0% from 39.8m to 42.6m.
having a marked impact on the impulse channel.
Operating margins advanced once again as we Previously much of the market growth has been maintained a tight control of our cost base.
delivered by the significant growth in carbonated energy, Business Process Redesign implemented however this subsector only grew by 1% in volume terms and stabilised.
and was flat in value in the period.
Further significant capital investment across our supply chain footprint.
The market has seen growth in brands which appeal to We also benefited from the inclusion of a strong profit consumers changing lifestyles and preferences sugar performance from the Funkin business in its first year free products, lower sugar brands and premium products, of our ownership.
such as those within mixers, have continued to outperform the overall category.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO PEOPLE 30% 8.8% 78% REVENUE GROWTH OF ALMOST 30% 8.8% REDUCTION IN AVERAGE 78% POSITIVE ENGAGEMENT SCORE ACROSS OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS CALORIFIC CONTENT OF COMPANY FROM OUR YOUR VOICE MATTERS OWNED BRANDS IN THE LAST EMPLOYEE SURVEY FOUR YEARS Our portfolio continues to develop to meet these market We have created a select and differentiated portfolio to challenges and opportunities.
We are well positioned to develop in our chosen international focus markets and benefit from the high levels of loyalty to our existing we expect to see continued growth in this area of the brands along with the opportunities to further drive the business.
During the period our international business distribution of our differentiated portfolio of increasingly grew revenue by almost 30% on last year and would relevant brands.
have grown by over 40% if measured on a constant currency basis.
Our push to develop outside the UK Our core brands have stood up well in the market core market is also allowing us to build stronger, more despite the difficulties of the weather and the challenges significant relationships with our chosen partners, related to our internal change agenda, which hampered Rockstar and Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
We expect to our performance during the summer period.
We are create increasingly significant growth opportunities in particularly pleased that we have been able to capitalise both our core UK market and in our selected international 10 on the growing cocktail consumption trend with our territories as we go forward.
successful and market leading Funkin product portfolio.
The development of our existing soft drinks portfolio STRATEGY UPDATE will continue to be a key area of our strategic focus.
The fundamentals of our strategy remain in place, having To ensure success in the UK market we are focusing our served us well in the creation of long-term shareholder marketing efforts on our lower and no sugar products value.
However, we continue to evolve and develop and are substantially reducing the sugar content of our specific areas of focus within our overall strategy.
In portfolio to reflect consumers changing preferences.
particular, we have prioritised the development of We have already made significant progress in this area, our portfolio into further consumption occasions, reducing the average calorific content of our Company as demonstrated by the development of the Funkin owned portfolio by 8.8% in 4 years, and we anticipate the business and brand.
Similarly, the realignment of our scale of this change to accelerate over the next year as portfolio to respond to changes in consumer attitudes we reduce our overall exposure to high sugar products and preferences will see a significant amount of our where appropriate.
We remain convinced that our effort and focus in the coming period.
decisive actions, and the progress we have made to date, demonstrate that we are playing an important part in addressing the complex and very important UK consumer health issues.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 WE ARE WELL PLACED TO CONTINUE OUR DELIVERY OF CONSISTENT LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE BASED ON OUR PROVEN SOLID BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS, OUR BALANCE SHEET STRENGTH AND CAPACITY AND OUR ABILITY TO FLEX AND DEVELOP OUR STRATEGY TO MAXIMISE OUR LONG-TERM GROWTH POTENTIAL.
Motivated and engaged employees are at the heart of We are well placed to continue our delivery of consistent our successful business and I am pleased to report that long-term shareholder value based on our proven solid employee engagement levels, as measured in our latest business fundamentals, our balance sheet strength and employee engagement survey, are steadfastly industry capacity and our ability to flex and develop our strategy leading.
Across the business, our functional and site to maximise our long-term growth potential.
teams have worked both effectively and safely across the last 12 months to ensure we continue to deliver for our customers.
SUMMARY The second half of the last financial year saw our sales and financial performance recover as we stabilised our 11 operating platform following a very significant level of ROGER WHITE investment and consequential change across the CHIEF EXECUTIVE summer of 2015.
I am confident that our investments in the business, not just in 2015 but over the last few years, Adjusting for discontinued business, income received in the prior year will benefit us greatly as we look forward and face the associated with the termination of the Orangina franchise and one-off market challenges over the coming years.
transaction fees incurred in the year ended January 2016.
Although the details of the Chancellors proposed soft drinks levy are still to be consulted upon, we believe our combination of brand strength, ongoing product reformulation and consumer driven innovation will allow us to minimise the financial impact on the business at the proposed point of implementation in April 2018.
Based on the Governments currently proposed metrics, should a levy be introduced, we expect at least two thirds of our portfolio will be lower or no sugar, and would therefore be levy free at that time.
For the balance of our portfolio, BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT which would attract a levy, we anticipate that brand loyalty and consumer preference will drive continued demand.
We will, of course, play an active role in the 12m consultation between the Government and the soft INVESTMENT IN BUSINESS PROCESS drinks industry on the proposed levy, and are fully REDESIGN PROJECT committed to working towards an outcome that benefits consumers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
