06 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OVERVIEW A personal perspective from our CEO The work underway across the business is beginning to take effect WATCH CHRIS VIDEO ONLINE: ir.
com investors  A REVIEW OF 2016 Market conditions have been challenging, with ongoing lower oil price and broader commodity weakness:lower emerging market growth: and no lessening of the competitive pressures in the market.
The repricing of legacy contracts in Mozambique early in the year and latterly There is no doubt that 2016 was in Argentina, placed further pressure on achallenging year.
Notwithstanding these, Iamcondent that we are taking Iwas pleased with the underlying the right actions to position this business, particularly our strong order intake of over 1GW and the growth we business for the future and I am saw insome of our markets, Russia being excited by the results that we are a good example.
We also made good beginning to see from our work progress on our strategic priorities of onour strategic priorities.
2016 There is more to do in 2017 but I am confident that this important work is ontrack and will better equip Aggreko togrow successfully, even in more difcultmarket conditions.
Jan Chris Weston Chief Executive officer In January I visited our North American business to better understand the impact of the low oil price on US shale operators and our performance in the Oil & Gas sector.
I met a number of customers throughout the week, across the sector, including in downstream Petrochemical and Rening.
Meeting our customers isalways an invaluable opportunity and hearing first hand the challenges they are facing also reinforced the importance of the changes we are making through our strategic priorities.
On a slightly different theme, I particularly enjoyed meeting the Aggreko team preparing for the Superbowl and seeing the impressive set up for that event.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 07 The safety, wellbeing and engagement of our people is one of Feb ourstrategic priorities SEE MORE HERE: www.
com I spent a few weeks on People are one of our strategic an extensive tour of our priorities and something that locations across Asia, visiting we have focused on throughout our businesses in China, the year.
The appointment of Japan, Korea and Singapore.
AnnaFilipopoulos, our new Weather caused travel problems Group HR Director, has bought but also provided a reminder an added professionalism and of the extreme conditions focus in this area.
that our equipment has to In South Korea, I met the operate in.
It is important organising committee for Iget around the business as thePyeongChang 2018 Winter much as possible to speak Olympics, the contract for with our employees directly.
which we signed in December Ensuring that our people are 2016.
Our Global Events team, safe in what they do, motivated supported by our local team in and engaged, isimportant to Seoul, put in a huge amount of me and a key factor in providing work to win this contract and theoutstanding service, quickly, I am delighted that they have all over the world.
Lee Hee-beo, President and CEO of the PyeongChang Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Aggrekos Robert Wells at the signing ceremony 2016 revenue in Apr Argentina 130m Following a number of weeks Our business in Brazil has had spent meeting investors after to cope with a difficult few our full year results, I travelled years in the face of a substantial to South America.
In Argentina, economic slowdown and political where we have a large contract upheaval, but our employees with the government-owned have continued to work tirelessly utility, I spent some time with for our customers.
In Rio, I visited the Secretary of Energy, our our depot and shared lunch ultimate customer, and also with our technicians, following with the British Ambassador.
which they took me to see the It was very apparent that the Olympic athletes food hall, for newgovernment is approaching which we were providing the the chronic power shortage in cooling.
The hall was huge, thecountry differently and that covering about three football this could present us with both pitches, and presented a complex challenge to cool it to acceptable arisk and an opportunity.
I am always impressed with the capability and work of our people, particularly when seen live on the ground, and the dedication and passion that they show.
08 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OVERVIEW A personal perspective from our CEO continued Russia 2016 Adjusted 1 May revenue growth of 28% Russia has been an area of strong growth over the last few years and 1 in 2016 revenue increased 28%.
In May, I visited the team there tocongratulate them on their results and better understand their growth plans for the future.
It is an interesting market, largely focused on the Oil & Gas sector, which has continued to grow strongly as customers move from owning to renting equipment, thereby protecting their balance sheets in a weak commodity environment.
Given the extreme temperatures, it can be a challenge for our customers to nd equipment that will operate reliably.
Our G3diesel and QSK60gas engines, the older, workhorses of our eet, perform very well in this harsh environment: the Russian business is taking these sets from around the Group as we start to introduce our Next Generation Gas engine to the wider market.
Gas installation at Taylakovskoye oil eld in Western Siberia HFO market Jun opportunity 2GW The launch of our medium speed Our diesel G3 engine is the Heavy Fuel Oil HFO engine, most fuel efficient on the and broader discussion of our market, so customers have technology agenda generated lessfuel to pay for: this can be a huge amount of interest, amaterial saving, many millions both internally and externally.
of pounds, particularly when Technology is one of our strategic they are generating electricity priorities.
Our aim is to provide continuously.
We launched our customers with the lowest our HFO engine in response to possible cost of power and market research and customer technology, fuel type and engine demand: HFO is more widely efficiency are key to achieving available than gas and cheaper this.
As the market has become than diesel, so for many of our more competitive, technology customers it is a more economic hasbecome a key differentiator way of generating power.
As such, and Aggreko is in a strong we think it will open up further position to take advantage.
Medium speed HFO leaving our Manufacturing facility in Dumbarton 1 Excludes the impact of currency.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 09 Some of our xed site generators in Argentina Aug August began on a negative efficiency is one of our note as one of our contracts strategicpriorities and clearly in Argentina extended at this repricing has substantially substantially lower prices than changed the economics of the we had achieved historically.
We have Our contracts in Argentina commenced a piece of work were signed prior to 2012 when to look at the cost base of the country had a signicantly the Power Solutions business higher risk prole and restrictive and how we could operate exchange controls.
the pricing was signicantly higher than current levels in the Power Solutions Utility market.
This introduced some uncertainty around the future of the other contracts in Argentina, which I am pleased we have gained more clarity on recently.
Our order intake for theyear is over 1GW Sep SEE MORE HERE: www.
com Aggreko employees on site The signing of a 40MW gas in Mozambique contract in Mozambique took our order intake for the year over 1GW.
I was delighted by this, particularly as the intake included a high percentage demand for our new diesel G3 engine, demonstrating the importance offuel efficiency to our customers.
10 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OVERVIEW A personal perspective from our CEO continued Oct Having seen further weakness in the North American business driven by the tough market conditions in Oil & Gas and Petrochemical & Rening, we commenced a further in depth review of the business, with particular focus on the existing and future opportunities in the shale basins.
As part of this review, we have impaired some of our specialised Oil & Gas equipment and recentlyannounced that we will take further steps to right size our business, including depot closures and some role removals.
It is important to support the North American team as they make these changes, and for me to talk with our people directly.
I visited the Houston ofce and our Gulf operations in Lake Charles, Baton Rouge and An oil facility powered by Aggreko New Orleans to speak with our in North America people and thank them for their hard work in a very tough market andto talk enthusiastically about Aggrekos future.
Nov The gathering of our Senior Earlier in the year we completed Leadership Team in Edinburgh a large project to understand provided the opportunity better what our customers to discuss current business expected from us.
This voice of performance, a number of the customer work has allowed strategic issues and plan our us to more meaningfully segment activities for the coming year.
customers and therefore We also worked together on understand their needs and the launch of our new purpose, expectations.
In November we values and behaviours.
Culture is launched our new CRM system an intangible, but important part in the UK.
The full deployment of our business, and our new ofthis system has begun and framework, Always Orange, will cover both ofce and eld embodies the passion, innovation, operations.
It will provide us with expertise and teamwork that we a clearer view of our customers, want to continue to develop and their preferences, the service which underpins the delivery they require and their history ofour strategy.
It will transform our sales process.
It will automate our eld operations and eet management.
When fully deployed it will make it easier forcustomers to do business withAggreko and it will give usapowerful online presence.
Our updated values framework, Always Orange Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 11 THE POWER TO drive major sporting events TODD FASANO PROJECT MANAGER, TEXAS Ive worked for Aggreko for years.
This was my fourth Ryder Cup and tenth event for the PGA.
It takes a year to plan an event like this and they are all unique.
For example, this RyderCup wassignicantly larger than the last, andthelocation meant we had to prepare for cooling duringtheday and heating at night.
