12 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Banking as it should be The key drivers of our performance in 2016 are rooted in our purpose.
Since the Bank was founded in 2009, we have sought to challenge the status quo and empower more people across Britain to seek and seize opportunities in their professional and personal lives by providing banking as it should be.
2016 was another great year for In doing so, we are addressing a market opportunity that is as real today as Aldermore, with more customers it was in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
In fact, as the market than ever choosing us to serve their has matured, companies and individuals have increasingly recognised that a needs and profitability at record highs.
different kind of banking experience is As we move forward on our journey, both possible and available.
As a specialist bank, we dont compete I am confident that we can continue to head on with the traditional banks in their main markets.
We go beyond build on this momentum, helping more their one-size fits all approach by employing specialist underwriters customers to seize opportunities.
to understand each individual, and by making sure we offer a service that works for them.
We operate in carefully selected segments where we have the necessary experience and expertise to deliver strong and sustainable risk-adjusted returns through responsible lending.
We benefit from a modern infrastructure and an efficient distribution model, using an approved network of specialist intermediaries and, increasingly, direct relationships with customers online or by telephone, without the need for a costly branch network.
A record year It is with great pride that we are reporting another record year for Aldermore, demonstrating continued Phillip Monks OBE, progress on the journey we described Chief Executive Officer at IPO.
I am particularly pleased that we were able to deliver such a strong performance despite the uncertainty presented by the UKs referendum on EU membership.
While the full political and economic implications of this 13 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices decision are as yet unknown, the UK creditworthy segments of the market, line with our guidance at IPO.
We expect economy has remained resilient to date, enabled us to grow lending by 7% to our CET1 capital ratio to continue rising and we continue to closely monitor our 1.5bn.
in the coming years, as we deliver operating environment for any change.
Loan growth continues to be primarily Throughout the year, the Group funded by our award-winning deposit Overall, the Group generated underlying has performed well and customer franchise.
The performance of our earnings per share of 26.4p and an confidence remained high.
We ended savings business is driven by our underlying return on equity of 18%, or the year with strong growth, a robust straightforward and transparent 20% prior to the impact of the 8% bank credit performance and a healthy proposition and our promise, that tax surcharge introduced in 2016. pipeline, giving us confidence that we savers get great returns effortlessly.
Strengthening the team are well positioned for further success.
Our dynamic online franchise enables The excellent progress seen in 2016 is customers to tailor products to their Continuing commitment the result of the experience and effort needs and our transparent approach that everyone at Aldermore puts into to UK businesses, means we dont use teaser rates.
supporting customers on a daily basis homeowners, landlords This approach drove an increase in and for this I extend gratitude to all my deposits of 16% to 6.7bn in 2016. and savers colleagues across the Group.
Business customers provide both Net loans to customers increased by c30% of this balance and a high level During the year I was delighted to 1.3bn, or 22% to 7.5bn at the end of of advocacy, with 97% of customers welcome three new members to the 2016, driven by record levels of organic surveyed saying they would Executive team.
This record performance recommend Aldermore to others.
joined us as Chief Risk Officer, Dana was seen across both Business Finance Cuffe joined as Chief Operating and Mortgages, where, respectively, Profit before tax up by over Officer and Rob Divall joined as the 1bn and 2bn of new customer loans a third Group HR Director.
All of my new were provided.
Reported profit before tax rose 36% Executive colleagues have tremendous In Business Finance, we focus in both to a record high of 129m, driven experience in their fields and it is a real the asset finance and invoice finance by continued benefits from our testament to the business and the markets.
In Asset Finance we have growing franchises, a healthy net progress we have made that we can leveraged our efficient broker-led interest margin of 3.5% and further continue to attract such high calibre distribution model to build a market improvement in operational leverage executives, who share our vision leading position in this channel.
with the cost to income ratio falling to and can help successfully drive us Our specialist underwriting advantage below 45%.
Our management of risk forward.
I also express my gratitude in transport, plant and machinery, and remains robust as demonstrated in a to our outgoing Executive team other areas of expertise, enabled us cost of risk of just 0.23%, and less than members Steve Barry, Vicki Harris, to grow net lending by 7% to 1.6bn 0.5% of our loans by value being classed Ali Humphries and Paul Myers for all during 2016. as non-performing.
that they contributed during their time Across our Mortgages franchise with Aldermore.
Enhanced balance sheet we grew lending by 24% to 5.7bn.
strength and strong Strategic priorities This was led by our broad customer shareholder returns As we seek to further enhance the offering in Buy-to-Let BTL which 2016 was also an important year in sustainability of returns, our strategic enabled us to grow BTL lending by further strengthening our balance priorities will continue to be delivering 38% to 3.3bn.
While our fully loaded CRD IV further growth, increasing efficiency Mortgages, where we have particular CET1 ratio reduced by 0.3% to 11.5% and maintaining our robust approach to expertise in underwriting multi-let over 2016, we reached the point of risk management.
investment properties, lending grew capital self-sufficiency in the second by 12% to 930m.
In our Residential half of the year when our ratio rose Mortgages business we are committed by 0.5%.
This increase was driven by to truly understanding our customers Read on for more on our strategic record levels of profitability and was in circumstances which, with our focus on priorities and progress in 2016.
14 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Our strategy supporting strong and sustainable returns Strategic objective Our progress in 2016 2016 was a record year for originations with over 3bn lent across Business Finance and Customer-driven: Mortgages.
Total customer numbers also reached an all-time high at over 220k, while our Helping more customers to seek customer advocacy continued to improve as NPS grew from 29 to 43 and seize opportunities We received further recognition for our service, products and expertise in 2016, winning awards across all of our franchises, including Leasing and Asset Finance Provider of the We will continue helping more customers across Year NACFB, Best Specialist Mortgage Lender Your Mortgage and Best Business Britain to seek and seize opportunities, whether Savings Provider Moneynet thats growing their business, buying their first home or securing a fair return on their savings.
Our market-leading breadth of offering in Buy-to-Let helped us support more landlords Our focus remains on serving diverse pools of than ever, as we grew customer numbers by 25% to c20k, originating over 1.2bn of customer demand and adjacent markets, where loans, despite the increased market complexity we can operate as an agile, service-focused specialist player in large markets, providing us with We continued to serve specialist segments of the residential mortgage market and multiple levers for growth.
invested in enhancing our propositions, including those for the self-employed and first time buyers We also invested in developing our retention strategy in Mortgages, providing greater choice and support for customers looking for their next product We generated greater operational leverage in the business, bringing the underlying cost Simply delivered: to income ratio below 45% Developing our scalable, As well as introducing new Executives we also bolstered the wider teams during 2016, effective and efficient strengthening expertise across the Group including, a new Head of Enterprise Risk, Chief operating model Information Officer and Chief Data Officer Aldermore benefits from modern, scalable We progressed a number of improvement initiatives over the year, including enhanced systems and an efficient online broker-led digital capability, process simplification, platform upgrades and a refresh of our brand and distribution model, as opposed to a costly branch customer segmentation network.
We continue to invest in key capabilities and technology, optimising our operating model to support the delivery of growth with enhanced levels of service, capability and efficiency.
Our credit quality remained well within our appetite as we incurred a cost of risk of 23bps Securely managed: and maintained non-performing loans below 0.5% of our portfolio Maintaining a diverse and We continue to originate in line with centrally controlled underwriting standards, including low-risk business model stress testing affordability, before going on to re-score the portfolio on a monthly basis As specialist underwriters, our ability to We made a number of enhancements to our credit risk models through our on-going understand our customers circumstances and work to become IFRS9 compliant ahead of the January 2018 implementation date the value of underlying assets is a source of competitive advantage.
Growth is supported and controlled by a consistent risk appetite and robust risk management framework, which drives our prudent approach across all areas of the Group.
15 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key performance indicators Outlook for 2017 and beyond Customer NPS Number of customers Loan origination bn As we deliver on the first priority of our strategy, we expect to grow our loan book 23 29 43 161k 195k 223k 2.4 2.6 3.2 by between 10% and 15% in 2017 with further growth thereafter and the portfolio mix remaining broadly stable.
The exact pace of growth will be dependent on our ability to grow within our prudent risk appetite, while 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 delivering strong and sustainable returns.
Definition Definition Definition We will also continue to invest in efficiency, A net measure of customer The number of customers The value of new loans we and enhanced operating leverage in order advocates and detractors.
selecting Aldermore for their have made to customers.
to deliver on our second strategic priority.
Performance Performance This, combined with our planned growth, Aldermore continues to Performance Loan growth continues is consistent with the cost to income ratio improve the NPS score Customer numbers across both Business Finance declining below 40% over the medium term.
enhancing the approach in continue to grow, as we help and Mortgages, driven by 2016.
more people to seek and organic origination.
In line with our third strategic priority, we will seize opportunities.
retain a prudent approach to risk across the Read more on page 36 bank over 2017 and beyond to support the sustainability of earnings Underlying cost income Employee engagement % Reported profit before tax m We are delighted with the Groups ratio % performance in 2016 and remain positive on 60 51 45 71 50.3 94.7 128.7 our outlook notwithstanding the economic uncertainty and potential changes to New for 2016 regulatory capital requirements.
The Board will therefore continue to consider the payment of 2014 2015 2016 2016 2014 2015 2016 dividends while taking into account the growth opportunities available, anticipated changes Definition Definition Definition in capital requirements, and once the Groups A measure of efficiency A measure of staff satisfaction Profit before tax PBT CET 1 ratio is above 12%.
1 calculated as underlying and engagement with gives an overall measure expenses as a proportion of their role, leadership and of the performance of the In conclusion net income.
Im delighted that our record performance Performance Performance Performance in 2016 continues to demonstrate delivery The cost income ratio continues Introduced in 2016 through our PBT has increased markedly against our business plan and targets to decline as we achieve Big Conversation read more on and is a record for Aldermore.
and I would like to thank our customers, greater operating leverage.
page 37. colleagues and shareholders for their continued support.
Cost of risk bps Non-performing loans % CET 1 ratio % We have clear strategic priorities to further 23 19 23 0.43 0.45 0.47 10.4 11.8 11.5 create and unlock value across the business, as we continue to serve and delight our customers and generate strong and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 The strategic report on pages 2 to 38 was approved by the Board and signed on its Definition Definition Definition behalf by: Impairment losses as a Non-performing loans NPL is The CET1 ratio represents the percentage of average defined as individually impaired core equity in the business as net loans over the period.
loans over total gross loans.
a proportion of risk-weighted An indicator of credit assets and is a measure of Performance risk performance.
NPL remained low reflecting Performance the positive environment for Performance Impairments remained low our customers and robust CET1 remains robust, with during 2016 reflecting robust approach to risk management.
growth in the second half credit management and of 2016. benign credit conditions.
Phillip Monks OBE, 1 Underlying expenses includes: administrative expense, including levies but excluding one-off IPO costs and Chief Executive Officer goodwill impairment expense.
