The Chairman and Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Officer Colin Day has acted as the boards Senior Independent Director The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
There is a clear and well-defined division since the retirement of Neil Carson on 31 December 2016.
Colin was selected for the role on account of his significant of accountability and responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and these are set out knowledge of Amec Foster Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director of international companies.
in writing and have been agreed by the board.
The consequence of this clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company Both the nominations committee and the board considered that Colin best met the criteria required for the role.
is such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are committed to The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: ensuring the development and maintenance of an effective X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding and trusting relationship with the appropriate balance board for the Chairman on board-related matters between challenge and support.
X acting as an additional channel of communication between The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and the Chairman and the other directors where necessary effectiveness of the board.
He is accountable for promoting effective board relationships and the participation of all X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness that have not been resolved through the normal channels and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other executive role.
The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board directors, or which are not appropriate to raise through discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company these channels for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and Wheelers business and conduct in accordance with the concerns of Amec Foster Wheelers shareholders through highest ethical standards.
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to companys major shareholders and financial analysts summarise the boards activities in executing its duties during X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive the year.
The plan highlights the priorities the board has directors as to the performance of the Chairman identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive Officer, and can be modified to take account of any unscheduled X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, developments.
In chairing and setting the agenda for board providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance meetings, the Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required discussion and meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, performance, value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved for the board, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheelers businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder value.
Consistent with this objective, overall operational management is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer who, together with the Executive Committee, is responsible for the proposal, development and implementation of the Groups overall strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers and developing our people.
The building and maintenance of an effective executive management team, and the allocation of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential to the performance of the Chief Executive Officers role.
The Chief Executive Officer also takes the lead role in the promotion of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the realisation of the Companys vision and values and encouraging the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental and ethical performance.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 53 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
