Chief Executive Officers statement 1 Jon Lewis Adjusted diluted EPS for 2016 Chief Executive Officer 50.4p Order book 5.8bn Amec Foster Wheeler has many strengths, including the quality of its people, its brand and reputation and the truly impressive core consulting and engineering it offers its customers.
However, when I joined last June, it was immediately apparent to me that significant change was required.
The Company needed to win more business, reduce its debt and cost base, and refresh its strategy.
Most importantly of all, we needed to generate sustainable free cash flow again.
We have seen material declines in natural resources markets over recent years and conditions in these markets remain challenging.
The oil and gas market is currently oversupplied and customers are curtailing their upstream capital investment, focusing on the most cost-effective resources.
Industry forecasts show upstream capex only growing moderately in 2017, with a strong outlook for onshore unconventional plays in the US and a weaker outlook for the rest of the world.
Estimates of 2017 capex in mining are equivalent to the spend in 2007.
In these conditions, doing nothing was not an option.
We therefore approached our task with a real sense of urgency, launching our Company-wide transformation programme in August 2016.
Strengthening the balance sheet The purpose of the transformation programme is to strengthen the balance sheet and put Amec Foster Wheeler on a sustainable growth trajectory.
Amec Foster Wheeler As part of the programme, we are continuing to dispose of has many strengths, our non-core assets.
The disposal of the major part of the GPG, including its brand the circulating fluidised bed boiler business, is now expected to close in June 2017.
We have completed the sale of a and reputation.
number of smaller assets and announced the disposal of our nuclear business.
We also have agreements to sell three infrastructure assets.
As the Chairman has outlined in his statement, we were close to launching a rights issue and had decided to suspend the dividend until we are generating sustainable free cash flow when the offer from John Wood Group was announced.
Offer from John Wood Group The proposed combination with John Wood Group means that a rights issue is no longer necessary and we expect our shareholders to benefit from John Wood Groups progressive dividend payments.
The combination with John Wood Group adds to the standalone prospects of the Company and will allow our shareholders to benefit from significant cost synergies.
1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 09 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Chief Executive Officers statement continued Adapting the business model and delivering excellence Delivering While we have faced tough markets, it is also clear that excellence is many of our other challenges can be rectified through the improvement of our practices and procedures in order to a key theme increase performance.
Delivering excellence is a key theme of our work.
We need to be consistent around the world and share of our work.
best practice across the business.
We also need to ensure there is accountability, discipline and operational control.
We must be more cost effective, so we never lose work on price alone.
This includes making greater use of our Indian engineering operations and sharing work between offices more effectively.
We also identified that we need to be more customer-centric, so that rather than going to customers with what we want to sell, we identify the value proposition and pitch for work based on what the customer is looking for.
Innovation and technology also have an important part to play, both in enhancing our offering to customers and improving our own efficiency and effectiveness.
The global business lines model holds the leadership The new organisational structure is an important step towards of each line accountable achieving these goals.
By focusing on our four markets, we for penetrating all their are much more aligned to our customers needs and better markets around the world.
positioned to ensure global consistency in delivering projects and solutions.
Business Development, which has been underinvested in the past, is now embedded in our business lines, locating it as close as possible to the customer.
Simplifying our business and moving away from the previous semi-autonomous geographical model will help us to share innovation and best practice around the Company.
For example, Notwithstanding current our highly effective More4Less value engineering approach market conditions, we see developed for the North Sea market gives customers a long-term growth potential real solution for reducing their capex and opex, sometimes in each of the four markets by as much as 40%.
However, we have not effectively we serve.
The global business lines model holds the leadership of each line accountable for penetrating all of their markets around the world.
Our new organisation is also considerably leaner, removing multiple levels of management and duplication of functions, so we are more competitive and better able to bid and win work.
We have removed around 650 overhead management roles which will leave us with no more than two layers between me and our projects.
The introduction of our new operating model is bringing more operational rigour to the business, with a single set of policies, procedures and systems.
The Company currently has numerous back office IT systems which add unnecessary complexity to our operations.
We are continuing to invest in our Human Resources planning software where the business case for this investment is compelling, as it will streamline our operations and drive best practice.
We have decided to put on hold our planned investment in new enterprise resource planning ERP software pending the completion of the offer from John Wood Group.
Investment in our functions is another key element of our new structure.
We have created four new technical functions which are common across our business lines Engineering & Technical, Supply Chain & Procurement, Construction & Commissioning and Project Management & Controls.
These functions are embedded in the business lines, Amec Foster Wheeler 10 Annual report and accounts 2016 so they can provide the right support and oversight in each People and culture market while driving consistent and predictable outcomes.
As a people-based business, attracting, developing and retaining Business functions such as Finance and HR also now have key talent is at the heart of everything we do.
We want Amec Foster a direct reporting line into the same functions at Company Wheeler to be known as the place to work, where we celebrate level.
The goal is to drive standardisation and common talent, innovation, success and diversity, and reward and provide policies and procedures, and ensure they are embraced career advancement based on contribution and performance.
I believe that businesses with engaged employees perform In creating our new structure, we have identified in excess better, so it is vitally important that we understand the views of 100m of cost that we can sustainably remove from our of our people.
In recent months, we have undertaken several overheads.
After investing in more efficient tools, processes surveys to ascertain their views, helping us to design our new and systems, this will result in a benefit of 100m to our bottom organisational model.
We expect a good proportion of these savings to Our plans for the Company can only succeed if we have the come through in 2017, with the full run rate achieved by 2019. right culture.
The People section on page 25 describes the Maximising opportunities culture we are instilling as a central part of our transformation Notwithstanding current market conditions, we see long-term programme, in conjunction with significant improvements growth potential in each of the four markets we serve.
We have to staff communications.
refreshed our business line strategies to focus on the areas with 2016 performance the greatest opportunity.
Given the conditions in natural resources end markets, our An important part of this will be expanding our role on projects, 2016 trading performance was robust, as we benefited from making it routine that we pull through more services than just the breadth of our diverse business especially the record the original contract scope.
We aim to increase our exposure to performance from solar, cost saving actions and the fall in opex and mature assets and have a globally balanced portfolio sterling in the second half of the year.
We delivered a trading 1 of contracts, with a mix of greenfield and opex.
Our ability to profit of 318m 2015: 374m on revenues of 5,440m differentiate ourselves through innovative solutions and sharing 2015: 5,455m, resulting in a trading margin of 5.8%.
This 1 best practice, whilst remaining cost competitive, will be key.
contributed to adjusted diluted earnings per share of 50.4p 2015: 67.7p.
Net debt increased from 946m to 1,021m Creating partnerships will also help us to share risk and enter at 31 December 2016.
More information on our financial new markets.
For example, we are talking to manufacturers of performance can be found in the Financial Review on specialist equipment with a view to providing a joint offering pages 34 to 45. that combines their technology with our capabilities in installation, operations and maintenance.
We continued to win a wide range of work across our markets.
Details of selected contract wins announced in the year and a The changes we are making to our short-term incentive plans breakdown of our year-end order book can be found on page 24. will reward the behaviours we need to deliver our transformation dependent on delivery of financial and non-financial metrics Outlook as well as individual targets.
We made a solid start to our transformation programme in the second half of 2016.
Building Responsibly The diversity and complexity of our projects across our markets 2017 will be a year when we embed these changes within and value chain means that we can encounter degrees of risk Amec Foster Wheeler.
Standard policies, procedures and relating to modern slavery.
In December 2016, we published systems across the Company will help us to better serve our our first Slavery and Human Traffic statement, as we have a customers.
In addition, we will continue with the non-core asset responsibility to ensure that our own employees, together disposal programme.
with the workers in our value chain, are not victims of slavery: We continue to expect another year of oil and gas decline in 2017 whether it is human trafficking or forced and bonded labour.
and for solar activity to reduce significantly from the record The publishing of our statement sets out the baseline from which levels seen in 2016.
It is also expected that there will be a better we can continue to drive awareness and implement a programme performance from environment and infrastructure and a further of continuous improvement to help tackle this issue.
significant contribution from standalone overhead cost savings.
Building upon our commitment to deliver projects and This year, we will continue to leverage the outstanding technical operations safely in the countries we operate in, I am proud that expertise of our people to best serve our customers and deliver Amec Foster Wheeler was one of the six founding companies projects safely across all the markets in which we operate.
within the engineering and construction sector for the Building This and the improvements we have made to the business will Responsibly initiative.
The initiative seeks to develop and share ensure we continue to make significant progress in 2017. best practice, as well as agree on common approaches and standards to respect rights and improve the welfare of workers within their operations.
We have included a key performance indicator on page 23 which recognises the importance of this issue for the Company.
Jon Lewis Chief Executive Officer 25 April 2017 1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 11 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Our success in servicing the solar energy market has grown steadily since we first entered the market in 2008.
In less than 10 years, we have designed and built nearly 30 solar energy facilities and installed over 1.63 gigawatts direct current GWdc of solar energy projects across North America.
Today, we are recognised as a leading solar power contractor in the US by Engineering News Record and one of the top tier solar engineering, procurement and construction companies in North America by Solar Power World.
Our employees installing solar panels on the Arizona Public Service solar project in Yuma, Arizona, US.
12 Connected through the excellence skills and expertise of our people 13 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
