STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT DECISIVE ACTIONS STRENGTHENED FOUNDATIONS OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Mark Cutifani I regularly state that creating a platform of operational excellence is fundamental to delivering the full potential from our asset base, independent of the markets external influences.
In fact, weaker or more volatile markets emphasise a greater need for operating discipline, to ensure that we are operating to deliver optimal cash flows while preserving the assets longer term integrity.
The actions we took across the business to The actions we have taken to improve the quality of our asset portfolio as a whole, and to lift operating performance drive free cash flow and further refine our at the asset level through the implementation of our Operating Model, is driving materially stronger results.
portfolio, despite still weaker prices, delivered Compared with 2012, we produced in aggregate in 2016, the significantly strengthened financial position 8% more physical product from one-third fewer assets required to create the foundations for the future.
and at a 31% lower unit cost, on a copper equivalent basis, together representing a 41% increase in productivity over that four year period.
This performance is the clearest The decisive and wide-ranging operational, cost, capital illustration of the fundamental changes we have made to and portfolio actions we set out in 2016 to sustainably the way we run the business and the progress we have improve cash flows and strengthen the balance sheet made to increase the quality of the portfolio.
In dollar have enabled us to reduce net debt by 34% to $8.5 billion, terms, we delivered $1.5 billion of cost and volume significantly below our $10 billion target.
improvements, net of such headwinds as the snowfall and strikes at Los Bronces and the smelter run-out in our While the prices for many of our products recovered during Platinum business.
the second half of 2016 including a particularly sharp increase for metallurgical coal in the fourth quarter the In 2017, we are aiming to deliver an incremental $1 billion average price for our basket of products for the year as a of net cost and volume improvements, 75% of which has whole remained marginally below that for the prior year, already been identified.
reminding us of the scale of the price decreases that the industry incurred during late 2015.
REFINING THE PORTFOLIO Against that backdrop, and with our continued sharp The transformation of our portfolio is well advanced, focus on operational costs and productivity, we delivered moving from 68 assets in 2013 to 42 at the end of 2016. a $3.5billion increase in attributable free cash flow, a 1 25% increase in underlying EBITDA to $6.1 billion and In 2016, we received $1.8 billion from disposal grew our underlying EBITDA margin by five percentage transactions, largely from the $1.5 billion sale of our niobium points to 26%.
Profit for the financial year attributable to and phosphates business in Brazil to China Molybdenum equity shareholders increased to $1.6 billion, compared Co. Ltd. which completed in September 2016. witha $5.6 billion loss in 2015.
Following a 20% increase During the year, we also completed the divestments of incopper equivalent productivity between 2012 and 2015, the Callide and Foxleigh coal mines in Australia, and our we delivered an additional 18% productivity increase 9.7% interest in Exxaro in South Africa: and in November, during2016.
following the receipt of all regulatory approvals, we The $1.5 billion sale of the niobium and phosphates completed the sale of our Rustenburg platinum operations business further supported our balance sheet recovery in South Africa to Sibanye.
goal and, combined with the sale of a number of coal and We will continue to refine our asset portfolio on an 1 platinum assets during the year, we received $1.8 billion ongoing basis in order to ensure that our capital is of disposal proceeds in 2016. deployed effectively to generate enhanced returns Keeping our people safe at work has always been an for our shareholders.
In 2016, we reported a 24% reduction in recordable case frequency rates, but an increase in fatal THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN incidents.
Tragically, we lost 11 colleagues during the year, largely due to failures around our critical safety risk areas.
Our business strategy is based on the quality of the assets in We can never accept even one serious injury and our efforts our portfolio and, in certain product areas, the aggregation 1 are concentrated around those major risk areas.
We are of those assets to create leading market positions.
The Proceeds from disposals of determined that our goal of zero harm is achievable and assets are further enhanced by the marketing, technical $1.8 billion were we are working with every employee to get there.
and other critical, value-adding core processes that are received in 2016. delivered by the Group.
Total nominal cash In terms of environmental performance, there is no inflows are expected doubt that improved work planning and a greater focus The high quality assets across our fide Beers, PGMs to reach $2.0 billion on risk assessment has delivered a further reduction in and Copper businesses underpin our positions in those over time, subject to prices.
the number of incidents, now 85% fewer than in 2013. respective markets and are the cornerstone of a 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report more resilient and competitive Anglo American, through endowment options, which offer considerable upside the economic and commodity price cycle.
In addition, we potential over the long term.
continue to benefit from the performance of a number of other world class assets across the bulk commodities of PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE iron ore and coal, as well as nickel.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to improve returns across each of Developing and maintaining positive relationships with our assets and product suites.
host communities continues to be a priority.
We made good progress in rolling out the updated Social Way, our rigorous During 2016 and into 2017, we have continued to increase management standard for community issues.
During 2016, the overall quality of the portfolio through the completed or we eliminated serious non-compliances for the first time announced divestments of a number of assets, including the and almost halved moderate non-compliances.
Overall Rustenburg and Union platinum operations in South Africa and compliance reached 84% 2015: 66%.
several of our smaller coal assets in Australia, amongst others.
An innovative and low cost SMS-based community survey In addition, and in response to the need to strengthen our mechanism was piloted in 2016 with positive results.
The financial position in light of the sharp falls in commodity surveys highlighted the importance to host communities prices in late 2015, we also decided to sell our niobium of high quality stakeholder engagement and a sense of and phosphates business in Brazil.
Through an extensive fairness in our dealings with communities, in particular for and competitive sale process, we agreed to sell those the handling of complaints, managing negative impacts and businesses to China Molybdenum, generating cash generating widespread benefits from our operations.
The proceeds considerably higher than market expectations.
surveys were also able to provide near real-time feedback While we saw strong interest in a number of the major on community sentiment and concerns, greatly aiding the assets for which we also held sale processes during 2016 ability of sites to respond to local priorities.
Survey findings to further strengthen our financial position, we adhered to were also successfully combined with local social media our strict value thresholds and chose not to transact.
We activity to create new channels for stakeholder engagement.
will continue to upgrade our portfolio as a matter of course, We will be rolling out the SMS surveys at priority sites as an although asset disposals for the purposes of deleveraging ongoing programme through 2017. are no longer required.
We therefore retain the world class We continued to drive the implementation of our innovative Moranbah and Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets in economic development model at a number of our Australia and our much upgraded nickel assets in Brazil, operations.
The model focuses on leveraging the value ensuring that they continue to be optimised operationally chains and skills within the business, and prioritises actions to contribute cash and returns, while being allocated capital such as local procurement, enterprise development and to both protect and enhance value.
It was particularly In South Africa, we continue to work through all the potential gratifying to see our approach supported by the Interoptions for our export thermal coal and iron ore interests, American Development Bank, which has contributed recognising the high quality and performance of these $2 million of co-funding to enhance our supplier and businesses and ensuring that value is optimised for all our enterprise development programmes across Latin America.
The retention of these assets remains a viable We have also piloted an innovative spatial development position given our recent improvements and our focus on planning approach in Limpopo, South Africa.
This has continuing improvements as we go forward.
identified a wide range of near term economic development opportunities that we are now discussing with government Despite our significant progress, it is critical that the lessons and other stakeholders.
of recent years are applied and, although there is confidence in the long term outlook for our products, the balance sheet Our approach at community level continues to be informed must be able to withstand expected price volatility in the by broader stakeholder engagement at national and short to medium term.
Our priority in 2017 is to deliver international level.
We have continued to be a progressive further productivity improvements while maintaining capital voice in dialogues with governments, faith groups and and cost discipline in order to be in a position to resume NGOs on topics such as the Sustainable Development dividend payments for the end of 2017, and to restore an Goals, revenue transparency and ethical value chains in investment grade credit rating.
2 In 2017, capital expenditure will be maintained at In 2016, the engagement between leaders in the mining $2.5billion, with stay-in-business capital increased to sector and faith groups grew and was formalised as the $1.2billion.
Capital will be appropriately prioritised, with Mining and Faith Reflections Initiative.
An independent care taken to ensure that we protect the long term value secretariat was established to support the initiative and of our assets.
We retain a number of attractive organic there were new dialogues established in Zambia and Peru.
options, particularly in our Copper business, which we In South Africa, where discussions are most advanced, will continue to progress appropriately and assess in the focus for 2016 was on exploring how the faith grouplight of our overall capital structure and the prevailing industry collaboration can bring meaningful benefits to macro environment.
communities in mining areas, with a particular emphasis on health and economic development.
We are very hopeful of Our portfolio constitutes a highly attractive, competitive seeing the first results from these efforts in 2017. and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, 2 Excludes capitalised technical and marketing expertise and mineral operating cash flows.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT OUTLOOK THANK YOU In 2016, we have seen how unpredictable the economic In this, Anglo Americans centenary year, and on behalf and political environment is, emphasising the importance of my colleagues on the Group Management Committee, of asset quality, balance sheet strength, operational I would like to thank all our people across the business for excellence and overall resilience.
And, as we look ahead, their hard work and commitment in what was a year of we do expect ongoing price volatility for many of our significant change and market volatility, and also thank products.
However, with supply generally more constrained our widespread and diverse stakeholders for their following a number of years of low capital investment and understanding and support.
a generally more cautious approach across the industry, As a result of our decisive actions in 2016, and the coupled with still growing demand as China seeks to balance results delivered by our people across the company, its economy via both stimulus and a managed slowdown, Anglo American is now more robust, with a stronger the fundamental picture is sound.
The worlds consuming balance sheet and more competitive cost structure and aspirational middle class continues to grow in size at around a world class and uniquely diversified asset base.
a considerable rate, further supporting demand for our Anglo Americans strategic direction is clear and we have products that are more skewed to the later stages of the a highly motivated team that understands how we create development cycle.
sustainable value through the way we run the business.
DELIVERING CHANGE FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO Transforming portfolio: 68 assets in 2013 to OUR MISSION: 42 at end 2016.
Prioritising time and capital on the Together, we create 1 assets that offer the most attractive $1.8 billion of disposal proceeds received in the sustainable value long term value creation potential.
year: including: niobium and phosphates business that makes a real $1.5 billion : Rustenburg platinum mines: and 9.7% interest in Exxaro.
difference A number of other disposal transactions completed including the Foxleigh and Callide coal mines in Australia.
Continue to refine and upgrade asset portfolio.
OUR VISION: To be partners DRIVE CONSISTENT DELIVERY Volume and cost improvement delivered: $1.5 billion in the future in year.
Maintaining a highly competitive mindset with innovation and Net debt reduced below $10 billion target: $8.5 billion.
outstanding delivery at the forefront Two major projects completed ahead of schedule and of how we drive change.
within budget: Gahcho Ku fide Beers and Grosvenor Coal Australia.
DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS Operating Model rolled out at nine operations.
PROCESSES Marketing business ensuring value optimisation Becoming industry leaders in critical across the value chain.
areas, extracting maximum value Avoided energy costs in 2016 estimated at $90 million, from our assets and products.
driven by business improvement projects.
DELIVER A HIGH PERFORMANCE Productivity improved by 41% since 2012.
CULTURE Headcount reduced by 40% since 2013.
Ensuring our organisation and 32% reduction in occupational diseases reported people have the critical core skills since 2015. to improve returns.
1 Proceeds from disposals of $1.8 billion were received in 2016.
Total nominal cash inflows are expected to reach $2.0 billion over time, subject to prices.
14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report As he prepares for his much deserved retirement after 12 years of service, I am also grateful to our finance director, Ren Mdori, for his steady hand and wise counsel.
Stephen Pearce will be joining the Board as Rens successor after the AGM in April and we look forward to drawing on his broad-based financial and commercial leadership experience.
I would also like to recognise our chairman, Sir John Parker, for his guidance and leadership across many fronts.
On behalf of the entire management team, we thank him and wish him well as he steps down as chairman during 2017.
Lastly, I thank all the members of the Board for their unwavering support for the changes we have made to deliver our much strengthened position as we continue to build the foundations for Anglo Americans future.
Mark Cutifani Chief Executive BUILDING RESILIENCE THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN REMUNERATION Anglo Americans directors remuneration policy, which will be High quality assets across our fide Beers, put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM, is designed to encourage delivery of the Groups strategy and creation of PGMs and Copper businesses underpin stakeholder value in a responsible and sustainable manner.
our competitive positions in those The main elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, annual bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP.
We also benefit from a number of other high ANNUAL BONUS quality, individual assets across iron ore, coal and nickel, which are optimised to continue to Annual bonus performance measures include: contribute cash and returns.
50% on underlying earnings per share EPS.
EPS is one of the Groups key financial measures of performance and is set on Capital is appropriately prioritised, with care an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding yet realistic taken to ensure that we protect the long term The remaining measures are non-financial and include project delivery, business improvement, stakeholder engagement and value of all our assets.
talent management A modifier is applied depending on the extent to which 2017 priorities to restore an investment grade safety targets are met.
credit rating and resume dividend payments.
To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% of any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a minimum of three years and is subject to clawback.
A highly attractive, competitive LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, technical and marketing expertise and mineral endowment options The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic to offer considerable upside potential objectives over a three-year performance period.
Vested LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for over the long term.
an additional two years to encourage alignment of executive and shareholder interests.
Creating a resilient business that The proposed LTIP performance measures and weightings are: delivers robust profitability and 70% subject to Group Total Shareholder Return TSR, with sustainable, positive cash flows two-thirds relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index and one-third relative to the constituent of the FTSE 100 index through the cycle.
30% subject to a balanced scorecard of financial and strategic objectives For more information on how we measure our performance Full details are set out in the directors through our pillars of value see page 34. remuneration report on pages 84-109.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 15
