Its just the way we make you feel.
It sits on our balance sheet at zero but we invest heavily in it.
A bit like Coca-Cola, we cant tell you exactly whats in it, however, we can say that five of the key ingredients are our core values: caring, bold, fun, smart and driven.
Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Chief Executives letter We do love a letter.
See some from our customers on page 36.
My summary of the UK wouldnt be complete without a mention of Black Friday.
I am pleased to say that it was the epitome of the importance we attach to stitching every bit of the business together.
The way the teams acted and executed the lessons from 2014 was just brilliant to see.
It really was a classic case of being exceptional in a moment that mattered.
Internationally we have made good progress too.
We have bolted-on our business in the Netherlands and have increased the scale of our German business.
The strategy in Germany is very much the same as in the UK: over recent months we have moved away from the heavy lifting phase of actually building the infrastructure to driving the efficiencies, allowing the operation to bed down and applying the same lessons we have learned in the UK.
The relationships with the manufacturer brands are developing as they see the reality of what we are delivering for customers and how much the customers like it.
We have done what we said we would John Roberts Founder and Chief Executive Officer do, staying true to our word.
We have built a vast infrastructure and presented a market leading proposition for a better way to shop the category that customers are loving.
Slowly but surely this is translating Writing this letter is a great opportunity to reflect and take stock into trust with suppliers and provides the foundation for strong of just quite what has been achieved since our first Annual Report.
relationships for the years ahead.
Our mission is still to be the best electrical retailer in Europe through being Sound familiar?
It is exactly the journey we have been on for exceptional in all the moments that matter because our tribe of amazing a long time in the UK.
The benefit of this does transfer and we are able people just care more.
The strategy is the same, the progress against it to leverage all the customer journey innovations and lessons we have is significant and the belief in the destination stronger than ever.
in the UK but it still takes time for people to see it in reality and practice and to win hearts and minds.
They are being won and we are ever Since 2014 we have moved from being a single category business in more confident of the destination and success.
a single territory with nine operating locations to a multiple category, multiple country business with operations in 18 locations and over So much so, we were confident enough to roll to our next territory and 2,000 people.
so are now live in the Netherlands leveraging the German infrastructure.
The distance from our warehouse in Bergheim to Utrecht is not too As the front cover says...
Were on a journey... dissimilar to that from Crewe to Croydon.
It is early days but all signs are very encouraging and we have a great team in place who live our The UK business continues to gain market share and has established itself culture and understand the business.
Feedback from customers has as a retailer not just of MDA but of small domestic appliances and TVs too.
Last summer we entered a drive phase and spent our time applying Across Europe, the growth of online shopping seems now to be our learnings and driving the model rather than building many new comprehensively accepted driven by technological advances, improving things.
This has been the case right across the business from supply connectivity and cultural generational change.
When you layer on to that a chain to margin to fleet optimisation and brand building.
The results, simply better customer journey, executed brilliantly by a brand customers particularly in the latter half of the year, speak for themselves.
trust with a great feel, it is a powerful cocktail and more and more people are both discovering it and telling their friends and family about it.
Our brand is growing well and the impact is filtering into almost every line of the P&L.
We have continued with our customer-led TV adverts Underpinning all this is our culture.
The job of protecting it and continuing and have done more joint advertising with the brands than ever.
to drive it is a lot more complicated than it was and so whilst I didnt think Having such customer advocacy and manufacturer endorsement is we could obsess about it more, we have.
Steve and I spend a lot of our a structural advantage for the business and highlights the progress of time nurturing it and I am delighted to report that it is thriving and we are the levels of trust in our brand.
Our quality metrics remain exceptional continuing to invest in the next generation of our home grown talent to and we continue to obsess about them.
We always will because it isnt prepare us to be able to realise the scale of our ambition.
the fact that we offer the best proposition or next day delivery: what really matters is how we do it and how we leave the customer feeling.
It is because our people care more than anyone else about being It is worth a visit to Trustpilot to see what they say.
exceptional in the moments that matter that we are able to deliver that feel to fuel another fantastic year of progress on our journey and so I Our trust and relationships with the manufacturer brands continues to would like to thank every single AOer for their passion on our journey build both in existing categories and new ones.
This is a big part of our to become Europes Best Electrical Retailer.
journey and being the best electrical retailer means being the destination of choice for the brands as well as the customer so we will continue to invest here to tell their stories and explain the investments in technology they make for the benefit of our mutual customers.
We have recently confirmed that our next category will be computing.
We have thoroughly researched the market and I am very excited by the opportunity to disrupt the category by applying the same principles and customer obsession to make sure we make the category so much easier John Roberts to shop and understand.
It simply baffled me when I tried to shop it!
Founder and Chief Executive Officer AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Being exceptional in the moments that matter.
My journey to the Croydon depot I talk a lot about exceptional customer service, but its critical to really understand the practical realities of what makes it possible and also how things can go wrong.
So, over the course of the year Ive been travelling around our business more than ever.
I want to get a personal feel for how were ensuring we can deliver great service, especially as we grow the business and expand into new categories and countries.
Of all the visits, one of my favourites was in the middle of the night with Steve and Mark to our Croydon outbase.
Our outbases dont hold stock.
Instead products are trunked down in big double deck trailers from the NDC at Crewe and trans-shipped at the outbase to the local delivery vans.
Its a slick operation: weve got trans-shippers transferring the stock, shunters backing up and parking the vans, and people checking that the right stock is allocated to the right drop and ensuring the vans are perfect and ready to roll: all to ensure our customers get what we promised.
Some people might not find those roles very sexy and most organisations would struggle to inspire the people doing these jobs to care about the micro detail or even think about their impact on the end customer, but they did.
It made me immensely proud to see the passion these guys had to just make sure that the turn-around was as quick as possible and their jobs were done well.
They even put cold bottles of water into the cabs for the drivers.
They understood that if they did a great job then our drivers would have a better day, which in turn means theyre more likely to be exceptional in the moments that matter.
It was clear that they lived it that way.
It wasnt because I was there: you just cant fake it to that level and certainly not at 2am!
It sounds simple doesnt it?
Mobilising a tribe the size of ours to care about every detail more than anyone else does is the smart thing to do, but exceptional customer service cant be switched on overnight.
Its the cumulative effect of thousands of little things coming together that make it look easy, but again things that look effortless very rarely are.
JR AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8
