Chief Executives Review 2016 was another year of strong organic growth as we grew both revenues and profits, driven by our focus on our top brands and customer retention as well as the innovative and creative nature of our organisation.
The launch of new products such as WGSN Insight, Money20 20 Europe and Lions Entertainment made a significant contribution to our 2016 success and we also made substantial progress in reshaping our portfolio of market-leading brands towards those with higher organic growth.
Track record of growth, high margins and good cash generation We delivered a strong operating performance in 2016 with a 9.5% Organic growth in revenue from continuing operations to 299.6m and an 11.5% Organic growth in Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations to 95.9m with an expansion in margin from 29.9% in 2015 to 32.0% in 2016.
We also continued to generate good cash flow with free cash flow of 90.9m 2015: 79.9m, representing free cash conversion of 85% 2015: 88%.
This cash generation, in combination with the net proceeds of the IPO, has enabled us to invest in the business whilst also acquiring high quality growth companies, managing our balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders through dividends.
Clear organic growth strategy We continue to deploy multiple initiatives for growth across our brands with the aim of firstly retaining existing customers, secondly increasing the number of new customers and thirdly growing the average revenue per customer.
Our 2016 growth initiatives built on those deployed over recent years and included the launch of new digital products such as WGSN Insight and a newly expanded and upgraded version of WGSN Instock, geographical expansion of our events such as Bett Middle East and Money20 20 Europe and show extensions such as Lions Entertainment.
Focused portfolio of market-leading brands underpinned by diversified and recurring revenue streams Brand portfolio Following our decision to separate and hold the Groups 13 Heritage Brands for sale and our acquisitions of One Click Retail and, after the year end, the acquisition of MediaLink, we will now operate a focused portfolio of 20 market-leading brands.
16 of these hold clear number one positions in their respective markets.
We firmly believe that our focus of management time on a smaller group of market-leading brands is a key driver of our continued organic growth success.
Duncan Painter Our top five brands by Adjusted EBITDA are: Chief Executive Officer in Information Services: WGSN and Groundsure: and in Exhibitions & Festivals: Cannes Lions, Spring and Autumn Fair and Money20 20 10 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These top brands remain our primary focus for capital The proportion of revenues from the Americas grew to 29% allocation.
Through this focus, together they grow faster than despite recessionary headwinds in Brazil, driven by the our other brands and their contribution is an increasing performance of Money20 20, WGSN and Cannes Lions and proportion of the Groups revenues and profits.
In 2016, our the acquisition of One Click Retail.
Asia Pacific, Middle East top five brands represented 69% of the Groups revenue from and Africa and other Europe contributed 11%, 4% and continuing operations 2015: 66% and 81% of our Adjusted 18% respectively.
Disciplined operational approach Revenue by type The foundation of our growth is, and will continue to be, our The Group benefits from diverse revenue streams, the majority focus on customer retention.
There is no better way to judge of which have recurring characteristics.
Following the the quality of our products than to measure how many treatment of the Heritage Brands as discontinued, the most customers choose to renew their contracts with us each year significant change over the last year has been a reduction in and we spend considerable time reviewing those customers print advertising, which now represents less than 1% of Group who do churn.
Retention rates have again performed well revenue 2015: 4%.
We have also seen our broader Net Promoter Scores and product usage statistics increasing.
Revenue by geography Ascential is growing strongly in international markets.
The majority of our brands serve a global customer base.
Accelerated by our acquisition of One Click Retail and the treatment of the Heritage Brands as discontinued, our share of revenue from overseas markets increased again and now just 38% of revenues come from customers based in the UK 2015: 48%.
The recently announced acquisition of MediaLink will further reduce the dependence on UK markets.
11 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives Review continued Portfolio management Heritage Brands We regularly adjust and optimise our portfolio of brands.
As part of our growth strategy to focus our resources and We continue to assess both a range of bolt-on acquisition investment on our largest brands and those with the highest opportunities as well as the potential disposal of certain growth potential, after the year end, in January 2017, we lower growth or sub-scale elements of our portfolio.
announced that we had separated 13 Heritage Brands into a separate operating entity that is held for sale.
The Heritage Joint venture in China Brands are Health Service Journal, MEED, Drapers, Nursing We were pleased to see WGSNs long-anticipated Chinese joint Times, Local Government Chronicle, Construction News, New venture with CTIC start trading in April 2016 and have now Civil Engineer, Ground Engineering, H&V News and RAC, Retail further solidified our relationship and funded the joint venture Jeweller, Materials Recycling World and the architecture titles with an investment of 4.5m to develop a specific product for including Architects Journal, The Architectural Review and the the Chinese domestic and international markets.
Each provides essential content to the loyal subscribers and industries they serve One Click Retail across three platforms digital, events and print.
The Heritage In August 2016 we acquired One Click Retail, a fast growing Brands generated revenue of 57.9m in 2016 2015: 62.5m US-based provider of analytics that helps major brands and 11.6m of Adjusted EBITDA 2015: 14.3m, constant optimise their e-commerce activities.
Customers include currency declines of 10.2% and 19.7% respectively.
consumer products companies such as Procter & Gamble, HP, Unilever, Hamilton Beach, Nestle and Panasonic.
Revenue Consistent with the evolution of our internal management is generated predominantly through recurring annual reporting structure during 2016, we have reported the subscriptions to the companys Dashboard product, which Heritage Brands as a separate segment.
As a result of ongoing provides insights to help customers drive sales through discussions, the Board now considers a sale of the segment to Amazon and other e-commerce retailers an increasingly be highly probable and has therefore classified it as a important channel for many of them.
The insights focus on discontinued operation.
product market share, its drivers, and the actions that can be taken to increase sales.
We introduced analysts and investors In January 2017, we were pleased to announce the sale to the product in detail during our November Capital Markets of the first of the Heritage Brands, Health Service Journal, Day.
One Click Retail more than doubled its revenues in 2016. to Wilmington plc.
This was the first key milestone in finding the right future home for these brands and highlighted their attractiveness to new owners.
12 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MediaLink These changes illustrate the strength and depth of our After the year end, in February 2017, we announced the management team and we are delighted that our succession acquisition of US-based MediaLink.
MediaLink provides planning has allowed us to be able to promote from within the advisory and business services to media platforms and brands Company as well as attract exciting new talent.
seeking to drive growth through better marketing.
Serving the consumer goods and services segment, it has worked with Strategic priorities for 2017 Cannes Lions customers since 2011 where it hosts content Our strategy and priorities for 2017 are on track we will and client-oriented meetings and events as part of the official continue to focus most of our efforts on organic growth Festival fringe.
MediaLink fits Ascentials strategy to own opportunities underpinned by customer retention as well as market-leading brands in selected complementary leveraging the competencies of newly acquired companies.
marketplaces that offer trusted information and valuable connections to businesses.
Throughout 2017 we expect to benefit from the increasing convergence of event products that connect our customers Management and information services that inform them.
Effective 1 August 2016, the two operating companies in the Exhibitions & Festivals segment were combined under the Outlook leadership of Philip Thomas, formerly CEO of the Lions The new financial year has started well.
Since the year end, Festivals operating company.
Mark Shashoua, formerly CEO Spring Fair, Bett London and Pure Spring have taken place and of i2i Events, left the Company to pursue other opportunities performed overall in line with our expectations.
While still with our sincere thanks for his achievements.
We are delighted early in 2017, we are encouraged by the current level of that Jose Papa, formerly CEO of WGSN, accepted the forward bookings and are confident of another good year leadership of Cannes Lions and that Kevin Silk, formerly COO of growth for the Group.
of WGSN, assumed the leadership of WGSN with Natasha Christie-Miller remaining as CEO of Plexus.
Our customers and our people Our continued strong performance and results would simply Our former Strategy Director, Michael Lisowski, has taken on not have been possible without the dedication and an expanded role as Chief Operating Officer for Ascential.
commitment of our teams across the business and their passion His new position covers proposition development, customer to serve our long, loyal and valued customers.
insight and research and product management and is a critical investment in skills and capabilities to assist our brand teams I want to thank our customers and our teams for continuing to continue our growth and also to raise the bar on the quality to be at the heart of Ascentials continued success.
and ambition of the products we create.
We were also pleased to welcome Stephen Martincic to the Duncan Painter Group as Chief Brand and Marketing Officer from FCB, the Chief Executive Officer global, fully integrated marketing communications company, 24 February 2017 where he was responsible for building FCBs brand across the globe.
Stephen has taken on a critical new role for the Group to ensure we are truly focusing on the fast-changing needs of our customers and honing how we position and message our capabilities to maximise customer engagement and our organic growth objectives.
