Strategic report Chief Executives review Consistent Emerging Markets specialism delivers performance across cycles Market conditions for the first half of the AuM development financial year were volatile and weak, Assets under management declined by 63% withcontinued falls in commodity prices, 11%over the year from US$58.9 billion to adevaluation of the Chinese renminbi, US$52.6 billion and, given the periods of AUM outperforming fluctuating expectations for US monetary pronounced market weakness in the first benchmarks over three years policy and concerns about global economic halfof the year, average AuM fell by 22% growth.
Emerging Markets assets experienced from US$66.4 billion to US$52.1 billion.
distinct periods of weakness in August and Investment performance added US$1.2 billion September and then again in December and to AuM and there were net outflows of 73% January.
The second half of the financial year US$7.5 billion during the year, although there AUM outperforming saw a sharp recovery in sentiment, however, was an improving trend in both gross and benchmarks over five years as central banks in the developed world netflows over the period.
generally adopted dovish stances, commodity Investment performance Financial performance prices rallied and then stabilised, and A weaker Chinese currency, falling Revenue economic and political conditions across commodity prices and uncertainty about Net revenue for the year of 232.5 million Emerging Markets have generally proven global growth prospects caused significant was 18% lower than in the prior year.
The UKs referendum on EU global market weakness in the first half of principally the result of a 21% reduction in membership at the end of the financial year the financial year.
Ashmores investment net management fees, which reflects 22% had little direct effect on Emerging Markets, processes added risk to portfolios during lower average AuM.
although the Groups non-Sterling denominated these periods, and consequently delivered revenues and balance sheet positions Performance fees of 10.4 million FY2014 15: strong outperformance when markets started benefited from the weaker exchange rate.
13.3 million were primarily delivered by to recover in February.
When combined with Ashmores investment processes took investments in the alternatives theme.
Funds the benefits of similar market patterns and advantage of volatile and weak market with an August year end realised performance investment opportunities in the prior financial conditions, particularly in the first half of fees of 5.7 million in August 2016 that will year, as expected there has been a significant thefinancial year, such that investment be reflected in the FY2016 17 financial year.
improvement in the proportion of AuM performance over the period added outperforming benchmarks over one year, The Group receives the majority of its fees US$1.2billion to AuM and performance from 23% as at 30 June 2015 to 69% as inUS dollars, which are sold as necessary against benchmarks has been maintained.
This rapid and pronounced tosatisfy Sterling or other currency liabilities.
However, investor sentiment towards recovery in performance is typical for The Groups cash held in currencies other Emerging Markets remained weak for Ashmores value-based investment than Sterling is marked to market at the muchof the period and therefore net approach, which continues to find profitable balance sheet date and, primarily as a result outflows, while improving over the course opportunities in the inefficient Emerging of the US dollar strengthening against ofthe year, led to an 11% reduction in the Markets universe.
Sterling during the period from 1.5712 Groups AuM.
to1.3234, there was a foreign exchange The investment track record has been Against this backdrop, the Group continued translation gain of 21.0 million FY2014 15: maintained over three and five years, to manage its costs effectively and generated 18.5 million.
with63% and 73% of AuM outperforming an adjusted EBITDA margin of 62%.
Lower relevant benchmarks, respectively operating costs, strong mark-to-market 30June2015: 60% and 81%, respectively.
returns on seed capital, and the beneficial effect of a stronger US dollar against Sterling partially offset lower management fee income to deliver profit before tax of 167.5million, 8% lower than the prior year.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 Chief Executives review continued Operating cost structure Business and The Group continues to manage its cost base  effectively, ensuring sufficient investment for Ashmore continues to develop products as Infrastructure future growth opportunities while employing client demands evolve, and the Emerging COLOMBIA discipline in the light of the challenging Markets continually present new and market backdrop that has prevailed for differentiated investment opportunities.
Ashmore raised more than several years.
The majority of costs relate TheGroup has launched an absolute return US$600million during the year tostaff and the Group maintains a relatively product in SICAV form, which provides intoclosed ended funds that will low cap on fixed salary costs and a strong broader client access to a strategy that has invest in Colombian infrastructure bias towards variable performance-related previously been managed in segregated projects.
The majority of the capital remuneration.
An emphasis is placed on accounts.
The short duration strategy that was raised into a senior debt fund long-term equity ownership.
In the year was launched two years ago now exceeds with a 25 year life, and a second to30June 2016, variable compensation US$500 million AuM.
With US dollarprivate equity fund follows on asapercentage of earnings before variable denominated Emerging Markets bonds fromthe successful Colombian compensation, interest and tax VC EBVCIT maturing in less than three years yielding infrastructure private equity fund was 20% FY2014 15: 18.5%.
more than 6%, this strategy is attracting that the Group established in 2010. investors seeking yield and has proven Capital was raised from local and Total operating costs fell by 7% to particularly popular through the retail international investors, supporting 92.3million FY2014 15: 99.5 million.
intermediary channels in the US and Europe.
the second and third phases of Profitability Theintermediary business in these regions theGroups strategy.
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, generated net inflows over the year, which The senior debt fund will provide depreciation and amortisation EBITDA was partially offset the expected redemptions exposure to the Colombian 130.9 million FY2014 15: 176.6 million from Japanese retail funds.
Retail AuM has governments flagship fourth andthe adjusted EBITDA margin was 62% increased from 9% to 10% ofthe Groups generation road programme, which FY2014 15: 67%.
seeks to address the severe deficit Profit before tax for the year declined by 8% After a period of asset realisations and capital in the countrys road infrastructure: to 167.5 million FY2014 15: 181.3 million returns to investors in the alternatives theme, only 14% of Colombian roads are and diluted earnings per share for the year approximately US$800 million of new capital paved, compared with a worldwide were 7% lower at 18.1p FY2014 15: 19.3p.
was raised in the year, mainly in respect of average of 57%.
The public private private equity and senior debt infrastructure partnerships are structured to funds in Colombia, and private equity provide minimum toll revenue investments in the private healthcare guarantees and direct payment markets in the Middle East.
These are from the Government, thereby bothlong-term growth themes in Emerging eradicating market and traffic risks.
Markets and Ashmore expects to grow its Ashmore has committed seed alternatives theme further over time, capital to the Colombian funds, providing higher margin management fees andover time it expects to raise derived from long-term, locked-up capital additional capital to support the structures and often with the ability to long-term growth theme of earncarry or performance-related fees infrastructure development overtheirlives.
In November, Ashmore opened an office inDubai to support its plans for growth in assets sourced and managed across the broader Gulf Cooperation Council GCC region.
The Groups range of mutual funds continues to develop, with 29 SICAVs managing US$8.6 billion and nine US 40-Act funds managing US$1.2 billion.
14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report During the year, Ashmore agreed the terms UKreferendum on EU membership of a transaction whereby Taiping Group, The immediate impactof the Brexit one of the largest insurance companies in Healthcare referendum on Ashmore is known: the China, will take a majority stake in Ashmores fall inthe value of Sterling against the US UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Shanghai-based China fund management dollar generated translation gains related joint venture.
Ashmore will retain a 15% to the balance sheet as at 30 June 2016, Ashmore raised US$100m to interest in the joint venture and believes that and provides a tailwind for the ongoing fundhealthcare private equity the introduction of Taiping Group as a new translation of non-Sterling denominated investments in the United Arab shareholder will bring material benefits in management fees, subject to any hedges Emirates UAE.
In association the form of improved distribution access and inplace.
However, over the medium to withKings College Hospital and support for product launches.
The transaction longer term, the potential consequences local equity partners, the first received final regulatory approval in July.
are less easy to determine and will depend project in Dubaiwillbuild and on the nature of the UKs relationship operate a range of clinics and Outlook with theEuropean Union and its individual ahospital that willprovide a full The volatility and weakness experienced member states.
The Group has formed rangeof care, including centres recently in Emerging Markets assets, asenior management committee to ofexcellence inpaediatrics, whenset against improving economic monitorand manage the implications of endocrinology, orthopaedics, fundamentals, has provided good Brexit, and is currently focused on three andobstetrics and gynaecology.
 for Ashmores areas: the financial services passporting Theproject will provide industryvalue-based processes.
Sentiment towards regime: counterparty relationships: and the leadinghealthcare facilities to the Emerging Markets is improving and has very small number of UK-based employees growing residentpopulation and beenreflected in high frequency flow that are potentiallyaffected.
Overall, willsupport Dubais ambition to data, such as allocations to exchangethe Groups view is that the operational become a hub for medical tourism.
While Ashmore implications of Brexit will be manageable.
has seen some earlyadopters in the past Demand for private healthcare year,  investors that People and culture isalong-term growth theme in understand the inefficiencies of Emerging Ashmores culture is characterised by Emerging Markets, as populations Markets and can identify when value has thecommitment of its employees through expand, life expectancy increases, been created by indiscriminate market whathas been a protracted period of volatility and lifestyle medical conditions weakness, most institutional investors in Emerging Markets.
Delivering investment become more prevalent, typically take longer to react to improving market performance for clients is central to the incontexts wherepublic healthcare conditions.
Therefore, a lag is likely between Groups success, and I would like to thank expenditure is low relative to GDP.
the recovery in asset prices and sentiment, allemployees for continuing to work hard Ashmore has provided seed capital and a broader and sustained recovery in throughout this period to deliver for clients.
to the UAE project, and believes its investor appetite, and history suggests partnership approachcan serve as someinvestors that mis-timed the cycle Mark Coombs atemplate for other markets in the mayuse a period of stronger asset prices Chief Executive Officer GCC region and beyond.
Ultimately, though, the value available 5 September 2016 in Emerging Markets contrasts starkly with current pricing levels for many developed world markets, and this will encourage investors to address their weightings in Emerging Markets, resulting in stronger client flows over time.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
