6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT I am pleased to report that group GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE revenue increased by 5% to 13.4bn and adjusted operating profit of 1,118m was 3% higher than lastyear.
AB Sugar made a number of fundamental structural changes this year which will lead to a higher and more sustainable profit.
Specifically, all of its operations delivered substantial cost reductions through performance improvement and capital investment: the sale of its cane sugar operations in south China will improve margins: and the move to full ownership will accelerate Illovos commercial development and profit growth.
There has also been an emphasis this year on working closely with growers, key members of our supply chain, to maximise efficiency andunderpin our growth aspirations.
As a responsible business, AB Sugar contributes actively to the debate concerning the role that sugar can play as part of a healthy balanced diet with itsMaking Sense of Sugar campaign.
We believe it is important to recognise that there is no single response to tackling obesity.
We are committed toplaying our part in finding solutions that heighten peoples awareness ofthecalories they are consuming, whether in sugars or other food ingredients, through a combination of educational and regulatory measures.
Ingredients achieved a strong profit andmargin increase driven by a further This has been a year of progress recovery in AB Mauri, our yeast and bakery ingredients business.
AB Agri forall of our businesses.
delivered a resilient performance with itsstrategy of expanding the value adding elements of its business, particularly internationally.
Grocery achieved revenue growth against a background of food commodity price deflation and margin increased again with an improvement in George Weston Foods in Australia, particularly at the DonKRC meat business which generated a profit.
The strong expansion of Primarks sellingspace continued this year and afurther 1.3 million sq ft is scheduled fornext year.
We were encouraged bythe trading at our first store in Italyand by our five stores in the US.
We now have a better understanding ofwhat appeals to our American customers and are gaining valuable insights into store location.
This was Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 7 OUR BROAD GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT Please note, the above map correctly reflects the groups countries of operation and has been amended from that shown in the printed version of the Annual Report that was distributed to shareholders, which included a printing error.
achallenging year for clothing retailers The referendum on the UKs continued with market value declines seen in membership of the EU has created mostcountries in Europe.
It is therefore some short-term uncertainties including With the diversity of atestament to the strength of Primarks a decline in the value of sterling.
customer offering that it increased its However, changes in legislation and our operations, our share in all of its major markets.
The trade agreements, particularly in the devaluation of the euro against the US areas of trade tariffs and UK agricultural broad geographical dollar in 2015 put pressure on margins policy have the potential to benefit the inthis financial year and sterlings recent group, and the current level of sterling footprint and a strong devaluation against the US dollar will offers UK food producers significant havean impact in the coming year.
opportunities to replace imported balance sheet, we Primarks commitment to maintaining food and build export markets.
We are are well placed to itsleadership position in the value therefore engaging with a number of sectorof the clothing market has UK Government departments to ensure take advantage beenour priority and I am pleased that the full range of opportunities and withthe efforts of our buyers to risks, as they affect ABF, are recognised.
ofthe opportunity significantly limitthe profit impact of euro weaknessin the financial year.
presented by Implications of the EU referendum George Weston theweakness ABF is an international business with Chief Executive diverseinterests across 50 countries ofsterling.
andhas a business model that, wherever possible, aligns food production with theendmarkets for its products.
Primark operates discrete supply chains for its stores ineach oftheUK, US and eurozone and asagroup we undertake relatively littlecross-border trading between theUKand the rest ofthe EU.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
