16 CEOs business review We reached our 8% underlying operating margin goal despite challenging conditions in some of our markets.
Prof Dr Uwe Krueger CEO We delivered a strong set of results this year.
Underlying diluted EPS increased 10.2p per In our Asia Pacific region an operating I am particularly pleased to have reached share to 107.3p 2015: 97.1p, an increase margin of 8.0% was achieved on revenue our 8% underlying operating margin goal of 10.5%.
Our profitability and cash flow against a challenging backdrop in some of performance were impacted by delays to the Operating cash flow in the year was our markets, while also making progress start of a number of key opportunities and 116.1m 2015: 133.9m, representing on optimising our portfolio with strategic cash receipts from clients beyond agreed 78.3% 2015:99.8% of underlying acquisitions.
I would like to thank all of contract terms.
The Groups liquidity our people for the consistent dedication remains strong with closing net funds of Our Energy business has had a mixed and hard work that has made this 191.7m 2015:179.3m.
year, with a good performance in our achievementpossible.
nuclear, power and renewables businesses As at 31 March 2016, the Group had Work to improve efficiencies and earnings but challenges in most of our oil and secured 44% 2015: 51% of budgeted is ongoing.
Our focus now will be on gas markets, with the exception of the revenue for the coming financial year.
This driving revenue through: developing Middle East.
Revenue rose to 201.3m excludes the recently awarded Purple Line and using advanced technology: further 2015:182.0m due in part to the benefit and the activities of PP&T.
selective acquisitions: and organic growth.
of acquisitions in the second half of last year.
Greater collaboration, client proximity and However, both operating profit at 16.7m Our UK and Europe business delivered technology are fundamental to our ability to and margin at 8.3% reduced reflecting very good results with a 21.6% increase in differentiate ourselves from our competitors, continued pricing pressure and the impact operating profit to 73.8m 2015: 60.7m.
to win more work and to exceed client of the deferral and cancellation of some Revenue rose to 943.6m and margin expectations.
Each of these actions will projects in the oil and gas market.
play its part in helping us to maintain our A more detailed segmental analysis follows 8% margin and grow the business.
This has been a transitional year for our starting on page 20.
We outline their North America business with the start of a financial performance in the period, their Review of the year portfolio shift towards larger projects and strategy, business model and external factors This has been a strong year in terms of our programmes.
During the year, we were driving their business, together with specific financial performance.
delighted to be appointed on Project NEON risks relating to the segment.
We have also for Nevada Department of Transportation provided information on their performance Our underlying profit before tax and the Purple Line light rail project in in relation to safety, sustainability and was 139.0m, an increase of 14.0% Maryland, both significant wins for the people-related matters.
2015:121.9m, on revenue that increased region.
In the 2015: 341.4m, at a margin of 5.6% Strategic developments current year, the reported profit before tax 2015:5.9%, which reflects high levels of was 131.1m 2015: 106.7m.
In March 2016, agreement was reached bidding activity in support of growth.
on the acquisition of Howard Humphreys Underlying operating profit was 148.2m East Africa, subject to normal regulatory Our Middle East business delivered another 2015: 134.1m, at an improved clearances.
This multidisciplinary very good overall performance this financial underlying margin of 8.0% 2015: 7.6%.
consultancy, based in Kenya and Tanzania, year with revenue up 14.6% to 248.3m Reported operating profit was 143.4m employs around 200 people and has a and operating profit up 31.1% on last 2015:118.5m, at a margin of 7.7% strong track record in the transportation, year driven by the Central Planning Office 2015: 6.7%.
The acquisition project in Qatar and peak delivery on is an important catalyst to develop our metro projects.
Operating margin improved We believe underlying profit is a more presence within East Africas rapidly growing to 11.9%.
However, cash flow was not representative measure of performance, infrastructure market.
without its challenges in a region coming removing the items that may give a distorted under increased liquidity pressure as a view of performance.
A breakdown of the result of the current oil price.
items that we adjust to calculate underlying profit is given in the Financial review page18.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report CEO's business review 17 Group accident incident rate AIR 130 77 77 Safety in the workplace and on our project sites is paramount.
14 15 16 In April 2016, we were delighted to complete the acquisition of PP&T.
PP&T is Our key performance indicators an innovative 650 person nuclear business The Group uses a range of performance measures to monitor and manage the that delivers a wide range of technical business.
Those that are particularly important in monitoring our progress in engineering and programme management generating shareholder value are considered key performance indicators KPIs.
services for the decontamination and decommissioning of high hazard nuclear Our KPIs measure past performance and also provide information and context facilities.
Atkins now has some 1,800 to anticipate future events and, in conjunction with our detailed knowledge and people working on nuclear projects around experience of the segments in which we operate, allow us to act early and manage the world.
This acquisition accelerates the business going forward.
We track safety, volume, staff turnover, profitability, our nuclear strategy and creates a global efficiency, secured workload and capacity.
Our combined business is well Revenue, operating profit and margin, earnings per share EPS and operating cash positioned in major nuclear markets in North flow provide indications as to the volume and quality of work we have undertaken.
America, the UK, Europe, the Middle East They measure both profitability and the efficiency with which we have turned and Asia Pacific.
In the US, which has the operating profits into cash.
largest nuclear fleet, we are now in the top tier for decommissioning, site operations, Work in hand measures our secured workload as a percentage of the budgeted major projects and consultancy.
revenue for the next year.
Staff numbers and staff turnover are measures of capacity and show us how effective we have been in recruiting and retaining our key resource.
We are investing to create a new advisory business Atkins Acuity offering seamless Safety in the workplace and on our project sites is paramount.
We track the accident end-to-end advisory services to our clients incident rate AIR across the Group.
The AIR is an industry measure of the number worldwide.
It has developed a structure, of reportable accidents per 100,000 staff and is explained in more detail in Our operation and pipeline of opportunities at responsibility page 46. the heart of our focus sectors of energy, transportation and infrastructure and is As a people business, staff turnover is an important metric for us and shows the rate creating new revenue opportunities for us.
at which staff choose to leave the Group.
The backing of Atkins technical expertise KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2016 are shown in the Financial review page 18, and reputation for delivery combined with along with prior yearcomparatives.
our new offerings in project structuring and financing have already delivered wins in critical infrastructure projects and target clients who recognise that we bring the client at the heart of what we programmes in the Middle East, southeast something different by combining our do, working more collaboratively and Asia and Africa.
deep business acumen with the technical exploiting technology positions us well for expertise of Atkins.
Priorities In conclusion Work to implement our strategy will continue as we integrate our new PP&T This is a strong set of results and a year of Prof Dr Uwe Krueger colleagues and complete the acquisition of significant strategic progress for the Group.
Our reputation as a technically expert, sustainable and responsible organisation 15 June 2016 Our new advisory business will help to is vital to our continued success.
These successfully deliver our clients ambitions in principles and qualities are valued by infrastructure and energy, worldwide.
Our our clients and differentiate us from our aspiration over the next four to five years is competitors.
I believe our focus on putting to create a business with 200m turnover.
Our approach is resonating well with our WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
