Chief Executives statement Even in a culture that welcomes change like AutoTraders, this has been a truly landmark year.
Trevor Mather Chief Executive 7.5% Growth in advert views 1,384 ARPR up 10.5% 2015: 1,252 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Even in a culture that welcomes change Consumers spent over 676 million minutes Operating efficiencies like Auto Traders, this has been a truly a month on our site March 2016 compared We seek to be as lean as possible and to landmark year.
In our first year as a listed to 458 million a year previously.
Our share enable our teams to be as productive as company, we have significantly increased of minutes spent on automotive digital they can be, which generally requires fewer, 1 both the consumer audience that visits classifieds rose to 85% 2015: 76%.
This year we reduced our marketplace and their engagement our headcount including contractors from on our sites.
We have substantially Beyond the increased levels of response, 915 to859.
increased the value we deliver to vehicle we have further embedded the use of data retailers and continued the transformation driven products which aim to improve the Our marketing spend grew to 15.7m an of the way in which we manage our day-to-day operational efficiency within our increase of 2% above last year, well below customer relationships.
Market conditions were our revenue growth of 10%.
This moderate this, we have delivered an outstanding buoyant, resulting in an increased number increase enabled us to drive all of our performance, improving our revenue of transactions.
This helped to increase the brand and audience initiatives, including the and Underlying operating profit to levels number of cars listed on our site as did a continuance of our 2015 brand-led campaign that exceeded initial expectations.
modest growth in average retailer forecourts on TV, video on demand and online, and the to 13,514.
Those contributing factors helped introduction of a new marketing campaign Summary of operating performance drive Average Revenue per Retailer ARPR focused on our online valuation tool, new Our operating results reflect an excellent 10.5% higher to 1,384 per month.
part-exchange product and discovery search year for the business.
Revenue growth of functionality see overleaf for more details.
10% was achieved through the positive Consumer services Other costs and capital expenditure were contribution of all three of our revenue Growth in consumer services of 4% was in line with expectations.
streams: trade, consumer services and pleasing in light of the increasingly competitive display advertising.
nature of this sector, aided by our motoring Revenue growth, coupled with lower costs, services products offered to consumers at delivered a 5 percentage points improvement Trade the point of purchase which saw growth in Underlying operating profit margin to 61%.
In trade, we increased the value delivered similar to the previous year.
to our customers through a greater number Our strategy of cross platform visits, and higher levels Display advertising Our strategy is to provide the UK and Irelands of consumer engagement, resulting in 7.5% A strong display advertising performance leading digital automotive marketplace and growth in advert views the equivalent of continued the momentum from the help improve the process of buying and an extra six vehicles being viewed every previous year, with revenue up 23%.
selling vehicles for consumers and retailers second on the marketplace.
Improved relationships with agencies, alike.
Critical to this are a smooth online combined with new, improved advertising experience for consumers and the provision formats, in particular homepage takeovers, of data driven intelligence for vehicle retailers.
were the main drivers of this growth.
1 comScore MMX MP March 2016 data.
15 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Chief Executives statement continued Investing in innovation Putting data at the core Enhancing our organisational structure Over the past year we have continued to We have continued to develop our data With the transition from print to digital innovate, in particular through exposing the driven products to help retailers manage complete, the last year has been one of key insights from our massive data sources.
their forecourts effectively in order to optimise greater organisational continuity than in their margin and stock turn, with over 1,900 previous years.
However, we continue to There are over 80,000 variations of make forecourts now using them.
We continue to make significant changes to improve our and model of cars available to buy in the develop these tools and believe more retailers relevance to our market.
Even for confident buyers, this is a will take advantage of these products.
Firstly, we brought together our audience bewildering choice.
To help consumers acquisition and brand marketing functions to decide which car they want to buy, this year Findings from Auto Traders Annual Car ensure that those who were responsible for we introduced a new way of searching for Buying Report found that of those consumers growing our audience were also responsible vehicles discovery search which allows looking at classified sites in the new car buying for ensuring that that audience was engaged.
a buyer to search for cars if they dont know process, 85% used Auto Trader and 48% the make or model they want, e. g. by the said Auto Trader was the most influential Secondly, we have merged our retailer and number of seats, fuel type or on price alone.
source twice as much as the nearest consumer product teams, who now follow an 3 Additionally we now have over 700 expert website.
To capitalise on this opportunity, end-to-end, test and learn product development reviews of vehicles an increase of 20%, we launched new bespoke branded content approach.
Across the business, we release which have received over eight million page solutions so that manufacturers could use over 50 software updates every week.
views this year, and over 45,000 owner new formats and editorial partnerships Thirdly, we transformed our sales and reviews on site, helping consumers compare to reach these car buyers.
We have also service functions, integrating them together, and choose.
These innovations have innovated the format of the advertising we and implemented a new Challenger sales improved the value we provide to consumers.
offer, including native adverts on mobile model across the organisation, which we platforms, and have combined these with a believe will help us deliver the strategic Part-exchange is the most efficient way data driven targeting solution powered by a consultancy relationship we strive for with for retailers to acquire stock.
Our research new data management platform, allowing our retailer customers.
2 shows that 81% of consumers said they vehicle manufacturers to put their brand in would be more likely to consider partfront of the most relevant consumers at every The commitment and enthusiasm of our people exchange if they could get a trusted price stage in the car buying journey.
This, coupled are vital to our continued success, and 97% online for their car before turning up at the with our new branded content solutions and of employees have said that they would 4 dealership.
In order for us to help our retailers advertising formats, provides acompelling recommend Auto Trader as an employer.
win in the marketplace and ultimately make proposition for manufacturers.
the industry more transparent and more Outlook efficient, we launched a new part-exchange We focus on assisting media agencies to drive The new financial year has started well.
Over 60% of all classified better return on investment for their clients Based upon having the largest consumer retailer adverts now feature the partfrom their marketing and on helping to improve audience, healthy relationships with our exchange tool.
the effectiveness of their retailer relationships.
retailers, a robust car buying market, and a modest cost base decrease, the Board is Consumers conducted 13.7million valuations confident of further growth in the coming year.
on AutoTrader during the year, an increase of 38% from the previous year, receiving a real time retail value for their car.
There were also Trevor Mather 30.1 million trade valuations conducted 2015: Chief Executive 23.8 million as we focus on embedding the 9 June 2016 insight we have into valuations across the marketplace, so they become the benchmark for both consumers and retailers.
2 Auto Traders Market Report research surveyed 5,000 consumers in December 2015.
3 Auto Traders Annual Buyer Behaviour Report 2016 in conjunction with GfK.
4 According to Glassdoor, the UKs fastest growing jobs and recruiting site.
16 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
