AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chief Executives Q&A RICHARD LONGDON DISCUSSES THE CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES THAT LIE AHEAD, THE KEY ROLE THAT INNOVATION PLAYS IN THE BUSINESS AND HOW CUSTOMERS CAN EXPECT TO BENEFIT FROM AVEVAS INVESTMENT IN THE CLOUD Could you discuss some of the We are on a journey with all of our key challenges facing AVEVAs customers to help them to realise the customers today and how value of their Digital Assets our vision technology can help?
isthat for every physical asset there ought to be a digital representation.
For The only real constant in the these customers, the execution of major industries we serve is change, engineering projects requires hundreds and this presents a major of decisions large and small every challenge for our Engineering, day.
Thousands more are required in Procurement and Construction EPC the subsequent decades of operation, and Owner Operator OO customers.
maintenance, modification and end of In the design phase of a project where life.
Throughout all of this, accurate and our 3D tools are used extensively, for timely decisions depend on the quality, example AVEVA E3D, customers are completeness and accessibility of the having to adapt all the time to deliver information that forms the Digital Asset.
assets faster and at a lower cost.
Later on, This, in essence, is the ultimate challenge with the commissioning and operation that AVEVA is helping customers to meet of the project, ensuring the optimum every day.
Consistent data is the key, performance of the asset through and it is very much in AVEVAs DNA.
maintaining accurate data is a highly complex task, and this is where AVEVAs information management and laser modelling software can be very beneficial.
06 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS One of the major themes AVEVA is a diverse across the software industry international business: at the moment is cloud whatare the challenges computing and the Software youcurrently face as an as a Service SaaS delivery organisation?
How do you see AVEVAs customers After a period of substantial approaching these new growth, driven in a large part paradigms and what do you bythe strength of the various think the benefits might be?
end-markets in which our customers operate, we are now very AVEVA is extremely well focused on ensuring that we operate placed, from a technical as efficiently as possible as a business.
standpoint, to offer all of its This means that we continually have products via the cloud over the to question whether we are allocating course of the next few years and, indeed, our resources in the most effective AVEVA E3D is already cloud-enabled.
manner in order to capitalise on the huge Ibelieve that customers currently have opportunities that lieahead, as we grow valid concerns over data security, but into new markets, deliver new innovations that these will ultimately be resolved to our customers and adapt to new ways sufficiently for broad industry adoption of selling and delivering our products.
The efficiencies for Sometimes thismeans that we need to customers will be dramatic, with ontake difficult decisions as we manage demand access to software, low setup and the costs across our global operations.
running costs and unparalleled flexibility.
Looking at the 2015 16 year Could you give us an idea of under review, what do you the strategic areas of focus for consider to have been the AVEVA at the moment and realhighlights for the where we should be expecting business and were there Can you talk about the to see the Company invest anydisappointments?
roleofinnovation at AVEVA andwhy it is so important?
One of the most important We have a very clearly defined tests for our business has In my view innovation is set of strategic goals and been to demonstrate the so our investment plans are mission-critical role that our the lifeblood of AVEVA.
As an organisation we have entirely focused on enabling engineering software tools play within our the business to deliver against these customers day-to-day activities, and that, invested over 170 million in R&D over the past five years and it is targets.
Specifically, we plan to invest even during some of the toughest endmore in transitioning our business to market conditions many will remember, central to our strategy to continue this pace of investment in the future.
As a becoming the leading provider of the we can deliver a resilient financial result.
Digital Asset via the cloud.
We are focused I believe that this is something we have key partner to our customers, we are constantly devising new capabilities and on developing our business into new been able to demonstrate, which is very markets where we are currently underencouraging and is a particular highlight functionality that will enable ever-greater efficiency and competitive advantage.
represented and we shall continue to when I consider these results.
There expand our presence beyond engineering are always aspects of the business that It is no accident that AVEVA has a considerable lead over the competition design and into operations.
We shall also we wish had performed better, and continue to broaden the range of solutions we have been disappointed with the from a technology standpoint: this has been achieved through a consistent we offer to customers, expanding our sharp slowdown we have seen in Latin reach within their organisations to create America, mainly due to external factors focus over the lifetime of our Company.
even greater efficiencies through tight relating particularly to Brazil.
Having data integration between applications.
said that, we remain committed to the region which we expect will prove to present very exciting opportunities for AVEVA over the longer term.
