AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chief Executives strategic review OUR BUSINESS REMAINS STRONGLY POSITIONED IN ITSMARKETS, WITH FUNDAMENTAL DRIVERS THAT ARE EXPECTED TO SUPPORT SUSTAINED GROWTH OVER THELONG TERM AVEVA has made good progress on a number of important fronts during theyear.
Richard Longdon Chief Executive Officer The business environment Summary Our software is used by customers as they For the financial year 2015 16 AVEVA design, build and operate large capitalachieved reported revenue of 201.5 intensive assets, mainly in the process, million 2015 208.7 million and Recurring revenue 76% power and marine industries.
We sell adjusted profit before tax of 51.2 our solutions principally to Engineering million 2015 62.1 million.
Excluding Procurement and Construction EPC the contribution from acquisitions and companies, shipyards and Owner negative currency effects, revenue was Operator OO customers worldwide.
204.4 million 2015 207.6 million, Our vision of a constantly evolving in line with the Boards expectations.
Digital Asset is enabling our customers to manage this process of continual Regionally, we saw an improved change as they design, build and operate performance in the Asia Pacific region, some of the worlds most complicated with growth in China offset somewhat assets.
Increasingly, our customers by the pressures on our South Korean are looking to deploy a combination shipyard customers that resulted in a of our products and this, reinforced by flat performance in North East Asia.
our strategically focused One AVEVA The Americas region as a whole was sales effort, is driving wider adoption of affected by ongoing weakness in Latin the entire AVEVA product portfolio.
America, principally Brazil, and flat underlying revenues in North America.
Among the principal long-term drivers We saw a steady performance in the Recurring of historical revenue growth for AVEVA EMEA region, despite the mixed market revenue has been the growing complexity of conditions facing our customers.
the engineering challenges that our customers are required to undertake within ever-shrinking time schedules, 154m 18 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63.4m c. 10% 5% growth in Annual fees in organic, of revenue in the year from constant currency terms AVEVA E3D represent up to a third of total revenue in which necessitates an increasing is key to driving customer adoption of a investment in upfront engineering time, with AVEVA Engineering acting as broader set of AVEVA solutions over time.
a key driver of this adoption.
Our flagship design and hence drives demand for In areas such as UK infrastructure projects, our software applications.
This has new design platform, AVEVA E3D, almost where our unique approach to information doubled its revenue in the first half of the been a feature in all of our markets, but management has been proven over many in particular in Oil & Gas, representing financial year, and we saw this growth rate years in the process industries, AVEVA has accelerate in the second half as various around 40% of revenue, where AVEVA established a foothold in the BIM space.
has a competitive edge in the most market trends increasingly play to the strengths of key areas of functionality complex of all design environments: Market fundamentals and our positioning upstream, offshore and deep water.
such as laser modelling for brownfield Our business remains strongly positioned engineering, which meets the demands in its markets, with fundamental drivers In recent times, global shifts in the supply of our EPC customers as they seek out that are expected to support sustained more revamp, retrofit and life extension and demand balance for Oil & Gas have growth over the long term.
Despite the led to a well-documented reduction in projects.
AVEVA E3D contributed just near-term effects of a weaker oil price, under 10% of total revenue in the year capital expenditure on new projects.
the projected increase in energy usage This has particularly affected our ability to March 2016 2015 less than 5%.
from a growing global population, in to grow the revenue we derive from addition to the requirement to upgrade, customers who have a high exposure The proven quality of AVEVAs technology replace and extend the lifetime of continues to provide customers with to offshore and deep-water Oil & Gas ageing existing assets, indicates that projects.
Among those most noticeably business-critical capabilities, enabling significant infrastructure investment them to enhance their competitive affected have been our shipyard will be necessary in order to meet customers in North East Asia, who had advantage.
This continues to underpin demand.
The International Energy the strong customer relationships we previously been major beneficiaries of Authority IEA estimates that by 2040 the significant investment in offshore Oil enjoy as well as our recurring revenue world energy demand will increase by base, both of which have been pivotal in & Gas, and our EPC customers who are one-third, with the net growth driven heavily involved in the design phase of helping to offset challenging markets.
Consequently, we have the same period, Chinas net oil imports seen some customers reducing their When we look to understand the general are forecast to be nearly five times direction of our markets our global usage of our software over the past that of the United States, and Indias year and this has been evident in the accounts business is an important will easily exceed that of the European bellwether, representing many of our reduction in total Group revenue and the Union with an estimated 600 million new related negative impact on profits that largest customers and contributing electricity consumers Source: World approximately 20% to annual Group we have reported for this financial year.
Energy Outlook, IEA November 2015. revenue.
We have been encouraged by the trends we saw during the year amongst We have responded to these changes in Power therefore offers very attractive our markets by rapidly shifting our focus to these customers, where we witnessed growth opportunities over the increased usage of our new software expanding our presence in areas where we long-term as the worlds emerging have historically been under-represented solutions in onshore and downstream, economies invest in their power as well as in the adjacent market of as well as pushing into adjacent markets.
generation requirements and the ageing This has included a push into the Building Information Modelling BIM infrastructure of the developed world and fabrication markets.
This helped downstream and onshore areas of Oil & is maintained and replaced.
Our global Gas and an increased focus on building partially offset reduced usage of our 3D presence leaves us well positioned to products in specific accounts.
In particular, on our presence in Petrochemicals & capitalise on these opportunities.
Chemicals, Food & Beverage and Mining & we were encouraged to see increased Metals.
In addition, we have increased our adoption of AVEVAs engineering data Within our Marine segment, the sales focus on higher growth regions such management solutions, helping us to shipbuilding market remains depressed as India and China, where the market for displace competitor products with AVEVA given subdued demand and overcapacity power-related infrastructure is expected to Engineering, AVEVA NET and AVEVA in the world fleet.
The market is affected show strong growth over the long term.
by trends in global GDP and a general slowdown in global trade combined with We have continued to invest in innovation The AVEVA engineering data management an economic slowdown in emerging over the past several years, and as a solution spans all industry sectors and markets, particularly the leading global consequence of this we are seeing strong is currently being deployed on all major importer, China.
There are some areas growth in sales of additional products continents within our EPC global account where we see growth, for example in into our installed base.
Indeed, engineering data naval shipbuilding in China and India, but schematics applications, which currently management is a clear driving force in our the overall macro picture is expected to represent less than 10% but could More than 3D MT3D campaign, which remain challenging.
Whilst a number of 19 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chief Executives strategic review CONTINUED Increasing our revenue from OOs North American OO based in North our major shipyard customers have been successful in diversifying their businesses The OO market represents a significant Dakota, in this case through the roll opportunity for AVEVA to grow.
With out of AVEVA Diagrams to support into offshore projects over the past five years, their pipelines for this activity many plants today operating far beyond its mechanical integrity operations.
their intended lifetime, the pressure have seen a sharp slowdown since 2014, affected in particular by the boom in is on owners to keep these ageing Increasing solution sales through our assets running which presents OOs MT3D initiative North Americas shale Oil & Gas market.
with important challenges as they seek We see a major market opportunity to comply with ever more stringent in leveraging our 3D installed base by In times of uncertainty, we are keenly focused on supporting our customers as environmental and safety legislation, selling additional engineering software whilst maximising profits through tools, outside of AVEVAs core 3D design they seek to become more efficient and adapt to the fast changing environment.
minimising downtime and unplanned platforms, AVEVA E3D and PDMS.
For this reason, OOs often of the strongest areas of revenue growth This was clearly evident at our annual customer event, the AVEVA World exert influence over an EPCs choice within our business over the past year has of engineering software tools, as they been in MT3D, which include schematics, Summit, held in Dubai in October 2015.
With over 330 delegates from 45 recognise the value of this design data laser modelling and AVEVA Bocad in operations.
As a result, OOs are amongst other applications.
In particular, countries, we heard from customers from across the worlds Process, Plant, Power particularly interested in areas such as we believe the cross-selling opportunity our laser modelling capabilities contained for schematics and laser modelling is and Marine industries as they shared their project and operational experiences, in AVEVA E3D, as well as our Integrated substantial.
Our MT3D focus, backed Engineering & Design solutions.
by strong sales incentives, is already explaining how AVEVA technology is helping them to address technical delivering results as we expand our Operators do not always have the skills or product footprint within our key accounts.
resources to maintain their Digital Assets and AVEVA is increasingly working with Broadening our market exposure Among the key themes of the Summit this year was engineering decision-support and partners, providing a managed service Our technology delivers efficiency gains offering to keep data current and accurate resulting from tight data integration we unveiled our new asset visualisation product, AVEVA Engage, and showcased for the asset in question.
We saw a good and is a principal driver leading to an illustration of how AVEVA can solve this increasing number of EPC and OO the powerful Design in Context capabilities of the latest release of AVEVA E3D.
As part problem for customers during the year customers choosing to standardise on with a new customer, DowAksa, a leading AVEVA technology.
AVEVAs solutions of the continuing evolution of the AVEVA Digital Asset offering, customers were global OO in the provision of industrial are designed to help customers eliminate carbon fibre for the transportation, errors in construction and thus reduce also able to familiarise themselves with our latest laser-modelling technologies, energy and infrastructure markets, who expensive rework later in the project has chosen to standardise on AVEVA phase.
Another key determinant of the introducing the unique capabilities of the AVEVA Trusted Living Pointcloud.
Integrated Engineering & Design in customers decision to invest in AVEVA order to increase its overall control technology is their need to cope with Progress towards our key strategic goals and management of all of its assets.
AVEVA has a clear strategy to grow its business over the long term, supported Many of our OO customers are witnessing Furthermore, our solutions enable the a growing risk to asset reliability and maintenance of accurate and reliable by achievable medium-term goals.
As part of that objective, we have made compliance that can result from the information, which is increasingly a difficulties inherent in maintaining key regulatory requirement in all the good progress on a number of important fronts during the year, in particular in the accuracy of the information they industries our customers serve.
Thus, hold about the assets they own and through the deployment of AVEVA the following key strategic areas: operate.
Simply attempting to stay technology our customers are able abreast of the constant change in this to maintain a competitive edge in the 1 increasing our revenue from OOs 2 increasing solution sales through our information can lead to significant markets in which they are operating.
MT3D initiative inefficiencies and increase the risk of 3 broadening our market exposure costly errors in the field.
During the 4 further developing our Software as period we were able to demonstrate the aService SaaS solutions value that AVEVA technology can offer in solving this problem for a leading 20 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE THAN 3D WE SEE A MAJOR OPPORTUNITY INLEVERAGING OUR 3D INSTALLED BASE BY SELLING ADDITIONAL ENGINEERING SOFTWARE TOOLS Brodosplit Shipyard in Croatia Our Fabricators business also delivered These factors, and the extensive capabilities of our solutions themselves, implemented an AVEVA Integrated strong growth during the period.
This Shipbuilding solution, optimising the business incorporates AVEVA Bocad and are clearly relevant to a broader set of end-markets than Oil & Gas, Power and design of both vessels and offshore assets the recently acquired FabTrol, offering an as well as materials management and end-to-end solution for steel detailing and Marine, where we are well represented.
Hence, one of our key strategic initiatives production across the entire shipyard.
steel fabrication management, production One of the largest power EPCs in the control and shipping.
The FabTrol is to expand into areas of the process industries in which we have little or Middle East selected AVEVA Integrated acquisition, completed in June 2015, has Engineering & Design package, replacing already begun to raise awareness of AVEVA no penetration, as well as adjacent markets where appropriate.
We closed an Bocad in the North American market, important standardisation deal with a recently underpinned by significantly of the following customer examples serve to illustrate the progress we large Russian EPC and a major water upgraded functionality that we expect to services customer commenced full support future development in the region.
made during the year on this front.
migration to AVEVA E3D, having been a PDMS customer for a number of years.
Finally, providing further evidence of In the Paper & Pulp industry, we saw a strategically important customer in Latin our determination to move into new We saw an encouraging number of new industry segments, we were pleased to America begin its migration from PDMS to AVEVA E3D, as a means of eliminating customers adopt AVEVA NET to meet their deliver an integrated design and workflow information management requirements, management solution, as the first stage the problem of data inconsistency in the revision of complex drawings, where regulatory compliance is a key of an eventual standardisation strategy, consideration and driver behind the to one of the largest global suppliers which had previously been done using third-party tools unconnected to the investment decision.
These included a of technology into the food processing global chemical company, a major nuclear industry, where AVEVA software tools 3D model and, hence, prone to error.
fusion research facility in France and are now being deployed to develop and two major South Korean EPCs.
AVEVA design production plants for the dairy, In the Power market, a leading global EPC chose to deploy AVEVAs Integrated NET has also gone into production at a beverage, brewery, food, pharmaceutical Norwegian integrated oil major, which and chemical processing markets.
Engineering & Design solutions, including AVEVA E3D, replacing a legacy system includes the first deployment of the AVEVA Activity Visualisation Platform in order to benefit from increased efficiency within its engineering AVEVA AVP.
This is an example of a customer choosing to use the 3D model disciplines and in order to streamline purchasing and production workloads as the portal for navigation as they access data held in AVEVA NET, a trend which and replacing an inefficient legacy system.
Key to this decision was the we expect to drive further convergence of these technologies.
Encouragingly, ability for AVEVAs solutions to reduce rework in construction and improve the progress in our AVEVA NET business has now reached a level of maturity efficiency of the approvals process.
where we can look to build additional scale through a partner approach rather Eliminating errors in construction, and thus reducing costly rework in both than through further investment in our internal service organisation.
greenfield and brownfield projects, led one of the leading EPCs operating in the Russian Petrochemical market to become a customer for the first time, replacing a legacy competitor solution.
Again, in Russia, we saw one of the countrys largest petrochemical and gas processing EPCs extend its deployment of AVEVA technology to include a number of new products including AVEVA E3D, in order to cope efficiently with projects of greater scale and complexity.
21 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chief Executives strategic review CONTINUED Outlook It is a testament to the dedication of Further developing our Software as a Service SaaS solutions The result for the year has highlighted all of our employees around the world the strength of the AVEVA business that we have been able to deliver a solid We expect that over time the SaaS delivery model will become more model, the value that our technology result in difficult markets alongside delivers to our customers and our ability the implementation of significant valuable to our customers, particularly as it enables them to leverage the many to adapt to changing market conditions cost savings during 2015 16.
As a through a disciplined approach to result, AVEVA is in a stronger position efficiencies and benefits offered by cloud computing.
AVEVA has a strong technical innovation and organisational efficiency.
today, both from a technology and an organisational perspective, than ever proposition and is well positioned, through partnerships with the industryAVEVAs Digital Asset approach is proving before.
Our business remains well to be transformational for our EPC and capitalised and we intend to continue to leading cloud infrastructure platform providers, for the eventual SaaS delivery OO customers as we help them to bolster our organic growth with selective focus on profitability, lean engineering acquisitions over time, adding new of our solutions.
Indeed, AVEVA has led the industry with AVEVA Global disciplines, operational efficiencies and product capabilities and accelerating regulatory compliance in information access to new markets as a result.
which has allowed customers to move projects around the globe to enable 24 management.
We have continued to invest in our technology vision and Whilst we recognise the challenges in hour collaborative working on projects.
are particularly encouraged to see the our markets, we are focused on the concept resonating strongly with our opportunities that lie ahead of us both We were very encouraged during the year by the uptake for our on-demand AVEVA customers, many of whom have placed strategically and operationally and, with the Digital Asset at the heart of their these in mind, the Board is confident that E3D environment AVEVA Experience, with over 1,000 customers already technology vision.
The Digital Asset offers we can achieve our targets in the current our customers a means of building a financial year and over the medium term.
trialling the cloud version of AVEVA E3D, where existing and prospective users substantial business opportunity around the entire lifecycle of the asset, which of our design software can gain handsRichard Longdon on experience with the fully-functional we expect to increase in importance for Chief Executive Officer both EPCs and OOs over the long term.
AVEVA E3D platform, via the cloud, 24 May 2016 and we have some well-established As we manage our business through the hosted deployments of AVEVA NET.
We believe that over the long term cycle we are focused on ensuring the most efficient allocation of resources, these solutions will gain strong traction, but there are a number of challenges optimising our investment in future opportunities.
As a consequence, in the for the industry to overcome before wider adoption becomes the norm.
second half of the year we undertook some additional cost saving initiatives, Some years ago we saw the majority achieved at a one-off exceptional cost of approximately 4.5 million, part of of the market move from initial licences to rental licences and to which has been recognised in the year.
We believe that our organisation is a SaaS hybrid of token licensing.
The next transition will be towards now well positioned to deliver further progress against our key strategic greater use of SaaS and off premise services and software: as we make this initiatives, despite the difficult end-market backdrop we are currently experiencing.
technology shift there will be additional opportunities for AVEVA enabling us to offer a broader set of solutions.
