Group Chief Executive Ofcers interview 06 Turning Aviva into a 320 year old disruptor MARK WILSON Group Chief Executive officer How would you describe 2016?
There were plenty of highlights during the Q year.
We delivered the integration benets By any standards 2016 was a year of of Friends Life a year ahead of schedule MW global uncertainty with a few and secured run rate synergies of 270 political surprises.
Avivas results however million - in excess of our 225 million are simple and clear cut: more operating target.
We also acquired RBC General profit, more capital, more cash, more Insurance which will increase our scale and dividend.
broaden our distribution in Canada.
And in Avivas results reect the considerable Hong Kong were reinventing insurance for progress weve made in recent years.
the digital age with our new joint venture Operating profits are up, our balance sheet with Hillhouse Capital, a leading is now a key point of strength, and our investment management rm, and results are reected in the total dividend Tencent, the worlds fourth largest internet which increased by 12% to 23.30 pence.
Together were going to disrupt We enjoy a clear strategic advantage the market.
as a composite insurer providing We also note the surprise decision on customers with a wide range of insurance the Ogden discount rate which we believe and savings products from car, home and is not sustainable in the long term.
The UK health insurance to pensions and Government has announced a consultation investments.
to review the methodology behind the rate Were taking a leadership position in and we hope that common sense will digital insurance and this is our future.
That said, we recognised the full the UK, all of our customer systems now impact of the minus 0.75% rate as an talk to each other.
Thats no mean feat and exceptional item in our 2016 results gives us a big advantage in how we serve outside of our operating profit measure.
customers in a simple and transparent way.
This does not affect our dividend policy.
We have completed the x phase of We await a fuller Government review to our transformation and we are now ascertain what the rate will be.
moving to the growth phase, redening our business model and our relationship TR ANSFORMING AVIVA: THE NEXT PHASE with our customers as we become a 320 year old digital disruptor.
Over the past three years we have optional or incidental.
They crystallise Talk us through the numbers for Q transformed Aviva.
We have xed the how we are going to leave behind 2016?
balance sheet and turned around the anything that holds us back, by killing The numbers speak for themselves.
As we now complexity and making sure the MW Aviva is building a track record of enter the growth phase of our customer is at the heart of our delivery and growth.
For the third year in a transformation, we have a clear thinking.
row we have grown operating profits, up strategy to deliver that growth.
And In addition to the cultural change 12% and further strengthened the balance we are going to accelerate how we we have also addressed how Aviva is sheet.
Fund management delivered a deliver that strategy.
Well do so by structured to deliver the best of Aviva break-out year with strong positive net recognising that strategy alone is just to our customers, simply and ows and profits up 30%.
To go faster and further, conveniently.
Were structuring grew profits by 7% and 10% respectively, we need the right culture, the right ourselves so they deal with just one and Canada grew by 26%.
Our priorities are to Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Group Chief Executive Ofcers interview 07 DIGITAL C APABILIT Y We have two enviable advantages: our brand and customer base.
But to become the successful digital disruptor that we want to be, we need much more than excellent insurance and finance people.
We also need data scientists, innovators, entrepreneurs and start-up magicians.
Over the past two years, weve recruited some of the worlds best digital talent - stars from the online gaming, technology and entertainment sectors: customer experience gurus, passionate designers and world-class app-developers.
They have joined us because they want to break the mould and help us disrupt the market.
Whether its the established digital experts weve attracted to Aviva or the graduates and apprentices who are choosing Aviva as the launch pad for their digital careers, this new talent is helping to drive a rapid cultural shift to a Digital First mindset across Aviva.
Whatever their background, our digital people have a real passion for delivering excellent customer experience and are choosing to be part of an organisation that is disrupting its industry.
1 continue to deepen our position in our Insurance, responsible for Avivas home UK market and to continue insurance operations in Canada, France, growing in our core international Ireland, Spain, Italy, Poland, Turkey and markets in order to diversify and India.
Chris Wei remains Executive strengthen Aviva.
Chairman of Asia & FPI and Global In 2017, we announced that we are Chairman of Aviva Digital and Euan bringing together our UK insurance Munro remains CEO of Aviva Investors.
businesses life insurance, general This new structure better reects our insurance and health insurance under focus on meeting our customers needs Andy Briggs, who becomes CEO UK and is reected in how we report on our 1 Insurance.
We have also strengthened performance in this report.
Scan to see Mark Wilson our international focus, with Maurice talking about 1 Subject to regulatory approval.
Tulloch becoming CEO International ourperformance Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Group chief Executive officers interview continued 08 strategic lens that we make decisions around capital to simplify, strengthen and grow the business.
For example, weve reallocated capital by selling our Irish health business and weve announced the sale of Antarius, our joint venture with SocGen in France.
And weve invested for growth through our exciting new partnership with Tencent and Hillhouse, and through our deal with RBC General Insurance in Canada.
Avivas financial position has been EfforTLESS cuSTomEr ExpErIEncE transformed and an unmistakably stronger balance sheet and excess capital gives Aviva options.
We will invest further to Being a True Customer questions again and thinking.
Customers grow our businesses and we are now Composite means we again.
Our customers are more likely to buy actively planning a capital return to our can build deeper want us to save them additional products shareholders and a debt reduction in 2017. relationships with time as well as money.
with us because we customers.
MyAviva So our plan is to ask know them better and What will you be focusing on in gives us the right tool customers questions can meet their needs Q 2017?
to deliver what they once.
Whats our We are focused on delivering expect, a simple and systems in place, we long-term goal?
To go mW consistent growth year after year.
effortless digital can use data more from Ask it Once to 2017 is no exception.
We aim to grow experience whatever intelligently, to offer a Ask it Never so profits and increase our dividend payout theyre buying.
pre-underwritten and customers dont have Nothing is more pre-approved quote.
to answer any ratio to 50% of operating earnings per annoying than being Its a fundamentally questions at all.
With our high quality franchises and asked the same different way of strong balance sheet, we enter the year with optimism.
We will keep transforming our business for the digital age, to make it simple and 2 operating profit up 12% to How important is digital?
To do this, Q we will continue to transform our culture.
Leading with digital is how we will Weve made great strides.
78% of our mW 3,010m maximise our competitive advantage people believe, understand and agree with 1 as a composite insurer.
But I want us to have the 2015: 2,688 million customers increasingly want to deal with mentality and agility of a start-up us.
Aviva was born in an age of quills and combined with the prudence, risk cash remittances up 20% to parchment 320 years ago.
Now digital is management and discipline of an fundamental to our future.
With the right do must be through a digital lens.
culture, we can fundamentally change the 1,805m We are rapidly increasing the number world of insurance.
2015: 1,507 million of customers on MyAviva in the UK, doubling to 4.7 million.
Q Digital registrations up97% to The insurance industry is ripe for disruption.
Aviva must be the worlds To our shareholders, I say Avivas mW oldest digital disruptor.
Were a long way strong financial position, resilience 7.5m from where I know we need to be.
But and diversity mean we are well insulated 2015: 3.8 million now lets see how far and fast we can from external events.
in our ability to deliver on our key final dividend per share commitments of cash flow and growth.
Whats your approach to capital To our people, I say thank you.
But Im 15.88p As Ive said before, I see capital relying on you to do a whole lot more.
mW 2015: 14.05 pence allocation in Aviva as a competitive 2017 is going to be a year of change sport.
And were going to carry on being exciting, innovative change.
absolutely ruthless in how we allocate it, And to our customers, I say thank you investing where we will get the best for putting your trust in us.
You are the returns and stopping things where we reason were in business.
We are here to wont be clear winners.
Not everything in help you defy uncertainty in this uncertain the garden is rosy and we will continue to world.
take action to address areas which do not meet our exacting expectations.
We think of our markets in terms of oaks which deliver solid growth and sustainable cash: as acorns, which promise fast future growth and apple mark Wilson trees, which we will simplify, restructure, Group Chief Executive Officer focus and improve.
It is through this 8 March 2017 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Strategic report Group Chief Executive Ofcers interview continued 09 DELIVERING ON A CLEAR PLAN OF ACTION Financial Strategic Cultural Cash ow plus growth True Customer Composite Care More Dividend Digital First Kill Complexity Strong balance sheet Not Everywhere Never Rest Create Legacy For our key metrics, we have: For our customers, we have: For our people, we have: ` Increased operating profit by ` Added around 30% more ` Continued to build a culture 1 2 12% to 3,010 million.
products to MyAviva in the UK where we consider our Operating earnings per share during 2016 customers in every decision 1 2 increased 3% to 51.1p ` Campaigned for our customers ` Launched the GROW portal to ` Increased cash remittances to e. g. tackling motor fraud help our people develop new Group by 20% to 1,805 million skills In Digital, we have: ` Increased total dividend per ` Created an environment which ` Opened digital garages in share by 12% to 23.30 pence attracts and retains talented, Poland and Canada, alongside committed, entrepreneurial ` Delivered a strong Solvency II our existing ones in London and people capital position with a Solvency Singapore 3 II cover ratio of 189% up 9ppts For society, we have: ` Agreed a new digital insurance For the acquisition of Friends joint venture in Hong Kong ` Continued to lead the debate Life, we have: with Hillhouse and Tencent and take action on sustainable finance and the risk of climate ` Delivered the integration Not Everywhere: change benets a year ahead of ` Sold our Ireland Health business schedule ` Supported 1,600 community and announced the sale of projects ` Secured run rate synergies of Antarius in France 270 million in excess of our ` Launched Aviva Financial 225 million target Advisers in Singapore ` Diversied and strengthened distribution with the RBC General Insurance acquisition in Canada ` Target mid-single digit increase in ` Build and deepen engagement ` Further develop our leaders across operating profit over the medium with our customers by increasing Aviva through greater innovation, term registrations on MyAviva agility and accountability ` Aim to deliver 7 billion of cash ` Disrupt in digital to do more for ` Build a culture where we consider remittances between 2016-2018 ourcustomers our customers in every decision ` Focus on achieving a 50% dividend ` Continue to campaign for whats ` Develop an inclusive workforce pay out ratio in 2017 important to our customers thatreects the diversity of ourcustomers ` Target a Solvency II cover ratio ` Continue to reallocate capital to working range of between focus on what we do best and ` Extend the Aviva Community Fund 150%180% drive higher returns to more countries and continue towards our target of helping 2.5 million beneciaries through our projects by 2020 1 Prior period comparatives have been restated.
Refer to note 1 on page 154 for further information.
2 The adverse impact of the change in the Ogden rate of 475 million is an exceptional item and therefore not recognised within operating profit.
Please refer to the CFO review on pages 64-65 for further information.
3 The estimated Solvency II cover ratio represents the shareholder view.
Refer to the Glossary for further information.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 WHAT WE PL AN TO DO WHAT WE ACHIEVED
