Chief Executives review Sustained growth clear visibility Babcock had another successful year in 2016, continuing our track record of delivery.
Our financial results show sustained growth in underlying revenue, operating profit and earnings per share, demonstrating the effectiveness of ourstrategy and thequality of ouroperations.
Peter Rogers CBE With noacquisitions made during the Chief Executive year, our growth was primarily organic, reflecting new contract awards, the expansion of scope within existing contracts and the renewal of contracts with enhanced scope and capability.
This organic growth demonstrates the strength and stability of our portfolio and our ability to create value for our shareholders.
We have continued to build upon our track record of consistently delivering growth through strong underlying performance, and have demonstrated our resilience to the macro risk created by political uncertainties, global austerity and commodity headwinds.
Our deep technical expertise and focus on building long-term relationships with our customers has enabled us to provide Order book additional support and services to meet 1 4 their developing needs.
We ended the year well positioned for future growth in our markets both in the UK and internationally and with clear visibility of our future revenue streams provided by our 20 billion order book of signed contracts and 10.5 billion bidding pipeline, which we have this year 2 2016 replenished with 5.8 billion of 1.
Support Services 33% In addition to delivering for our customers 3 4. International 10% and shareholders, this year has also been one of positioning for the future.
This is the second year following our acquisition Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 20 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 of Avincis now Mission Critical Services MCS.
The business has now become fully integrated into the Group and is contributing skills and expertise that we believe willhelp us capture future opportunities internationally.
The rebranding of MCS local business, which is now underway, is a visible sign of that integration, demonstrating that MCS is part of a Group with the strength and stability of a FTSE 100 organisation with a long history of being trusted to deliver the complex and critical services on which our customers rely.
We have created an International Committee, chaired by the CEO of our International division, Bill Tame, and attended by all our divisional CEOs and our Group Finance Director, which meets every month to discuss and review the opportunities we see in each targeted country and the resources that are needed to win them.
We want to make sure that each opportunity is properly coordinated across the Group, leveraging the knowledge and experience of each of the divisions to support our local teams in building new Babcock business overseas.
I said at the time of the acquisition that it would take us around three years to gain traction in new territories, particularly with governments and Babcock and STEM Inaddition to our commitment to the public sector, before we were able STEM we are proud to sponsor the to announce new contracts.
Our new In the last year, we havecampaigned UK Armed Forces and our reservists.
international business development for Science, Technology, Engineering We are committed to the Total Support managers have been diligently working and Maths STEM engagement with Force and have signed the Corporate to identify opportunities which draw upon schools and colleges local to the Covenant, a voluntary pledge from our existing expertise, and I am delighted divisions, facilitated by volunteer organisations who wish to demonstrate to be able to announce a few early Babcock STEM ambassadors who their support for the Armed Forces successes including a five-year contract deliver innovative outreach activities community.
We actively recruit service to provide airport support services for including after-school clubs and leavers and reservists.
We support our Alitalia at Rome Fiumicino Airport.
workshopsdesigned to encourage employees, including providing paid And the additional capability MCS and enthuse young people.
time off for training, through our brought to the Group has proved We have received a number of SaBRErecognised Reserve Forces policy.
valuablein the UK, helping our Defence accolades and recognition for our The commitment, signed in 2013, and Security division to secure a contract work from bodies such as Women is reinforced with a reservists to provide forward maintenance and in Science and Engineering WISE, conference, held every year to engineering support for the Royal Navys STEMNET and EEF Manufacturers further explain the support available helicopter fleet.
To date, the programme to both employees and their managers In addition, in Oman, we have agreed a has identified more than 300 Babcock to fulfil their important role.
Memorandum of Understanding which STEM ambassadors and delivered more should lead to a joint venture with the than 200 outreach events, with plans Oman Drydock Company to develop a to increase these numbers significantly Read more about support facility in Duqm which would be in 2016.
Sustainability able to support the UK, Omani and other on page 56 international navies, and in Australia Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 21 Chief Executives review our50 50 joint venture NSM has entered a new alliance which will extend our role in supporting the ANZAC Class frigates 8% 6% forup to 16 years.
Finally, in Japan, Organic Organic operating Cavendish Nuclear signed an agreement revenuegrowth profit growth with Hitachi-GE to collaborateon .
at constant at constant exchangerates exchangerates A trusted partner Overall our major markets remain positive, as our customers continue to look for alternative ways of delivering the critical services for which they are responsible more efficiently.
However, whilst cost remains a key factor in any decision to outsource, for many of our customers in both the public and private sectors, Governments commitment to meet This year saw us maintain high standards availability and reliability of service is the NATO pledge to spend 2% of Gross of service in our Army training contracts, evenmore important.
The services Domestic Product on defence annually.
including winning two City & Guilds Lions our customers are responsible for Italso guaranteed a real increase in the awards for our performance at the Royal whether it is fighting fires, or providing defence budget every year, and increased School of Military Engineering, complete a continuous-at-sea defence, or the safe investment in the UKs security and the largest electrification project on the decommissioning of nuclear sites, or intelligence agencies and counterGreat Western Mainline for 40 years training the next generation of engineers terrorism.
In fact Babcock was one of only and successfully begin the provision are vitally important.
We believe it is three private sector companies named in of helicopter emergency services to equally important, therefore, thatour the report, along with our two partners Ambulance Victoria for the Australian customerswork with a partner they in the Successor submarine programme.
Youwill see more detail on the SDSR and milestone was achieved when the its implications for us on pages 24 and 25, Cavendish Fluor Partnership submitted Ensuring we fully understand and are but we believe there is no doubt that the the consolidation phase of the Magnox focused on delivery is central to our review has improved our visibility of the decommissioning project.
strategy, business model and corporate requirement for through-life engineering culture.
Our record of operating in We have also benefited from significant support and training requirements for partnership with our customers to growth within existing contracts.
achieve operational efficiencies without The integration of the Defence Support compromising on performance provides Group DSG has progressed very well and, Order book and pipeline an excellent reference point for new as a result of all milestones being met in The order book has been maintained at customers.
This approach is critical to the first six months, our scope has been 20 billion since reaching that level at our ongoing business success and we increased to encompass additional the end of last financial year, having been believe market conditions are positivefor responsibility for the procurement of replenished by around 4.8 billion of the technical, complex and engineering spares and repairs earlier than initially contracts awarded during 2015 16. based outsourcing solutions we provide.
Our decommissioning contract This provides clear visibility of future We believe that the benefits delivered at Dounreay has also expanded, with revenues in the short and medium term, through our business model, the depth around 250 million Babcock share of with 78% of revenue already secured and breadth of our technical knowledge new work awarded during the period.
for 2016 17 and 53% for 2017 18. and expertise and our focus on meeting We have maintained a high contract We continue to make good progress on performance criteria which have made winrate of 70%, including rebids, in our the contracts already in our order book, us a trusted partner in the UK are Mission Critical Services MCS business, including successfully completing the first increasingly understood internationally.
winning 66 contracts and extensions, full year of activity under the 2.6 billion several of whichinclude an increase In the UK, our expectation of future Maritime Support Delivery Framework, of capability, for example an upgrade opportunities in the defence sector starting the first full life extension of helicopter types.
was reinforced by the publication of the programmes for the Vanguard Class of Strategic Defence and Security Review submarines and the Type 23 Frigates, 2015 SDSR in November.
Entitled and celebrating 100,000 flight hours at A Secure and Prosperous United our Helidax joint venture, a long-term Kingdom, the SDSR set out the contract with the French Defence NationalSecurity Strategy for the Ministry for army pilot training and comingfive years and confirmed the equipment support.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 22 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 During the year, we maintained our win have achieved together.
I am delighted to rate, achieving success in around over be succeeded by Archie Bethel, who has 40% of our bids for new contracts, and been an important member of our senior over 90% for renewals.
New contracts management team since joining the awarded include a five-year contract Group and has contributed immeasurably to deliver information and knowledge to our success to date.
management services in our Marine Archie has overseen the growth of our business: a 120 million work package on Marine andTechnology division whilst Canadian submarine HMCS Corner Brook: reinforcing our reputation of being a contract to engineer and construct an trustedto deliver increasingly complex and offshore substation for the Rampion wind critical engineering programmes.
His skills, farm: a c 0.5 billion contract Babcock Archie Bethel expertise and deep understanding of the share to provide fixed wing flight training Chief Operating Officer business make him the ideal person to and a c 0.4 billion contract Babcock drive Babcocks future growth in the share to provide rotary wing flight Introducing our Chief UK and internationally.
Archie will be training, for the Royal Air Force with our Operating Officer very well supported by his colleagues, partner Lockheed Martin: oiland gas crew Archie joined Babcock at Rosyth including new members of the Executive change services in the new geographies Dockyard in 2004 having spent Committee although not new to the of Ghana and Mozambique and three much of his earlier career in the oil Group Roger Hardy and John Howie.
major contracts for new line build won by and gas sector, both in the UK and Outlook our Transmission business in South Africa.
He also spent five We have won a number of competitively We believe we will continue to benefit years in economic development tendered contract renewals, most notably from high demand for our technical for Scottish Enterprise.
the Phoenix II contract to provide global expertise and our ability to deliver He became CEO of the newly created fleet management services to the MODs complex and critical programmes and Marine business now Marine and white non-armoured fleet of vehicles.
Our track record as a Technology in 2007, overseeing its trusted partner continues to support our Our bid pipeline has also remained stable development into the UKs leading move into new markets and geographies.
at around 10.5 billion 2015: 10.5 naval engineering support services billion.
Successful contract awards The strength of our order book business.
He led the divisions totalling around 3.9 billion which have continuesto provide clear visibility of expansion into Canada, Australia moved into the order book have been future revenues and, together with the andNew Zealand and its participation replaced with new opportunities which bidding pipeline, offers further prospects in major programmes in Spain and are currently in process.
The majority of for growth.
The Board therefore remains South Korea, and the successful bids in the pipeline continue to be new confident in the underlying performance expansion into adjacent sectors business, with rebids representing only of the Group and expects to achieve including oil and gas, offshore 30%.
The majority, 58%, represent further good progress this year renewables and commercial marine.
contracts with a total value of over andbeyond.
Archie served on the Council of 100million, reflecting the complexity CBIScotland, is a past President of ofthe contracts for which we compete.
Scottish Engineering and is currently The bid pipeline continues to be President of the Society of Maritime supported by a healthy tracking pipeline.
He is a keen supporter The tracking pipeline comprises prospects ofthe engineering profession that have yet to come to market and and isapast Vice President of includes a number of opportunities theInstitution of Mechanical Peter Rogers CBE where we are in active dialogue with our Engineers, a Fellow of the Royal Chief Executive customer to help formulate appropriate Academy of Engineering and a Fellow long-term support solutions.
We expect of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
these opportunities to deliver growth Archie is an alumni of the University of inthe medium to long-term.
Strathclyde where he serves as aLay Member of Court.
He was awarded Management changes an OBE in 1996 and a CBEin 2008.
The Chairman has outlined a number of changes to our executive team in Archie will assume position his statement on page 4, including my of ChiefExecutive after a retirement at the end of August 2016. full transitionin September This is a unique company staffed by great 2016, following Petersretirement.
people and I am very proud of what we Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 23
