BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 12 Chief Executives review A good year for BAE Systems.
Ian King Chief Executive 2016 performance The Eagle Passive Active Warning Survivability 2016 was a good year for System electronic warfare upgrade for US US BAE Systems.
The Company AirForce F-15 aircraft is progressing to its Following the two-year Bipartisan Budget engineering and manufacturing development Actsigned in 2015, the defence market hasperformed well despite phase.
The Advanced Precision Kill Weapon outlook in the US is improving with economic and political System APKWS laser-guided rocket is encouraging signs of a return to growth experiencing growing demand and, in indefence budgets.
We are also seeing uncertainties, delivering sales October, the US Navy awarded a three-year theramp upof production on a number and order backlog growth.
Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract ofthe Groupslong-term programmes.
Governments in our major Our US electronics business continued Performance in the commercial electronics toperform well, with strong programme markets continue to prioritise business continued to be good and our execution and good order intake enhancing defence and security with all-electric and hybrid power and propulsion positions in the high-technology areas business delivered growth.
ofelectronic warfare, electro-optics and strong demand for our Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance.
The Groups US-based combat vehicles business capabilities.
As a major supplier on the F-35 Lightning II is underpinned by the Armored Multi-Purpose combat aircraft programme, including the Vehicle and M109A7 self-propelled howitzer electronic warfare system, we are well contracts.
The business is also experiencing positioned on the progressive increases in USand international demand on amphibious production output planned over the coming programmes.
years to meet the requirements of US and international customers.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 13 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements The US land business delivered good export BAE Systems is a leading supplier of ship UK order intake in the period on the back of repairservices to the US Navy and continues Our UK-based business continued toperform contract awards on Assault Amphibious to adjust its workforce and facilities to meet well, benefiting from good programme Vehicles to Japan, BvS10 military vehicles to evolving demand.
Our San Diego operations execution and stability in customer Austria, CV90 combat vehicle upgrades for are expected to benefit from enhanced requirements following the UK Strategic Sweden, and M109 and M113 upgrades to Asia-Pacific deployment over the mid-term, Defence and Security Review in 2015.
Brazil, and our weapon systems business was mitigating the anticipated reduction in activity Whilst the result of the 2016 EU referendum awarded contracts for gun systems for the in the East Coast facilities.
Additional dry inthe UK continues to create economic Royal Navy Type 26 frigate.
The contract for dockcapacity for the San Diego operations uncertainty, good progress has been achieved M777 howitzers to India under a US Foreign became operational in February 2017. in implementing the Strategic Defence and MilitarySale was signed in January 2017.
Our US businesss commercial shipbuilding Security Review through long-term contract FNSS, the Turkish land systems business in contracts have been challenging in the year, awards and commitments.
which BAE Systems holds a 49% interest, with further charges taken.
Six ships have In the air domain, Typhoon aircraft deliveries secured further domestic and international nowbeen accepted and production of the for the Royal Air Force and Royal Saudi Air orders in the year, and the business holds remaining two is maturing well with delivery Force continued alongside airframe anorder book of $1.1bn 0.9bn.
and customer acceptance expected in 2017. sub-assembly deliveries to European partner The US business has not contracted for any These long-term contracts, which offer nations.
The Oman Typhoon programme is more commercial ship-build.
opportunities in international markets, ontrack to commence deliveries in 2017.
The andourstrong franchise in tracked vehicles Whilst market conditions remain highly contract to supply 28 Typhoon aircraft sets for make the land business well placed for a competitive and continue to evolve, our the Kuwaiti Air Force is consistent with the return to growth inthe medium term.
US-based Intelligence & Security business medium-term production planning assumptions hasperformed well, securing good 2016 announced last year.
We have received 1bn orderintake including a number of new of order intake on this programme.
Export activity continues to be well supported bythe UK government and, although there can be no certainty as to the timing of orders, Our strategy in action discussions with current and prospective Drive value and growth from our operators of the Typhoon aircraft continue defence platforms and services tosupport the Groups expectations for We are a key partner in the development, additional Typhoon contract awards.
F-35 Lightning II manufacture, integration and sustainment Typhoons capabilities continue to expand, of F-35 Lightning II, the worlds largest withthe ongoing integration of the Captor defence programme.
In 2016, we cemented global sustainment E-Scan radar, Storm Shadow, Meteor and our position as part of the emerging global Brimstone 2 missiles, and development sustainment network to support the aircraft.
towards the Royal Air Force Centurion In the US, we are the Electronic Warfare, standard.
A Typhoon support partnership Vehicle Management Computer and Active arrangement, expected to be worth at least Inceptor System provider.
In addition, we 2.1bn over a ten-year period, was signed arepart of the Integrated Test Force team, inJuly.
providing support activities, including fleet UK-based production of rear fuselage management, maintenance, repair and assemblies for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft overhaul, spares, software development isincreasing at the Groups advanced and support, and training.
manufacturing facilities with much of the In the UK, we will carry out maintenance production investment already in place to and upgrade services for avionics and achieve thehigher production volumes.
aircraft components, alongside our partners, In November, the F-35 Joint Programme as a European repair hub.
We are also Officeannounced that it had chosen the delivering engineering, management and UKand Australia as significant repair hubs training facilities in preparation for the forthe maintenance, repair, overhaul and arrival of the aircraft in the UK.
upgrade of F-35 Lightning II avionics and In Australia, we will be responsible for components.
These repair hub assignments airframe maintenance, repair, overhaul will support the growing global fleet until andupgrade in the South Pacific for 2025after which the UK and Australia will F-35Lightning II aircraft operating in the undertake repairs for the European and region from 2018.
We will also provide Pacificfleets, respectively.
BAE Systems plays maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade aleading role in both the UK and Australia as services for F-35 avionics and aircraft we bring our strong track record of working components working alongside our More online alongside our international customers and baesystems.
industry partners to deliver innovative and cost-effective sustainment solutions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 14 Chief Executives review continued A long-term Hawk support contract in the Our strategy in action UKwas announced in the year and support Continuously improve efficiency wasmaintained to the Indian Hawk and competitiveness programme with the supply of materiel BAE Systems has entered into a heads andengineering services.
Dreadnought ofterms with the UK Ministry of Defence The unmanned air systems activity benefited and Rolls-Royce to develop an alliance from the announcement by the UK and French todeliver the UKs four new ballistic Class submarine governments of a new 2bn 1.7bn project missile-carrying submarines.
Such an to build unmanned combat air system alliance structure would draw on best production demonstrators following a successful joint practice between government and feasibility study.
industry, with the aim of driving continuous improvement, efficiencies In Turkey, following a pre-contract study phase andprogramme performance.
between BAE Systems and Turkish Aerospace Industries, we have signed a heads of Following 1.3bn of funding from the agreement to collaborate on the first design UKgovernment, we started production and development phase of an indigenous on the first Dreadnought Class submarine, fifth-generation fighter jet for the Turkish Air Dreadnought, in September.
When on contract, this will have a value programme already employs more than in excess of 100m.
2,600 people across the Ministry of Defence and industry, including 1,800 In the maritime domain, submarine activity is atBAE Systems, and to date we have increasing with the Astute and Dreadnought Crown copyright worked with more than 100suppliers, Class submarines now both in production.
More online with 85% based in the UK.
Thefirst three Astute Class submarines are in baesystems.
com operational service with the Royal Navy and the remaining four boats in build.
The UK governments commitment to the Dreadnought programme was endorsed International In India, BAE Systems has a long-standing byParliament during the year.
Funding was In the 50th year of its presence in Saudi relationship with Hindustan Aeronautics received for the continued design, initial Arabia, BAE Systems continues to address Limited HAL.
Delivery of the second batch manufacture of the first boat, material current and potential new requirements as ofHAL-built Hawk aircraft was completed in commitment andfacilities investment for part of the long-standing agreements between the year and an order for a further batch from themajor redevelopment of the Barrow site.
the UK government and the Kingdom.
Our the Indian Air Force is being negotiated.
In-Kingdom Industrial Participation programme The Ministry of Defence, BAE Systems and In November, the US and Indian governments also continues apace.
Rolls-Royce have signed a heads of terms to set signed a Letter of Agreement for the Foreign up a Dreadnought Build Alliance documenting An agreement has been reached with the Military Sale of 145 M777 lightweight the UK government and industrys commitment Saudi Arabian government for BAE Systems howitzers and, in January 2017, we received to the delivery of the Dreadnought Class tocontinue to provide support services to the $542m 439m contract from the US submarine programme, the replacement for theRoyal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi government to supply these howitzers to the Royal Navys Vanguard Class submarine Naval Forces under the Saudi British Defence theIndian Army.
As previously announced, fleet, and setting out an organisational and Co-operation Programme for a further Mahindra & Mahindra will be our supplier managerial structure and series of commercial fiveyears.
toestablish an assembly, integration and principles necessary to deliver it.
testfacility in India as further support for On the Salam Typhoon programme, the theMake in India initiative.
The Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier remainingfour of the contracted 72 aircraft programme progresses with assembly of the will be delivered in 2017.
Deliveries have The MBDA joint venture won significant second ship well under way.
Preparations for commenced under the Hawk aircraft orderintake on air, maritime and land sea trials on the first of class vessel in 2017 contractsigned in 2012.
The Royal Saudi platforms in the year, including a number arematuring and activity to support entry AirForce has achieved high utilisation and ofcontracts supporting the UKs complex intoservice is expanding.
aircraft availability across its Typhoon, weapons requirements and significant Tornadoand training aircraft fleets.
Building on its already In preparation for the manufacturing largeorder book, good growth in MBDA phase, an extension to the Type 26 frigate In Australia, the business is stable.
The isexpected over the medium term.
demonstration phase contract was secured rationalisation of the Williamstown shipbuilding inMarch and, under a heads of terms signed facility and cost-reduction actions taken across inNovember, BAE Systems and the Ministry the wider business in 2015 are complete.
ofDefence reached agreement on the Long-term sustainment and upgrade contracts intention to build eight Type 26 ships on the were received for the Anzac Class frigates and Clyde, with a cut-steel date in summer 2017.
Two additional River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels were also contracted for in December.
Build ofthe first three Offshore Patrol Vessels is progressing well, with sea trials for the first ship planned in the second quarter of 2017.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 15 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Cyber security Responsible business Applied Intelligence achieved double-digit We continue to build a culture where order intake and sales growth.
Ongoing oursenior leaders and employees are investment in engineering capabilities, empoweredto make the right decisions productdevelopment and marketing costs, andtoknow where to go for help.
During allexpensed, continues to support the future 2016, we rolled out further ethics training growth profile for the business.
Cyber security is becoming an important part The safety of our employees, and anybody of government security anda core element of who works on, or visits, our sites, remains stewardship forcommercial enterprises.
We provide training and tools toemployees to help them understand the Balance sheet and capital allocation importance of a safe workplace.
There was The Groups balance sheet is managed a21% reduction in the Recordable Accident conservatively in line with its policy to retain its Rate in 2016, representing an improvement investment grade credit rating and to ensure against target.
In addition, there was a 26% operating flexibility.
Consistent with this reduction in the total number of major injuries approach, the Group expects to continue to recorded in the year as we continued to focus meet its pension obligations, invest in research on reducing risk and embedding safety culture and technology and other organic investment to drive improvement.
opportunities, and plans to pay dividends in Attracting and retaining talented employees line with its policy of long-term sustainable helps us to sustain our competitive edge.
cover of around two times underlying earnings Weencourage our employees to reach their and to make accelerated returns of capital to full potential within a diverse and inclusive shareholders when the balance sheet allows.
We have programmes in Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions place across the business to support strategic willbe considered where market conditions workforce planning, career development are right and where they deliver on the andretention, as well as to improve diversity Groups strategy.
Pension schemes Summary The Groups share of the pre-tax accounting Our business benefits from a large order net pension deficit has increased by 1.6bn backlog, with established positions on from 31 December 2015 to 6.1bn mainly long-term programmes in the US, UK, reflecting an increase in liabilities due to a SaudiArabia and Australia.
Our clear and 1.2percentage point reduction in the real well-defined strategy has guided us through discount rate to 0.5% in the UK, partly aperiod of difficult market conditions.
offsetby returns on scheme assets.
Astheoverall business environment in The next UK triennial funding reviews will ourmajormarkets improves and through commence in April 2017 and, in conjunction execution of our strategy, we arewell with the trustees of the schemes and other placedto maximise opportunities, deal with stakeholders, the Group will be looking the challenges and continue to generate atvarious options with a focus on the  returns.
Ian King Chief Executive P16 Group strategic framework
