04 Group Chief Executives review Transforming the business The Groups results for 2016 demonstrate that the fundamental changes made under Build to Last are driving positive and sustainable improvements.
Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 05 The decisions and actions taken under Build The Groups results for 2016 demonstrate to Last were often, in themselves, simple and that the fundamental changes made straightforward.
However, taken early and under Build to Last are driving positive and in combination, they are now transforming sustainable improvements.
The introduction of new has returned to profit, while increasing both the value and the quality of its order book standardised disciplines has strengthened through disciplined bidding.
The 200 million governance and transparency.
The upgrade cash in and 100 million cost out targets in leadership and the Groups simplified have been delivered enabling the Board structure, with shared back office functions, to reinstate the dividend as promised and have enabled the business units to focus on were significantly exceeded by the end of their core markets while benefiting from a Phase One.
Stronger finance and IT systems have helped drive leaner The Build to Last transformation programme management of cash and spending, and launched at the start of 2015 addresses better project visibility.
Overall, the ability to Balfour Beattys performance with all forecast, manage and control performance stakeholders customers and suppliers, has been greatly enhanced and customer employees and subcontractors, investors and satisfaction has risen significantly.
Targets were set against four unified culture is beginning to develop, with objectives: building a business which is Lean, increased collaboration starting to leverage Expert, Trusted and Safe.
The first phase a the Groups strengths.
24-month self-help plan has just delivered its goals, tackling the root causes of previous Strategically, this provides the framework poor performance in order to provide a strong for the Group to enter its second two-year platform for future profitable growth.
phase of Build to Last with confidence.
In each business we will build carefully on In UK construction, the Group met its yearthe positive trajectory to date.
The Group end target, with 90% of the legacy projects will apply appropriate criteria to invest in having reached practical completion and over people and capabilities of our Construction 70% having reached financial completion.
Services and Support Services businesses Importantly, the UK construction business to grow earnings, and in the assets of our reported an underlying profit from operations Investments portfolio to grow overall returns.
in the second half of the year.
In this way the Group intends to drive value, By 2014 Balfour Beatty had become overly achieving industry-standard margins by the complex following more than a decade of end of 2018 and thereafter market-leading acquisition-led forced growth.
There was performance in its third phase of Build to Last.
an overall lack of leadership and strategic direction.
Operationally, project bidding and delivery lacked standard processes and internal systems and controls were weak with little focus on cash management.
A federated culture had resulted in layers of unnecessary Leo Quinn cost and a tendency for elements of the Group Chief Executive business to compete with one another.
Inevitably, performance had deteriorated not only financially but in terms of customer and employee satisfaction.
