4 Strategic Report Q&A with Group Chief Executive Q&A with Group Chief Executive Q.
Has BBA Aviations business model strategy changed post We have been effective over Landmark and the ASIG disposal?
a number of years in executing A.
We have been effective over a number of years in executing our strategy of building leadership positions in aviation our strategy of building service and aftermarket businesses that show good underlying growth, where we can create or enhance barriers to entry, that leadership positions in aviation generate cash and deliver sustainable returns well in excess service and aftermarket of our cost of capital.
This was particularly true in 2016.
The acquisition of Landmark Aviation materially extended and businesses that show good enhanced our network of high-quality and global FBO locations, underlying growth, where we through which we can deliver Signatures industry-leading service offering and operational excellence to a broader range can create or enhance barriers of customers at significantly more of the places in the world that to entry, that generate they want to fly to.
We also have a greater focus on B&GA and on higher value-added, better IP-protected, strong ROIC and cash and deliver sustainable cash-generative businesses.
From here, the impact of having an FBO network that is so much larger and in customer-relevant returns well in excess of our locations, gives us ample opportunity for further expansion, not cost of capital just by continuing to add new locations, but also through the provision of a broader range of B&GA services to our extensive Simon Pryce customer base.
And, by using our unique knowledge of, and Group Chief Executive relationship with, our customers we can optimise the nature of the services they receive and the way we deliver them to reduce their total cost of flying.
The decision to sell ASIG was triggered by interest we received towards the end of 2015 and highlights our focus on value creation: others saw more long-term value in ASIG than we felt we could generate in the foreseeable future.
The combination of ASIG and Menzies creates an enhanced global leader in the provision of commercial aviation services offering greater benefits to customers and to the ASIG team that has left BBA Aviation.
Going forward, our strategy and business model remain the same focusing on the customer, driving innovation in quality and type of service, leveraging knowledge and skills across the Group, increasing our value-added activities and continued financial discipline.
5 Strategic Report Q&A with Group Chief Executive Q.
Tell us about the Landmark integration any surprises, Q.
As CEO you have a lot of responsibilities.
What keeps you good or bad?
Acquiring and integrating 62 FBOs at once was no small feat and A. I worry about safety.
Airports, particularly ramp-side, can be took the focused efforts of a significant number of our dedicated dangerous places used by people and vehicles that may have and highly capable team: but there really were no surprises.
We a different attitude to safety than we do.
This is why we place knew most of the FBOs well and had been monitoring them for such emphasis on good safety practices and everyone taking a number of years.
We also had the opportunity to do extensive responsibility for themselves and for others around them.
But due diligence prior to completion.
The Carlyle Group were also we have the right processes in place and a great team working good stewards of Landmark and had enhanced the underlying at all levels of the organisation, so I am confident that we are quality of the FBO estate through investing in lease extensions doing the right things to mitigate that risk and that we can and development projects.
meet the high standards we have set.
Nevertheless, combining the two businesses has allowed us I worry about our people, who continue to work hard and achieve to reduce the combined cost base by $39 million of annualised extraordinary things despite the sometimes challenging and synergies from 2017 and we are very excited about the uncertain environment.
In recent years, we have placed even opportunity to enhance our relationship with all our customers greater focus on development programmes and training for and bring them the full range of our much broader service offering everyone in the organisation to expand individual capabilities across a significantly larger global network of high-quality FBOs.
and give people the tools needed to reach their potential.
I also worry about a lot of other little things.
Can you see opportunities for further transformational deals?
of our business model is such that it can cope with any shocks, A.
The cash-generative nature of BBA Aviation, as our track record economic or otherwise.
We are in a strong financial position, demonstrates, means we have plenty of capacity to continue we are very cash generative with low operational gearing: we investing where we see opportunities for business expansion, are not reliant on any one customer, supplier or technology and improvement and value creation.
the business is in great shape and has an exciting future.
Specifically, while it is unlikely that we will find something of a similar scale to Landmark, at least in the near future, well Q.
Of what are you most proud this year?
continue to review and pursue opportunities to expand the A. I am exceptionally proud of the performance of our people.
Signature network as and when they arise, whether in the It is amazing looking back and seeing what our organisation USA or elsewhere.
Well also continue to look for incremental and individuals within it have achieved since we announced investments and acquisitions to enhance Ontics licence the Landmark transaction in September 2015. portfolio and, more broadly, will continue to deploy capital The Landmark deal has significantly expanded the size of across the Group where we see the opportunity to generate Signature and we completed the integration within 12 months, good risk-adjusted returns.
realising synergies in excess of those identified at the outset of the transaction.
We successfully sold the six Landmark FBOs Q.
Why are BBA Aviations Values so important?
required by the U. S. Department of Justice and have added A.
Our Vision, Mission and Values further Signature locations across the world.
ASIG was our largest provide focus and direction for the organisation, and guide each of business in terms of employees and we worked extremely hard us every day in our personal and business interactions.
They were to ensure for them a smooth transition to John Menzies plc.
introduced in 2007 and they havent materially changed in that Ontic has significantly grown its portfolio, most recently with time.
They have been effective in driving strategy and the very the GE Avionics acquisition, and ERO is in the final stages of this strong performance we have delivered, despite the challenging phase of its footprint optimisation programme, as it moves repair environments we have sometimes faced, and they remain very activities out of Forest Park and into its new state-of-the-art relevant going forward.
facility at Dallas Fort Worth.
We also reached a further milestone at the beginning of 2017 with the formation of Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft Management which is one of the largest aircraft management and charter businesses in the world.
Id like to thank everyone at BBA Aviation for their hard work in 2016, a year that has been truly transformational for the Group and of which our whole organisation can be proud.
6 6 Strategic Report Q&A with Group Chief Executive Signatures new 7,500sq ft hangar at London Luton Airport The cash-generative nature of BBA Aviation, as our track record demonstrates, means we have plenty of capacity to continue investing where we see opportunities for business expansion, improvement and value creation 7
