Chief underwriting officers report Neil Maidment Chief underwriting officer Balanced portfolio delivers astrong underwriting result.
The table below shows our retention We also focused on expanding our cyber We are pleased to have achieved rates by division compared to 2015. offerings outside the US and we see good another strong underwriting growth potential in other markets, 1 Retention rates 2016 2015 result in 2016, delivering a particularly in Europe.
Our healthcare team Life, accident & health 79% 92% combined ratio of 89% 2015: 87% was another which performed well during Marine 87% 84% 2016 and in March, we were delighted despite the competitive pressures Political risks & to welcome a new team focusing on small contingency 80% 72% experienced in recent years and mid-sized medical malpractice Property 81% 78% continuing in 2016.
Our business outside the US.
Looking forward, Reinsurance 85% 85% underwriting result again Specialty lines 84% 84% we are also excited by our plans for our Overall 83% 83% non-US specialty lines offerings to include benefited from a relatively financial institution insurance, focusing 1 Based on premiums due for renewal in each benign claims environment, initially on mainland Europe.
whilewe were also able to growour gross premiums Our life, accident and health division We would generally expect some level recorded a loss of $3.9m in 2016 2015: writtenby 6% to $2,195.6m of volatility at individual division level: profit of $0.4m driven by losses in our however we are pleased that our overall 2015: $2,080.9m.
Australian business and a relatively high premium retention rate remains broadly cost base in the US as we continue to in line with our five year average.
Rating environment work towards growing our business Premium rates on renewal business across across the country.
We have taken Divisional commentary our portfolio as a whole fell by an average positive steps in 2016 to continue Specialty lines wrote gross premiums of of 2% during 2016 2015: a decrease of to re-shape our portfolio, particularly $1,159.8m in 2016 2015: $1,015.2m, 2%.
Specialty lines, our largest division, in Australia where one of our larger representing an increase of 14% over the saw rates increase by 1% year on year.
superannuation policies was not renewed, prior year.
As in recent years, much of In all other divisions, rating pressure saw while increasing our focus on smaller scale our growth has been achieved through a decrease in rates charged on renewal personal accident risks.
In the US, we our underwriters located in the US and business compared to 2015, with rates are working to optimise our sales and by focusing on small and mid-sized risks dropping by 2% in life, accident and health, distribution capabilities so that we can across many of our product lines such 7% in marine, 6% in political risks & take better advantage of the demand for as cyber, healthcare, environmental contingency, 4% in property and 4% our products and grow across the country.
Our property division delivered another We continue to see strong demand for our profitable underwriting result in 2016, Premium retention rates cyber products and in April, we were happy achieving a combined ratio of 87% Retention of business from existing to start to offer large scale cyber risk 2015: 84% on gross premiums written brokers and clients continues to be a key solutions in partnership with Munich Re.
Market feature of Beazleys strategy.
It enables conditions continue to be challenging, us to develop a deeper understanding of particularly in respect of large risks, our clients businesses and requirements, with rates on renewal business falling affording greater insight into the risks by 4% year on year for the division as involved in each policy we write and a whole 2015: reduction of 4%.
enabling us to price risk sustainably.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Against the backdrop of this difficult Cumulative renewal rate changes since 2008 % trading environment, we are adapting Rate change our underwriting strategy to focus on 115 segmenting our portfolio and giving 110 105 increasing focus to small and mid-sized 100 risks.
We executed this strategy in 2016 95 by achieving growth in our high value 90 85 homeowner portfolio in the US, and our 80 75 fine arts and specie business in London.
08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Our diverse portfolio helps us to offset Underwriting year some of the more competitive conditions Life, accident & health Reinsurance we see in the large risk arena, particularly Marine Specialty lines Political risks & contingency All divisions in the open market book written in London.
Property The market conditions experienced by our underwriters in our reinsurance division were predominantly the same as those While profitable growth was difficult to We anticipate that the trading environment faced by our property team.
While rates achieve for our marine team as a whole in currently encountered will remain broadly fell by 4% year on year, the team was aided 2016, we are working hard to ensure that unchanged throughout 2017. by lower than average catastrophe activity we are well placed to grow in the future and achieved a combined ratio of 65% when the opportunity is right.
We have At Beazley we will continue to prioritise 2015: 57%.
We have seen indications expanded some of our smaller teams while value creation for our shareholders that the severe rate decreases experienced pulling back in some of the larger risk areas and clients through our underwriting.
since 2013 may be levelling out, however where competition appears to be greatest, As we move through 2017, we will the trading environment is likely to remain and we were also delighted to purchase continue to focus on the balanced difficult throughout 2017 due to the high Leviathan, a long-standing Lloyds underwriting approach which has aided level of capital having entered the market, coverholder focusing on subsea risks.
us in delivering a strong performance attracted by the returns generated in the over the past 12 months.
reinsurance sector in recent years.
In 2016, our political risks and contingency division delivered another Our diverse portfolio gives us the ability to Our marine division experienced similarly pleasing result, delivering a combined exercise discipline in areas where margins challenging market conditions as rating ratio of 75% 2015: 76%.
The division are under the most pressure, while pressure, particularly in the more traditional saw contrasting levels of competition simultaneously pushing forward in areas marine classes such as energy and war, throughout its book both in terms of such as specialty lines where we see the drove a drop in gross premiums written products and, as we continue to expand best opportunities for profitable growth.
While our This emphasis on disciplined underwriting We are seeing some macro-economic terrorism book experienced significant across a wide range of products and drivers of lower demand and rates such rating pressure, other parts of the locations will remain the cornerstone as the relatively low price of oil, as well portfolio such as contingency were of our underwriting strategy throughout as geopolitical drivers such as reductions able to maintain relatively stable pricing.
the next 12 months and beyond.
in the areas of the worlds seas which Our underwriting approach in such are designated as war areas.
Despite circumstances includes constantly these challenges, we demonstrated our challenging ourselves that the Neil Maidment commitment to profitable underwriting over composition and split of our overall Chief underwriting officer premium growth by focusing on writing risks portfolio is appropriate and ensuring which we felt were appropriately priced.
that considerable time is spent on 2 February 2017 Our strong performance in this area is risk selection.
best exemplified by our combined ratio of 90%, which although higher than 2015 Outlook represents a strong return in a highly The insurance market continues to be competitive market environment.
impacted by an oversupply of capital.
This oversupply, particularly in short tail lines of business such as marine and reinsurance, has meant that 2016 has been another year where most trading divisions within Beazley have found competitive pressures to be strong.
