Q&A with the chief executive Andrew Horton Chief executive Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2017.
The direction of the US economy in sectors of the US economy, including Q H as the change in domicile 2016 was positive for our business healthcare and technology, that have implemented in April 2016 our locally underwritten business grew been growing fastest.
We expect this delivered the expected benefits?
We expect this to growth to continue.
Wasnt it a mistake to have continue into 2017.
As insurers we moved to the UK just before tend to favour a Goldilocks economy We look frequently at the headroom theBrexit vote?
with moderate growth, of the kind we we have to continue growing in our have recently seen.
The good news for A Our return to the UK has delivered our specialty lines underwriters is that exactly the benefits we anticipated Rising interest rates, which the Federal they have plenty of headroom to grow and we would have made the same Reserve has signalled for 2017, have further.
To take just one example, decision, regardless of Brexit.
In a short term negative impact on our we wrote $36m more environmental practical terms it would, we believed, investment returns as our bonds are business in 2016 than in the previous be easier to manage the group from marked to market, but longer term year, but the teams total premium was London, where the bulk of our the impact is clearly positive.
Theres a great deal business continues to be transacted.
more profitable business to play for.
However we kept our internal reinsurance Q S pecialty lines has been growing company, Beazley Re dac, in Dublin Q Y ou formed a partnership with as a proportion of your overall with the intention of using this as a Munich Re to write large cyber business.
Why is that and do vehicle to develop further European business in 2016.
How important business, subject to regulatory yousee limits to that growth?
approval from the Central Bank do you think partnering with A Demand for the professional of Ireland CBI.
Our application other insurers and reinsurers indemnity and management liability to convert Beazley Re dac from a willbe to Beazley in the future?
lines of business that we class as reinsurance company to an insurance specialty lines has been growing A We see partnerships of this kind playing company was submitted to the CBI last steadily, particularly among smaller an important role in Beazleys future.
November and now we will be working companies.
Demand has been Our first one was forged with Korean Re with them to answer any questions growing even faster for data breach in 2015 and we are pleased with the they have, with the aim of obtaining and other cyber insurance protections, results to date.
We have sent, so far, approval in the first half of this year.
which is another area of focus for the three of our underwriters to spend specialty lines division.
time with Korean Re in Seoul and gain insights into that market, the seventh Q H ow important is the direction T he drivers of increasing demand are largest for non life insurance in Asia.
of the US economy to Beazleys varied.
We see no evidence that the We see many of our specialist business?
US is becoming a less litigious society, products holding appeal for Korean while regulatory risk is growing.
A Very important 65% of our premiums buyers, but the reality is that it is not derive from US risks.
We see attractive In some other markets, such as the a market we know well and broker UK, people are also becoming more growth opportunities in other parts penetration is not deep.
As explained on pages 8 of the world and will continue to with the countrys biggest reinsurer to 11 we have been quite successful develop them, but the US market brings us relationships and local in developing business in those will continue to be key for many credibility that it would take decades of our London underwriters as for us to develop on our own.
well as our US underwriters.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The relationship with Munich Re is of D istribution is critical at this end Q You have talked about increasing longer duration they have reinsured of the market and we will also be pressure on margins for a Beazley, and supported our growth, expanding our ability to write risks number of years but Beazley has over many years.
However, we think through managing general agencies continued to produce combined we have a unique opportunity in the known at Lloyds as coverholders ratios of 90% or better.
When cyber space to combine Munich Res which can write business on a will this change?
emerging risks expertise particularly delegated authority basis, within strict in the manufacturing sector with our underwriting guidelines.
The small A The margin pressures in our industry data breach experience.
We are working business unit within our property have definitely increased and this has with the Corporate Insurance Partner division has pursued such a strategy contributed to the recent consolidation unit of Munich Re, which was very successfully for many years.
we have seen among competitors and established for just this type their withdrawal from lines of business of venture, and we are writing risks where they no longer feel they can Q W hat progress has been made together on a coinsurance, rather make money.
At Beazley we have than a reinsurance, basis.
this year in enhancing the enjoyed a greater degree of flexibility than some others because of the efficiency of the London market diversity of our book, which enables We are very open to developing other, through the Target Operating us to be quite nimble in focusing on similar opportunities, either with Model initiative?
This is not existing partners or with new partners.
are you about Londons future?
an accident it reflects well on both In 2017 we launched a new business A T he idea behind the London Target our strategy and the skills of our unit within specialty lines, Beazley Operating Model is to have more underwriters.
However if rates Product Solutions, to identify and efficient processing supported by continue to erode for large parts of develop such opportunities.
our overall book, we cannot maintain electronic data capture for all stages current margins indefinitely.
The other of the journey taken by a piece of part of the equation is of course business, from placement, through Q B eazley has seen far more claims experience, which continued claims, to renewal.
This year saw the growth in small and mid sized to be relatively benign in most of our launch of a key part of the model, business in recent years, lines in 2016: a return to more normal Placing Platform Limited or PPL, particularly in the US, than levels would also depress margins.
which brokers are now using to inlarge risks.
Do you see this We will, once again, do our utmost submit risks to London market continuing and what are you in 2017 to maintain underwriting insurers electronically and enable doing to increase Beazleys margins but it will, once again, risk data to flow through into their appeal to small businesses?
Fifteen brokers and 68 insurers, including Beazley, are now A Large risk business has always tended using the platform.
Since the system to be more volatile than small risk Q Rate pressure in the marine went live, more than 1,000 risks have business.
Part of our rationale in andenergy markets has been been placed electronically, reflecting establishing a local presence in the particularly intense in recent the value of the initiative and the US was to win a larger share of small years.
Do you see signs of this strong collaborative relationships that risk business to balance our large risk abating?
portfolio and help us ride out periods of competition for large risks.
That A Not in the near term.
The Lloyds strategy has worked well for us market is a bellwether for both these in recent years.
lines of business and we have not seen capacity withdrawn by syndicates that, We are taking a number of steps to in most cases, have experienced higher build on our existing attractions for loss ratios than we have.
There is small business clients.
Many of these some evidence that global trade is clients like to buy insurance on a picking up, which should have positive package basis, with multiple lines effects for the marine market, but we written together, and we will be are not expecting that to give our expanding our ability to offer package marine business a lift in 2017.
As we policies in Europe and the US.
explain on page 4, Clive Washbourn However our goal in doing this is and his team have taken steps in recent clear we think our specialist years to diversify the marine divisions products, such as our data breach book: marine hull and energy risks cover, can help differentiate our together accounted for approximately package policies.
We are not keen 70% of the account in 2009: they now to write more commoditised account for less than 45%.
This has business for its own sake.
reduced the margin erosion we have suffered but not eliminated it altogether.
