Chief executives statement Andrew Horton Chief executive Our balanced portfolio was a key factor in achieving both growth and a strong combined ratio.
Prior year reserve releases amounted  Beazley prospered in 2016, to $180.7m 2015: $176.3m.
to hire experienced, locally knowledgeable generating a profit before income underwriters, and in London in July tax of $293.2m 2015: $284.0m At year end we had 495 full time we announced plans to expand our on gross premiums that rose by employeesintheUS, including138 international non-US specialtylines underwriters,  business through the arrival of a team 6% to $2,195.6m 2015: $2,080.9m.
six divisions the exception being marine.
At89% our combined ratio was We have good geographic coverage in line with our performance through11offices, includingsixhub Europe will be a major focus for the inrecent years, despite more officesNewYork, Chicago, San specialty lines international team, Francisco, Los Angeles, Atlanta and with business underwritten both at the challenging underwriting Dallas where multiple underwriting  conditions for many lines teams are located.
Theteam, whichisexpectedto ofbusiness and ratedeclines markets, such as non-standard grow in the months ahead, will also be thataveraged 2%across commercial property risks underwritten targeting new business opportunities on a surplus lines basis or environmental .
liability business, we have ample room to grow.
Our specialty lines underwriters We see London continuing to play a key role Our strong broker relationships and have successfully targeted major growth in the provision of tailored cover for large established position in a diverse range industries such as technology and and complex risks, including in Europe, of business lines and geographies healthcare, offering clients and the notwithstanding uncertainty caused by  brokers who serve them customised  opportunities as margins come under and often highly innovative insurance EuropeanUnion EU inJune.
Westrongly pressure in certain areas.
Our growth strategy for , we have seen in recent years continued specialty lines business is described which has been seeking to ensure that in 2016: large risk, catastrophe exposed in more detail on pages 8 to 11.  business, which we mainly underwrite to transact business throughout Europe out of London, saw further rate declines,  .
whereas rates for smaller liability business , when However,  heldfirm.
  to establish an insurance company within business mainly comprising small a strong reputation for the company theEU.
 professional liability, management liability as a market for large scale professional  and cyber risks accordingly grew  Beazley Re dac, our long established Irish strongly, by 20% to $695.7m.
We continued reinsurance vehicle, to a direct insurance to build on these very strong foundations company for this purpose.
We also took important steps to increase our presence in other geographies.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Although we expect London to remain the Claims activity Risk management preeminent wholesale and reinsurance As noted, claims continued to be As we help our clients manage and marketforlargerisks, theprofitabilityof subdued by historic standards in 2016. mitigate their risks, we are also mindful of this business will remain highly sensitive The insurance market experienced the risks that have the potential to imperil to the incidence of catastrophe claims, what may be regarded as a near miss .
Our dipping when claims hit the market but  risk management team, led by our chief reboundingthereafter.
Since2011, we progressed up the eastern seaboard as , helpedus have seen an unusually calm period in a category three storm but only made  this regard.
This has been accompanied landfall, inSouthCarolina, asacategory to a number of such risks in 2016. , muchofit one storm with 75 mph winds.
Earlier fromUSpensionfunds, thathasnot initscourse,   historically been heavily deployed to destructive hurricane, causing massive participationintheEU, theteam support insurance and reinsurance lossoflifeinHaiti, thepoorestcountry conducted a detailed analysis of the business.
The combined effect of these in the western hemisphere.
Estimated  developments has been to drive rates  anovote.
Inbroadterms, weconsider  currently stand at between $2.5bn and   $8.0bn and we do not expect claims for in the event of the now much-discussed London underwriters specialise.
In 2016, Beazley to be material.
 we saw reinsurance rates fall by 4%, while our competitors, due largely to our strong large commercial property rates declined focusontheUSmarket.
Howeverweare Investment performance by 6% and energy rates by 13%.
not immune to exchange rate and asset Our investment portfolio as a whole risk volatility as negotiations proceed.
This is an temptation for insurers is to chase In the cyber arena, we continue excellent result when considered against premium rates down in the hope that to monitor aggregation risk closely a background of low and volatile yields,  through the analysis of realistic disaster  underpriced business.
This bet may scenarios, with new scenarios being year.
Our move to insource more decision have paid off in 2016 although an uptick developed for this fast moving area.
takingtoourCIO, StuartSimpson, and in claims in the second half of the year The risk management team is also his team is working well.
Following the    but we do not see it as a sustainable team to ensure that capital is available inNovember, theteamtookactionto approach.
We have preferred instead to support the growth opportunities that  to walk away from underpriced business.
we see opening up for our specialty lines income investments and this helped In this way, we have seen our energy division in the international market.
protect our return as yields subsequently account, written within our marine rose.
Earlier in the year we added to our division, shrink by 65% from its peak of corporate debt investments, improving Find out more pages 52 to 57 $125.2m in 2012 to $44.3m last year, the yield of our portfolio whilst accepting while our reinsurance business also a modest increase in credit risk.
This contracted albeit to a smaller degree change has improved our return in 2016. down 4% from $221.6m in 2013 to Our capital growth investments have also $213.4m last year.
made a good contribution, with all asset classes recording positive returns: our illiquid credit investments, in particular, .
More details of our investment strategy are shown on page 42. www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 17 Chief executives statement continued  Growth through partnerships Investing in our business the success of a specialist insurer such  In building the talent base of our company as Beazley that aspires to be an innovator we began to explore more fully in 2016 for the future, we aim to look beyond and must therefore be able to price risks was the establishment of partnerships underwriting cycles.
Recent market that often lack a long-established claims with other insurers that have strong conditions have not favoured all of our history.
However, manyotherskillsare distribution capabilities and a powerful competitors and, as a result, some have also critical to our success and we brand in markets that are attractive to merged while others have withdrawn from continued in 2016 to invest heavily in us.
 business lines that remain attractive to the diverse talent we will need to grow began in 2015, when we launched a us.
This  ambitions in our target markets have included the Beazley board, to which,  meanwhile found Beazley an attractive, as the chairman describes in his letter market while expanding our distribution and welcoming, employer.
We hired on page 71, we welcomed three new  63 underwriters across our six divisions non-executive directors with extensive Asian markets.
 JohnSauerland, ChristineLaSalaand  ,  negotiated in 2016 further the growth but we have also acquired a number of the year.
aspirations of our cyber underwriters.
of teams with a strong track record In April we announced a partnership .
InMarch, Talented individuals are a necessary  in London, we welcomed a team focusing   onsmallandmidsized SME medical in our markets and we continued to invest .
, in 2016 in technologies that improve our    withGNPSeguros, oneofthelargest strong reputation.
This is particularly insurersinMexico, toofferdatabreach important in the market for small and mid .
Twomonthslater, inMay, weannounced sized risks, where we see increasing Also through similar ventures in the the acquisition of the Leviathan facility, demand for our specialist products, both  a London-based managing general intheUSandEurope.
Brokerscanafford of our market-leading data breach agency with two decades of experience to spend very little time on individual risks product, Beazley Breach Response.
underwriting subsea risks, including that generate modest brokerage and our remotely operated vehicles, seismic priority is to work closely with them to We see partnerships of this kind playing streamers for surveying the sea-bed, offer beautifully designed products that an increasing role in helping us harness submarines and diving equipment.
 growth opportunities around the world.
to understand and to explain.
For many years now, we have offered Our preference at Beazley is for organic other insurers the opportunity to embed growth, supplemented by small scale Beazley specialty lines products in their bolt-on acquisitions that are own product ranges through reinsurance complementary to our existing business.
provided by our specialty treaty team.
Both the transactions we completed Late last year, we broadened this initiative, .
, to make any Beazley product available to other insurers in this manner.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements As a leading participant in the London Outlook market, we at Beazley are also aware   on equity we had seen in previous years ease of doing business can often only would prove unsustainable if market be achieved by the market working in conditions continued to deteriorate.
That is why we have been strong That deterioration has occurred but,  thanks to the composition of our risk operating model, designed to deliver portfolio and strong investment returns,  we have been able to offset declining electronic data capture of all stages of rates in some areas with continued the journey taken by a piece of business, .
from placement, through claims, to renewal.
This large and complex initiative At the risk of being accused of crying wolf, made encouraging progress in 2016.
I will once again predict margin declines when and it is a matter of when, not if Service claims return to more normal levels.
 The consolation for Beazley is that clients has always been an important the underwriting discipline we have differentiator for Beazley and is something maintained for short tail, catastrophe wemonitorclosely.
Weintensifiedthese exposed business should cushion the efforts in 2016 with a large scale survey, impact of major claims when they occur.
to which nearly 2,800 individual brokers around the world responded.
It is easy to talk about our business, and in particular the operation of We were pleased to receive, overall, the insurance cycle, in a somewhat very high ratings from brokers for mechanistic, impersonalway.
However, the responsiveness and expertise  of our underwriting and claims teams.
energies of 1,144 dedicated and skilled Willingness to recommend Beazley, employees, building on sound principles for both underwriting and claims, that have served the company well over was also very high.
three decades, as well as constantly seeking new ways to better address Canwedobetter?Ihavenodoubtthat clientsneeds.
One area we are investigating is are not words that are often used in the the scope to simplify our policy wordings, same sentence.
We believe they can and particularly for small scale business should be.
where the recipient of the policy is not an insurance professional well versed in industry jargon.
Andrew Horton Chief executive Beautifully designed insurance 2 February 2017 This desire to further improve our service was key to another new initiative in 2016.
Our market-leading cyber products exemplify our focus on carefully designed products and services that are tailored to .
We have sought to promote this focus through the launch of our new tagline: Beautifully designed insurance.
And in an industry that sometimes obscures its true value through its use of impenetrable jargon and over-lengthy policy wordings, we are exploring ways to make our products more accessible.
