Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chief Executive on strategy Building a strong platform for sustainable growth.
During 2016, we have made good progress implementing the Berendsen Excellence strategy, which launched in November 2015.
Whilst we have faced serious legacychallenges in our UK businesses, the strategy and work we are committed to will solve these challenges, and, especially through significant Our strategy and accelerated investmentin equipment and people, we will increase productivity, quality 4 1 andexpand our capacity so we Effective use of available capital Customer can better serve our customers focus and thereby grow our business, Berendsen protablyand sustainably.
Excellence BE James Drummond Chief Executive Officer 3 2 People effectiveness Operational excellence 08 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements In response, our plans have been reviewed and adapted: we have accelerated and increased the scope of the actions that will deliver stability in the UK, whilst also increasing the pace at which we are driving improvements across the whole organisation.
We are increasing our customer focus, we are investing more into the capabilities of our people, we have designed and tested new operating models for our UK businesses and we are accelerating and increasing the level of capital investment both in the UK and across Europe.
We have upgraded the quality and capabilities of the senior leadership team, who are committed to driving improvements in everything However, in the UK, margins in the we do right across the organisation.
Healthcare and Hospitality textile BE Most importantly, the need for change is Berendsen businesses have been under pressure recognised and supported by our people Excellence for several years.
The strategy review across the organisation.
recognised that the quality of the UK The Berendsen Excellence strategy is operations was not at the same level as Despite the problems we faced in the designed to improve the capability of our European operations.
Investment in UK, we have made good progress over our operations, improve the quality of the UK, in people, plant and machinery the last 12 months, with much already our services and provide a platform has lagged our operations in mainland achieved as a result of the enormous for sustainable growth, based on four Europe over a number of years, where contribution of all our staff.
There is key pillars: customer focus, operational greater levels of investment have still a lot of work to do during 2017, as excellence, organisational capability and been directed, as previously reported.
we nish building the foundations for effective use of capital.
However, the This has led to lower productivity, the future of the Group.
We expect to strategy recognised that each of the increasing costs of quality and increasing start seeing tangible benets coming businesses was starting from a different operational instability.
Initiatives were through in the second half of 2017. base level.
For our stronger businesses, already being put in place to address The acceleration of investment in people, with dened customer opportunities these issues.
However, the increase in processes, systems, plant and machinery and proven business models, such as the pace of decline increased in 2016, will ensure that the Group enters 2018 Workwear, Cleanroom and Mats, capital particularly in the second half and was with the ability to capture the significant investment has been accelerated.
further compounded by the unit cost opportunities we have identied.
of quality increasing, particularly due to increases in the National Living Wage.
09 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chief Executive on strategy continued A key part of improving value for customers is service development 1 Customer and product innovation, with focus notable successes during the year.
The Washroom business has improved During the first half of 2016 the Group its service offering, by reducing its use of completed the implementation of third-party resellers, increasing its direct the Business Line structure, with customer relationships and establishing the creation of the Healthcare and the provision of proprietary, and higher Hospitality Business Lines, in addition to Improving our customer service quality, products and content.
Within the the previously established Facility and In 2016 we developed Berendsen Mats business a new microbre mat Advance, a customer relationship Workwear Business Lines.
Moving to has been successfully introduced, that management tool, which is designed a Business Line structure, and away to standardise processes and data is visually cleaner, more absorbent from a country-based model, aligns capture, enhance customer targeting and dries quicker.
In the Healthcare operations directly with customer and drive closer integration with business, the use of RFID tagging has segmentations: it is leading to a greater customers, help to identify and been designed into the standard model monitor new business opportunities focus on understanding customer needs, and aid operational resource planning.
of service, which offers full traceability identifying new growth opportunities and enables more efficient and exible and developing new service offerings solutions through collection, distribution and service models.
The Group has been developing The development of a customer differentiation in its service offering, relationship management CRM tool, increasing value to its customers.
Berendsen Advance, was launched For Hospitality, this has resulted in new in the second half of 2016.
The new Operational tiered service level offerings, that allow a 2 system will standardise processes and excellence exible point of delivery to integrate into data capture across all Business Lines the customers existing supply chain and The Group is focused on driving and geographies, enhance customer increase efficiency of textile supply at the improvements in operational and targeting, drive closer integration customer site: these are manufacturing financial visibility across the Group, as with customers, help to identify and and supply chain best practices which it implements standard processes and monitor new business opportunities have been successfully applied in other controls across each of the Business and aid operational resource planning.
industries for many years, but new to Lines.
This will ensure improved speed The tool will also be integrated into new the textile industry.
In Workwear, the of information ow within and from the governance and controls, introduced in business has extended its multinational plants, allow constant and consistent 2016, for bidding on contracts.
A new service offering, which allows for monitoring, improve planning and Capex and Bids Committee was single source supply across a number decision making, enable both proactive introduced in January 2016, chaired by of European countries: the largest of and reactive continuous improvement the Group CEO or CFO, to review new which was awarded in 2016, providing programmes and ensure capital is being tenders.
Contract terms and conditions garments for 14,000 employees across efficiently allocated across the Group.
are being critically assessed for both six European countries.
A new common set of KPIs have been risk management and commercial designed and agreed for use by all of opportunity, to ensure that they are clear The Group has made progress in the Business Lines, with the launch in the service levels being provided and developing new partnerships and making of the first version of the Berendsen reect the value of the service being better use of existing relationships to Management System in February 2017. delivered.
Over time these actions increase its scope of services, into new will help to drive improvements in the and adjacent markets.
In Healthcare, New operating models have been quality of the order book, with particular the business has had notable success developed for the Healthcare and opportunities in UK Workwear.
in the care home and medical device Hospitality businesses, prioritised for sterilisation pilots.
The business implementation in the UK.
The review redesigned and developed its care home and design process incorporated operating model used in Germany, for consultation with strategic customers a new premium service offering in the to identify current and future customer UK.
Following a successful pilot, the needs, as well as working closely with Claude Sada Group is now investing in dedicated care the original equipment manufacturers Director, Berendsen home plants in the UK.
In addition the Excellence in a different relationship to provide business is exploring the potential for the dedicated turnkey solutions, that create expansion of medical device services, a single sourced plant ow system.
for the sterilisation and rental of critical medical devices to practitioners.
10 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements The new operating models are based This will reduce the risk of implementing new capital projects, and maximise on demand pull principles, replacing supply push practices, which reduce returns, through better support, improved forecasting, clear processes levels of wasted production.
The plants will provide higher capacity levels, and controls, improved knowledge sharing across the Group and allowing greater headroom for planned maintenance and variability in demand, better understanding of challenges and benets.
and minimise manual movement of products.
Overall, plant efficiency is Upgrading capability A key priority in 2016 was a UK expected to increase by over 30% workforce transformation programme post-implementation.
Whilst we to upgrade our capability and People are accelerating investment in the drive improvements in leadership.
3 conversion of existing plants and building effectiveness Those stepping into new roles will begin professional development new plants, not all legacy plants will be A new focus on health and safety is programmes, with a new career path converted immediately.
In advance of and tailored appraisal framework to be driving a change and improvement in these upgrades, current operations and rolled out for the whole Group in 2017. culture across the Group.
In mid-2016, the performance levels have been reviewed Group introduced the new Berendsen to identify operating constraints and Incident Reporting System BIRS, bottle neck processes.
Immediate capital following an independent review of During the second half of 2016 the Group investments are being made in these the Groups health and safety policies, initiated an Organisational Capability legacy plants, to remove the bottle necks which is driving engagement throughout Review OCR of the individuals, and replace machinery that is beyond its the Group and will be continually structure, processes and systems of the economic life, with benets expected to improved as the Group works towards UK business.
This showed an immediate start coming through in the second half its objective of zero accidents.
At the requirement for investment in people to of 2017.
The KPIs have been reviewed, same time the new system has also been drive improvements in the performance to ensure that from now on the right valuable in identifying opportunities for of the UK business.
A major review of information is being captured that most operational improvement.
The significant all 436 managerial positions in the UK accurately reects the performance and increase in safety observations over was carried out by an independent HR success of operations.
the last 12 months has given greater consultancy in conjunction with Group HR A new project management framework visibility of trends and opportunities for and the Business Line leadership teams.
has been implemented, the Berendsen improvement, and has been particularly As a result of this process, the structure Management System, to ensure helpful in the Groups understanding of the UK operations is being streamlined, all projects are aligned with the of the operational challenges of the with the number of managerial positions Groups strategic priorities and that UK businesses.
The benets to the reducing by approximately 5-10%.
appropriate levels of governance are Group will increase during 2017, as the Training and development plans have being consistently applied.
The webGroup now has comparisons from 2016 been formalised and tailored to the based tool will track project progress against which to identify trends: this will individuals specic development against cost and schedule, and enhance the analysis of the data and needs, with ongoing reviews structured monitor post-implementation benets allow the business to proactively target within the plan.
New talent is also being against expectations.
Further improvements need attracted from outside the industry, with to be made, with a new health and safety approximately 40% of managerial posts e-learning course launched in early 2017. being taken up by new joiners with LEAN industrial processing backgrounds.
The senior leadership of the Group has been strengthened through a mix of The Group is also investing in the internal promotions and external hires.
capabilities of its people, through The Group appointed new leadership increased training, monitoring and teams for the Healthcare and Hospitality formalised development structures.
Increasing operational efficiency Business Lines.
In addition a number of A new career path and appraisal In our UK Hospitality and Healthcare new roles have been established, with framework has been designed, to businesses, new operating models have new positions for Business Development, align remuneration and benets to been designed after consultation with Legal Counsel and the Berendsen performance and ensure the review and strategic customers to create efficient and customer led operating solutions.
In addition, grading of staff is harmonised across The new models, which are expected new leadership for HR has also been the Group.
This will enhance talent and to increase plant efficiency by more appointed.
Overhead increases have succession planning across the Group, than 30%, provide plants with higher been tightly controlled, with the cost of and ensure more targeted training and capacity levels, and a reduction in the manual movement of products.
new capabilities largely being offset by development is put in place.
11 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chief Executive on strategy continued In addition, all new joiners now have In addition, theUK businesses will formalised induction programmes to be upgrading legacy plants to their ensure best practice is maintained.
respective new operating models, which This framework was implemented in allow differentiated customer service the UK at the start of 2017, with roll-out offerings, deliver operating efficiencies across the Group expected in the second and improved profitability and increase half of 2017.
The Group is investing more headroom capacity for growth: in in training.
During 2016, courses were Workwear remaining legacy plants will Investing for the future developed for LEAN training, to drive be upgraded to the CL2000 operating 2017 will see capital investment of continuous operational improvement model, whilst in Healthcare and approximately 150 million in plants across the Group: approximately 600 Hospitality plants will be upgraded to the and machinery in order to reduce machinery downtime, improve the staff completed level 1 and 2 courses new operating models, which have been efficiency and profitability of legacy during 2016.
Following training, developed, piloted and tested during the plants, and to maintain the strategy for employees are empowered to design course of 2016.
Plants will be upgraded growth across all of our operations.
and develop continuous improvement through a combination of browneld projects with clearly demonstrable conversions, where the existing site benets to their business area: this allows, and new build plants: this willalso Of this, approximately one-third of has contributed over 1 million of result in some plant consolidation during the capital invested will be in respect annualised efficiency gains in 2016, the process.
Importantly, the new capital of maintenance and to improve plant with a further 2 million expected investment will deliver increases in efficiency: the payback period of this in 2017.
The Berendsen Academy is productivity of over 30% and result in a investment is expected to be within three being revised and restructured, to significant increase in overall capacity years.
The remaining two-thirds will be provide essential online training and in a reduced number of plants, better invested in browneld plant conversions resources, to improve management enabling the Group to maximise the and new build plants: the payback period andcommercial capabilities.
growth opportunities that it sees in for plant conversions is expected to be the UK.
within four years, and within six years for Outside the UK, the existing plants new build plants.
All new capital invested 4 are largely sufficiently invested, such is expected to deliver a minimum 15% Effective use of that the levels of maintenance capital pre-tax return, enabling the Group to available capital are reective of normal ongoing achieve its target of a sustainable double requirements.
The majority of currently As part of the Berendsen Excellence digit Return on Invested Capital ROIC.
identied new plant investment, strategy, capital investment is being In addition to organic growth, the including browneld conversions accelerated.
At the same time, capital Group continues to see opportunities and new builds, is targeted within the allocation discipline is being maintained, for selective M&A in line with our capital Facility, particularly in Cleanroom, and to ensure all new capital projects allocation priorities: in the short term Workwear Business Lines, as previously deliver growth and returns in excess this is focused on bolt-on acquisitions, guided.
There are further opportunities of the Groups internal hurdle rates.
with the potential for more strategic for investment to increase productivity Following the trading update in October acquisitions over the medium term.
and to increase capacity to match the 2016, the Group reviewed its mediumA new formalised structure has been put growth opportunities we see, such as term capital investment plans: this in place at the centre: a new Business in Scandinavia and Ireland.
The Group considered the operational issues in Development Director has built a team is developing and assessing investment the UK and also the significant growth to manage the pipeline of acquisition plans for the Healthcare business in opportunities in mainland Europe.
targets, to ensure all transactions are Germany and for each of the Business In the UK, this will lead to higher levels aligned to the Groups strategic goals Lines in Ireland, where the Group now of maintenance capital in the existing and to drive post transaction integration sees opportunity for growth: these plans legacy plants, as well as increased to ensure benets are captured in are expected to be nalised over the capital investment in new plants full.
As previously stated, the pace of next 1218 months.
Short-term converting these opportunities will be Overall, the Group now expects to invest maintenance capital will be used to slow initially, with one small acquisition approximately 150 million per annum in upgrade specic pieces of machinery, and one disposal completed in the plant and machinery for each of the next to reduce the risk of disruption and second half of 2016, but will increase three years.
This represents total capital areas of process bottle necks.
investment in plant and machinery of reduce unplanned machine downtime c. 450 million over that period, of which and improve the efficiency of legacy James Drummond Chief Executive Officer c. 200 million is expected to be invested plants, which impacted the second half in the UK and c. 250 million is expected of 2016, and reduce the cost ofquality.
to be invested in mainland Europe.
12 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Essential every day Safer delivery 02:30|London, England Tom has entered the operating theatre.
He has scrubbed up andput on his gown, mask andcapallsupplied clean andsafeby Berendsen and hesready to go.
Hygiene is so important to his vital role.
He and the team can fully concentrate on thepatient.
