STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued OPERATIONS OUR PEOPLE OUTLOOK Berkeley is proud of its reputation as Berkeleys talented and varied people Berkeleys focus is on building a modern a leader in sustainability and holds a are our strongest resource.
Recruiting world-class business which is successful Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable and retaining a high calibre workforce and sustainable in the long-term.
Development, awarded in 2014: the across our autonomous businesses is We have in place an enhanced shareholder second time the Group had been awarded crucial to the success of our company.
returns programme through to 2021 this accolade.
Most recently, following In recognition of this, we relaunched our which allows us to optimise returns to the United Nations Climate Change graduate scheme in September 2015 and shareholders while managing the risks Conference in December 2015, Berkeley continue to evolve our talent management of a cyclical market and whilst retaining has driven forward a range of major programmes to ensure we realise the sufficient capital to invest in opportunities environmental initiatives.
potential of our people across all areas that will add incremental value to the of the business.
We have developed a new research ongoing business.
partnership, designed to help us better The safety of our people continues to be The housing market in London and understand and manage energy use a top priority across all our operations, in the South East continues to have across our developments, and then deliver addition to enabling enhanced health and strong underlying fundamentals with operational carbon and financial savings.
We aspire to operate incident an imbalance between demand and We also helped the Institute for Public and injury free and are pleased to be able supply, a persistent low interest rate Policy Research to undertake and launch to report a reduced Accident Incident Rate environment and high employment levels, their initiative setting out how to make AIR of 2.40 2015: 2.46. notwithstanding recent unhelpful changes London one of the greenest cities in the We are proud that Berkeley employees to property taxation.
Berkeley is currently creating 212 continue to contribute to wider society outlook is impacted by uncertainty acres of new public open space across through support of the Berkeley whether it be global in nature or through all our developments in the Capital.
Foundation, which reached its fifth year the economic consequences of the Most importantly, in a landmark in 2016.
This year, Berkeley received a outcome of the EU Referendum.
announcement for the housing industry, Platinum Award from the Charities Aid Berkeley is extremely well placed to deliver Berkeley has committed to become the Foundation for its Give As You Earn its previously announced targets over first major housebuilder in Britain to be scheme, with 33% of staff giving to the the next two years in this environment carbon positive.
Over the next two years Berkeley Foundation in this way.
Through with cash due on forward sales in the 2016-18, we will aim to deliver a 10% this, and other activities, Berkeleys staff next three years of 3.25 billion, net cash reduction in office and construction have raised just under 1 million in the of 107 million and a longer-term land carbon emissions per person and set an year.
We are particularly delighted to bank of some 42,858 plots comprising internal carbon price, using the funds have been recognised for our work with estimated future gross margin of 6.1 billion.
generated to offset more than all of the The Change Foundation through the The business is able to differentiate its remaining carbon emissions.
Street Elite programme, having won performance through the plan, Our Vision, the Best Charity Partnership Property Berkeley currently has over 13,800 people which embeds our strategy in each of our & Construction category at this years employed in the business or working businesses, and provides a focal point for Third Sectors Business Charity Awards.
through contractors on our sites, up our ambition to be a modern world-class The programme has helped almost 2,000 in the year, and apprenticeships are business with a focus on the quality of the 300 young people on the edge of gangs a central component of our workforce homes and places we create and the way and crime to build the skills for work, development strategy.
Berkeley now has in which we do this.
with many Street Elite graduates now over 1,000 people in structured training in full-time employment including Rob Perrins across its workforce, as construction 15 directly within Berkeley.
Chief Executive apprentices, or working on NVQs or equivalent qualications.
Over the last 21 June 2016 six months, plans have been developed to set up a construction skills centre on our regeneration sites at both Southall Waterside and White City and, by 2018, we intend to have had 1,500 people in apprenticeship or vocational training across the Berkeley Group.
Berkeleys focus is on building a modern, world-class business which is successful and sustainable in the long-term.
ROB PERRINS The Berkeley Urban House at Kidbrooke Village, Greenwich CHIEF EXECUTIVE 12 13 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEYS STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK OUR ASPIRATION OUR STRATEGY OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RISK MANAGEMENT Our strategic plan to ensure we remain firmly Our business is about placemaking: its about Our ongoing operational and market risk To be a modern, world-class focused on achieving our aspiration is articulated creating strong communities where people enjoy management underpins our business model.
business generating long-term through the framework of Our Vision.
value by creating successful, For Berkeley to generate long-term value, the skills, Our business model consists of five principal activities, Identifying the risks that a business is exposed to is sustainable plac es wher e people commitment and approach of our people throughout the all of which are equally integral to supporting our paramount to its success.
However, understanding and business are critical.
We need to ensure we create the right strategic commitments and achieving our aim of creating setting the appropriate level of appetite for risk is even aspire to live.
environment to enable them to work towards a common long-term value.
IDENTIFYING AND ACQUIRING LAND OPERATIONAL RISKS To achieve this, and our aspiration to be a modern, We acquire land selectively, with a focus on long-term, Berkeley recognises that our value added approach means world-class business, Berkeleys strategic plan is complex schemes where we can use our expertise to add we have an emphasis towards long-term regeneration, articulated through the framework of Our Vision.
value through creating new places.
which presents a complex array of operational challenges Our Vision sets out our underlying core company values, on each of our sites.
together with five key strategic focus areas: Customers: DESIGNING AND PLANNING Consequently, risk management is embedded Homes: Places: Operations and Our People.
NEW HOMES AND PLACES throughout the business and our autonomous, talented We work with consultants, local authorities and communities CHALLENGING HEADLINE COMMITMENTS operational teams are required to carefully manage each to create places characterised by the quality of their design, individual scheme, regardless of size, to a bespoke Every two years we set targeted, challenging headline public realm, sustainability, transport links and access to jobs design, and embrace Berkeleys core values and qualities commitments to meet in each of the five focus areas and amenities.
BUILDING NEW HOMES AND PLACES MARKET RISK Our commitments identify aspects of our business that we focus on to ensure Berkeley remains a market leader across We are supporting the employment of some 13,800 Berkeley has always, and continues to, recognise that all areas of its operations.
people in our offices and on our schemes under the property market is inherently cyclical, where market construction, building new homes and places for sentiment and transaction levels can change quickly.
Achieving these commitments contributes to generating current and future generations.
Consequently, we operate in London and the South of MARKETING AND SELLING HOMES England, markets that we know and understand.
We The framework of Our Vision helps to empower our people, believe that recognising the importance of relationships and gives them clear direction across every discipline of the Whether first-time buyers, families, experienced investors, applying local knowledge gives us a competitive advantage business and enables them to contribute to the ongoing retailers, our partners in housing associations or providers and enables us to deliver new places which are socially, success of the business.
of student accommodation, Berkeley strives to ensure that environmentally and economically successful.
its customers receive an unparalleled service.
Furthermore, Berkeley keeps financial risk low, by CUSTOMER SERVICE AND STEWARDSHIP maintaining a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes where possible and carefully allocating resources to Customer satisfaction is the essential measure of whether our the right projects.
homes and our service meet the aspirations of our customers.
This ensures that the business is always well placed, with the financial exibility to take advantage of a breadth of opportunities as they arise.
Read more: see pg 16 Read more: see pg 49 Read more: see pg 56 CONTINUAL MEASUREMENT In 2014, we set out 16 challenging strategic commitments.
Details of these new commitments, together with an overview Having achieved the majority of these, we have set ten new of our performance against the previous set are provided over strategic commitments for the forthcoming two year period, pages 16 to 43.
Our financial performance, measured by a Our strategic commitments assist with the with the intention of continually and incrementally improving further set of KPIs is presented on pages 2 and 3. measurement of our success, on both a financial our business across all key focus areas.
14 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR VISION Berkeley aspires to be a modern, world-class business.
Through the framework of Our Vision we articulate our strategy across our five areas of strategic focus: Customers: Homes: Places: Operations: and Our People.
We set challenging headline commitments in each of the five areas every two years continually to drive our performance.
CUSTOMERS HOMES OUR VISION To be a world-class business generating long-term value by creating successful, sustainable places where people aspire to live.
FIVE FOCUS AREAS CUSTOMERS HOMES PLACES OPERATIONS Provide exceptional service to all Develop individually designed, Create great places where Make the right long-term of our customers and put them high quality homes with low residents enjoy a good quality decisions whilst running the at the heart of our decisions.
of life, now and in the future.
business efficiently and working with our supply chain.
PLACES OPERATIONS OUR PEOPLE Develop a highly skilled workforce who run autonomous businesses, operate in a safe and supportive working environment and contribute to wider society.
OUR CULTURE AND VALUES HAVE INTEGRITY BE PASSIONATE RESPECT PEOPLE THINK CREATIVELY EXCELLENCE THROUGH DETAIL By focusing our business strategy on the Our Vision provides clear direction and Every two years we launch new headline five areas, we ensure that we continue to enables the whole business to work to commitments identifying our next set of provide customers with an exceptional a common set of goals, the overarching priority actions.
These are determined service, whilst delivering high quality aim of which is to be a modern, worldthrough an in-depth review of key homes and places where communities class business.
To drive improvements industry, national and global issues, can thrive.
The skills, knowledge and in performance, we continually review together with consultation with each dedication of our people, alongside the and develop our strategy across our five of our autonomous companies and efficient management of our operations, focus areas to address the key challenges specialist committees.
are fundamental to the ongoing success and opportunities facing Berkeley, our Underpinning Our Vision is a core set of our business.
industry and other business sectors.
of company values: having integrity: being OUR PEOPLE passionate about what we do: showing respect for people: thinking creatively: and achieving excellence through detail.
For more information see www.
co. uk our-vision 16 17 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR VISION COMMITMENTS Through the detailed review of 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS emerging opportunities and CUSTOMERS HOMES PLACES OPERATIONS OUR PEOPLE challenges on a two-year cycle, Deliver world-class customer service Design our homes to consider future Implement c ommunity plans on Reduce our operational carbon emissions Launch and implement a new Berkeley is able to evaluate and as evidenced by a top quartile Net climate change to ensure continued our developments to facilitate intensity by 10% and introduce a programme to promote the wellbeing of progress our actions under Promoter Score compared to UK thermal comfort thriving communities programme to become carbon positive our staff and create healthy workplaces Customer Satisfaction Index results our focus areas to ensure our Develop and apply an approach to Ensure at least 1,500 people across Invest in training and development Run a programme of engagement Understand the evolution of ensure that all new developments our direct and indirect workforce through our talent management commitments continue to be and research to further enhance our smart technology and connectivity create a net biodiversity gain undertake an apprenticeship or programmes to realise the potential relevant, leading and world-class.
product and processes based on the in homes and on developments vocational training of our people across all areas needs of our customers of the business The regular review of our strategy enables new priority themes to be incorporated within our headline commitments and ultimately our normal business activity.
2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS However, some themes continue to feature prominently within our headline Deliver world-class customer Enable bre broadband on Measure and increase peoples Achieve a 50% increase in Pay at least the Living Wage commitments in recognition of an 95% service measured through the all our new homes and provide quality of life by applying a site-based apprenticeships to all direct employees increased understanding of the continual Net Promoter Score community Wi-Fi framework for social sustainability and training work required to drive incremental Reduce energy costs by up performance improvements.
Examples of Launch an interactive way Guarantee space standards Test new forms of estate Launch a 2 million fund for to 500,000, investing 50% 63% this include climate change actions and 90% of communicating with our for all new homes management and the supply chain to support of the saving in new health upskilling of the industry workforce.
In customers, My Home Plus community governance innovation in health and safety and wellbeing initiatives these instances, our commitments evolve Market all our developments Launch a new R&D programme Adapt all developments to Map our supply chain risks Encourage and support every to build on the excellent foundations in the UK first to utilise customer feedback climate change through and develop a sustainable member of staff to be involved 91% 92% already achieved, challenging ourselves and drive innovation through measures on ooding, specication and with the Berkeley Foundation further to be a world-class business.
improved design overheating and water shortage procurement strategy each year Where headline commitments do not Launch a talent management feature within the subsequent two-year programme which develops cycle, we embed them into our ongoing new ideas to enhance the business processes and activities.
In May 2016 we launched a new set of Read more: see pg 22 Read more: see pg 26 Read more: see pg 32 Read more: see pg 36 Read more: see pg 40 ten stretching headline commitments to achieve by April 2018.
OUR COMMITMENTS Every two years we launch new headline commitments identifying our next set of priority actions.
Over time our commitments HEADLINE LEADING BUSINESS-AS-USUAL NORMAL become completely embedded COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS PRACTICE into our actions and culture.
New commitments launched Existing commitments that Commitments that are no Actions that are fully every two years to ensure were previously headline longer considered leading integrated as part of business Berkeley continues to aspire commitments and are still but that continue to push activities and that do not to be a leading and worldconsidered leading, either the company to ensure it is necessarily set Berkeley class business within the industry or across consistently a top performer apart from others within wider business sectors within the industry or across the industry or across wider wider business sectors business sectors For more information see www.
co. uk our-vision 18 19 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT At Berkeley we create not just homes but c ommunities: plac es where people can live, work and play.
Computer generated image of St Williams first development, Prince of Wales Drive, Battersea 20 21 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CUSTOMERS We are committed to providing exceptional service to all of our customers and put them at the heart of our decisions.
Ensuring our customers are satisfied is crucial to the ongoing success of the business: ultimately all areas of our strategy are focused on the end customer.
This extends beyond customer-facing activities, from the initial purchase of the land through to the design of each home and the wider development.
OUR APPROACH Our customers are at the heart of all our decisions.
We aim to understand their needs and consistently meet or exceed their expectations.
The service we provide is professional, efficient and helpful to make the homebuying process as straightforward and enjoyable as possible.
Our levels of customer service aim to be comparable to other top performing companies.
All our customers are provided with a commitment that when they buy a new home from Berkeley, they can be safe in the knowledge that it is built to very high standards of design and quality, has low environmental impact and that they will enjoy an exceptional customer experience.
Each customer receives tailored information relating to their purchase and has a dedicated point of contact throughout the customer journey.
We provide award winning customer service Our customers are at the heart of everything we do Berkeley Urban House Woodberry Down, Finsbury Park 22 23
