CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT IRAKLI GILAURI CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear Shareholders, Banking Business profits, and represents an these changes has led to a number of deferred 8.3% increase over the 2015 dividend.
tax adjustments that increased profits in 2016 Georgia continued to achieve consistent by GEL 63.8 million.
improvements in its macroeconomic 2016 marked the first ever issuance of performance and improved levels of business Eurobonds at the holding company level, Despite some regional headwinds, the confidence, and the Group delivered another through which we raised US$ 350 million, with Georgian economy remained resilient during year of strong business performance with over a coupon of 6.00%, due 2023.
Overall, the 2016, with estimated GDP growth of 2.7% 30% basic earnings per share growth, and Groups capital and funding position continues for the year.
Foreign Direct Investments were improved returns in both the banking business to be very strong, with capital being held both solid at 11.5% of GDP and tourist numbers and the investment businesses.
With the in the regulated banking business and at the a significant driver of US Dollar inflows for the economy seemingly on the rebound in 2017 holding company level.
Within the bank, the country continued to rise throughout the year.
as measured by levels of business confidence, NBG Basel 2 3 Tier 1 Capital Adequacy ratio Inflation remained well controlled at 1.8% at the 1 a number of recent strategic initiatives and was 10.1%, comfortably ahead of the Banks end of 2016. acquisitions are expected to continue to deliver minimum capital requirement.
In addition, as of excellent performance in 2017 and beyond.
31 March 2017, GEL 335.2 million liquid assets Turning to the business, let me talk about our In this annual letter, I will therefore update you were held at the Group level.
two business lines the Banking Business and on our medium-term strategic goals.
the Investment Businesses separately: As a result of the Groups strong capital The Group will continue to focus on position, excess levels of liquidity and high level BANKING BUSINESS capturing growth opportunities in the rapidly of internal capital generation, in November The Bank delivered another very strong year growing Georgian economy.
Our 4x20 2016 the Board approved a $50 million share in 2016, characterised by the expected strong strategy will continue to be targeted over the buyback and cancellation programme, to be growth in the retail bank, and a repositioning medium-term to deliver: completed over a two year period, in addition of the corporate bank to further reduce to the regular annual dividend to be paid to concentration risk.
Customer lending increased A return on average equity in the Banking shareholders.
Over the last few months, the by 24.5% during the year, with 39.5% growth Business of at least 20% Group Employee Benefits Trust has also in the retail bank and 8.3% growth in the Retail Banking customer lending growth purchased shares in the market totalling corporate investment bank.
The Return on of at least 20% per annum approximately US$ 20 million.
Average Equity in the banking business A minimum targeted Internal Rate of Return increased from 21.7% in 2015, to 22.1% of 20% on investments in the Groups A recent development in the Georgian in 2016. investment businesses, and Governments tax policy is now effective, and A maximum 20% profit contribution, applies the profit tax currently set at 15% only Over the next few years, Bank of Georgia of the Groups profits, from our investment to distributed profits.
Undistributed profits will aims to shift the mix of its customer lending businesses no longer be subject to the profits tax.
As a to become 65% retail and 35% corporate result, approximately GEL 500-600 million currently 61% retail: 39% corporate with The Group will continue to aim to maintain equity will be left to profit-generating corporates the product per client ratio in the mass a regular dividend payout ratio from the that are expected to profitably reinvest this retail banking targeted to increase to Banking Business profits in the 25%-40% capital.
This tax policy amendment took effect 3.0 products, from a current 1.7 products.
Since the introduction of dividends in for most companies on 1 January 2017, and for 2010, the Group has managed to grow its certain financial companies including banks We are now running a client-centric, annual dividend per share by 51.6% CAGR.
and insurance companies it is expected to take multi-brand strategy in our Retail Bank.
Over At the 2017 Annual General Meeting the Board effect from 1 January 2019.
This will reduce the the past decade, Retail Banking has delivered intends to recommend an annual regular effective tax rate of the Groups non-banking a stellar performance by reaching c. 2.1 million dividend for 2016 of GEL 2.6 per share payable businesses in 2017, and the entire Group in clients, delivering exceptional loan book growth in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate.
In addition, the Bank expects to benefit and achieving its ROAE targets.
While we were This is within the range of our regular dividend from the general improved creditworthiness of targeting these milestones, the Bank was payout ratio target of 25-40% paid from the its entire corporate portfolio.
The impact of product-centric with an active client acquisition 1 Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5mln distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016.
These funds are earmarked for regular dividends to be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
Including this payment, NBG Basel 2 3 Tier I and Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
08 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 2 approach.
Having over two million clients now, brings new perspectives to the executive team In m Real Estate we are targeting an internal this phase is less prevalent and we target who have worked together for a very long time rate of return of c. 40%, whilst delivering a stronger growth through increasing the product the mix of old new blood is important to bring capital return to the Group of US$ 20-25 million to client ratio by introducing our client centric new topics for discussion to the table.
As we have previously declared, we model while running a multi-brand strategy for has over 15 years of experience in financial are no longer buying land plots as our aim is to different segments of population.
services in a number of roles at UBS and Troika develop third party land.
In essence our aim is 2 Dialog.
Prior to his current role, he was the to evolve m from a real estate developer into Our Express brand caters to the emerging retail founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital a real estate asset manager.
segment and offers predominantly transactional Partners LLP, a London-based investment banking services to clients through small-format, management company.
In the beverage business, Teliani, we Express branches, ATMs and Express Pay are launching beer production and will be Terminals.
In this segment, the Bank will aim We also have two new members in the opportunistically expanding the beverage to double the number of transactions over the executive management team of the Bank.
business in order to penetrate the retail network next 2-3 years.
David Tsiklauri was appointed to the position by offering a diversified product base, as well of Deputy CEO at the Bank, and leads the as enlarging the business to achieve economies Our Solo brand caters to the mass affluent Banks Corporate Investment Banking of scale and cost advantage.
Our primary exit segment and offers exclusive products and the Department.
David has extensive experience strategy is expected to be a trade sale.
finest lounge-style environment at our newly in banking as well as the corporate segment designed Solo lounges, together with new in Georgia, having worked as the Deputy CEO In the utility and energy business, GGU, we lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events in charge of Corporate Banking at TBC Bank aim to achieve EBITDA of more than GEL 80 and handpicked lifestyle products.
Solo already and as Vice President of the Capital Markets million in 2018, whilst establishing a renewable has very encouraging early signs: we have and Treasury Solutions team at Deutsche Bank.
energy platform, targeting 200MW operating, invested only US$ 11.5 million in this new Ramaz Kukuladze was appointed Deputy 57MW ready-to-build, 150MW in the pipeline for concept since its launch in April 2015 and we CEO at the Bank, and leads the Banks SME the hydro power plants: and 20-20MW have almost doubled the annual net profit to and Solo businesses.
Ramaz has extensive ready-to-build wind farms and solar photoGEL 25.3 million.
In this segment, the Bank will experience in the financial services industry and voltaic stations.
All of this by 2019 with a aim to increase the number of Solo clients to wide experience with and a deep knowledge of targeted IRR in excess of 20%.
GGU has a 40,000 19,267 as at 31 December 2016. the segments that he is leading.
Prior to joining significant opportunity to increase its the Bank, Ramaz worked at Bank Republic operational cash flow over the next few years Our Bank of Georgia brand caters to the Socit Gnrale where he led the banks from a combination of improving cash collection mass retail segment.
This is our flagship brand corporate and retail business as Deputy CEO.
rates, increasing energy efficiency and reducing and our most significant profit contributor.
We water loss rates, and by the development of are currently transforming our service delivery I am confident that the strengthened executive renewable energy resources.
We are aiming to to mass retail clients from a product-centric team of the Bank will deliver on the opportunity prepare the combined utility and renewable to a customer-centric one.
The client centric to build on the Banks recent strong growth by energy business for an IPO in approximately approach has also had very encouraging early further developing its presence and profitability 2-3 years.
signs and in 24 pilot branches, sales have in both the retail and corporate banking sectors increased threefold.
Going forward, expanding in Georgia.
As we start to prepare GGU for an IPO, we express branches will be very important to have further strengthened the GGU team and move out transaction focused clients from INVESTMENT BUSINESS appointed Archil Gachechiladze as the CEO of flagship branches and allow our universal The Groups Investment Businesses continued GGU.
Having been with the Group for almost 8 bankers to cross-sell and increase the product to deliver very strong earnings performances in years in various roles, Archil has an outstanding to client ratio.
We will be launching the first fully 2016, with strong organic growth supported by execution track record with the Bank and, just transformed branch in April 2017. the impact of recent acquisitions specifically as importantly, he is very passionate about 1 the addition to our healthcare business the business of GGU having initiated our The Bank will continue to reduce concentration Georgia Healthcare Group GHG of the GPC investment in the utility and energy business.
risk in the corporate lending portfolio, with the pharmacy business following its acquisition We are also consolidating the Groups utilities support of the Investment Management during the second quarter, and 2 the second and energy businesses under GGU, the two business.
The target is for the top ten half consolidation of our utility and energy investments that the Group made separately.
borrowers to represent less than 10% of the business Georgia Global Utilities, GGU, total loan portfolio currently 11.8%.
Georgia following the acquisition of the remaining 75% Last but not least, I would like to reiterate our is becoming the service hub of the region and equity stake in GGU for a cash consideration commitment to the highest level of corporate Bank of Georgia is in a great position to capture of $70 million in July 2016.
EBITDA from the governance which is a foundation for accessing wealth management clients from throughout investment businesses increased by 71.1% management and capital.
A key focus for me the region.
In 2016, we have attracted more to GEL 132.6 million in 2016. and my board is to grow and develop talent.
than 150 clients from 68 countries and we plan Coaching and a feedback culture has become to step up these efforts.
The Banks aim is to In the healthcare business, Georgia part of BGEO.
Helping each other to succeed develop a significant regional private banking Healthcare Group, GHG, we are present in is the core principle of our management team.
franchise to reach AUM of GEL 2.5 billion whole healthcare ecosystem, which in size is We understand very clearly that we are in the currently GEL 1.6 billion.
In this regard, we GEL 3.4bln, with a best in class management same boat as our shareholders and our leverage superior knowledge and capital team and access to capital.
We see three key mandate is very clear: to create sustainable markets capabilities in the Georgian and opportunities in healthcare business: Firstly, shareholder value.
neighbouring markets both in terms of reach continue the introduction of new services in and the expertise that we have accumulated our hospitals, which should further strengthen during the past several years through our our leading market position.
Secondly, expand Irakli Gilauri corporate advisory, research and brokerage in the outpatient segment where the market Chief Executive Officer practices united under Galt & Taggart a is highly fragmented.
We see the same 13 April 2017 wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, which is opportunity now in the fragmented outpatient at the forefront of capital markets development sector that we saw in the hospital business in the county.
Lastly, we see an opportunity in digitilisation of healthcare This Strategic Report as set out on pages At the end of 2016, we announced a number services by creating electronic patient records 2 to 73 was approved by the Board of of appointments that further strengthened the and advising our patients in maintaining Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on management team of the Bank.
Our scale is important to its behalf by deliver on our targets of delivering good quality We appointed Kaha Kiknavelidze as CEO healthcare at affordable prices.
Irakli Gilauri of the Bank.
Kaha has been on the BGEO Chief Executive Officer board for 8 years and knows the Group and 13 April 2017 management very well.
At the same time he Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 09 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
