Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Thanks to the hard work of everybody in the Group, our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden the business remains on track.
Booker Group had a good year: customer satisfaction was strong, sales and profits were the best weve ever achieved.
Since November 2005 Booker Group stock management.
Our close attention Premier retailers are now delivered has been seeking to Focus, Drive to cash has resulted in having 127m of from Makro business centres rather and Broaden the business.
2015 net cash, whilst keeping the Group cost than Booker.
In April 2015 base in line with last year pre Budgens the display of tobacco products was and Londis.
Choice Up banned in small shops in the UK.
This Booker seeks to grow brand and own depressed our retail customer sales.
DRIVE commenced March 2006 brand sales.
Continued price deflation depressed top Thanks to the hard work of Guy Farrant In 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
line sales growth and we suffered the and the team, Booker Wholesale Makro, Sales in the year to 25 March worst Summer weather in recent years.
our cash and carry businesses had a 2016 were 65m.
This is despite Despite these challenges the Group good year.
It served 1,252,000 customers considerable deflation in the fresh continued to make good progress on this year.
We continue to Drive choice, markets.
The quality and freshness of both the catering and retail sides of price and service for our customers.
the produce is second to none and the business.
Each year we survey 45,000 customers can be delivered to our customers to identify where improvements can be within 48 hours of being harvested.
Customer satisfaction is a key We launched CleanPro in 2014.
November 2005 measure within the business and we have This range of professional cleaning made significant progress since 2006.
Booker seeks to become the most products has been well received efficient operator in our sector.
We have 50,000 Booker and Makro now have a common continue to improve business efficiency.
customers buying CleanPro each business centre operating structure We stop, simplify and standardise week with sales of 42m per annum.
This work and invest most of the resulting enables the Group to move business savings in customer service.
During We continue to improve the good, from one location to another to improve the year we bedded down the new better, best of the offer in order to operational efficiency, health safe organisation structure.
We rolled out satisfy all customers, for example, and legal objectives and customer our new fleet of vehicles, we extended our new frozen bread range meets satisfaction.
For example, five hundred the use of self-scan and overhauled all needs.
Booker Wholesale Customer Satisfaction % recommend 85.6% 82.9% 81.9% 80.1% Booker Makro FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Source: ESA Marketing customer survey on behalf of the Company 04 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Prices Down We have more specialist butchers Categories and greengrocers within the business We operate in a very price competitive Our catering, small business and than last year.
We also have skilled market.
Every week we monitor retail customers are served by fishmongers operating in our Makro prices versus competitors and during our trading teams.
These are led Business Centres.
the year our price index remained by: Dominic Morrey, Fresh and competitive.
We are continuing to Ritter, Steve Roper, Drinks and keep our core line prices at market Classic, Colm Johnson our Impulse Business Centre Delivery leading levels to provide the best categories, Mark Dineen Catering Booker offers a seven days a possible margin for our customers.
and Adrian McKeon for the Budgens week multi-temperature delivery During the year we saw significant and Londis businesses.
Together service to both retail and catering price deflation, particularly in with their teams, they report into customers 70% of the fleet has the catering sector.
Booker has Andrew Thompson and Guy Farrant.
All consistently offered low prices on We really value the support from, and of our delivery customers pay the these core products and maintains our relationships with, our suppliers same price for goods as our collect its promise of helping the customer and strive to become their preferred customers.
Our delivery business during challenging times.
Better Service Caterers Small Business During the year we completed the roll Our people are doing an excellent In the past two years we have out of our new fleet comprising 550 job.
Our customers rate Booker restructured the Group, so that all vehicles of 3 types.
As a result of this, people highly.
Business Centre our catering and small business as well as through separating our teams across the Group have been customers are coordinated by Stuart Business Centres into small, medium trained in PRIDE to help improve the Hyslop and his team.
Consequently, and large, Booker and Makro Parking, Reception, Internal, Delivery Independents, Group Accounts has increased Business Centre and Exit experience.
and National Chains can draw delivery capacity.
upon the Booker, Makro, Classic We have continued to expand and and Chef Direct infrastructures.
Bookers Pricing vs Cash & Carry Market Catering Retail Source: IRI Research 4.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 0.0% -1.0% -2.0% -3.0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 05 Prices relevant to the market Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED This has helped strengthen caterer retailers of providing deliveries and BROADEN commenced satisfaction and grown like-for-like also the ability to top-up at their local April 2007 catering sales by 0.6% including Booker branch.
We install the fascia In the UK, Booker seeks to offer the best Classic, and by 1.9% excluding and imagery free of charge and also choice, price and service to caterers, Classic.
This is despite continued provide a market leading promotion retailers and small business.
We also price deflation in the catering market every four weeks.
All goods are seek to become the suppliers preferred Classic is our on trade wholesale delivered at cash and carry prices.
In addition, we want business.
During the year we made to sell new products and services and the decision to concentrate our reach new customers.
In India we seek Family Shopper teams on improving our beer, wine to become the best supplier to Kirana We continue to develop Family and spirits offer in Booker and Makro stores.
To achieve these objectives, Shopper, a local discount format.
and exited some unprofitable keg we are Broadening the business.
At May 2016, and on-trade business.
Broaden includes: we have 42 stores and, although We have also made good progress still early days, the response to this with Group Accounts, such as Digital format has been encouraging.
Cosmo and Enterprise Inns, where Sales at booker.
co. uk were 979m, we serve these accounts from up from 874m last year and 15m Budgens & Londis Booker and Makro.
All these sales are delivered On 14 September 2015 Budgens and to our customers premises.
We have Our Chef Direct business, which Londis joined the Group.
Budgens 490,000 customers registered on serves national accounts from our serves 150 retailers.
The Budgens the website compared to 408,000 distribution centre in Didcot has consumer is typically ABC1.
Customers can view their also had a good year serving clients Londis serves 1,469 retailers with account details and order products.
including Byron Burgers, Eds Easy approximately 49% of consumers We have also doubled the number Diner and Wagamama.
Since completion of stock keeping units available to of the acquisition, the teams at a typical customer on the website Budgens and Londis have fitted Retailers through our special order system.
into the Group with ease and have All our retail customers, be they embraced the Group approach to Premier, Londis, Budgens, Family Ritter-Courivaud cash, customer satisfaction and Shopper, retail club members, health and safety.
Since joining the Ritter-Courivaud is a speciality unaffiliated independents or retail foods supplier to the UKs leading Group they have generated 13m of national accounts are coordinated by cash and customer satisfaction has restaurants.
Ritter had a good year Steve Fox and his team.
growing sales via the Makro business been good.
centres and direct to customers.
Premier Booker Direct Premier, Bookers symbol group, Booker India Booker Direct serves national retail grew to 3,213 stores 3,082 stores chains from our distribution centres In September 2009 we opened our last year.
Non-tobacco sales to first business centre in Mumbai.
We with customers including Marks these customers grew by 10%.
The & Spencer, most of the cinema now have four branches in Mumbai, retail development team has put one in Surat and one joint venture chains in the UK and the prison a lot of work into both compliance service in England and Wales.
These serve 21,000 and building the sales and profits of customers, and have also launched Together the Group can now serve existing Premier stores.
any independent retailer, Group 200 Happy Shopper symbol retailers Premier still remains unique by which harness the lessons learned Accounts and National Chains operating a no cost model for throughout the UK.
from Premier in the UK for the Kirana members, and has the advantage for stores of Mumbai.
We continue 06 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report to review growth options in India there is a shortage of butchers in the With this great team of people, Booker and look forward to developing the trade, so we have developed a formal will continue to make progress in the Booker offer to become the best butchery apprenticeship with 44 year ahead.
choice, price and service supplier to new butchers graduating in the past During the year Bryn Satherley retired Kirana stores and caterers.
We developed similar schemes as Group Operations Director.
Bryn for greengrocers with 36 colleagues has served Booker for the past 10 graduating and fishmongers with 2 years and we are very grateful for the Sustainability colleagues graduating.
There are contribution he has made, he remains Booker achieved a fourth consecutive currently 146 colleagues participating a good friend of the Group and we Carbon Trust Standard in the in this years schemes who are due to wish him all the best for the future.
past year, verifying eight years of graduate in September 2016 and we emissions reductions.
In addition we intend to run all three schemes again have gained a second Carbon Trust Thanks to the hard work of everybody in 2017 18.
We are also currently Waste Standard, covering four years in the Group, our plan to Focus, Drive working with The Institute of Meat of improved waste management.
and Broaden the business remains on to raise the skill level of our Butchery track.
Booker Group had a good year: Over 25,500 customers are now teams further, and to date three customer satisfaction was strong, sales butchers have been awarded the recycling with the Group through and profits were the best we have ever our packaging and used cooking oil prestigious Master Butcher title.
We made good progress on is part of a longer term plan to uprecycling services.
This helps our the integration of Budgens and Londis.
customers save money, increase skill and develop our future Butchery We are very grateful for the support of Managers who will go through a recycling levels and support more our customers, suppliers and people sustainable communities throughout Craft Butcher training programme and look forward to making progress in with accreditation.
Investment in our delivery teams has We are rolling out LED lighting to the majority of Business Centres over the continued to make progress: next 3 years.
Our drivers and managers have Over 6.7 million litres of used cooking annual refresher courses of Safe, Charles Wilson Secure and Legal training and oil has been recycled, up 72% on Chief Executive last year.
our vocational drivers complete training for the Certificate of We donated surplus food equivalent Professional Competence CPC, to over half a million meals to local which is run by our team of incharities in the last year.
house trainers and delivery We supported customers who support managers.
were disrupted by the floods We also run a driver apprenticeship through providing stock and scheme, open to internal and financial assistance.
external drivers who wish to We are committed to helping our develop their career with Booker retail and catering customers as well as annual training days serve communities throughout the for managers, to support them United Kingdom.
by improving their day to day operation to increase customer satisfaction and continue helping People us to drive cash profit.
Again our team have done a brilliant For the eleventh year running, the job this year.
We are committed to performance of the business means continuing to make Booker better our people have shared in our and safer for colleagues.
We are success through our bonus system.
