Chief Executives review Overview Our outlook is positive and Reported revenues for the Group were up 6% in 2016.
However, we remain optimistic that the significant weakness in the oil & gas market and the knock-on effect on general industrial demand continued to exert considerable we are well placed to take downward pressure on Group results.
Group revenue on a like- 1 for-like basis was down 3.5%.
Like-for-like sales to the energy advantage of an upturn in our markets were down 27%.
Excluding the impact of these falling energy revenues, the Group had flat sales year on year.
noted that like-for-like revenues at the half year were down 6%.
The improved performance for the full year was due to a notable pickup in activity in the fourth quarter.
S. C. Harris l Group Chief Executive Civil aerospace in Western Europe was strong, particularly in the second half, while the North American business was more mixed as the supply chains for this sector continue to go through adjustment associated with the changeover of aircraft and engine platforms.
In automotive, car and light trucks built on the strong start to 2016, accelerating through the year such that the second half growth rate was 6% on a like-for-like basis.
While the background market demand in the car and light truck market has moderated over recent months, Group revenues continue to grow on the back of new programme wins.
Specialist Technologies performed well overall, increasing their contribution to Group headline operating profit to 42%.
While two of these technologies, Surface Technology and HIP Product Fabrication, continue to be hard hit by low levels of activity in the oil & gas sector, the remaining technologies once again showed good growth.
Margins continued to exceed 30% in Specialist Technologies.
2 The Groups headline operating margin was resilient at 16.6%.
Headline operating profit declined 2% from 102.1m to 99.6m 13% at constant exchange rates.
The robust margin performance was partly helped by favourable currency translation.
However, the Bodycote Margin Model is helping to drive improvements and this, together with the improved flexibility the Group now has in its cost base and the favourable impact on mix coming from Specialist Technologies, combined to deliver margin resilience that would not have been possible in past downturns.
04 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing We completed the acquisition of five plants in 2016, in line with Summary and outlook our bolt-on strategy in Classical Heat Treatment.
In some cases The Group delivered a robust performance in 2016 despite these acquisitions brought new capability into the Group, but in significant headwinds in some key business sectors.
The speed and all cases they strengthened our network and enhanced our local effectiveness of managements actions, in addition to the continued cluster strength.
They were all completed in the second half of the focus on improved mix, resulted in resilient margins.
year with the majority in the final quarter and, correspondingly, had While our business, by its nature, has limited forward visibility, we an immaterial impact on our Group result.
They will, on the other continue to demonstrate that we are capable of adapting with great hand, provide us with a small impetus as we enter 2017.
Annualised agility to changes in market conditions.
Our outlook is positive and sales from the acquisitions will be around 20m, with average we remain optimistic that we are well placed to take advantage of Group margins expected to be achieved in 2017.
We have a good an upturn in our markets.
acquisition pipeline and fully intend to continue to execute these acquisition opportunities provided we are confident that they will The Board is confident that managements continued focus on create further shareholder value.
business improvements and execution of the Group strategy will generate good returns through the cycle.
Basic headline earnings per share were 37.0p, a decline of 6%, principally reflecting a higher tax rate in 2016.
Cash generation has remained strong, with 92% of headline operating profit turned 3 S. C. Harris into cash 2015: 80%.
Indeed, even after spending 30m on Group Chief Executive acquisitions, capital investment of 63m corresponding to 1.1 28 February 2017 times depreciation, restructuring costs and 48m of dividends, the Groups year end net cash position only reduced by 11.2m to 1.1m 2015: 12.3m.
The Group continues to be in a strong 1.
Like-for-like year-on-year revenue growth rates are at constant exchange financial position, with plenty of available financial headroom.
rates and exclude acquisitions, closed sites and the impact of the disposal of businesses.
Strategic progress We continued our strategy of investing in areas where we see 2.
Headline operating margin is defined as headline operating profit as a high-growth potential but are always mindful of the Groups percentage of revenue.
minimum 20% hurdle rate for return on capital employed.
Cash conversion is defined as headline operating cash as a percentage Expenditure in the year included new facilities in the USA, Mexico, of headline operating profit.
Poland and France, as well as continued expansion of our Specialist Technologies capacities and capabilities, and further deployment of the Groups ERP programme.
The strategy of preferential investment in Specialist Technologies continues to benefit the Group.
The Groups strategy remains relevant and unaltered.
The drive for operational efficiency in the more mature parts of the business, expansion of the Groups footprint in rapid-growth countries and the focus on growth in the higher value-added businesses, particularly Specialist Technologies, are all designed to increase the quality of the Groups earnings and create significant value.
We have made further progress during this challenging year and remain readier than ever to respond to developments in our markets.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
