Interim Chief Executives statement We are performing an end to end review of our production processes to ensure we develop to programme and deliver our customers the high quality homes they expect.
We are fully committed to putting our customers back at the centre of everything we do and to delivering a much improved level of customer service.
We will strengthen both our regional management teams and functional leadership, and continue to invest in our people to establish consistent best practice across all regions of the Group.
2017 operational priorities The implementation of our operational priorities has commenced in the early weeks of 2017 and is focused on: Developing to programme Earl Sibley Transforming customer service Interim Chief Executive Leadership and operational excellence Develop to programme Bovis Homes has pursued an ambitious growth strategy over The business has suffered from weakness in our production the past five years with completions almost doubling over processes which has manifested in our development this period.
This fast growth has led to progressively programmes not delivering to plan, in particular around the developing operational challenges across the business.
half year and year end periods when we have had a heavy weighting of completions.
Whilst we achieved strong growth in the first half of the year we were unable to deliver our planned level of We have commenced an end to end review of our build completions for the second half, with a shortfall of 180 private process from the point we acquire a development to the timing homes in December.
This reflected underlying weaknesses of the final completion.
We will bring in external best practice in our production processes and resulted in higher than to complement good internal procedures where appropriate, expected costs.
and will benchmark across all our regions.
In particular we are focused on: Our customer service standards have been declining for some time and combined with the delays to production towards the Adding new senior operational resource to target a reduction year end, we have entered 2017 with a high level of customer in build times, improve build quality and ensure we have the service issues.
Our customer service proposition has failed to optimum resourcing models ensure that all of our customers receive the expected high Investment in resourcing of and training in our build standard of care.
The Group has taken a one-off 7 million management system customer care provision in 2016 to address this high level of customer issues.
After taking this provision, the Group Improved communication with our supply chain, working as delivered a profit before tax of 154.7 million, below our a collaborative partnership throughout the build process previously stated range of 160 to 170 million.
Ensuring common understanding and adherence to our best The fundamentals of our business remain strong.
We have practices across all regions continued to invest in our consented land bank which stands at 1,020.6 million, representing over four years of high Formal cross functional development project teams to quality land supply, and our balance sheet remains robust with bring effective collaboration and a high level of internal increased year end net cash of 38.6 million.
customer service Having assumed the role of Interim Chief Executive on Achieving better management of our build programme and 9 January 2017, I have established a clear set of operational developing to plan will result in a significant improvement to priorities for 2017 and actions are already being taken.
12 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business and strategy | Strategic report Our business and strategy Operational priorities identified to improve performance Transforming customer service Improving capital efficiency The Groups customer service levels have experienced a decline in Alongside these operational priorities we remain focused on recent years, as evidenced by our HBF customer satisfaction rating.
progressing balance sheet opportunities in 2017 to improve capital At the beginning of this year we commenced a clear programme efficiency and deliver enhanced shareholder returns.
These include of actions to arrest this decline and to progressively return our the sale of part or all of our shared equity assets, a reduction HBF rating to the top quartile of listed housebuilders.
A customer in part exchange assets, and the continuation of land sales service task force has been established with its immediate priority where appropriate.
We are also undertaking a detailed review of to address outstanding concerns from customers within our two the ways in which we can maximise capital efficiency on some of year warranty period.
our larger strategic sites including Wellingborough, in particular the potential for strategic partnerships.
We are increasing the resource across our customer service function to improve both our project management capability and Land investment strategy our day to day operational capacity.
We have additional staff We continue to pursue a low risk approach to land investment dealing with customer enquiries and more operatives on the targeting greenfield, traditional, two storey, family housing in ground working in customers homes.
Southern biased locations, sourced from both the consented land and strategic land markets.
We are reviewing all of our customer service procedures and controls to ensure best practice across all regions, and are already In 2016, we acquired 27 sites following the acquisition of 35 sites progressing with: in 2015, with the Group having deliberately paused its investment in land around the time of the EU referendum.
We took the Improved customer service training for all staff opportunity to increase our land acquisition hurdle rates in June to Enhanced quality assurance processes prior to homes being levels which have since been maintained.
handed over, making our customers an integral part of Consented land bank 2016 2015 that process Consented plots added 3,047 6,058 Improvements to our customer responsiveness Plots in consented land bank at year end 18,704 19,814 and communication Land bank years 4.7 5.0 Review of complaints procedures for the periods both pre and Sites added 27 35 post legal completion Sites owned at year end 133 142 The formation of a Homebuyers Panel composed of customers Average selling price 271,000 247,000 who will provide advice and challenge as we review all aspects Average land plot cost 52,400 49,200 of our customer service in the coming months Proportion in South of England 78% 76% Leadership and operational excellence The 3,047 plots added to the land bank in 2016 have an estimated Last year we saw an increased level of investment in our people future revenue of c. 950 million and an estimated future gross through training and development programmes and this will be profit potential of c. 260 million based on sales prices and build extended further during 2017, supported by the opening of the costs at the point of appraisal, delivering an estimated future Bovis Homes Training Centre.
The average return on capital employed The improvement of both external and internal customer service of the land acquired based on investment appraisal at the time of and the driving of a cultural change in how we operate, are at acquisition is c. 30%.
the core of our leadership development programme.
Our values The estimated gross profit potential of the Groups total consented of quality, caring and integrity should stand at the centre of our land bank plots as at 31 December 2016, based on prevailing decision making and inform how we effect operational changes.
sales prices and build costs, has increased to c. 1,300 million As we commence 2017 our eight regional businesses are fully with a gross margin of 25.6% 31 December 2015: 1,247 million operational, having opened three new office locations in close at 25.5%.
proximity to our developments during 2016.
We are focused on strengthening our regional management teams and establishing The successful conversion of strategic land continues to be a key functional excellence across the Group.
To further develop our driver of value for the Group.
New strategic land investments functional leadership, our group commercial function introduced in added 3,346 plots into the strategic land bank, giving a total of 2016 will be complemented by new senior leadership positions for 25,494 strategic plots at the year end across 89 strategic sites.
both customer service and development activities.
The strategic land bank reflects positively the Groups strategy of land acquisition with 67% of the strategic plots in the South of England.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 13 Interim Chief Executives statement During 2016, the Group converted 562 plots from the strategic Despite the slippage in production that caused difficulties land bank into the consented land bank.
This was a lower towards the end of 2016, the overall production levels during number of plots than in prior years due to timings of consents the year were over 4,200 notional units of build, 7% ahead but we are already seeing success early in 2017 on a number of 2015.
Housing work in progress ended 2016 higher at of sites including 503 additional plots at Bishops Stortford 1,166 units worth of production 2015: 929, with work in transferring into the consented land bank.
progress turn as a result reducing to 2.8 times 2015: 3.5.
Looking forward through 2017 we aim to align our production We have signed the revised s106 for our key site at rates better with our sales rates and target a more even flow Wellingborough which represents the largest single investment of production and completions through the year.
on our balance sheet c. 50 million.
We have progressed well with the main infrastructure road into the housing area and The Groups average construction cost per square foot in 2016 will commence building houses later this year.
We are currently excluding the one off customer care provision was 11% higher looking to identify partners for this development.
We continue to see constraints on the availability of skilled labour across the sector resulting in increased market We continue to develop our key strategic site at Wokingham labour costs, and for the year inflationary pressures increased with the first homes legally completing during the year and a our total build costs by c. 5%.
Product mix and the delivery further land sale going ahead as planned.
The proceeds from of completions in higher value locations also increased our this land sale largely covered the latest deferred land payment average build cost, whilst inefficiencies in our production for the site thereby managing the capital employed on this processes and phasing, in particular the heavy weighting of key scheme.
completions to the year end, were also a factor.
In pursuit of capital efficiency the Group completed the sale of Managing our construction cost base remains a key focus three parcels of land during 2016, and further land sales are for management and delivering on our operational priority planned in 2017. of developing to programme will result in improved build efficiency across the Group.
We are focused on strengthening 2016 housing delivery our relationships with key subcontractors, working in closer In 2016 the Group delivered 3,977 homes 2015: 3,934. partnership with them throughout the production process, and Private legal completions excluding PRS decreased by will continue to optimise materials costs through Group-wide 1% to 2,884 2015: 2,901 reflecting the shortfall in private purchase agreements.
completions at the year end.
Legal completions of social homes were 1,074 2014: 848, representing 27% of total legal The Group recognised a one off 7 million customer care completions 2015: 22%.
provision at the year end as a result of a much higher level of customer service issues.
Customer service standards fell Average active sales outlets of 99 were lower than the 102 in significantly during 2016 and homes were completed, in 2015, with the Group having closed more sites than previously particular at the year end, which fell materially short of the anticipated.
Despite this reduction in active sales outlets, an high standard expected.
We have a customer service task increase in net private reservations per site per week to 0.58 force in place whose absolute focus is to address these issues 2015: 0.56 enabled the Group to achieve 2,960 private and the customer care provision will cover the cost of the reservations, broadly in line with the 2,986 achieved in 2015. required remedial work and appropriate compensation for affected customers.
Our average sales price increased by 10% to 254,900 2015: 231,600 with the average sales price of private legal completions excluding PRS 10% higher at 306,000 2015: 272,100.
These average prices benefitted both from the improved geographical and product mix on new sites driving higher sales prices and some modest price inflation.
The increased total revenue supported an improvement in capital turn to 1.12 2015:1.05.
14 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business and strategy | Strategic report Our business and strategy Strong land bank underpins future increases in shareholder returns Outlook The Group is focused on making 2017 the year when we re-set the business and deliver on our operational priorities.
Reflecting this we are slowing our rate of production and targeting completion volumes for 2017 to be c. 10% to 15% below the 2016 level, before a return to normal industry production levels.
The average selling price is again expected to increase reflecting the mix coming through our landbank.
We continue to see market inflation impacting both the cost of subcontract labour and material supplies.
To deliver on our operational priorities we will also see an increased level of investment in 2017 across the business.
We will continue to invest in high quality land opportunities that meet our minimum acquisition hurdle rates but will maintain our consented land bank at broadly current levels.
Whilst there will inevitably be an impact on our earnings and cashflow from the actions we are taking in 2017, the Board intends to recommend maintaining the dividend at the level declared for 2016, confirming its confidence in the future potential of the business.
Earl Sibley Interim Chief Executive Bovis Homes Group PLC | 15 16 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business and strategy | Strategic report Our business and strategy Cloakham Lawns Axminster Bovis Homes Group PLC | 17
