Group chief executives letter Dear fellow shareholder, In 2016 BP started to look forward again.
It may have been one of the toughest years we have yet seen in the business environment, with oil prices the lowest since 2004.
But it was a year when we turned the challenges into opportunities, finding new ways to compete and grow in a fast-changing industry.
Over the last six years, we have been making BP safer, stronger and more resilient.
And in 2016 we once again began building for growth and setting a course for a low cost, lower carbon future.
Our results Our top priority is always safety and in 2016 we continued the progress made in recent years, with 80% fewer serious incidents and a 40% lower injury rate than in 2011.
A good safety record is one sign of disciplined operations.
Another sign is reliability and here too we have seen improvement, with upstream plant reliability of 95% up from 86% in 2011 and refining availability of 95.3%, maintaining our strong record in recent years.
The good progress that the team made was reflected in the financial results with a return to headline profit in 2016 compared with a significant headline loss in 2015, which reflected our provisioning for Gulf of Mexico settlements.
Our underlying replacement cost profit represents resilient performance given the environment of low oil and gas prices and weak refining margins.
Importantly, operating cash flow in 2016 was Since 2010, BPs story has been one of recovery, robust at $17.6 billion, excluding the Gulf of Mexico oil rebuilding and resilience.
Now we are looking ahead a spill payments.
Net cash provided by our operating with a spirit of purpose and invention.
From 2017, you activities was $10.7 billion after payments for the oil spill of $6.9 billion.
can expect a story of growth.
The work we have done to reduce capital spending and costs played a large part in these results.
More than two years ago we recognized that energy prices could be lower for longer.
Since then, we have been dedicated to changing the way we work, putting in place cost savings and efficiencies that can be sustained.
As a result, our 2016 capital spend was significantly lower than peak levels in 2013.
Not only did we meet our 2017 target for cash cost reduction we did so a year ahead of schedule.
Capital discipline is not only about reducing spending, but ensuring that the money we continue to invest is spent well.
One example in 2016 was the sanction of the second phase of our Mad Dog operation in the US Gulf of Mexico at a budget of $9 billion less than half the original estimate.
This helps make this project highly competitive even in a lower oil price environment.
I am pleased to report that the major liabilities from the Deepwater Horizon accident have been resolved with most of the outstanding governmental and commercial claims clarified.
Cash payments were around $7 billion in 2016 which we expect to fall to $4.5-5.5 billion in 2017, $2 billion in 2018 and a little over $1 billion per year thereafter.
Our disciplined financial framework can accommodate these outflows and, with this resolution, our management team can focus with greater confidence on the future.
a Caption: The BP Energy Outlook launch This sentence does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as at our headquarters in London, UK.
6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report overview Our portfolio 95.3% We started the year with a goal to increase production from new projects by 800,000 barrels a day by 2020.
2016 refining During 2016 we remained on track for that goal, and we availability have increased our ambition to over a million barrels a day by 2021.
Given the competitive environment, this goal goes hand in hand with a disciplined focus on costs.
In the Upstream, we launched six major project 95% start-ups, from Algeria to the Gulf of Mexico, and made final investment decisions on a further five.
We Upstream BP-operated are maintaining that momentum in 2017 with more plant reliability significant start-ups scheduled including the Quad 204 development in the UK, the giant Khazzan field in Oman and the West Nile Delta project in Egypt.
These projects Our future bring us significant reserves, flowing supplies and lower our per unit cost structure.
They reposition our portfolio This was also a year when we set out our strategic for the future.
priorities for the longer term.
They are rooted in societys need to use more energy bringing heat, light and The Downstream has continued to improve performance mobility to millions of people while positioning BP for and grow with earnings up more than 25% compared a lower carbon world.
These priorities will help us drive with 2014, despite lower industry refining margins.
We progress and respond with agility to external changes have enhanced our retail offer to customers rolling out whether in supply and demand, oil and gas prices, in our new fuels with ACTIVE technology in 13 countries environmental policy or in technology.
and building great retail partnerships such as with M&S Competitive upstream portfolio: we will expand the gas in the UK, REWE in Germany and, subject to regulatory portfolio alongside lower cost oil production, managing approvals, Woolworths in Australia.
Plus, our partnership these cost-effectively.
with Fulcrum BioEnergy should help bring low carbon jet fuel to the market at scale.
Market-led Downstream: we will provide a range of fuels We have announced a number of strategic additions and lubricants that help make vehicles more efficient and to our portfolio.
We broadened our positions in worldgrow our fuels marketing and lubricants businesses.
class gas fields: in the West African basin through Low carbon and venturing: we will broaden our an agreement with Kosmos Energy: in Egypts Zohr renewable energy and low carbon businesses field, thought to be the largest discovered in the through reinvestment in the current portfolio, build a Mediterranean: and in Omans Khazzan development, dynamic venturing arm, and further our work in tackling a giant project that has now become even bigger.
These underline our focus on gas, the fastest growing Modernizing the whole group: we will be deploying hydrocarbon fuel with the lowest carbon content.
advanced technologies such as robotics and big data We have also been innovative in terms of business analytics to improve and simplify our processes as well models.
In Abu Dhabi, we concluded an agreement to as using our trading expertise to maximize the value from renew an onshore oil concession, stretching to 2050, in our assets.
exchange for a 2% stake in BP.
We have operated there I am extremely proud of the global BP team.
Without the for 75 years and this transaction underscores the value women and men of BP, we would not have been able to of long-term relationships.
In Norway, we combined preserve and transform the business over the past six Det norskes nimble business practices, Akers industrial years.
I am grateful to our partners, host governments, experience and our global scale expertise to form Aker and other stakeholders who have stood by us as we have BP the countrys largest independent oil company.
stabilized BP and built up our resilience.
And I say thank This gives us access to substantive offshore oil and gas you, to you, our shareholders who have afforded us the resources as well as dividends for shareholders.
time and support to take the actions needed to restore Putting all these initiatives together, we are creating BP to a position of strength from which we can grow and a substantial core of long-term, cost-efficient major prosper in the years ahead.
projects that can deliver material operating cash flow and Since 2010, BPs story has been one of recovery, earnings for decades to come.
Now we are increasingly looking ahead with a spirit of purpose and invention.
From 2017, you can expect a story of growth.
Caption: Speaking with investors at the field trip in Baku, Azerbaijan.
More information Bob Dudley Business model Page 10 Group chief executive Strategy 6 April 2017 Page 14 Performance Page 21 See Glossary.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 7
