Chief Executives Review An ambitious ambitious s str tra ateg tegy y for growth growth W We always need to give sound e always need to give sound advice and manag advice and manage people e peoples affairs s affairs appropriately to achieve g appropriately to achieve good outcomes ood outcomes for them that match the needs-based for them that match the needs-based targ targets they have set us.
David Nicol Chief Executive 22 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION first six months and the residual effects of the business Overview restructuring over the lastthree years.
In addition, we have We have made encouraging progress in 2016.
Financial juststarted to introduce some of the new services we have performance has been resilient against the increasingly volatile inplanning and development, meaning thatpositive impact and uncertain market backdrop.
The strategic transition we have isyetto come.
undergone over the last few years, focusing on our core services of discretionary investment management and financial advice, Increasing focus on expansion coupled with improving operational efficiency is further evident Overall, this was a year when we initiated expansion as we in2016 in terms of the continued growth in the core business.
continued to build a culture that is ambitious and focused on Goodprogress has been made against the growth objectives achieving growth.
We will expand by helping clients to grow wehaveset ourselves as part of this strategy, in particular in the andprotect their wealth in order to achieve their goals.
As such, development and innovation of existing and new services to we added to our UK wide branch network with the opening of a meetdifferent client needs.
newbranch in Cambridge and focused much energy and effort on hiring the best professional talent we could find.
Implementing our growth strategy During our 2015 Capital Markets Day, we highlighted a number We have segmented and developed client propositions to ofkey initiatives in support of our long-term strategy as outlined ensurethat our services are relevant to growing numbers of on pages 28 to 29, especially in relation to our strategic objective clients.
Progress this year includes the development of new to grow our revenue.
professional services propositions, the introduction of client portals for both our core business and the Brewin Portfolio This saw us start to capitalise on the intensive preparatory work Service, and the streamlining of the client take-on process.
We ofthe previous three years to generate meaningful, long-term continue to invest in technology to support our strategy and have organic growth, witha stated aim to grow our core discretionary implemented new HR and financial reporting systems, upgraded business by a third within five years.
our portfolio management and order management systems and Progress in 2016 was encouraging.
We are already delivering automated the unit trust settlement process.
higher grossinflows of discretionary fundsfrom new and existing Our investment ethos is based around long-term horizons clients and have seen our managed portfolio service pass the thatenable us to consistently generate appropriate returns 1 billion milestone, with funds at year end of more than forclients.
We have provided our performance data to Asset 1.25 billion.
RiskConsultants ARC for the first time this year, enabling We achieved this despite the significant challenges we had to externalvalidation of our risk-weighted performance and face during the year, including the poor market conditions of the givingintermediaries the opportunity to assess our performanceagainst our competitors.
Our investment proposition Why invest in Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC?
Brewin Dolphin isrecognised and trusted, well known for Our brand, scale and investment in our people enable us providing investment expertise and trusted advice to stand out During our long history as a respected provider of high quality We are one of the largest wealth management companies in financial services to clients, we have earned a reputation for afragmented sector.
We attract and develop the best talent to integrity and trustworthiness that stands us in good stead today strengthen existing client relationships, win new ones and help and in the future.
usbuild an even stronger organisation.
See page 14 for further information.
We go into greater detail on this subject on page 18.
The future direction of our market place is positive We are implementing the growth phase of our strategy As the role of the state diminishes, people need increasingly to Having strengthened our operations and significantly improved take responsibility for their own financial affairs, including savings our operational efficiency in recent years, we are now poised to and investments, retirement planning and long-term care.
deliver on our strategy for growth by increasing the number of Demand for investment management and financial advisory clients we serve and the proportion of their wealth that services is therefore growing, with good long-term prospects we manage.
Page 28 has more detail on our growth strategy.
Youll find more about this on page 18. brewin.
co. uk 23 Chief Executives Review continued I believe these early results are already confirming that the wealth Hiring the best management sector offers companies with the right strategy and We hired a number of new staff during 2016, of the high quality business model significant potential for generating enhanced required to deliver our advice-led and goals-focused proposition.
By recruiting new professionals across our branch network, we improved ease of access to quality advice for clients across Under our approach, long-term client and intermediary the country.
relationships based on respect and trust are underpinned by thecommitment of our people and the quality of the advice they Enhanced client acquisition provide.
These qualities give Brewin Dolphin its unique character We recognise that growth will come through successfully and strength, and they will continue to be at the heart of how we expanding the proportion of the wealth we manage for operate in the future.
It is therefore important that wegive our people the confidence and capacity they need Delivering on our promise toseek new opportunities for providing advice.
We outlined our strategy for growth at our 2015 Capital Markets Day and highlighted a number of initiatives in development, For this reason, we invested significantly during the year in several of which came to fruition in 2016.
I would like to look at improving the business development capabilities of our people, some of these, starting with those relating to ourmost valuable including sales training and the launch of a LinkedIn-based asset our people.
We also piloted a lead-generation system during theyear, readied our new Client Management System to go live Building on the strength of our culture and our people, in2017 and strengthened the link between incentives and growth.
rewarding growth and building an engaged workforce Staff engagement is the key to high performance, and in 2016 When we fully explore the source of weran our second Your future, your say employee survey to measure and benchmark our overall engagement score.
referrals, we recognise that the client I was very pleased with many aspects of the exercise.
First, networks resulting from the 83%of our workforce took the trouble to respond.
Even more recommendations of happyclients are important, the proportion of those who believed positive action would follow the surveys findings rose substantially from 2015, of significantly more value than had upby 18 percentage points.
been appreciated in the past: this This was due to the way in which we had responded to feedback and suggestions made in the previous survey, implementing emphasises more strongly than ever initiatives to address reported issues.
Comments following the the importance of building close second survey included Overall communication across the business has improved, and Career development has taken long-term relationships that our ahuge leap forward.
Naturally, I am delighted by such responses, and am also pleased with the improvement of our engagement score to 78%, which is 2% up on 2015 and 3% ahead of our industry benchmark.
I am very keen that we continue to take action to improve employee engagement further, as I firmly believe that the stronger it is, the better our overall performance will be.
Uncovering ourvalues The people who are most important to the success of our business are our employees and our existing and prospective clients.
It was therefore only right that we should involve both groups during the year in uncovering and expressing ourvalues.
These were identified as genuine, expert and ambitious allqualities that have an important role to play in making us an attractive target employer for industry professionals who share ourcommitment to providing high quality advice and consistently doing more for clients.
24 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Diversity matters Understanding our target clients and their changing needs We have established a Diversity and Inclusion Committeeas it is We took a major step forward in sharpening our focus on client important to us that wetrack, understand and respond to the and intermediary relationships during 2016, when we expanded diversity issues we face.
the Executive Committee to include representatives of clientfacing disciplines at the most senior level of the Group.
Now the One issue that is high on our agenda is gender equality, so it was voices of both clients and intermediaries are heard even more particularly pleasing that more than half 55% of our senior client where our most important strategic decisions are made, enabling facing hires in 2016 were female.
The year also saw the launch of us to understand their requirements and points of view as we our Women @ Brewin initiative, in which female employees get develop and refine new ways of serving and interacting with them.
the opportunity to meet and discuss career progression with highly successful women from our Board, management and Streamlined onboarding and tighter targeting fromoutside the Group.
We made strong progress during 2016 in developing and On a personal note regarding our approach to diversity, I was refiningour understanding of client segmentation and their tremendously impressed by the Unconscious Bias seminar differing needs.
This has increasingly enabled us to create more Iattended, one of a series presented across the organisation effective and precisely targeted propositions and messaging, tohelp us confrontprejudices held as a result of our upbringing including a range ofnew services such as offering a choice of andenvironment.
I am certain this training will help us in areas managed and non-managed funds.
that range from recruiting and promoting the best talent to We have responded to client feedback and streamlined and understanding the goals and motivations of our clients.
simplified the client onboarding process, reducing the number See our Corporate Responsibility report page 46 for ofdocuments involved as well as introducing a number of new moredetailed information on 2016 initiatives targeting our technology-enabled methods for clients to communicate and peopleand culture.
These include a range of client portals across our services, andautomatic account opening and a mobile app Managing risk forthe Brewin Portfolio Service we launched in 2015.
Wehave Ibelieve that our people collectively have a broader set of skills more innovations on the way, all focused on further strengthening than our competition.
Their quality and expertise are a powerful relationships by listening to, understanding and responding to source of competitive advantage for us, not least because they client needs.
provide a reduced risk of giving advice that is not appropriate or relevant to our clients needs.
Delivering specialist services We developed new specialistservices during the year for Much of the work we have undertaken to improve processes and solicitorsand their clients, partners in law and accountancy firms, reorganise the Group has also strengthened our ability to manage and corporate advisers.
These have all been positively received, risk as we pursueour growth strategy.
and are the first services to be launched in a growing portfolio targeting a range of special interest groups.
The day the Brexit referendum The way in which we created our servicesindicates the depth resultwas announced, our people towhich we immerse ourselves inour clientsworlds, so that we candemonstrate detailed understanding of their needs, their aims reached out to our clients by phone, and their challenges.
For example, when developing services for lawyers, we recruited a highly respected professional from outside email, however suited them best the wealth management arena and spent time researching and reassuring them that our focus gaining an in-depth understanding of what family lawyers need from a wealth management adviser.
This input has enabled us remained firmly on growing and tosee the world through the eyes of lawyers and demonstrate genuineunderstanding of their needs whichhas contributed protecting their wealth.
greatly to both the quality of the services we provide and to ourcredibility within the profession.
co. uk 25 Chief Executives Review continued Monitoring client feedback Enhancing our regional presence There are numerous ways a business can measure success We built further on our already strong regional presence butone of the most important in a client focused business duringtheyear with the opening of a new office in Cambridge suchas ours is customer satisfaction.
With this in mind, we andwecontinue to seek opportunities where the potential for commissioned a client experience survey with the aim of expandingour business is greatest.
We are also focused on examining client perceptions in order to better identify where building a network of regional hubs, supported by smaller local ourstrengths and weaknesses lie, toestablish a base from offices, to enable larger teams of specialist advisers to offer our whichto judge future performance and to help guide the full range of advisory services to more people.
Charities The top line from the survey is that we have been outstanding in every area, with clients rating theirsatisfaction with our advisers, We continued to grow and develop our charity business, wider team, and services all at 8.4 10, well above the 2015 maintaining a strong position in the marketplace with a position industry benchmarks.
The net promoter score is a measure of ofno.
6 in the UK charity investment industry.
how many clients would recommend our services to friends which can be a powerful source of new business generation.
The score Focusing on the intermediary channel is a balance of those who would recommend our business netted We were delighted to see strong growth in our intermediary against those who would not measured between -100% and business during 2016, in terms of both a 15% increase in fund 100%.
We scored a positive balance of 44.6% compared to inflows and more firms than ever before choosing to work with us.
a2015 financial services industry average of just 4.7%.
We have included client satisfaction and the net promoter scorein our key These positive trends were due in no small part to the ongoing performance indicators on page 30. impact of our 16-strong national network of highly respected business development managers who are known throughout Improving our brand awareness theindustryfor the depth of their experience and knowledge.
Their value to usand ourintermediary partners continues to grow, Our single-minded focus on helping clients achieve their goals and they have contributed strongly to Brewin Dolphin becoming was at the core of the range of content-led and event-based one of the UKs most widely used discretionary fund managers.
client marketing campaigns we ran during the year.
During 2016, we introduced a more regionally focused Designed to attract new clients and grow existing relationships, management structure for the network, which is helping us these centred around messages relating to each target segment.
toconcentrate more efficiently on specific regional needs and They were, however, all based on the new goals-based brand opportunities for sharing innovative ideas and best practice.
positioning we finalised and rolled out during the year, which is best expressed in the hard-backed book we published exclusively Empathy and understanding for Brewin Dolphin clients and prospects.
This isnt about us, I believe that our ability to pioneer new services, such as it says.
those outlined above, for solicitors and corporate advisers demonstrates our commitment to building empathy and Increasing take up of our integrated wealth management understanding with intermediaries.
Being able to participate service proposition fullyinclient conversations and contribute insight greatly As a result of our growing emphasis on advice and our focus on strengthens partnerships, an ethos that extends strongly meeting the widest possible range of client needs, the number of intoourintermediary relationships.
clients receiving a service that combines investment management I was therefore delighted but not surprised to read the results of and financial planning grew significantly during 2016. the first Defaqto discretionary fund management review, based on This is enabling us to take a wider role in the lives of our clients, a survey of adviser firms and published in 2016.
This showed that as it allows us to give them a more comprehensive understanding Brewin Dolphin not only has the strongest provider brand, it is of their total financial position.
For this reason, we are continuing also top-ranked for client onboarding and rates very highly for to seek and develop increasing numbers of financial advisers investment flexibility and service.
Most pleasing of all, we were andplanning professionals.
voted top for the quality of bothour administrative and our investment staff.
26 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We will do this not only through introducing new services.
Our financial performance in 2016 Wewillalso ensure that we remain relevant to our clients and We achieved a good result in the face of considerable uncertainty intermediaries needs in every way, using technology to introduce in the market with adjusted profit before tax from continuing new communication channels and further support our advisers at operations of 61.0 million 2015: 62.2 million and costs an administration level so they can spend more time advising and beingheld flat year on year, statutory profit before tax was developing opportunities.
The first half of the financial year was particularly challenging with the FTSE 100 Index We recognise that the world we live in is complex and prone to dropping to a lowin February of 5,537 and then rallying to geo-political uncertainties.
Over more than 250 years, however, 6,899at the end of September.
we have applied the same calm and confident clarity to address some of historys greatest challenges.
Every time we have We made progress against our revenue growth objectives ensured that the interests of our clients, employees and withgross new discretionary funds inflowsof 2.4 billion shareholders are upheld.
2015:2.1 billion and continued strong inflows into our Model PortfolioService.
Net discretionary funds inflows of 1.1 billion Today, we believe as everthat the continuing value of skilled were broadly similar to 2015 as they were impacted byoutflows people providing quality advice is the cornerstone of long-term linked to previousbusiness restructuring.
Read more in our client relationships.
With major opportunitiesfor us, I believe our financial review on page 38. long-term growth prospects have never been stronger.
The near-term market outlook is clearly marked by the Looking ahead heightenedsense of political and economic uncertainty, both These were some of the key initiatives that helped us drive inthe UK and elsewhere.
Nonetheless, I believe our business, organic growth during 2016.
More were at planning, development whichis financially strong and willing to innovate and adopt and early implementation stages during the year, and these will newapproaches alongside our traditional values, is well placed continue to accelerate and consolidate our momentum on many towithstand any near term downturns whilst remaining focused fronts in 2017 and beyond.
In doing this we are confident ofcapturing future long-term growth opportunities.
The future shape and direction of the business grows clearer.
We know what we are doing, where we are going, what we are good Finally, all members of the Board and Executive Committee join at and how we will continue to provide increasing value as we me in thanking our people at every level of the organisation confidently pursue our growth strategy.
formaking such a superb contribution to a strong year for the We are excited by the great potential that resides in the Group in a challenging environment.
Their efforts, commitment closerintegration of our investment management and financial and expertise are what will continue to support Brewin Dolphins planningservice propositions.
And we are consistently ambitious success as we deliver together against our growth strategy.
to innovate continuing business as usual is not enough to derive full value for all our stakeholders.
We will continue in David Nicol particular to actively seek new ways of increasing shareholder value throughout 2017 and in the years ahead.
Chief Executive 29 November 2016 We scored over 90% on the client outcomes measure of satisfaction with our overall service and results.
This is an outstanding outcome and well above the 2015 industry benchmark.
