Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Chief Executives review The Group delivered a great set of results in 2016, with excellent growth seen across all key business metrics Nicandro Durante Chief Executive This is a significant step towards the In the UK, our category retail share, as A great year completion of this transaction and we look independently measured by AC Nielsen, The Group delivered a great set of results forward to putting the recommended offer hasreached nearly 40% through the growth in 2016, with excellent growth seen to shareholders.
of Vype and the acquisition of Ten Motives.
across all key business metrics.
This was We also have an estimated market share of achieved despite a challenging backdrop Strategically, this deal will create a truly around 50% in Poland as well as category ofadverse foreign exchange rates impacting global business with a world-class portfolio retail share of over 7% in Germany, over 4% our cost base and ongoing pressure on of tobacco and Next Generation Products in France and over 2% in Italy.
In addition, consumers disposable income in many that will be available across the most we also launched a new vaping concept in ofourKey Markets.
attractive markets in the world.
Financially, Europe called the Vype Pebble, which we it will be earnings accretive with enhanced The work that has been carried out in believe will enhance the overall category cash generation while maintaining a solid previousyears to integrate and streamline andincrease consumer penetration.
internal systems, identify consumer needs In December 2016, we launched a newearlier and increase efficiencies across the We expect the transaction to close during the to-world Tobacco Heating Product called Group means that we now have the building third quarter of 2017, subject to obtaining the glo in Sendai, Japan.
Initial results are very blocks in place to continue to deliver for relevant shareholder and regulatory approvals.
encouraging, with glo gaining 5.4% volume shareholders in the future.
share in a leading convenience store chain in Combustible tobacco products Sendai after only ten weeks.
Further roll-out Results Total Group cigarette volume for the full and product upgrades are scheduled for Group revenue was up by 6.9% at yearwas up 0.2% to 665 billion.
constant rates of exchange, driven by decline on an organic basis was considerably good pricing with price mix exceeding better than the industry, which we estimate to These innovations, alongside our exciting 6%.
Reported revenue was 12.6% higher, be down around 3.0%.
pipeline, demonstrate our commitment reflecting the translational tailwind resulting to meeting all of the differing preferences Strong growth in 2016, with overall market from the relative weakness of sterling.
of our consumers, providing them with share in our Key Markets increasing by 50 bps, On anorganic basis, Group revenue was a choice of outstanding products across was driven by the continuing momentum of upby 5.3% at constant rates.
our Global Drive Brands GDBs.
At constant rates of exchange, adjusted Facing the future with confidence Total volume growth across the GDBs was profitfrom operations grew by 4.1% and an outstanding 7.5% and total market share As these results demonstrate, our combustible adjusted diluted earnings per share grew growth was 100 bps.
The GDBs now account tobacco business continues to perform by10.4%.
for 49% of Group cigarette volume, up from extremely well and I am very pleased with the Adjusted profits from operations would 32% in2011, demonstrating the key role progress we are making in Next Generation havegrown by approximately 10% were theyplayin our growth strategy.
Both would be made stronger it not for the significant ongoing effect of by our proposed acquisition of Reynolds Next Generation Products adverse foreign exchange movements on American, creating what will become a truly ourcost base during 2016.
In 2016, we made significant progress with global tobacco and Next Generation Products our differentiated strategy of developing company, delivering sustained long-term Underlying operating margin, excluding and marketing a range of outstanding next profit growth and returns.
transactional foreign exchange and generation tobacco and nicotine products, acquisitions, grewby around 160 bps.
The ongoing success of the Group is only across both the Vapour and Tobacco Heating On a reported basis, it was down by made possible by the passion and dedication categories having further strengthened our 90 bps to 37.2%.
of our talented people around the globe and R&D capabilities and continued to invest in I am confident that we are well placed to world-class science to provide our consumers Agreement to acquire continue this success into the future.
with innovative and inspiring products.
ReynoldsAmerican Nicandro Durante Our Vapour Products business continues to I am very pleased that we reached an Chief Executive perform very well and, following the geographic agreement with the Board of Reynolds expansion of Vype in 2016, we are now present American in relation to the acquisition of in ten markets and have the largest vapour theremaining 57.8% of Reynolds American business in the world outside of the US.
that the Group does not currently own.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 05
