48 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 price changes had an overall negative impact of around 130m, In February Howard Watson replaced Clive Selley as CEO of BT equivalent to 3% of our revenue.
Howard was previously responsible for leading BTs global IT platforms.
During this time we improved our levels of IT reliability Operating costs were up 1% 2014 15: 2% down mainly every year.
reflecting higher volumes, pay inflation and a 29m increase in leaver costs.
There was also no benefit this year from the sale of New organisational structure redundant copper 2014 15: 29m.
These effects were partly On 1 April 2016 we formed a new business unit called IT and offset by cost efficiencies.
Mobile which sits within TSO.
It draws together EEs mobile technology experts with the teams that manage BTs IT platforms.
The main driver of the Openreach cost base is labour which makes up over 1bn of variable cost, after deducting own work Products and services capitalised.
We reduced our labour costs by 7%, partly by creating We manage the infrastructure for BTs products, services and our centres of excellence.
internal systems, such as the voice, data and TV networks.
With depreciation and people also design and deliver the large-scale global managed amortisation down 3% 2014 15: 4%, operating profit was networked services which we sell to many of the top companies in up 9% 2014 15: 5%.
Capital expenditure was 1,447m, up 365m or 34% 2014 15: We deliver and run BTs applications and IT systems, such as our up 33m or 3%.
This consists of gross expenditure of 1,540m customer management and HR systems.
Our investments in these 2014 15: 1,460m which has been reduced by grants of have simplified processes and improved the way our people interact 93m 2014 15: 378m directly related to our fibre broadband with them.
network build in the year.
The total amount of grants recognised is To help improve customer service, we developed the My BT app.
lower than last year as we have deferred 227m of grant income This means consumers can access their account, billing and order due to strong levels of fibre broadband take-up.
This is primarily information from the convenience of their smartphone.
because we increased our base-case assumption for take-up from 20% to 33% in BDUK areas and under the terms of the Performance in the year programme, we have a potential obligation to either re-invest or Weve continued to proactively maintain and refresh repay grant funding depending on factors including the level of the technology in our networks and service platforms.
New features have been added, improvements made to network Operating cash flow decreased 6% 2014 15: 1% increase reliability and older technology removed.
For example, we primarily reflecting the higher capital expenditure.
installed higher capacity and more cost-effective routers for our MPLS network.
You can read more about this and other network Key priorities enhancements on page 9.
And weve continued taking equipment Following the appointment of Clive Selley as CEO, our future plans out of our legacy networks.
For example, this year we turned off include: around 600 PSTN switching elements that we no longer need.
achieving our goal of 95% on-time installations by the end of Weve improved the reliability of our IT systems.
This has resulted in 2017, which is ahead of Ofcoms minimum service level: 39% fewer IT faults.
Weve also continued to reduce our costs and working with government to help take fibre broadband to 95% the groups energy consumption, which we say more about of the country by the end of 2017: on page 17. getting ultrafast broadband to 10m premises, with an ambition to get this to 12m, by the end of 2020: Key priorities recruiting 1,000 frontline engineers to deliver further Our future plans include: improvements in service: and developing technology solutions that help our customers, such working to deploy FTTP using microfibre technology.
as increasing the broadband speeds we can provide homes at the end of long copper lines: BT TECHNOLOGY, SERVICE & OPERATIONS BT TSO moving from a technology trial to a live consumer trial of an all-IP BT TSO is our internal technology unit and is responsible for voice service: delivering and operating our networks, platforms and IT systems.
continuing to invest in our TV platform, improving the customer We design, build and operate BTs global networks and systems.
experience of our set-top box and investigating new technologies And we make sure theyre reliable and resilient.
We work closely such as High Dynamic Range for better picture quality: with each of the lines of business, creating new products for them continuing to evaluate technologies such as Software-Defined and making sure that services evolve with the changing needs of Networks that will enhance the cloud-based services that we their customers.
offer to businesses: and continuing our network rationalisation.
We manage BTs research and development and look at ways to differentiate BT though innovation.
And we manage BTs worldwide patent portfolio.
We tell you more about that on page 11.
Given the rapid pace of change in the technology that BT TSO people work on, weve developed comprehensive training and reskilling programmes.
Were also a major recruiter of UK graduates and apprentices.
This is covered further on page 7.
