Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review We have been more challenged in stills The breadth of our portfolio, strength We remain focused on this year although the second half of the of our core brands and increasing delivering the strategy year reflected encouraging signs of innovation capability means we are improvement.
Robinsons declined year well placed to adapt and evolve with we laid out in May 2013. on year following our decision to remove consumer trends and customer needs Despite a challenging added sugar from the range and due to that continue to change, probably very competitive own label pricing in the faster than ever before.
environment in all the dilutes category.
J O had a weak 2 We have returned to like-for-like markets in which Christmas and our limited-edition flavours revenue growth and, through our performed poorly this year.
J 0 Spritz, a we operate, we have 2 transformational business capability lower sugar sparkling variant introduced delivered another strong programme, we continue to build a last year is performing well and offers stronger, more efficient business.
Our set of financial results good future growth potential.
Fruit Shoot pre-exceptional EBITA increased by gained share in a declining category.
We and continue to make 8.4%, enabling us to declare a 6.5% continue to evolve the brand, reducing increase in the dividend.
good progress in sweetness and adding vitamins to the core brand and Fruit Shoot Hydro, our executing our longer Generate profitable growth flavoured kids water, is growing strongly.
in our core markets Over the last three years we have invested GB in our marketing and innovation capability Our carbonates portfolio, which includes and this is now starting to bear fruit.
The both PepsiCo brands and our owned contribution from innovation continues to brands, enjoyed another successful year.
grow and represented 4% of our 2016 Our continued focus on no and low sugar revenue.
Recent successes in GB include resulted in Pepsi Max, 7UP and Tango all J 0 Spritz and Robinsons Squashd: we 2 delivering growth.
Whilst the value of the are particularly pleased with the early cola category declined by 1.4%, Pepsi performance of the Drench and Purdeys grew its retail market value by 6.7%, brands which we have improved, adding over 26m of retail value from repositioned and relaunched with new Max, with its new Cherry variant leading variants.
Our innovation pipeline is strong: this growth.
7UP Free outperformed the 2017 will include new adult offerings such fruit carbonates category with double digit as the relaunch and extension of R Whites retail value growth, and Tango delivered lemonade and the introduction of adult its best performance in over 10 years.
premium brands, including our zero proof Thomas and Evans and our premium mixers range from the London Essence Company.
16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 16 13 12 2016 18:59 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued We have made good progress broadening To further increase our reach into the Finally, we took the difficult decision to our channel presence, winning new Licensed channel, we are today announcing withdraw from India this summer.
Whilst the accounts such as Subway and G1, the the acquisition, subject to competition brand was growing its distribution, the path leading hospitality group in Scotland, and approval, of East Coast Suppliers Ltd, a to sustainable profitability was proving to be retaining major contracts such as KFC licensed wholesaler with a strong presence a long one and we have decided to focus and Fullers.
A key element of our revenue in Dublin.
Through this acquisition, our our efforts and investment elsewhere.
management strategy has been to grow business will become the number two Continue to step-change our our higher margin immediate refreshment wholesaler, providing a direct route to business capability portfolio which includes pack sizes such market for our growing adult premium soft as 500 600ml PET and 330ml cans.
Last year we announced a a result we have taken share and grown transformational three-year investment more retail market value in this category Realise global opportunities programme to deliver increased supply than any other manufacturer, with Pepsi in kids, family and adult chain flexibility and efficiency with a Max, Drench and Ballygowan leading this minimum 15% EBITDA return.
Further opportunity in this continue to see a significant opportunity We have had an excellent first year in Brazil.
segment remains as we still under-index for our business to improve its capability Despite the current tough economic versus our overall market share.
and our current expectation is that the net conditions, we have grown volume and capital investment in the programme will France revenue and our brands Maguary and be around 240m.
The first year of our The tragic terrorist events of the last year, Dafruta have gained market share.
Multiple investment into the supply chain in GB is on combined with social and economic price increases were successfully executed track and we have identified opportunities pressures, have had an impact on to maintain margins in the face of double in Ireland and France.
In 2016 we consumer confidence and behaviour digit raw material inflation.
More recently we commissioned our first new large PET line in France.
In addition, syrup sales are have launched Maguary Fruit Shoot, a and on site warehousing in Leeds.
We also particularly weather sensitive and the fantastic achievement for the combined made significant progress on the installation weather this summer did not match the Ebba and Britvic team in such a short of three new can lines in Rugby.
These will previous year affecting sales.
In contrast period of time.
Initially we are focusing our be fully operational in spring 2017 and will Fruit Shoot performed well, aided by the efforts on Sao Paulo city before we start to deliver significant cost and introduction of a 1.5 litre sharing pack.
undertake a broader roll out across Brazil.
commercial benefits as we head into 2018.
Our juice brand Pressade also continued The local senior management team have all In 2017 we will commence the next phase to grow strongly, with its focus on organic been retained and have proved a great of our investment programme, with a new and locally sourced fruit proving popular addition to Britvic.
PET line in London, as well as new aseptic with consumers.
Next year we are We continue to invest behind our lines in Rugby and in France.
In Ireland, introducing a high juice version of Fruit international division in the USA.
Fruit Shoot we announced changes to our distribution Shoot and a new range of premium singles, distributed by our partner Pepsi in model, outsourcing all warehousing and syrups under the Moulin fide Valdonne the convenience and leisure channels, have distribution to increase capacity and brand, addressing the consumer demands continued to perform well and we have reduce cost.
for naturalness and a premium treat.
Fruit Shoot is As we have looked to extend our business Ireland now listed in Pizza Hut nationally and is capability agenda beyond supply chain, 2016 has been a successful year for our performing well.
we have taken the opportunity to flatten Irish business unit.
We leveraged our This year we have also launched multi-pack our team structures and create more number one position in no added sugar, into the grocery channel with our partner synergy between our business units, which in which we enjoy over 30% share, to Advantage Sales and Marketing, who are a will improve the speed and effectiveness outperform the market.
Ballygowan water well-established operator in grocery.
The of decision making as well as drive out contributed more growth to the Irish soft scale of the opportunity is large but the USA cost.
We anticipate that these initiatives drinks market than any other brand.
We grocery market is complex, diverse and will deliver incremental annual cost successfully extended the brand through highly competitive.
We are pleased with the savings from 2017 of 5m.
the launch of Sparklingly Fruity.
listings we have gained with major retailers such as Walmart, Kroger and HEB but MiWadi led the squash category back into recognise that we have further work to do growth and this year MiWadi 0% sugar to properly establish the brand in this became the first soft drink brand to receive channel in the year ahead.
It was a successful year for our business out of home as we used the breadth of our portfolio to successfully take share in both convenience and through our licensed wholesaling arm, Counterpoint.
BRITVIC HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER STRONG SET OF RESULTS IN CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 17 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 17 13 12 2016 18:59 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued Fruit Shoot also partnered with Right to Build trust and respect in our Outlook Play a global organisation that uses the communities 2017 will be another challenging year, with transformative power of play to educate difficult trading conditions and input cost Public health has continued to be a key and empower children facing adversity.
inflation for the first time in several years.
issue in 2016, with soft drinks levies The UKs vote to leave the EU and the We have made good progress on reducing proposed to be introduced in 2018 in the proposed soft drinks levies in GB and our environmental impact, with the UK and Ireland.
Britvic believes in offering Ireland from April 2018 have created investment in our manufacturing plants choice, whilst making it easier for additional uncertainty.
leading to a 1.5% reduction in water consumers to reduce their calorific intake usage per litre of soft drink produced.
At without compromising taste or quality.
However, we are well positioned to deal our Leeds factory, water consumption is We are disappointed at the introduction with these challenges.
We have a clear down 22% and energy use reduced 45% of category-specific taxes, since we strategy that is working, hugely talented and relative to production, compared to FY15.
believe a holistic approach is necessary committed people, and a robust balance We are confident our London and Rugby to tackle this complex issue.
sheet that provides a strong platform from sites should see a similar efficiency saving which we will continue to deliver our strategic Playing a proactive role in helping to once the supply chain investments goals.
The breadth of our portfolio, strength address obesity has long been an integral become fully operational by 2020. of our brands and innovation capability part of our sustainable business plan.
We leaves us well placed to continue to grow.
This year our charitable contributions have have led the industry in our approach to Through our transformational business been valued at nearly 900,000 and our health: reformulating brands such as J20 capability programme we are creating a employees have continued to live our and Drench: introducing new product stronger, more efficient business, with a values, going the extra mile to support innovations such as MiWadi Zero and lower cost base.
I am confident that we great causes and build an inspiring place MiWadi Mini: and removing added sugar will deliver 2017 results in line with market to be.
In GB, our employees have been Fruit Shoot and Robinsons.
Our actions expectations whilst continuing to progress supporting our two new charity partners, since 2012 have led to an annualised our strategic priorities.
Sported and the Wildlife Trust.
In Ireland, 19bn calorie reduction and our portfolio is we launched our employee volunteering now strongly weighted towards low and policy, enabling employees to take 2 days no sugar in GB and Ireland.
In France we have Our brands have also continued to help been supporting young people entering families get active, promoting sport through Simon Litherland the labour market through workshops, high level sponsorships including Robinsons Chief Executive Officer open days and partnering employee enduring association with the Wimbledon volunteers with young people on job Lawn Tennis Championships and discovery exercises.
Teisseires sponsorship of the Tour fide France.
This year Fruit Shoot partnered with Tough Mudder to enable children across the UK, France, Ireland and the USA to participate in a Mini Mudder obstacle course.
