CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Foundations for future growth SEIZING FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES It has been a very busy year for N Brown as We are really pleased with we continue to transform the way we operate our performance to date in the USA.
We have been building as a fashion retailer from a direct mail led a sustainable, profitable business model to a digital led model.
We are midway model, built upon customer loyalty, and this will serve us through this journey and are delighted to see well when we accelerate our the benefits coming through, importantly growth in this country.
1 delivering 11% profit growth in the second Beyond the USA, our future half of the year.
capability enabled by global ship anywhere will allow us to unlock the international potential Introduction of our brands.
The transformation of our business model continues at pace.
We have a clear We are excited about the growth focus on our three fashion Power Brands potential that our new Financial JD Williams, Simply Be and Jacamo, Services systems will give us.
and I am pleased to report that revenue here was up 10% year-on-year.
I am We will be able to charge also pleased with the strong online variable APRs, allowing us to metrics we are delivering, with online offer our customers a far more penetration at a new record 65%.
We personalised choice of Financial are taking decisive actions to improve Services products, broadening the performance of our Traditional our appeal.
Segment which remains an important, profitable part of the Group.
Our performance in FY16 was in line with 1 expectations, with strong 11% profit This is based on the strong appeal of growth achieved in H2, as we annualised a our specialist fit proposition, continuous number of changes made to the business improvement in the customer experience in FY15.
We had a good Christmas period and changes in customer shopping and for the first time were able to be truly behaviour, driven by targeted marketing.
agile in our trading approach, particularly for our digital brands.
Strategic progress Our vision is to be the universally loved We continue to roll-out our systems experts in fashion that fits, helping our investment programme, Fit 4 the Future, customers look and feel amazing through and all areas of the business are focused our trusted family of fashion brands.
on ensuring this lands on time and with We operate in attractive market niches minimal disruption.
So far progress is plus-size and age 50-plus which we on track and within budget.
believe to be under-served by the fashion industry overall, providing our customers Looking forward, whilst we face with high quality and competitive challenging market conditions for product offerings, fit-specialism and the fashion sector overall, we remain a strong delivery proposition.
confident in our ability to make further progress this year.
D efined as Continued PBT before exceptional items and IAS 39 restatement credit.
N Brown Group plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Strategy p20 Performance Review p32 4.14m active customer accounts 65% online penetration We are mid-way through a significant I am also happy to report that the MARKET OVERVIEW transformation which will allow us to warehouse extension at our main deliver sustainable, profitable growth warehouse facility, in Shaw, is now Economic trends over the long term, driven by our four complete and in the process of coming The global economic backdrop strategic foundations: on stream.
The project was completed is uncertain, with recent volatility, on time and to budget.
The new facility particularly in foreign exchange Product has doubled our through-put capacity, rates, as a result of the upcoming EU Price ensuring we continue to operate referendum, unhelpful particularly People efficiently.
Importantly it will also from a sourcing standpoint.
Place materially improve our next day Consumer confidence in the UK availability, allow us to further extend is currently relatively fragile.
The Our systems transformation project, our cut-off for next day delivery, and introduction of the National Living Fit 4 the Future, is progressing well.
underpin our international expansion Wage is a net positive for the Group, During the second half we launched our plans for the future.
as it should result in higher disposable Simply Be Euro website the first phase income for our customers, although of our Global Multi-channel release and Outlook cuts to benefits would likely be a Powercurve the foundation of our Credit Trading since the year end has been negative.
Both launches were on-time subdued, with sales lower year on we assume a generally benign and results continue to be encouraging.
This is mainly the result of the economic environment.
industry backdrop which has been Fit 4 the Future is the largest project more challenging since January.
Retail trends ever undertaken by the Group, and as We also have a headwind from our Shopping globally is increasingly such there are inevitably risks, but we Traditional Segment which we believe online: the BRC estimates that over continue to do everything possible to we can address through improved 20% of all non-food retail spending ensure that risks and business disruption targeted marketing.
We expect to now takes place online.
We are are minimised and that the future benefits see performance strengthen over well-placed to benefit from this trend, of the investment are maximised.
benefits case is unchanged and we Customers increasingly shop through expect these to start to ramp up from From a non-trading perspective, FX their mobiles: again we are ahead of FY18 onwards.
As previously disclosed, rates represent a significant challenge this trend, with 66% of traffic coming some of these benefits will be reinvested year on year and we have also decided from mobile devices.
From a delivery back into the business.
to undertake a one-off exercise to more standpoint customers increasingly aggressively clear some one to two year demand convenience: we now offer The timetable for Fit 4 the Future is also old inventory, enabled by our new online over 5,000 collection points and have unchanged.
This August we plan to start clearance tools.
a 9pm cut-off for next day delivery.
the roll-out of our new web platform and new financial services systems, initially Overall, we remain confident in our Market trends to the USA, and then to a number of our ability to make further progress this year.
Customers are increasingly driven smaller UK brands in September.
Our This is based on the strong appeal of by product newness, with shopping main brands will move onto the new our specialist fit proposition, continuous just in time during the season having systems in early 2017, after peak trading.
improvement in the customer experience replaced traditional purchase trends of and changes in customer shopping buying at the start of seasons.
We are In May we completed the roll-out behaviour, driven by targeted marketing.
accordingly increasing the frequency of the first phase of our Planning of new products being offered to our transformation, giving us improved customers, and to facilitate this are tools for assortment and range increasing our sourcing from countries planning.
This will allow us greater Angela Spindler closer to the UK.
Competition in the visibility, control and consistency.
Chief Executive UK retail sector remains as tough as The second phase of the Planning ever: we believe our niche positions release, which will give us item-level of plus-sizes and older customers are forecasting tools, improving markdown important against this backdrop.
efficiency, will go live in early 2017.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19
