22 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Deliver superior customer service Acting on insight Weve redesigned the way we launch new Every day we touch the lives of millions, providing services that products to more clearly reflect customer feedback and insight.
help people get the most out of their working and personal lives.
Our customers experience is affected by the quality, reliability BT Mobile was our first product launch in and value of our products and services.
And by how responsive which customer experience was a specific design criteria from the outset.
Our net we are when we need to provide new services or sort out promoter score is highest among consumers problems.
Their expectations continue to rise as our networks taking BT Mobile.
play an increasingly important role in their lives and businesses.
Were rolling out this approach to other Getting the customer experience right, and improving the quality products under development.
of our customer relationships, is at the heart of our strategy for Keeping our customers Weve invested more to help make our growth.
And also supports our drive for cost transformation.
Our investment connected in proactive network maintenance is up Customer experience is one of the measures we use to set our by 22%, improving the fault profile of executives annual bonus.
It is made up of the Right First Time our network.
RFT metric and a customer perception measure see page 130.
RFT is our key internal measure of customer service.
It tracks Creating great tools Our new My BT app won a Digital Experience Award, and has been downloaded how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
and systems more than 435,000 times.
51% of users check the app monthly and 21% use it How we did in the year weekly.
Were updating it every quarter.
Our performance in the first quarter of the year was good.
Recent developments include letting But in the second, third and fourth quarters, our service was customers pay their bills, monitor their impacted by electrical storms and system and network outages, broadband usage, find out about network as well as 11 separate winter storms over a five-month period.
issues, and view their orders and any faults.
The storms resulted in record levels of flooding and while we In BT Wholesale weve invested significantly received much praise for our response, they had a significant in our online capabilities including: improved impact on our service.
We recovered well in the fourth quarter and search engines and navigation: personalised online order and fault management: and ended the year with a positive upturn in our service measures.
But we missed our RFT target for the year as a whole.
Performance was down 3.0% against a 4.7% increase in the prior year.
Working better across Weve invested in broadening our contact centre agents skills and tools, letting our organisation We need to redouble our efforts into next year as we know that them take greater ownership of customer we need to do much better.
Were investing in jobs and were issues and increasing the number of issues multiskilling our people to give us better flexibility and capacity.
Where weve introduced this, in relation In last years Annual Report we outlined a number of specific to the provision of new connections, areas that we would focus on this year.
Weve made good progress complaints are 50% lower and customer against each of these, although we recognise that we need to satisfaction is up more than 17%.
Were extending this model across all our contact centres.
Supporting our Were bringing our call centres back to the UK, with 60% of BT Consumer customer calls people being answered within the UK by the end of the year.
And were planning to extend that to 90% by the end of March 2017.
To do this weve hired more than 900 people in the UK and plan to hire a further 1,000 over the course of the year ahead.
EE is creating 600 new roles to support its plans to handle all customer service calls in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2016.
Key priorities Looking ahead, were focused on: investing further in our network, making it more resilient: reducing the number of appointments missed by our engineers: hiring more people into our contact centres: investing more in our contact centre advisers, giving them the skills and tools to solve more customer issues: and improving our online tools to make it easier for customers to serve themselves.
