Chief Executive Officers review 07 Strategic Report BTG is building a leading position in the fast growing area of Interventional Medicine therapies.
We are motivated by the real difference that these minimally invasive products can make to patients.
Through our ability to fund ongoing investments we are maximising the potential of our portfolio.
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer To unlock this potential, we develop Canada where we are now also selling Strategy for differentiated therapies, which can both products directly.
sustained growth be medical devices, drugs, or drugWe made good progress in key Asian Over the past decade BTG has device combinations, and we invest markets.
Our partner in China, SciClone successfully transformed from an to maximise their value to physicians.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. won its first intellectual property commercialisation provincial tenders and the first company to a fast growing, specialist Executing our strategy patients were treated with DC Bead.
We have built a In the past twelve months we have TheraSphere received approval in company that now develops, achieved some significant milestones the growing markets of Singapore manufactures and sells its own unique and we are excited by the prospects and South Korea whilst in Japan our products to specialist physicians for the business.
partner Eisai Co. Ltd received expanded through dedicated, efficient sales teams.
Interventional Oncology is the first Underpinning our transformation is area we invested in and is now the During the year we received US approval the solid financial foundation that we most advanced demonstration of for LC Bead LUMI, a radiopaque bead have established through our highly our Interventional Medicine strategy.
developed in collaboration with the cash-generative Specialty BTG is the only company providing imaging specialist Royal Philips.
We Pharmaceuticals and Licensing both radiation TheraSphere anticipate EU approval in due course.
Our strategy is to reinvest and embolising chemoembolising We are also exploring other options the cash generated by these businesses LC Bead DC Bead locoregional outside of the liver with the development into our Interventional Medicine treatments for liver cancer.
This of our biodegradable bead, where we portfolio.
Here we are building a portfolio gives us a unique, patient-focused see potential to enter new markets for and evidence-based offering of differentiated, minimally invasive benign tumours.
therapies that have the potential to After year-end we announced the deliver efficacy and safety benefits to Double-digit revenue growth this year acquisition of Galil Medical, a leader in patients while reducing hospital stays reflects a strong performance by cryoablation.
This highly complementary, and overall healthcare costs.
We focus TheraSphere and the continued bolt-on acquisition enhances our on medical conditions where patients growth of our Beads business, for offering to interventional oncologists are poorly served by existing treatments which we commenced direct sales with a suite of cryoablation products that and which therefore offer significant in European markets in April 2015.
We are used for the treatment and palliative growth potential.
hired our first sales representatives in care of kidney and other cancers.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 08 Chief Executive Officers review continued Strategic Report Additional indications in treating lung Varithena on policy, with approximately submitted module, and we now and bone metastases could result from 91 million lives covered by insurers who anticipate completing our rolling two studies that are nearing completion.
have also paid claims at appropriate Premarket Approval PMA submission Importantly, cryoablation is a platform rates.
Further progress is anticipated at the end of 2016. technology and we have the opportunity during the current financial year.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals, which to invest to expand its use into new The number of physicians who are comprises a portfolio of unique rescue indications and market segments.
regularly reordering, whilst small, is therapies, is an established business that In particular, we will explore the potential increasing, with clinics in geographies delivers on average mid-to-high single crossover in call points with our where there is good insurance coverage digit annual revenue growth.
In the PneumRx and EKOS businesses.
and clinics that specialise in treating period our partner Wellstat Therapeutics The treatment of cancer continues to advanced venous disease, such as leg Corporation received FDA approval evolve.
More effective treatments mean ulcers, being more likely to reorder.
for Vistogard, the only drug to treat that more people are living longer with We look forward to launching Varithena patients following an overdose of their cancer and that the management of in Canada and we are continuing to the common chemotherapy drug an individuals cancer is likely to involve progress plans to develop related 5-fluorouracil 5-FU, and first sales multiple treatments at different stages products to treat cosmetic leg veins and were achieved in the launch month of disease.
Interventional oncologists are other venous disorders.
We have created two exploring the potential role of dedicated field forces in order to serve PneumRx is at an early stage of its locoregional approaches including our customers more effectively: one commercial development.
Our mediumcryoablation and radiation therapy focusing on the emergency room term goals for this business are to alongside existing and developing products CroFab and DigiFab and the expand European market adoption and treatment modalities, such as immunoother on the oncology antidote products reimbursement, using emerging clinical oncology.
BTGs unique position as a Voraxaze and Vistogard.
data to provide physicians and payers provider of multiple interventional with confidence in patient selection, and Royalties from our Licensing segment therapies means we are well placed to to secure US approval.
We have made provide strong cash flows to help fund take advantage of these trends.
good progress since completing the our investments in other parts of the In Interventional Vascular, the EkoSonic acquisition and continue to be excited business.
A continued strong blood clot treatment device continues by the large commercial potential of performance from Johnson & Johnsons to deliver strong growth.
There is an PneumRx and for Interventional Zytiga was supplemented by strong increasing recognition of the benefits of Pulmonology overall.
growth in Sanofi Genzymes Lemtrada treating blood clots interventionally and multiple sclerosis treatment.
In May 2015 the REVOLENS study, the annual number of procedures in a trial sponsored by the French Ministry the US is growing strongly from about of Health, met its primary endpoint.
Creating the culture 95,000 when we bought this business in We are now seeking national for success 2013 to about 140,000 today.
Over this reimbursement for the PneumRx Coils At BTG we believe that sustainable time we have increased penetration into in France and anticipate a decision growth requires us to focus both on US hospitals, helped by the FDA during the 2017 calendar year.
A decision performance and on the way we do clearance we received in 2014 for the on national reimbursement in Germany things.
We are guided by our embedded treatment of life-threatening pulmonary is also anticipated during 2017.
In values and behaviours, which inform embolism PE.
December 2015 we announced positive our approach to employee recruitment, Our plans are to build on this leadership top line data from the US RENEW trial, retention and development, to position in the US and expand our one of the largest randomised controlled interactions with our stakeholders, presence in Europe and other territories.
clinical trials of a medical device in and to corporate development We are also developing a new control unit patients with severe emphysema.
See page 20 People and that will enable bilateral treatment of PE Full data were presented at the practices for more details.
or deep vein thrombosis DVT and we American Thoracic Society meeting in are adding to the clinical evidence with May 2016 and published in the Journal of two studies, for which we expect to Outlook the American Medical Association.
The complete patient enrolment this We are building a great business and full data analysis shows that patients financial year.
making good progress in implementing with heterogeneous or homogeneous our growth strategy.
With a strong As we approach two years since emphysema and a higher degree of lung financial underpin and a focus on launching Varithena in the US over-inflation showed the greatest consistent achievement of milestones, reimbursed sector, physician interest improvements in quality of life and we are in a good position to develop remains high with 792 physicians now exercise capacity versus control leading positions in our chosen market enrolled in the training programme, up patients.
This provides a good basis for segments.
Together, our portfolio, from 573 in November 2015, and we the development of this therapy, as it will capabilities and resources represent a continue to receive positive feedback help physicians identify those patients scalable platform for long-term, sustained on its clinical performance.
Despite a who are most suitable for treatment with growth, and we are confident of delivering slower start than we had originally the coils.
significant value to all our stakeholders.
anticipated, reimbursement for We are now finalising the clinical module Varithena is gradually improving.
of our rolling US regulatory submission in Approximately 161 million US lives of Louise Makin the US.
As a result of ongoing dialogue 320 million total US insured lives are Chief Executive Officer with the FDA we are adding additional now covered by payers who have usability testing data to a previously BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
