Strategic Report Introduction Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officers Letter 2015 16 was a challenging year for the luxury industry.
holding the FY 2017 dividend at least in line with FY 2016.
In addition, we plan to commence a share buyback programme of up to 150m starting in FY 2017.
Both these actions reflect our confidence in the growth prospects for the business, and our commitment to balancing financial efficiency and flexibility.
Our headline financial performance masks some more positive aspects that give confidence for the future.
Within retail, while comparable sales decreased by 1% overall they were up 3% when excluding the significantly impacted markets of Hong Kong and Macau.
Improved conversion globally reflected an intense focus on driving retail disciplines in the face of deteriorating store traffic.
And we were pleased that digital again grew in all regions, reflecting Christopher Bailey our sustained focus on, and investment in, this channel.
Chief Creative andChief Executive Officer More broadly, continued progress within our four key With growth of 1-2%, from 7% just two years ago, sector themes of Brand First, Famous for Product, Customer performance was impacted by a number of factors, from Centric and Productive & Responsible demonstrates the slowing Chinese consumption and a sluggish Eurozone, to underlying health of our business even in difficult times.
geopolitical tensions and volatile financial markets.
And we saw some significant changes in the geographic dynamics Brand first of luxury consumption, not least the shifts in Chinese At the heart of this is our emphasis on and investment tourist flows that so dramatically impacted Hong Kong in our brand, which continued to resonate strongly with one of the most profitable luxury markets in the world.
Given the shape of Burberrys global footprint, these A key highlight in the year was our announcement in negative trends had a disproportionate impact on our November that we will move to one Burberry label during business during the year, and this was reflected in our 2016, phasing out our Prorsum, London and Brit lines overall financial performance.
However, our global teams while retaining our breadth of price points and attitudes worked hard to mitigate declines in traffic across our from casual to high fashion.
Together with our ongoing major markets, as we focused on what we could control streamlining of assortments, this is an important step in in a very difficult environment.
And, near-term dynamics ensuring an ever-more coherent brand expression globally, aside, we continued to make good operational and while making the shopping experience simpler and more strategic progress from sound foundations.
intuitive for our customer, better reflecting the way they shop and think about the brand today.
Performance summary Revenue for the year was 2.5bn, down 1% underlying, Another key milestone in our pursuit of greater brand and adjusted profit before tax was down 10% underlying consistency was the full launch of the global collection to 421m, in part impacted by a 19m decrease in licensing in Japan, marking the end of a 35-year licence and the profit relating to the planned expiry of our Japanese last major step in the structural integration of our global licences.
Net cash increased by 108m to 660m, and business over the past decade.
With excellent early we increased the full year dividend by 5% to 37p, a 53% momentum and significant headroom for growth, payout.
Having met our payout target of 50%, we will we see real potential over the coming years in this, now move to a progressive dividend policy going forward, the second-largest luxury market in the world.
12 Strategic Report Introduction Building on last years intense focus on Burberrys unique fashion styles, and supported by dedicated marketing and British heritage, we continued to celebrate and develop our service strategies worldwide.
Standout performers were distinctive brand story, both on and offline.
This included our Banner bag, now our most successful style following the introduction of new customer events that highlight the its introduction just last year, and the monogrammable craftsmanship behind our iconic products with live in-store runway rucksack, which enjoyed an exceptional editorial demonstrations: the extension of our Art of the Trench and customer response following the September runway initiative to the creative communities of the Middle East show.
Both styles contributed to outperformance from and Seoul: and our London in Los Angeles event which accessories over the year.
marked the opening of our new Rodeo Drive flagship with a runway show featuring the Queens Grenadier Guards, as we Meanwhile, our Beauty business continued to build, always continue to elevate our brand positioning in the US market.
with a strong link back to fashion.
Following its launch in September 2014, we cemented My Burberry as the core In all brand activity we maintained our focus on digital pillar in our womens fragrance business through the engagement, developing richer and more personalised introduction of further products and a continued marketing experiences for our customers, and we saw record focus, while making preparations for the April 2016 launch engagement with our content online.
Partnerships with of Mr. Burberry, our most significant mens fragrance to creative innovation leaders globally played an important date.
Mirroring My Burberrys alignment with our broader role here, and we collaborated with companies including heritage relaunch, Mr. Burberry will provide a platform to Apple, Google, DreamWorks, Snapchat, LINE, Kakao and focus attention on our menswear business overall.
With WeChat during the year.
Finally, we regained our leading the announcement of several major partnerships in the position in the prestigious annual L2 Digital IQ: Fashion year, including Shiseido and Sephora, and numerous index in a year that saw our social media following increase industry awards for our key products, we remain excited by almost a third, to over 40 million people globally.
about the brands potential in the beauty category.
Famous for product Customer centric Alongside this commitment to the concept of Brand First, Within our third theme, Customer Centric, we made further our enhanced emphasis on being Famous for Product progress in developing and enhancing our retail practices gained momentum through a twin focus on our iconic to meet the needs of a fast-evolving customer in an UK-made products and fashion innovation.
Following the re-launch of our heritage trench offer last year, In an environment of reduced store traffic globally, we our cashmere scarf moved to the fore with the launch of the maintained our focus on driving loyalty and conversion Scarf Bar in stores and online.
Offering our classic check through great service, underpinned by our ongoing scarf in over 30 colours and with extended monogramming investment in data and insight.
We also enlarged our services, this drove strong results over the year.
We also Burberry Private Client teams and expanded the coverage saw outperformance from ponchos as we continued to of our Customer Value Management tool to provide a more grow this emerging business following 2014s runway personalised service to more of our customers globally.
success, as well as a continued focus on heritage trenches, Both drove strong results in the year.
supported by new colours, fabrications and the introduction of monogramming.
Consistent with our broader focus on merging the physical and digital, we made further investments to Further underpinning our commitment to the British ensure our customers have a seamless experience of provenance of key iconic products, we announced in the brand, wherever and however they shop.
This included November a 50m initial investment in a new trench coat the expansion of our single pool of inventory to increase weaving and manufacturing facility, to be located in Leeds, available options to customers in all of our 44 online Yorkshire.
The new facility will bring increased capacity markets, following its introduction in China last year: the and greater efficiency, securing the future production continued enhancement of our relaunched mobile platform, of the trench and offering scope to develop and produce which drove a threefold increase in mobile penetration yearother products in the future.
on-year: the introduction of new payment options including China Union Pay and Apple pay: and preparations for the Elsewhere in product, our accessories business recorded launch in April 2016 of our new China website, which will some notable successes in bags during the year, reflecting dramatically improve site performance in one of the worlds a more focused approach to core replenishment and most significant online markets.
13 Strategic Report Introduction Finally, in February we announced our plans to reshape progress we have made in the field of sustainability, our runway show calendar with twice-yearly presentations, we were proud to be named to the Dow Jones bringing womenswear and menswear together and making Sustainability Indices for the first time.
the full collection available for purchase in-store and online immediately following the show.
Beginning in September Looking ahead 2016, this new approach reframes long-established While the scale and duration of current trading challenges industry norms through a customer lens, allowing those is unclear, the outlook for the luxury sector as a whole who purchase our products to have them when they want is subdued.
In this context, we will continue to respond them not when the traditional fashion calendar dictates dynamically to near-term realities as they unfold.
as a growth business, we will always keep near-term responsiveness in balance with the longer-term horizon.
Productive and responsible And we see many opportunities ahead.
We are on the path Under our fourth theme of Productive and Responsible, to becoming a more productive business, but we have we again sharpened our focus on productivity during further to go and more benefits to realise, not least in retail.
the year not least given the testing external context.
We have authentic, distinctive products, with significant future potential to unlock through greater focus and clarity While realising our true potential here is a multi-year in our assortments and marketing.
We have tremendous programme of work, we saw progress across its key brand momentum and positioning globally, but still with dimensions: in retail, where an intense focus on conversion scope for greater consistency including in some of our drove continued improvement globally: in product, where key markets.
And we have a real competitive advantage we drove a further reduction in assortments and where in our digital mindset as we enter an increasingly embedding lean disciplines in our internal supply chain omnichannel world.
resulted in a lead time reduction of 75% and a productivity improvement of more than 15%: and in processes, This is an important moment in Burberrys evolution.
where we completed the first phase of our core IT system Following many years of outperformance and a multi-year upgrade and began to see immediate improvements in the programme of investment in the brand and the business, responsiveness of decision making across the business.
we are experiencing fundamental change in the industry and our consumer.
And just as we have done in the past, Alongside this focus on productivity, we redoubled efforts we want to stay ahead of this change and unlock its potential.
to drive efficiency throughout the organisation.
In the near-term, this included realising significant savings on So we begin 2016 17 with an intense focus on how discretionary spending to mitigate trading challenges, but we position ourselves for success in the coming years.
we are also planning to embed longer-term improvements through a significant evolution of our ways of working, As set out in the coming pages, we have considered the implementation of which will begin in 2016 17. in detail what we need to amplify and evolve strategically and operationally to secure the next phase of our growth, We also enhanced our commitment to greater sustainability and to be the company we want to be in a changing across our global operations.
Linked to our broader world.
Through a programme of new initiatives to enhance emphasis on culture, a key dimension of this was human productivity and efficiency across product, retail and with notable achievements in the year including becoming processes, we are confident that Burberry will again a Principal Partner to the UK Living Wage Foundation outperform the sector in this new context over the coming and the launch of our Burberry Apprentices scheme, years.
And we will become a more effective organisation with participants joining our retail, internal manufacturing in the process, because we will have to think differently and distribution teams in the UK ahead of a rollout to and work differently to capture the significant revenue the wider business over the coming years.
In addition, and cost opportunities we have identified.
This will bring we were proud to support OUTstanding and Open For change and challenge, but it will also energise our whole Business, two organisations dedicated to highlighting organisation anew around the extraordinary global potential the positive business case for equality of opportunity and of a 160-year-old British company uniquely placed for the promotion of LGBT communities within the workforce.
In the environmental space, we made further advances in ensuring sustainable practices in our supply chain and We are excited for this next phase.
extended our Ethical Trading Programme to cover key raw material, beauty and leather suppliers.
