Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Bunzls continued success is based on our extensive knowledge and experience of the markets in which we operate and a deep understanding of our customers requirements.
Operating performance With more than 85% of the Groups revenue generated outside the UK, the weakening of sterling against most currencies has had a significant positive translation impact on the Groups reported results, increasing revenue, profits and earnings by approximately 10%.
As in previous years, Frank van Zanten the operations, including the relevant Chief Executive growth rates and changes in operating margins, are therefore reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the distorting impact of these currency movements.
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2015 at the average rates used for 2016.
Unless otherwise stated, all references Highlights in this review to operating profit are to North America adjusted operating profit being operating profit before customer relationships Improved organic growth as year amortisation and acquisition related costs.
progressed from additional business won and abatement of price declines Revenue increased 4% 14% at actual on plastic products exchange rates to 7,429.1 million, principally due to the effect of recent Continental Europe acquisitions together with some organic Strong revenue and profit growth with growth.
Although the level of organic operating margin up 20bp to 9.3% growth at 0.3% was subdued for most of the year by the impact of some previously UK & Ireland announced customer losses and price Operating margin maintained at 7.7% declines on plastic resin-based products, it despite previously announced account started to improve during the fourth quarter loss and subdued market conditions to approximately 1.5% as a result of recent business wins and the abatement of the Rest of the World Adjusted operating profit up 4% as a result of acquisitions although margins remained under pressure due to At constant exchange rates.
market conditions 18 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 impact of such price declines.
Operating As a responsible business, Bunzl actively had revenue of 31 million in 2015, was profit was 525.0 million, an increase of promotes sustainability and we continually acquired at the end of March and represents 5% 15% at actual exchange rates.
The challenge ourselves to reduce the our second step in Turkey, extending our percentage growth in operating profit was environmental footprint of our operations, operations there into the foodservice and greater than that of revenue due to the introduce more sustainable practices to the healthcare sectors.
It is engaged in the impact of higher margin acquisitions, businesses we acquire and improve the sale of a variety of packaging and other resulting in an improvement in the Group safety of all our sites.
We remain committed foodservice supplies and disposable gloves operating margin by 10 basis points at both to reducing our impact on the environment to wholesalers, retailers and hospitals constant and actual exchange rates to 7.1%.
and supporting the communities within throughout Turkey and also exports to a which we operate.
Once again a rigorous number of countries.
In North America revenue rose 3% 15% assessment of our supply chain with regard at actual exchange rates principally due to social issues has been undertaken and At the end of May we completed three to the impact of acquisitions completed in in our Corporate responsibility report we further acquisitions.
Inkozell and Mo Ha Ge both 2015 and 2016, while operating profit seek to show the benefits of our collective are both engaged in the sale of healthcare increased 4% 16% at actual exchange rates endeavours on the lives of our people, related consumables, mainly incontinence with the operating margin unchanged at suppliers and customers.
During the year products, to a variety of home end users both constant and actual exchange rates at we undertook a detailed employee survey and care homes throughout Germany.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose and were delighted that 82% of our aggregate revenue of the businesses in 2015 10% 24% at actual exchange rates as a employees took part and 93% of was 16 million.
In the UK we purchased result of organic revenue growth and the respondents enjoy the work they do.
Classic Bag which develops and distributes impact of acquisitions, with operating profit Finally, our focus on collaboration and the bespoke retail packaging for non-food up 13% 27% at actual exchange rates and sharing of best practice continues to bring retailers in the UK, Hong Kong and the operating margin up 20 basis points at opportunities for our colleagues to work elsewhere in Europe.
It complements our both constant and actual exchange rates to together, contributing greatly to Bunzls existing retail supplies business in the UK, 9.3%.
In UK & Ireland revenue was down 2% continued success.
enhances our customer base and extends down 1% at actual exchange rates with a our presence in this market in Hong Kong.
decline in organic revenue principally due to Revenue in 2015 was 7 million.
Polaris Acquisitions a previously announced account loss in our Chemicals distributes cleaning & hygiene Acquisitions are a key component of the food retail business at the beginning of 2016. supplies to both redistributors and end Groups growth strategy.
Our committed Operating profit also reduced 2% down 1% users, including government and education spend in 2016 was 184 million from a at actual exchange rates with the operating establishments, retirement homes and total of 14 transactions, including Saebe margin stable at both constant and actual Compagniet and Prorisk and GM exchange rates at 7.7%.
In Rest of the World Equipement which we agreed to acquire revenue increased 11% 21% at actual in November 2016 and completed in exchange rates with operating profit up 4% January 2017.
11% at actual exchange rates due to the impact of acquisitions completed in 2015, At the beginning of February we purchased particularly in Latin America.
Margins came Earthwise Bag, a distributor of reusable under pressure due to the challenging bags to supermarkets and other retailers in macroeconomic conditions and some the US, which has expanded our offering of adverse foreign exchange transaction environmentally friendly products.
Revenue impact of weaker local currencies in the in 2015 was 12 million.
Bursa Pazari, which relevant markets in both Latin America and Australasia, with the business area operating margin down 50 basis points 70 basis points at actual exchange rates to 7.5%.
Basic earnings per share were 4% higher 14% at actual exchange rates at 80.7p.
Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the effect of customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs, were 106.1p, an increase of 6% 17% at actual exchange rates.
The operating cash flow, which is before acquisition related costs, continued to be strong with cash conversion the ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted operating profit at 99%.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA calculated at average exchange rates decreased from 2.1 times as at the end of 2015 to 2.0 times, which is at the lower end of our target range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
19 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued cleaning companies, throughout the At the end of December we acquired Prospects Brussels and Walloon regions of Belgium.
Woodway, a leading supplier of packaging Against the backdrop of mixed The acquisition has brought additional scale products and solutions to a variety of end macroeconomic and market conditions, to our cleaning & hygiene supplies business user customers in the UK.
It specialises in the combination of our strong competitive in Belgium.
supporting the e-commerce activities of position, diversified and resilient businesses retailers and had revenue in the year ended and ability to consolidate our fragmented The purchase in July of Plus II and Apex, June 2016 of 31 million.
markets further is expected to lead to which had revenues in 2015 of 16 million continued growth.
If exchange rates remain and 6 million respectively, has further In November we entered into agreements to at their current levels, the significant expanded our cleaning & hygiene supplies acquire Saebe Compagniet in Denmark and weakening of sterling last year will have business in Canada which has grown Prorisk and GM Equipement in France, both a further positive translation effect on the significantly in recent years through of which were completed in January 2017. reported results in 2017, particularly in the acquisition.
At the end of August we Saebe Compagniet is a distributor of first half.
acquired Blyth, a Prague based distributor cleaning & hygiene related products to a of a broad range of personal protection variety of end user customers, particularly In North America, the pick up in organic equipment to a variety of end user in the hotel, restaurant and catering revenue growth towards the end of 2016 is customers throughout the Czech Republic sectors, in Denmark.
Revenue in the year expected to continue due to some additional and Slovakia.
Revenue in 2015 was ended April 2016 was 13 million.
Prorisk business won, albeit at lower margins, and 5 million.
and GM Equipement, which together had the abatement of the impact of price aggregate revenue in 2015 of 6 million, are declines on plastic resin-based products.
In September we purchased three further principally engaged in the sale of a variety of In Continental Europe we expect to see a businesses.
Kingsbury Packaging, which is personal protection equipment and first aid good performance due to the benefit of located in Northern Ireland and had revenue related products to both end users and acquisitions and organic growth.
Despite of 5 million in 2015, supplies food distributors throughout France.
ongoing uncertainty in some of our markets, packaging related products to convenience UK & Ireland should make progress due to stores and food retailers in Ireland.
Silwell Since the year end we have acquired two the impact of acquisitions and the benefit of has provided additional scale to our further businesses.
In early January 2017 a recent account win, although we continue business in Hungary by extending our we purchased the business of Packaging to focus on mitigating the adverse foreign operations there in the foodservice sector.
Film Sales which distributes food packaging exchange transaction impact from the Revenue in 2015 was 6 million.
Tri-Star products, including flexible barrier films weakening of sterling.
With many of the Packaging is also engaged in the and speciality bags and pouches, to food economies in Rest of the World showing distribution of food packaging and processors in the US.
Revenue in 2015 was less volatility and the major local currencies foodservice products, as well as some 5 million.
Finally, today we are announcing having strengthened, we expect to see a cleaning & hygiene consumables, to end the acquisition of LSH, a distributor of safety more stable trading performance from our user customers including food-to-go products, primarily to end users, based in businesses there.
retailers, contract caterers and food Singapore which was completed at the end processors throughout the UK.
This represents our first The pipeline of potential acquisitions in 2015 was 28 million.
step into Singapore and should provide a remains promising.
We are in discussions base from which to develop our operations with various targets and we expect to in Asia.
The Board believes that the prospects of the Group are positive due to its strong market position and ability to grow the business both organically and through acquisitions.
Frank van Zanten Chief Executive 27 February 2017 20 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Management Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
Brian May Patrick Larmon Julie Welch Finance Director President and CEO North America Director of Group Human Resources Andrew Tedbury Paul Hussey Paul Budge Managing Director UK & Ireland General Counsel & Company Secretary Managing Director Continental Europe Jonathan Taylor Andrew Mooney Kim Hetherington Managing Director Latin America Director of Corporate Development Managing Director Australasia Everyone at Bunzl makes a key contribution to the successful growth and development of the business through the application of their diverse skills and experiences and their dedication and commitment to see the Group progress.
Frank van Zanten Chief Executive 21 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review North America Revenue increase from acquisitions and Highlights improved organic growth Growth at 2016 2015 constant Growth in grocery from contract wins and expansion m m exchange of business with existing customers Revenue 4,362.1 3,784.2 3% Redistribution growth from category Adjusted operating profit 289.6 249.0 4% management programmes Operating margin 6.6% 6.6% Safety impacted by downturn in oil and gas sector Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs see Note 2w on page 102.
Strong growth in business serving food processor, Restated to reflect the internal transfer of a business from Continental Europe see Note 3 on page 104. convenience stores and agricultural sectors Further expansion of national distribution platform in Canada In North America, revenue increased by 3% deliver unmatched service and improved Our customers rely to 4,362.1 million due to the impact of the asset utilisation for our customers.
For our acquisitions completed in 2015 and 2016 as largest customer we have also agreed to on our sourcing well as organic growth of 1%, the level of take on the distribution of a range of expertise, the which improved relative to that achieved in additional items which are new to the 2015.
The recent acquisitions have expanded business area and which we expect to offer depth and breadth our footprint in several of our market to other customers operating in both the sectors while adding further products and grocery and retail sectors.
of our product services to our portfolio.
Although we continued to face challenges in growing Overall, our business serving the retail offering and the sales organically due to deflationary sector remained stable with the adverse comprehensive pressures on product prices and slow impact of some lost accounts being offset by growth rates in several customer sectors, new business secured during the year.
We service we provide we saw a pick up during the fourth quarter have expanded our available products as of the year due to some additional business well as enhanced our service capabilities by from our extensive won and the abatement of the impact of consolidating operations to provide faster distribution facilities.
price declines on plastic resin-based deliveries.
Our network of warehouses products towards the end of the year.
and fleet of trucks provide an attractive Operating profit increased 4% to 289.6 business model for large retailers with Patrick Larmon million with the operating margin remaining expansive footprints requiring distribution President and CEO unchanged at 6.6%.
We have continued North America to promote our material consolidation Despite the deflationary pressures on services, primarily used by our largest product prices that persisted for most of the retail customer, to retailers with similar year, our largest business serving the operations.
Our materials management grocery sector grew as a result of securing capabilities help retailers reduce costs and new contract wins and expanding business open or remodel stores faster so that they with existing customers.
We have activated can begin generating revenue sooner.
our pick-and-pack services at several large customers to provide many new items In our business serving the redistribution and offer a wider range of products with the sector, we have experienced growth convenience of single source delivery.
through the implementation of category Additionally, the acquisition of Earthwise management programmes at new and Bag, acquired in February 2016, has already established foodservice distribution strengthened our offering in eco-friendly customers.
These engagements often begin products through the supply of reusable using innovative, proprietary digital tools to bags that can be custom-branded for illustrate to both prospective and existing promotional purposes.
Our expanded customers the substantial revenue product offering combined with our flexible generating opportunities that a complete store delivery programmes allow us to redistribution programme has to offer.
22 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 North America is Bunzls largest and longest-established business area, having started in 1981 with the acquisition of Jersey Paper Company in the US.
The revenue of the business area that year was 20 million.
Over the last 35 years the operations have grown substantially throughout the US while at the same time have expanded into Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico to become the market-leading business that it is today with revenue of 4.4 billion.
Market sectors Locations Employees 168 5,478 We are expanding our sales of janitorial and including vacuum pouches, shrink wrap Our business in Canada continues to sanitation jan-san products in this sector bags and bin liners.
Our national accounts operate successfully with all of the recent and others through our central warehouse sales team is continually looking to drive acquisitions continuing to perform well.
In support of this initiative, we sales by identifying and pursuing customers the second half of the year we acquired two opened a warehouse in the north east who understand the benefit of a singlefurther businesses, Apex in Toronto and US for the stocking and distribution of source solution for their plant operations.
Plus II in Montreal, which have allowed jan-san products in the region and we us to expand our jan-san products and have continued to enhance our central We have also seen growth in our business services in the region as well as our warehouse infrastructure and jan-san that supplies the agricultural sector.
e-commerce capabilities for our Canadian inventory in strategic US locations.
The business is achieving greater levels customers.
We continue to leverage our We have also continued to drive sales of profitability after migrating all of our national distribution platform and through innovative products such as our companies serving this sector onto a restructure our business as needed to proprietary oneSAFEsingle-use glove unified IT platform that includes a enhance our operations serving all of our dispensing system.
warehouse management system which market sectors in Canada.
has enhanced operational efficiencies Our business serving the safety sector across the business.
Finally, all of our businesses throughout experienced a difficult year with lower North America are benefiting from a revenue and operating profit due to a Our business serving the convenience continuous improvement initiative which downturn in the oil and gas industry as well store sector has grown strongly despite is focused on enhancing our operational as some weakness in the welding segment.
competition from non-traditional suppliers capabilities.
This includes a warehouse Despite these factors, we have made gains as well as some customer consolidation.
We optimisation programme to ensure we have in other areas, such as the automotive and continue to execute our pull-through selling the most efficient infrastructure to support industrial markets.
We have taken steps to strategy by partnering with our primary our customers as well as a routing system reduce operating costs while seeking new wholesale customers to help them increase that maximises our truck fleet utilisation.
ways to expand our business.
We have also sales with convenience store retailers continued to invest in the development of and we have expanded this business with our own brand of personal protection the addition of other items carried by equipment.
These products contribute convenience stores.
Our ability to manage higher margins while at the same time allow our customers inventory enables them to us to offer added value to our customers have the right products at the right time so when compared to branded alternatives.
that they can reduce their working capital and warehouse space needs.
We have also In our business serving the food processor improved our transportation efficiencies sector, although customer consolidation has and inventory management capabilities in continued, we have expanded our existing this sector.
customer relationships and gained new business by offering a total plant operating supplies programme.
This one-stop-shop solution encompasses jan-san and safety products as well as our own label products 23 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Continental Europe Significant increase in revenue and profit, principally Highlights driven by acquisitions with operating margin up 20bp Growth at 2016 2015 constant m m exchange Return to growth in cleaning & hygiene in France Revenue 1,355.1 1,088.6 10% Performance in the Netherlands mixed Adjusted operating profit 126.6 99.5 13% Strong growth in Germany and expansion in healthcare Operating margin 9.3% 9.1% through acquisition Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs see Note 2w on page 102.
Increased sales and profit in Denmark Restated to reflect the internal transfer of a business to North America see Note 3 on page 104.
Strong performance in Spain and central Europe with increased levels of profitability Continental Europe once again developed In the Netherlands, sales grew modestly In Switzerland, sales declined as a strongly with revenue rising by 10% to with mixed performances across the contraction in the horeca sector, linked to 1,355.1 million and operating profit up 13% sectors that we serve.
The results were lower levels of tourism due to the continued to 126.6 million.
Organic revenue growth of particularly impacted by fide Ridder which strength of the Swiss franc, was not fully 2% improved on the level seen in 2015 with delivered a weaker performance in 2016, offset by gains in the retail and industry the results also boosted by the full year having benefitted in the prior year from sectors.
Sales to the medical sector were impact of the eight acquisitions made in unusually high sales of products to broadly flat.
Competition from lower cost 2015 and the part year contribution of the government agencies.
neighbouring countries in the Eurozone also five acquisitions completed in 2016.
While put further pressure on margins resulting gross margins reduced slightly, ongoing In Belgium, sales continued to increase in in operating profit being below that of the management of the cost base enabled the the cleaning & hygiene sector as a result of previous year.
business area to maintain its underlying additional business with a number of larger profitability and, with the benefit of higher customers although this growth was partly Meier Verpackungen, which we acquired in margin acquisitions, the business area offset by lower sales in the grocery and food September 2015 as our first business in operating margin rose by 20 basis points at processor sectors.
Gross margins were Austria, grew well with an increase in sales constant exchange rates to 9.3%.
stable but operating profit was impacted of food and meat packaging products more by higher temporary costs linked to the than offsetting lower fruit and vegetable In France, sales at our cleaning & hygiene implementation of a new ERP system in packaging sales which were disrupted by a business returned to growth following one of the hygiene businesses.
poor local harvest due to extreme weather investment in our e-commerce and conditions in the spring.
In Germany, sales again grew well with both telesales capabilities.
Additional cost national and regional accounts and gross reductions offset margin pressures and In Denmark, revenue increased strongly, margins improved.
Some cost reductions operating profit again increased in the in particular due to higher sales to the and efficiency gains following the 2015 year.
However, our personal protection horeca sector, food processors and implementation of a new ERP system also equipment business recorded lower sales redistributors as well as higher demand helped lead to a significant increase in which could only partly be offset by lower for personal protection equipment.
Ligne T, the specialist safety business to customers serving the retail sector Inkozell and Mo Ha Ge, both active in the acquired in May 2015, traded ahead of improved marginally while sales to distribution of incontinence products to expectations and the acquisition of Prorisk customers in the public sector were flat at home end users and care homes.
The and GM Equipement, which was completed following the loss of one major account.
businesses are integrating well with our at the end of January 2017, has further As a result of the overall revenue growth, other German operations.
increased our scale in the French safety the operating profit also increased.
market and broadened our product range.
The acquisition of Saebe Compagniet Comatec, which was acquired in December was completed in early January 2017 2015 and specialises in the distribution of and has further strengthened our high-end, innovative, single-use tableware cleaning & hygiene operations.
to the hotel, restaurant and catering horeca sector, also traded well ahead of expectations with growth both in the local French and export markets.
24 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Bunzl acquired its first business in Continental Europe with the purchase of Hopa Disposables in the Netherlands in 1994.
This was followed by acquisitions in Germany, Denmark and France in 1997, 2000 and 2004 respectively.
By 2010 the business had expanded through acquisition into a further eight countries and today operates in 14 countries across the continent.
Market sectors Locations Employees 152 4,029 In Spain, sales grew well in both the In Turkey, sales at our personal protection Our broad portfolio cleaning & hygiene and safety sectors due equipment business, Istanbul Ticaret which to a combination of customer wins and was acquired at the end of May 2015, grew of operations across product range extension.
The cleaning & strongly despite the uncertain environment a variety of market hygiene business relocated to a new in the country following the failed coup warehouse in Madrid to provide a platform attempt in July.
The weaker Turkish lira sectors and countries for further growth and efficiency gains.
has, however, put pressure on margins.
Quirumed, the healthcare products At the end of March 2016 we acquired means we are business acquired in January 2015, saw Bursa Pazari, a distributor of packaging lower sales but improved profitability due and other foodservice supplies and a balanced and to cost reduction measures.
Cemelim and disposable gloves, which has subsequently resilient business Faru, both acquired in the last quarter of traded ahead of expectations.
2015, have integrated well with Cemelim that has delivered now fully merged into our cleaning & We continue to roll out our common hygiene business.
Overall profitability e-commerce platform across the business consistently good in Spain increased significantly.
After launching this at our first results over time.
company in late 2015, a further five In Israel, sales have grown rapidly in the businesses went live on the system during horeca sector and also increased in the 2016.
This will be further rolled out in 2017, Paul Budge bakery sector despite disruption caused helping to drive both sales growth and cost Managing Director by a warehouse relocation following a fire.
Continental Europe Margins improved in both areas and careful cost control led to a substantial rise in operating profit.
In central Europe, revenue rose strongly in all of our local businesses from new customer wins as well as increased levels of activity with existing customers and underlying profits rose accordingly.
In August we completed the acquisition of Blyth, a specialist distributor of personal protection equipment based in the Czech Republic, and in September we bought Silwell, which is based in Hungary and sells disposable foodservice items to the horeca sector.
Both businesses are integrating well with our existing operations in those countries.
25 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review UK & Ireland Highlights Margin maintained despite lower revenue Growth at 2016 2015 constant Improved profitability in safety in sluggish markets m m exchange and good performance in cleaning & hygiene Revenue 1,087.8 1,102.4 2 % Food retail restructured following previously announced Adjusted operating profit 83.7 84.9 2 % account loss: non-food retail performing well Operating margin 7.7% 7.7% Hospitality impacted by lower investment by customers Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs but should improve with recent contract win see Note 2w on page 102.
Solid growth in healthcare Excellent performance in Ireland across all sectors In UK & Ireland revenue decreased by 2% invest in both people and technology to help By outsourcing to 1,087.8 million and operating profit was drive operational efficiencies.
Our cleaning also 2% lower at 83.7 million.
The & hygiene business has continued to the purchasing, previously announced loss of an account in perform well in a competitive marketplace consolidation food retail at the beginning of 2016 and has similarly invested in additional combined with subdued market conditions technology, most notably in vehicle and distribution of in the UK resulted in a weaker performance telematics and e-commerce enhancements, compared to 2015 with organic revenue to improve our efficiency and enhance our everyday essential declining by 3%.
Although a significant levels of customer service.
amount of our products sold are essential items, our customers everyday items, some uncertainty, which The food retail business has been are able to focus on was seen in the run up to the EU successfully restructured following the referendum in June, continued across account loss at the start of 2016 and has their core businesses, certain of our markets in the second half of recently won new business with a clearly 2016, most notably in relation to investment defined value proposition supported by an saving them time in the hospitality and construction sectors.
improved suite of customer centric and money.
We completed four acquisitions during technology.
The acquisition of Classic Bag the year which, due to the timing of their in May complements our existing non-food completion, will have a greater impact on retail business which has performed well Andrew Tedbury the results in 2017. during the year, growing with both existing Managing Director and new customers, completing a re-brand UK & Ireland Despite our safety business successfully and delivering innovative new packaging winning new business with a number of solutions to the high street retail sector.
Our major companies, it continues to operate recent acquisition of Woodway in December in sluggish markets.
This is particularly has further strengthened our offering in so in the construction sector where the high quality packaging products.
It provides lack of major government investment in bespoke value-added services through a infrastructure has delayed projects and in specialist technical services team that gives the oil & gas sector where production has customers a complete solution for their been curtailed, in both cases resulting in distribution packaging needs, particularly reduced demand for protective clothing and relating to their e-commerce activities.
The business undertook a Finally, our marketing services business restructuring at the end of 2015 to reduce has continued to develop its online its cost base further and has continued to marketing tools for customers alongside develop its own label product offering the fulfilment of point-of-sale products and which has resulted in increased levels of has created capacity for further growth by profitability.
We have also continued to opening an additional distribution centre.
26 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The acquisition of Automatic Catering Supplies in 1993 marked the beginning of the Groups expansion into Europe.
Bunzl subsequently entered the cleaning & hygiene sector in 1996, the retail and grocery sectors in 1999 and the healthcare and safety sectors in 2000.
Since then the UK & Ireland business area has continued to develop significantly with annual revenue now in excess of 1 billion.
Market sectors Locations Employees 99 3,641 The catering and hospitality sector has Our business in Ireland experienced continued to be both competitive and excellent growth throughout the year and challenging with many customers cutting profitability improved as we continued to back on future investments, particularly put a greater focus on margin improving in kitchen design and heavy catering initiatives.
All sectors benefited, from equipment.
However, our proposition catering, hospitality and retail through to remains strong and we have managed to cleaning & hygiene and safety.
We are win a long term contract with a major investing in a new purpose built warehouse contract caterer across a range of non-food in Northern Ireland to support future areas, adding expertise and value to the growth.
Finally, the acquisition in customer offering.
We have invested heavily September of Kingsbury Packaging has in digital technology with both new web and further expanded our product offering and app developments giving our customers extended our customer base in the sophisticated tools to help them run their foodservice and food retail sectors.
We continue to grow our exclusive brand product offering, creating It is difficult to give a firm view as to the new ranges that offer both quality and value probable impact of the 2016 referendum and the addition of Tri-Star Packaging in result in the UK as the terms of leaving September has further expanded our reach the European Union are not yet known.
with food-to-go retailers, contract However, with more than 85% of our caterers and food processors.
business based outside the UK, we do not currently expect the impact on the Groups Although the UK healthcare market overall operations to be significant.
continues to be under pressure from ongoing government imposed spending constraints, our healthcare business has continued to grow in both the public and private acute sectors.
Our business that is focused on own brand products has been challenged by both rapid commoditisation and the significant weakening of sterling in the wake of the EU referendum vote but has continued to develop new value-adding products and has also increased sales overseas.
The care home supplies business continues to grow against a backdrop of an ageing UK population needing more care.
27 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Rest of the World Margins remained under pressure due to Highlights macroeconomic conditions and currency weakness Growth at 2016 2015 constant Significant benefit from 2015 acquisitions, m m exchange particularly in Latin America Revenue 624.1 514.5 11% Latin America Adjusted operating profit 46.6 42.1 4% Underlying profit maintained in Brazil as market Operating margin 7.5% 8.2% conditions show signs of stability Elsewhere overall business trading in line with Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs see Note 2w on page 102. our expectations Australasia Market conditions remain challenging In Rest of the World revenue increased 11% generate future synergies and strengthen We source products to 624.1 million and operating profit was up our end user personal protection 4%.
With no organic revenue growth, the equipment offering.
from all over the results benefitted from the impact of world, liaising closely acquisitions made in 2015, particularly in The cleaning & hygiene sector in Brazil Latin America.
Margins remained under continued to be adversely affected by the with our suppliers so pressure due to the challenging difficult market conditions.
Large account macroeconomic conditions and the impact losses by several key contract cleaning that we are able to of currency movements which affected customers reduced sales volumes while those businesses that import large volumes intense competition also impacted margins.
offer a full range of of products.
As a result, the business area To combat these declines, operating costs items which satisfy operating margin reduced by 50 basis points were reduced and we moved our So Paulo at constant exchange rates to 7.5%.
headquarters to a more efficient and lower our customers cost location.
A new online B2B platform In Brazil, the economic and political was also developed and launched, demands.
volatility has continued although the market the results of which have so far been has begun to show some signs of greater very encouraging.
Jonathan Taylor stability following the challenges faced Managing Director during the Presidential impeachment In contrast, our healthcare businesses in Latin America process.
Despite some of the sectors we Brazil saw strong sales growth, particularly serve experiencing ongoing market with imported products.
The highly weakness, our diversified business portfolio successful integration of Labor and Sharing best practice enabled us to grow our underlying revenue Lamedid, which consolidated three and maintain operating profit.
In our safety warehouses into one, led to cost synergies in the way we do business, due to the continued impact of our with minimal business interruption and customers postponing investments and operating profits grew significantly.
Dental business increases higher levels of unemployment, sales and Sorria, acquired in December 2015, has our efficiency, from margins grew only slightly.
Operating settled in well and towards the end of the margins were impacted by the cost of year moved into new premises which will achieving purchasing restructuring measures undertaken during improve service levels and support further the year to reposition the business for the growth.
We continue to see the growing synergies to operating anticipated upturn.
The challenging market healthcare sector in Brazil as one of the conditions also affected Casa do EPI, most attractive markets in which to invest.
our warehouses acquired in November 2015, which in the most costperformed below our expectations due to In the rest of Latin America, the picture is soft demand in Minas Gerais, particularly in more positive with our overall business effective way.
Further steps were taken trading in line with our expectations.
In to integrate fully Casa do EPI with our Chile, Vicsa grew sales and significantly Kim Hetherington profit Cap business which is expected to improved its gross margins through product Managing Director Australasia 28 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The current operations of the Group in Rest of the World started in 1983 with the acquisition of United Suppliers based in Sydney, followed by the purchase of a number of other businesses throughout Australia and New Zealand over the next 30 years.
The Groups first move into Latin America was in 2008 with the acquisition of profit Cap in So Paulo since when the business has expanded both within Brazil and into five other countries in the region.
Market sectors Locations Employees 99 3,082 mix management.
Tecno Boga, on the other developing a sustainable position in more has been to continue to diversify our hand, suffered from lower demand for its resilient market sectors to enable our presence across the wider food processor premium footwear products in the mining operations to remain strong throughout all sector and, as such, we continue to make industry which impacted both sales and economic cycles.
good progress with these endeavours.
New product lines were launched business has had a number of major to reverse this trend and operating costs Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, customer wins across Australia and New were reduced.
DPS, our catering has been impacted by the market downturn Zealand and we should see the benefit of disposables business, traded in line with and currency related margin pressure.
this diversification through the coming year.
expectations but achieved higher operating However, the business is focused on the margins due to strong purchasing initiatives.
more resilient healthcare, cleaning, Our industrial and safety supplies business catering and retail sectors and is well has again been the most impacted by the In Colombia, our business grew sales placed to take advantage of changes to resources market downturn in Australia, well.
Solmaq, acquired in June 2015, government funding for community particularly in the regions that support this performed in line with our expectations healthcare.
We are also continuing to work sector.
We have been working hard to widen and relocated its offices and warehouse with new and existing customers to develop our operations into sectors outside mining to more suitable locations.
Part of this will come from and have made solid progress developing the work we have underway with our new new business opportunities in the In Mexico, our safety business grew sales digital trading platform to create an efficient construction, energy and government and operating profit through successful and easy to access online mobile customer sectors.
We have also continued to reduce margin management initiatives combined portal.
In addition, we migrated two of our costs by consolidating facilities and with good cost control.
The outcome of the recently acquired businesses onto the main reorganising the business to fit the current US Presidential election resulted in a sharp ERP system and also consolidated the market environment.
By doing so we have devaluation in the Mexican peso towards the Newcastle warehouse operation into the been able to maintain our market presence end of the year but the business was able to larger and more efficient Enfield operation by retaining our regional footprint to ensure mitigate much of this impact with selling in Sydney.
We will shortly relocate the that we are able to capitalise quickly as the price adjustments.
However, in the short Melbourne head office and distribution market starts to improve.
An upgrade of our term we expect more volatility and centre into a larger and more efficient ERP system in the industrial and safety uncertainty in the Mexican market but our facility in Dandenong and will also businesses has been successfully business is well prepared to react to these consolidate our two healthcare businesses completed.
This forms part of our ongoing changing conditions.
technology investment and will enable us to streamline our operational platform In Australasia, the market conditions also Our food processor business also faced a and processes to help drive productivity remained challenging throughout the year.
This and enhance our competitive position.
There were, however, some positive signs in was due mainly to a shortage of livestock as We will continue to evaluate opportunities the resources sector towards the end of the a result of severe drought conditions in across our national footprint and, where year with commodity prices improving.
some regions causing plant closures and applicable, consolidate facilities and While our business in Australasia has a reduced operating schedules which realign the business to the prevailing significant exposure to this sector, our impacted our results in these areas.
business strategy continues to focus on sector should recover as the herds are replenished.
The ongoing business strategy 29 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chief Executives review providing opportunities... developing skills 30 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 One of the main objectives of selling our family business to Bunzl was to give us access to their extensive knowledge, experience and resources in order to grow and develop our operations further.
Ecem Aykol Continental Europe The acquisition of businesses is a key part of our strategy to grow and develop and we are proud of our track record of retaining former owners and other key staff of the companies we acquire.
We value highly their local knowledge and expertise which is essential to ensure that the successful ongoing customer relationships are maintained.
Providing development and training opportunities Valuing our people We endeavour to ensure that everyone takes personal responsibility for themselves to grow within their roles.
Where appropriate Our decentralised organisation structure to do so, we foster internal appointments provides the framework for how we do and promotions and support personal development through formal training business.
Local autonomy, within a clearly programmes, as well as help to provide defined Group strategy, underpins everything learning on the job.
we do such that, despite our size, we retain the Encouraging feedback culture of a dynamic, local business for both and communication our employees and customers with our teams A combination of regular employee engagement surveys, company social media incentivised to provide a high quality service sites and intranet and video technologies and produce sustainable returns.
allows us to receive feedback from our workforce and to collaborate effectively across the world.
