Strategic Report Over the last five years, the business has CEOs Review been considerably reshaped and advanced to establish a balanced exploration and production company.
The year ahead will be eventful with a number of material catalysts which have potential to add further value to the company.
We have created a strong platform for future growth with active positions in six countries in almost 50 licences providing significant acreage positions of technical and commercial value.
The discovery of the SNE field offshore Senegal in 2014 marked Positive a return to exploration success for Cairn and provides an opportunity to implement our strategy of creating, adding and realising value for shareholders through a balanced, progress well-funded and sustainable company.
In Senegal, we have confirmed the scale and potential of this world class asset, Cairn continues to deliver positive progress and following the appraisal success and across its balanced portfolio.
contingent resource upgrade in 2016, we have now commenced the third phase of evaluation activity.
The JV also has plans 2017 will see first oil from our North Sea for future exploration drilling.
developments and progression of an exciting ongoing exploration and appraisal drilling programme in Senegal, all against a backdrop of increased financial flexibility.
The company remains well-positioned to deliver further value for shareholders from multiple catalysts within the portfolio.
To help shape our Corporate Responsibility During the year Cairn has been focused on Working responsibly is a CR strategy we identify issues material growing its significant Senegal resource key part of our strategy to the business through internal and base as operator and on progressing its external engagement as well as our risk North Sea developments as non-operator.
We can only deliver value for all management process.
In 2016, our material Our most significant drilling activity during stakeholders by operating in a safe, issues were identified as: the year took place in Senegal.
Our robust secure and environmentally and socially policies, including our Code of Business responsible way.
At the heart of this culture Economics and funding Ethics, of importance wherever we operate, are our core values, the 3Rs, which stand Contractors and supply chain ensure that we conduct risk-based due for building respect, nurturing relationships Ethics, Anti-bribery and corruption and diligence on contractors in line with our and acting responsibly.
transparency zero-tolerance approach to bribery Social and economic benefit and corruption.
In practice, we implement the 3Rs by Human rights adhering to our robust Corporate Major accident prevention and safety As part of our approach wherever we Responsibility Management System Climate change, emissions and operate, we are committed to bringing CRMS.
Our values are also underpinned discharges lasting and positive social and economic by internal policies and procedures, benefits through new support industries, including our Business Principles and our Across all our operations we recognise employment, training and improved Code of Business Ethics, as well as the need to prepare for the unlikely education.
We believe a successful oil and continuing external commitments to the possibility of a high-impact event and gas industry could generate significant Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative have robust plans in place to manage income in Senegal.
This could be used EITI, the UN Global Compact and potential incidents.
We invest heavily in to support the countrys development, recognition of the UN Sustainable memberships to gain access to specialist improving infrastructure, providing Development Goals.
equipment and techniques, and expertise affordable energy, driving inward that would be needed in such an event.
investment and reducing reliance on solid fuels.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 In the UK and Norway, we have high quality Corporate Responsibility remains at the heart I would like to recognise and thank all our assets and have made significant progress of our business.
During 2016, we continued employees and contractors working both in the last year.
Both the Kraken and Catcher to prioritise the health, safety, security and offshore and in our four international development projects are below budget and wellbeing of our people while promoting locations for their efforts, commitment and on schedule to target first oil this year.
The safe behaviours of contractors and partners.
hard work during 2016 in what has been an start up of these developments is significant, We remain committed to protecting the extremely busy year.
We look forward to as it will mark Cairns first production since environment in the areas where we operate.
2012 when we sold the majority stake in our Good governance is also important and we Indian business and returned the proceeds are committed to meeting all our obligations to shareholders.
The mature and emerging in a responsible and transparent manner.
basins of the UK and Norway provide balance to Cairns frontier exploration We announced the appointment of Eric portfolio and will deliver the cash flow Hathon as Director of Exploration earlier SIMON THOMSON to sustain future exploration.
Eric has more than 25 years Chief Executive industry experience and will join in April 7 March 2017 With a fully funded balance sheet, from Marathon Oil Corporation.
Eric will the company is well positioned to the succeed Richard Heaton who is retiring after prevailing oil price environment which 23 years service with the company.
I would presents challenges to the industry but like to welcome Eric and thank Richard for his also opportunities to allocate capital to significant contribution over his long career value enhancing projects while benefitting at Cairn where he has been a core member from reduced operational costs.
I was also delighted to welcome a new independent non-executive We are taking advantage of the lower Director to the Board early this year: Nicoletta industry cost environment as we continue to Giadrossi brings a wealth of international shape the business for the future.
We actively senior management and oil and gas industry assess new ventures within the context of our experience to Cairn.
balanced offering whether they be potential additions to our portfolio of future exploration opportunities or cash flow generating assets.
During 2016 we continued to work closely As part of our with our joint venture partners on our North Sea developments to progress them towards approach wherever targeted first oil and cash flow in 2017.
As we operate, we non-operator our focus is on ensuring joint venture operations are rigorously assessed are committed to against our CRMS and associated regulatory bringing lasting and requirements.
positive social and We will continue to set CR objectives each economic benefits.
year guided by the most material issues which are issues important not only to Cairn but also to our stakeholders, in keeping with our commitment to working responsibly.
Read more: Working Responsibly 52 on P52-71 15 Strategic Report Cairns strategy is to deliver value for CEOs Review continued stakeholders by building and maintaining Operational review a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets.
Our exploration focus in on frontier and emerging basin acreage from which the greatest value Highlights of 2016 can be created.
The Groups production assets provide the cash flow to sustain Senegal future exploration and development activity.
Exploration & Appraisal We have made good progress against our Seven successful wells drilled to date in Senegal: two strategic objectives, increasing the recently discoveries, four wells in 2016 and a further appraisal discovered resource base in Senegal and well just completed.
progressing our North Sea developments through to first oil and future cash flow.
SNE-5 appraisal well operations safely and successfully completed ahead of schedule and under budget.
Senegal opening a Stena DrillMAX drill ship is moving location to shortly new hydrocarbon basin commence operations on the Vega-Regulus VR-1 well, Cairn was the first company to drill 5 km to the west of the SNE-1 discovery with the exploration deepwater wells offshore Senegal, target underlying the SNE field.
which remains a relatively underexplored region of the world.
The success of the VR-1 will also provide further appraisal data on the SNE field Cairn discoveries has attracted the attention and results will help narrow field volumes and allow the Joint of the global oil industry with a number of Venture JV time to integrate the results of SNE-5 prior to high profile new entrants to Senegal during moving to SNE-6 to complete the planned interference test.
Current 2C in place resources more than 2.7 billion barrels The management of Health, Safety, and the ongoing programme will further define the recovery Security and Environment remains a high potential of the field.
priority and we are aiming to build on our good performance in Senegal in the year Multiple exploration prospects have been identified: ahead.
Cairn has enjoyed excellent support Cairn estimates further block wide exploration potential from local services such as Dakar port where of 500 mmbbls gross mean risked resource.
the company has now established a shore base facility to aid the growth of the oil sector Prospect inventory includes numerous material targets across in Senegal.
four play types identified within a 30 kilometres km tie back radius to SNE field.
Senegal Development Decision on development concept selection expected in 2017, current plans include a phased development to capture the potentially extensive resource base.
From 2018 onwards, Cairn and JV partners plan to submit the Exploitation Plan and proceed to a Final Investment Decision with first oil expected in the period 2021-2023.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd Woodside entered the JV in 2016 bringing extensive experience in developing and operating floating production, storage and offloading FPSO facilities.
In 2016 Cairn opened a new supply base in Dakar international port.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Since the two initial basin opening The prospectivity of Cairns Senegal Cairn and its JV partners submitted a three 2 discoveries in 2014, we have drilled five acreage, an area of more than 7,000 km year evaluation work plan to the Government successful wells in the area.
During 2016, under licence, has high potential: the success of Senegal in 2015.
As part of this plan, we subsurface data gathering was successfully of both the SNE discovery and follow on currently anticipate an outline timetable for completed on four wells, SNE-2, SNE-3, appraisal of the SNE field has proven there development with an Exploitation Plan to BEL-1 and SNE-4.
With better than expected is a prolific source rock, excellent reservoir be submitted in 2018, a Final Investment drilling performance and the lower cost development and a good working seal.
Decision within twelve months thereafter and environment, these four wells were The new 3D seismic data has improved our first oil expected in the period 2021-2023. essentially drilled and evaluated on the SNE ability to map traps along the extension of the field for the original budget of three wells.
Numerous, prospects have been Cairn Operator has a 40% Working Interest identified in a wide variety of play types.
WI in the three blocks offshore Senegal In 2017, the third phase of evaluation is Sangomar Deep, Sangomar Offshore, underway which is intended to improve the The JV has endorsed the foundation Rufisque Offshore alongside partners: definition of the project and confirm volumes, development concept of a standalone FPSO Woodside 35% WI, Far Ltd 15% WI and the connectivity and productivity.
Operations with subsea wells and expansion capability.
Senegal National Oil Company, Petrosen and testing of the first of the appraisal wells, This is established and proven technology 10% WI.
SNE-5, have recently been successfully in areas where Cairn can add value through completed, ahead of schedule and under recent experience in the Kraken and Catcher budget.
The well has been plugged and North Sea developments.
The potential abandoned and the Stena DrillMAX has around SNE for further exploration success moved location to commence operations would transform the project into a multion the Vega-Regulus VR-1 well.
will target the Vega-Regulus exploration prospect in the Aptian Carbonates underlying The focus of the remaining appraisal activity the SNE field which has potential gross mean is on improving our estimates of the scale consolidated prospective resource of more and phasing of the overall field development than 100 mmbbls.
In addition, the well will including the balance between the number provide further appraisal on the SNE field of drilling centres, type and number of wells targeting potential incremental resources.
The results will narrow the range of SNE field volumes and also allow the JV time to fully integrate the results of SNE-5 prior to moving to appraisal well SNE-6 to complete the planned interference test.
H. E. Thierno Alassane Sall, Minister of Energy Senegal, on board Ocean Rig Athena drill ship used during Cairns 2015 2016 Senegal drilling campaign.
17 Strategic Report CEOs Review continued UK & Norway Operational review continued The mix of mature and emerging basins along the UK and Norwegian continental shelves provides good opportunities for balanced portfolio growth and operational Highlights of 2016 synergies.
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by acquiring exploration, UK & Norway appraisal and development assets and Catcher Cairn 20% WI and Kraken Cairn 29.5% WI participating in licensing rounds.
developments in the UK North Sea on track for first oil The UK and Norway are a key region of from 2017: peak net production to Cairn of 25,000 boepd.
focus for the Group and during 2016 we have expanded the team and added 13 new Skarfjell Cairn 20% WI development in Norway, subsea licences and four licence extensions.
The tie-back to nearby Gja platform selected by JV as strategy is to maintain and grow a strong development concept.
prospect inventory capable of increasing resources and reserves, providing material Five new licences awarded in Norway in Q1 2016, including exploration upside and bringing discoveries Cairns first licence as Operator.
We are also looking to identify new venture opportunities and Entry to the Barents Sea, Norway with three new licences manage the portfolio in an active market awarded in Q2 2016, including one as Operator: region for asset transactions.
believed to have high potential for commercial oil discoveries.
Developments Seven new licences awarded in Norway in Q1 2017, including Kraken and Catcher are two of the largest two as Operator and two existing licence extensions.
ongoing development projects in the UK North Sea.
Both are core development Participated in two non-operated exploration wells: Aurelia projects along with the Skarfjell discovery in the Barents Sea Cairn 10% WI was unsuccessful and in Norway, where the development concept Laverda in the UK Cairn 36% WI successful, though has been selected.
These three projects subsequently impaired.
are a key part of our strategy to build steady future cash flows to sustain Operated Licence application in the UK 29th Licensing Round, the business model and fund future awards expected shortly.
Simon Thomson, Cairn Chief Executive, visiting the Kraken FPSO in Rotterdam, 2017.
Brita Holstad, Regional Director for UK & Norway, and Paul Mayland, Chief Operating Officer, visiting the Kraken FPSO in Singapore, 2016.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 We have made significant progress on the Commissioning work will continue on the The majority of the projects subsea UK developments in 2016 and both the topsides.
Reconstruction of the turret area installation scope was also completed in Kraken and Catcher projects are below pipework and connection of the risers 2016.
Only short subsea campaigns will be budget and remain on schedule to target and umbilicals to the swivel stack is being required in 2017-19 to tie-in the new wells first oil in 2017.
Re-establishing a new cash undertaken followed by commissioning of drilled and to support the hook up of the generative production base is an important the subsea infrastructure.
The project focus is now on final milestone for Cairn in 2017. mechanical completion of the FPSO and the Catcher pre-commissioning commissioning work Kraken The Catcher project progressed well in scopes.
FPSO sail-away from Singapore is In 2016, the Kraken development progressed 2016, with the Operator targeting start-up expected to be around mid-year 2017. well, finishing the year ahead of budget and and first oil in Q4 2017.
The Operator is the Operator targeting first oil in Q2 2017. now forecasting total project capex at Skarfjell Most significantly, through a combination US$1.6bn which is 29% lower than The JV has selected a development concept of release of contingencies, contract sanctioned estimate.
Under the proposed re-negotiations and some reduction in solution, the reservoir will be connected to scope, the Operator is now forecasting The drilling programme made excellent the nearby Gja platform via a subsea total gross capex at US$2.5bn which is progress in 2016: efficient execution together tie-back.
The Operator has submitted the 22% lower than the sanctioned estimate.
with a well-executed subsea installation development concept to the Norwegian campaign, were key factors in the project Ministry of Petroleum and Energy and now At the year end, four producers and five capex reductions.
To minimise rig moves enters the define phase of the project, injectors had been satisfactorily drilled and during the winter months, the schedule was refining the technical and economic plan completed.
The 2016 subsea scope was adjusted so that at the year end, four wells on before committing to a final investment completed without any issues.
The FPSO Catcher, two wells on Burgman and two decision, planned for Q1 2018.
Based on was essentially mechanically complete with wells on Varadero were successfully drilled the proposed plan, hydrocarbons from the the vast majority of systems commissioned.
and tested with all wells coming in at, or Skarfjell reservoir will be developed with The vessel left the deep water anchorage better than, prognosis in terms of reservoir two subsea templates tied back to the Gja of Singapore and arrived in the North Sea in quality and well deliverability.
Due to these platform for processing and export.
Gja will early 2017, having completed its journey as good well results and well placement also provide lift gas to the field and water scheduled.
The vessel berthed in Rotterdam optimisation, the well count required to injection for pressure support.
Several studies to make final preparations prior to sailing deliver the base plan has reduced to 20 firm will be conducted before the final investment offshore to hook up the Submerged Turret wells, delivering further significant reductions decision and the plan for development and Production STP buoy mooring system, risers to the forecast development capex.
operation can be submitted to the Ministry.
Handover of FPSO systems from commissioning to operations continued Very good progress was made with the Exploration in Rotterdam prior to sailing away.
On arrival FPSO in the second half of the year, with In 2016, Cairn secured three licences in at the field, the hook up of the STP buoy the joining of the two hull mega blocks and the Barents Sea, including one as Operator.
mooring system was completed and a installation of the living quarters in Singapore.
We believe the Barents Sea is a potential full rotation test performed to ensure the All of the topside modules were also safely core exploration opportunity and our vessel was on station and securely moored.
lifted on and very good progress made with experience from operations in the Arctic the topsides integration.
will be relevant in the region.
According to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate, the region may contain as much as half the countrys unexplored resources with yetto-find hydrocarbon potential of 8.8 billion boe.
In 2016, Cairn participated in two non-operated exploration wells Aurelia in the Barents Sea 10% WI and Laverda in the UK 36% WI.
Aurelia was unsuccessful in finding commercial quantities of oil at the primary horizon.
Laverda did find potentially commercial quantities of oil at the primary horizon but was unsuccessful at the secondary target of the well.
19 Strategic Report CEOs Review continued International Operational review continued Cairns exploration focus is on the Atlantic Margin where, in addition to Senegal, we have key interests offering the potential for material discoveries and high prospectivity.
Highlights of 2016 In Western Sahara, we signed a new International Petroleum Agreement with Operator Kosmos Western Sahara: Boujdour Maritime new Petroleum in 2016 and are acquiring 3D seismic in 2017.
In Mauritania, we relinquished a licence in Agreement Cairn 20% WI with Operator Kosmos Energy, 2016, although we continue to be interested 3D seismic acquisition commences in 2017. in exploring the region.
Ireland Cairn awarded Licence Option LO 16 18 in the In Ireland, there have been a number of Atlantic Ireland Licencing Round in H1 2016.
Additional farmdevelopments: Cairn agreed a farm-in to in to a 70% WI and Operatorship in the adjacent LO 16 19 LO 16 19 with 70% WI and Operatorship with with Europa Oil & Gas with plans for 3D seismic in 2017.
Cairn Europa Oil & Gas with plans for 3D seismic farm-in to a 30% WI in Frontier Exploration Licence FEL 2 14 in 2017.
Cairn has previously been awarded in Southern Porcupine Basin with Providence Resources and adjacent LO 16 18 in the Atlantic Licensing Sosina: with one firm well in 2017.
The acquisition of 3D seismic is planned to be acquired over both licence option blocks in 2017 and processed in 2018.
Cairn also agreed a farm-in to FEL 2 14 in the Southern Porcupine Basin with partners Providence Resources Plc Providence and Sosina.
An exploration well will be drilled in 2017.
The 53 6-A well is planned to spud in June 2017, subject to the necessary regulatory consents, using the Stena IceMAX drill ship targeting both large stratigraphic traps, Druid and the deeper independent Drombeg target.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 This will result in the planned well, in 2,200m water depth, being deepened from 3,900m to 5,200m.
As a result Group Booked Reserves of the proposed transaction, the equity and Resources interests in FEL 2 14 will be Providence Operator 56%, Cairn 30% and Sosina 14%.
Both agreements are subject to A total of 51.5 mmboe were booked approval of the Government of Ireland.
as 2P Reserves and 239.1 mmboe as 2C Outlook Resources at 31 December 2016 on a net During 2017, Cairn will commence working basis.
production, continue to deliver future development as well as define and explore significant growth opportunities from Senegal.
We will continue to advance the business to create a balanced exploration portfolio across emerging and frontier basins in the Atlantic Margin and Barents Sea alongside mature basins in the North Sea.
The Group will continue to evaluate new 31.12.15 Revisions Production 31.12.16 venture and growth opportunities to allow Net 2P Reserves mmboe mmboe mmboe mmboe us to create value through successful UK 49.5 2.0 0.0 51.5 exploration and discovered resources.
Totals 49.5 2.0 0.0 51.5 Net 2C Contingent Resources UK 1.5 1.5 0.0 3.0 Ireland 14.6 0.0 0.0 14.6 Norway 25.3 5.1 0.0 20.2 Senegal 155.1 46.3 0.0 201.4 Totals 196.5 42.6 0.0 239.1 The reserves revisions in the UK included the acquisition of an additional 4.5% working interest in Kraken from First Oil and changes to corporate oil price assumptions.
The revisions in Norway included updates in Skarfjell and the relinquishment of Titan.
The Senegal resources increased following the appraisal campaign in 2016.
