Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report Results The company delivered a positive Caledonia delivered a positive net asset value per share total return NAV total return of 2.6%.
Our long NAVTR of 2.6% for the year ended 31 March 2016, compared with 14.2% for the previous year.
We do not seek to benchmark our term diversified portfolio of both performance over as short a period as a year, but rather our quoted and unquoted investments objective is to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return over ten years.
This we have achieved over the last ten years when our provided mitigation to the continued NAVTR was 71.6%.
Over shorter periods, we aim to produce overall volatility of the markets and we annualised returns of between RPI 3% and RPI 6% and this has been delivered.
continued our rolling ten year Background to the year in listed equities outperformance against the Over the year, the FTSE All-Share Total Return fell by 3.9%, though the S&P 500 remained flat.
Equity markets in both the US and FTSE All-Share.
The portfolio continues Europe suffered two significant falls during the year, in August 2015 to provide a growing income and we and in January 2016.
The bull market in commodity related stocks is well and truly over, following sharp falls in the price of oil and gas are pleased to have increased our and other basic commodities.
However, markets recovered their annual dividend by 4.0%, the 49th poise within a couple of months on both occasions, as the requirement for income drove investors back into yielding equity consecutive year of increase.
Having taken money out of the market last year, we took advantage of the market volatility during the year to make selective purchases of high quality businesses that match our Quoted pools long term strategy.
Caledonias competitive advantage in private equity markets The private equity market is flush with capital looking to be invested.
This is being provided by funds which have very significant unutilised commitments and banks which are once again offering high levels of debt but at very low rates.
The result is keen competition for, and pricing of, private equity money.
It is therefore vital for us to be able to differentiate ourselves from the competition in order to attract deals at sensible prices.
In this regard, Caledonia has two significant advantages.
The first is the fact that we are a closed-ended investment trust with a long term supportive family shareholder, which enables us to invest for considerably longer than the majority of those who operate in unlisted markets, often for over a decade.
Our main competition comes from the private equity industry, which raises money through funds and promises to deliver it back to fund holders within a designated period.
This rarely allows them to invest for longer than five to seven years, whereas we have no such time constraints.
If an investee company continues to perform and its management are of sufficient quality, we are able to remain as a shareholder rather than be forced by the time limits of a particular fund to have to sell our investment.
The second is our reputation.
We strive to be fair and to work alongside management teams rather than, as is so often the case, take a view that managements work for us.
We call this a hands with rather than a hands on approach.
We believe that our established reputation for being a good partner for management teams continues to give us an advantage in the marketplace.
These characteristics have led to two interesting new investments this year, Seven Investment Management and Gala Bingo.
Both companies were purchased without having to enter into an auction process, as the vendors and the managements believed that we would deliver on our promises and that we would be the right home for their businesses.
2 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Investment performance Balance sheet and cash We take a longer term perspective when assessing Caledonias At the year end, our balance sheet was ungeared with a net investment performance.
The construction of our portfolio, with its cash position of 22.9m, compared with net cash of 131.0m at significant portion of unquoted investments and lack of correlation 31 March 2015.
During the year, we made investments totalling to any particular equity market, has led the board to measure 406m and divestments of 315m, excluding purchases and sales performance by comparing Caledonias NAVTR with the FTSE within the Income & Growth pool.
The two most substantial new All-Share Total Return index over rolling ten year periods.
History investments were 74m in Seven Investment Management and shows that a consistent performance of RPI 3% to RPI 6% will 92m in Gala Bingo.
We received proceeds of 79m from the sale deliver a return that will outperform most markets over ten years.
of TGE Marine and distributions of 50m from the Capital Today The table below shows a summary of performance against RPI for China fund following further realisations of its holding in JD.
periods up to ten years and against the FTSE All-Share for ten years: Strategy The Cayzer family, whose ancestors built from scratch the business 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years % % % % from which Caledonia derives its origins and who now owns NAV total return 2.6 34.9 49.2 71.6 some 48% of the company, takes a long term view.
The stability Annualised and inter-generational time horizon of the family shareholding NAV total return 2.6 10.5 8.3 5.5 and other shareholders have helped to define Caledonias strategy, Retail Prices Index 1.6 1.6 2.3 3.0 which remains to seek long term capital growth combined with Performance against RPI 1.0 8.9 6.0 2.5 an increasing annual dividend.
This is executed by investing in FTSE All-Share Total Return 4.7 two principal markets, listed equity and private equity.
The Performance against FTSE 0.8 company is managed via four pools of capital covering both these markets, each with an allocated amount of capital and carefully The graph below shows that Caledonias returns remain ahead of designed return targets which reflect the risk appetite of the those of the FTSE All-Share over rolling ten year periods, although shareholder base.
recently have slipped marginally below our RPI target area as designated by the shaded zone.
During the year, the board carried out a detailed review of the strategy adopted in 2011.
This concluded that the strategy Annualised ten year rolling performance had delivered good returns to date and should continue to do so.
Caledonia NAVTR FTSE All-Share TR RPI 3% to RPI 6% It is important to re-emphasise the key tenets of this strategy: % Strategic aims 15 To grow capital value over the long term measured in real terms 10 To pay an increasing annual dividend, which grows at or in excess of inflation over the long term 5 To manage risk commensurate with shareholders requirements and our investment horizon.
0 03 06 03 08 03 10 03 12 03 14 03 16 Investment strategy The portfolio is structured to deliver these strategic aims through: Income Portfolio income for the year rose by 7.3% to 50.2m which, A long term investment horizon ten years or longer, investing after expenses, fully covered the dividend for the year.
We place in quoted and unquoted businesses and funds that accumulate a strong emphasis on income yield in our investment strategy, value over that time period as this ensures that we purchase cash generative companies A diversity of investment markets via pools that together reflect which have the ability not only to increase their capital value but our risk return aims also to pay growing dividends to their shareholders on an annual basis.
This supports our objective of paying an increasing annual A sustainable and increasing annual cash yield that is a prominent dividend to our shareholders, which we have now done for part of total return and covers annual dividends and expenses.
Expenses Our ongoing charges ratio for the year was 1.01%, compared with 0.96% in 2015 on a like-for-like basis.
The increase primarily reflected the costs of temporary office accommodation whilst our head office is being refurbished.
Caledonias business model, which includes significant investment in unquoted businesses, requires more resource than a pure quoted equity portfolio, hence we have higher costs than a typical listed fund manager.
For the first time this year, we have allocated share award costs relating to our performance-based incentive schemes to capital, in line with industry practice.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 3 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued Performance measurement The Unquoted pool produced a 15.2% return, which was To deliver annual average total returns of between RPI 3% and commendable and included over 26m of income, an uplift of 12% RPI 6% which, based on history, should deliver performance over over the previous year.
The main driver of value was our investment a ten year period in line with or above most share indices, in Park Holidays, where profitability increased significantly for the including the FTSE All-Share.
second consecutive year, enabling a refinancing of its bank facilities and payment of a special dividend just after the year end.
The Funds The board however agreed to make several minor adjustments pool also produced a respectable return of 5.9%, especially to the strategy: considering that over a third of its investments are in quoted market funds.
These pools provide a good mitigation to the more volatile To make some changes to the allocation ranges of some of returns of the quoted equity markets.
The Quoted pool suffered the pools from its holding in Bristow Group falling considerably in value, To increase the Funds pools exposure to private equity funds though in line with the oil price.
This pool, however, took advantage in the US and Asia through further commitments and to reduce of the fall in equity markets in August to add several new holdings.
its exposure to quoted market funds in those regions The Income & Growth pool demonstrated its robust nature in the face of falling markets, ending the year with a broadly flat overall To reduce the Funds pools strategic requirement for income return.
This was a particularly good effort, for which Jonathan Greig, to zero, reflecting the structure of the funds in which it invests in his first year as the manager of the fund, should take credit.
To reduce the target return for the Income & Growth pool from The changes to pool allocations have been mentioned in the 10% to 7%, reflecting its required risk return profile.
The only pool currently outside its strategic The resultant portfolio and strategic targets at current allocations range, some 3% below its lower range, is Income & Growth.
This are as follows: reflects the nature of the pool which we use, alongside cash and facilities, to provide liquidity or a store for capital as and when Target Current Annual return targets Income Capital Total allocation allocation required.
The exact timing of our larger investments and Pool % % % % % divestments from the Unquoted pool is difficult to estimate and Quoted 2.5 7.5 10.0 25-40 27.3 the liquid nature of the Income & Growth pool adds to our flexibility.
Income & Growth 4.5 2.5 7.0 15-20 11.8 Unquoted 5.0 9.0 14.0 35-45 39.3 Overview of pool performance Funds 12.5 12.5 15-20 18.8 Quoted 449m, 27% of net assets Liquidity 10 -10 2.8 We invest in companies with established business models, strong balance sheets and good returns on capital and strong annual Review of portfolio cash flows.
The portfolio, before expenses and other net assets were taken into account, returned 4.1% for the year under review.
Excluding The Quoted pool produced a negative total return of 7.0% for transactions within the Income & Growth pool, we invested more the year.
Performance was held back by falls in the share price than 400m during the course of the year, equivalent to some of Bristow Group and AG Barr, in which we have large holdings.
Of this, some 40% was attributed to the Having taken profits from Bristow a couple of years ago and with Unquoted pool, with the two sizeable acquisitions of Seven our deep knowledge of the business gathered from over 25 years Investment Management and Gala Bingo, and 40% to the Quoted as an investor, we felt comfortable in adding to our holding at an pool.
Realisations totalled 315m, with TGE Marine, Capital Today advantageous price.
AG Barr suffered from poor investor sentiment China and Quintain Estates being the largest.
whilst the sugar tax argument raged in political circles.
We have owned an 8% stake in this company for many years and believe that Other Value InvestmoveValue its prospects remain good, led by an excellent management team.
2015 ments Disposals ments 2016 Income Return Other notable detractors from performance were Rolls-Royce, Pool m m m m m m % which we sold following several profit warnings, and Avanti Quoted 447.7 156.9 112.9 42.4 449.3 13.9 7.0 Communications, in which we significantly reduced our stake in Income & the early part of the year.
Other 139.1 46.2 Quintain Estates was taken over during the year at a good premium Net assets 1,626.9 1,644.3 2.6 and Hill & Smith continued to produce excellent results that translated into a strong share price performance.
4 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Gala Coral had been searching for a We have been overall sellers in the quoted markets for several purchaser for its retail bingo business prior years, as valuations have become stretched, although the occasional to its merger with Ladbrokes.
The head of market hiccup has allowed us to deploy some capital, as happened our Unquoted team knew the business in August this year.
However, we remain wary of high market levels, well from earlier in his career and we were low investor confidence and signs that GDP growth is slowing a little.
able to agree terms to buy this substantial Income & Growth 194m, 12% of net assets and cash generative company, because of We invest in a portfolio of liquid global equities that produces a our ability to move quickly to close the deal.
reliable and increasing income stream.
Since 2011, when Caledonias new strategy was implemented, the The portfolio was repositioned earlier in the year to take a more pool has produced an annualised return of 12.4%.
Over the past defensive stance.
With the benefit of hindsight, this proved well three years this has increased to 17.4%.
The objective of the pool is timed and the result for the year, a flat return, compared well with a to produce consistent returns, both on capital and income accounts, market that retreated by 4%.
The pool also returned a 4.1% dividend without taking too much risk.
The businesses that we have yield, which helped to underpin our overall income requirement.
purchased over the past five years reflect this strategy and have the capability of producing good returns in the future.
Unquoted 646m, 39% of net assets We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and an investor Funds 308m, 19% of net assets with a balance sheet who is able to provide a long term perspective.
We invest in both private equity and quoted market funds, with We mainly invest in majority positions.
an emphasis on providing exposure to areas of the world where The Unquoted pool returned over 15% for the year under review, we are less willing to invest directly.
Park Holidays was the outstanding The Funds pool return of 5.9% was respectable considering the performer in the pool, producing a total return of 63% over the volatile markets in Asia where we have several quoted market fund course of the year, which included a 12m dividend.
We took the opportunity created by market weakness Cobehold, the Belgian investment company, produced a healthy to top up several holdings, including PVAM Perlus Microcap, 23% sterling return after a couple of flat years.
Arlington AVM Ranger, Macquarie Asia New Stars and NTAsian.
The market remains busy with plenty of businesses available for The private equity portfolio continued to perform well and we purchase, the Unquoted team reviewing over 220 during the year.
made several new commitments during the course of the year We sold one business during the year, TGE Marine for 79m, and to funds in the US and Asia.
since the year end have realised our stake in Bowers & Wilkins, the premium audio equipment manufacturer, for 24m.
We made two We received distributions of 50m from the Capital Today China purchases during the year, Seven Investment Management 7IM fund, a large portion of which was proceeds from its sale of JD.
Both businesses fit our criteria This fund has produced a return of 11.7x money invested and an well and have made good starts in the portfolio.
IRR of 47.5% so far over its ten year life.
Kathy Xu, the manager, has delivered outstanding results, having backed four separate 7IM is a fast growing wealth businesses that have returned over 10x the initial investment.
management company with We consider ourselves fortunate to have been a cornerstone funds under management of investor in this fund.
The experienced management team, who started Looking ahead, the Funds pool will increase its exposure to private 7IM 11 years ago, were introduced to Caledonia whilst searching for equity funds, particularly in the US which is a mature market, and replacement shareholders and we were pleased that we had the also in Asia, though at a lower rate due to the infancy of this market.
characteristics that they were looking for in a shareholder.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 5 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued Dividend and discount Outlook The company paid an interim dividend of 14.3p on 7 January 2016 We are faced with several seminal moments this year.
There and a second interim of 38.3p on 1 April 2016 making a total for is a referendum on British membership of the EU and the US the year of 52.6p, the 49th consecutive year in which the annual Presidential election, both of which have the potential to destabilise dividend has been raised.
No final dividend is proposed.
There is a lack of fundamental confidence in GDP dividend is a vital component of our return to shareholders and the growth, be it in China, the US, Europe, or at home in the UK.
The strategy of the company is focused on its maintenance and steady central bankers have utilised extreme monetary policies to stimulate increase.
During the year, the discount of the share price to our economies without much effect and seemingly have few tools to NAV per share ranged between 12% and 26% and the share price bring to bear if growth deteriorates.
Equity markets have witnessed rose marginally, from 2281p at the beginning of the year to 2285p, a prolonged period of growth but are seemingly expensive, perhaps whereas the FTSE All-Share fell by some 7%.
lacking the underlying earnings growth from companies to justify those valuations.
However, investors have few alternative options, We did not make any share buybacks during the year, but we will with bond yields at record lows.
again seek the necessary permissions from shareholders at the AGM to buy in shares should they offer particular value.
We have invested in companies that have consistent and dependable cash flows, such that they are able to pay us annual Board dividends whilst continuing to grow steadily.
We have exposure Robert Woods stepped down from the board in March 2016. through the listed markets to some of the worlds leading brands He joined in 2011 at a time of strategic change at Caledonia and his that will continue to sell goods to consumers and businesses alike depth of experience and wisdom was a particular source of strength whatever the state of the economy and our unquoted portfolio for the company and management during his time on the board.
complements and diversifies the shorter term volatility of the We wish him well in his retirement and will miss his insights into quoted markets.
This gives us confidence that we will be able to the world of trade that stemmed from his career in shipping.
meet our shareholders requirements for capital growth and income over the longer term, without needing to expose their capital to undue risk.
Rod Kent Will Wyatt Chairman Chief Executive 6 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
