Chief Executives review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive CLEAR AND FOCUSED STRATEGY DRIVING LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION Our disciplined approach to capital allocation has meant Capco A year of operational progress across Capco is in a robust financial position with a low loan to value of 23 per 2016 has been a challenging year but despite macro-economic cent.
The balance sheet has been further strengthened by the and political upheaval, Covent Garden has continued to deliver financing activities across the Group this year resulting in high excellent growth and is now established as one of the best retail liquidity of 556 million, an extension of our loan maturities estates in the world.
The success of our investment strategy at to 5.9 years and a lower average cost of debt of 2.7 per cent.
Covent Garden was not sufficient to offset the decline in land value at Earls Court, which was affected negatively by the correction in Our strategy remains clear and focused on driving long-term the London residential market as a result of stamp duty increases value creation from our two unique central London estates.
and the outcome of the EU Referendum.
As a result, EPRA net London is a growing and global city and underpinned by a clear asset value fell by 5.9 per cent over the year to 340 pence per share strategy: Capcos two estates are well-placed for long-term success.
with 4.7 per cent of this occurring in the first six months of 2016.
Capco regularly considers opportunities where its core skills Covent Garden continues to deliver excellent rental and value of place-making and masterplanning can be utilised and in growth.
Demand for the estate from retailers, restaurateurs and 2015 acquired a 50 per cent interest in the Solum Developments consumers is very strong as reflected in a record amount of leasing joint venture with Network Rail which is exploring potential activity in 2016 resulting in an increase in value of 6.4 per cent opportunities for future redevelopments at significant railway like-for like.
The London residential market has been affected negatively by the EU Referendum and the substantial increase in stamp duty taxation.
These factors were the major contributors to the decline in our Earls Court interests which decreased by 20.4 per cent like-for-like of which 14 per cent like-for-like was in the first six months of the year.
8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements King Street Covent Garden Valuations Market Value Market Value Valuation 2016 2015 Change The total property value of the Group declined 4.4 per cent 1 m m Like-for-Like like-for-like in the year to 31 December 2016 to 3.7 billion.
The December 2016 valuations incorporate the 1 per cent increase in Covent Garden 2,275 2,005 6.4% Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT that was enacted earlier this year, Earls Court Properties which was applicable to most of our portfolio and had an impact Earls Court Partnership of 32.4 million 0.9 per cent of property value.
2 Limited ECPL 644 803 22.6 % The valuation of Covent Garden has risen by 6.4 per cent like-for- 3 Lillie Square 223 222 17.0 % like to 2.3 billion, driven by ERV growth of 7.9 per cent achieved Empress State 230 286 20.0 % over the year.
The equivalent yield is 3.5 per cent, reflecting the valuers current view of the strength of demand for central London Other 45 46 4.2 % retail investments.
Group share of Earls Court The valuation of Earls Court Properties is 1.1 billion, a decrease Properties 1,142 1,357 20.4 % of 20.4 per cent like-for-like principally driven by a greater risk Venues 293 295 1.3 % premium through a higher developers margin for consented Other 5 development land, trimming of sales values, as well as some 4 cost inflation.
This reflects the valuers assessment of weakened Group share of total property 3,710 3,662 4.4 % sentiment and a correction in the central London residential market.
Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital The Group has a 63 per cent controlling interest in Earls Court expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus.
Partnership Limited ECPL, the investment vehicle with 2.
Represents the Groups 63 per cent interest in ECPL.
Transport for London TfL which owns the land formerly 3.
Represents the Groups 50 per cent interest in Lillie Square.
occupied by the Earls Court Exhibition Centres EC1 & EC2.
A reconciliation of the carrying value of investment, development and trading result, it is fully consolidated in the financial statements and TfLs property to the market value is shown in note 14 Property Portfolio within the consolidated financial statements.
interest is represented as a non-controlling interest.
See page40 of the Financial Review for further information.
com 9 Chief Executives review continued Nurseries, the renowned lifestyle brand, will open later in 2017 Covent Garden a leading global destination following a pre-lease for 60 per cent of the commercial space for brands and visitors reflecting the strong appeal of the Floral Court development.
Covent Garden has been transformed into one of the leading destinations for global street retail and its success has continued We have continued to expand our presence on the estate through throughout 2016.
The uncompromising asset management strategic acquisitions, investing 85 million in properties located strategy has driven strong leasing momentum, attracting global at key access points to the estate and will continue to seek premium brands, many of which choose Covent Garden as their opportunities to further enhance our footprint on the area.
The first or only London store, resulting in solid rental performance estate now comprises over 1.1 million square feet of lettable space, across the estate.
Our creative approach to managing Covent establishing itself as one of the largest managed retail-led estates Garden continues to create value for our retailers through in London.
attracting high quality footfall and positive sales growth.
Earls Court Masterplan over 70 acres of consented land in We achieved a record level of leasing activity in 2016 with 95 central London new lettings and renewals agreed, securing 13.3 million of rent At Earls Court, the complex demolition of the former Earls Court at 9.3 per cent above December 2015 ERV.
The ERV of the estate Exhibition Centres to ground level completed on schedule after is 96 million, up 7.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
A new ERV almost two years of intensive work on the site.
Demolition to target of 125 million to be achieved by December 2020 has been basement level has commenced which further fide-risks the site set, reflecting the positive growth prospects of the estate.
and enables the land for its future development.
Following positive leasing progress across the estate, new Zone A The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create levels have been achieved reflecting the strong demand for space the next great estate in London.
The Masterplan is one of the in this iconic setting.
Tom Ford, Giorgio Armani Beautys Armani Greater London Authoritys GLA designated Opportunity Box London Armani Box London and Hotel Chocolat are Areas making it a strategic scheme for London.
Representations the latest signings to the Market Building while the strategy to have been submitted by Capco to the GLAs London Plan signalling reposition the Royal Opera House Arcade with a luxury accessories Earls Courts potential to deliver an additional 2,500 homes above focus has seen the introduction of The Watch Gallery, Mulberry the current consented scheme, bringing the total number of new and N. Peal.
The dining offering at Covent Garden has further strengthened Further to Capcos ambitions for Earls Court, during 2016 this year.
We are delighted to welcome Michelin-starred chef Ollie ECPL engaged in public consultations on proposals to redevelop Dabbous to the estate through the restaurant at the Henrietta Empress Place.
These are strategic assets located on or around Hotel on Henrietta Street, while SushiSamba, RedFarm and the Lillie Road which ECPL has acquired in recent years.
These VyTA add to the depth of variety and quality on the estate.
consultations relate to a scheme comprising 400 new homes and The Floral Court development formerly Kings Court is on track retail space, covering circa500,000 square feet GEA, creating one for completion towards the end of 2017 and will transform the of the key access points to the Earls Court Masterplan and Lillie pedestrian flows on the northern side of the estate.
Plans are progressing to submit a detailed planning Site progress at Earls Court 10 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements application in spring 2017, signalling the start of the enhancements to the Earls Court Masterplan.
At Lillie Square, construction of Phase 1 is progressing well and the scheme recently welcomed its first residents.
Sales of Phase 2 have continued with 59 apartments now reserved or exchanged and levels of enquiries remain positive.
Preparations are being made for the next release of apartments in the coming months.
The residential sales market remains challenging as a result of stamp duty increases and the EU Referendum result which has impacted buyers decision making.
Nevertheless, reflecting the strong location and transport connectivity of the scheme, sales prices achieved in Phase 2 have been at a modest premium to comparable units in Phase 1.
Venues operational excellence The Venues business continues to strengthen with EBITDA of 19 million up 29 per cent compared to 2015 reflecting its excellent prospects as a central London venue.
Olympia London has re-established itself as Londons venue of choice for premium exhibitions attracting 1.5 million visitors to the historic venue in 2016.
Olympia London played host to the UKs largest exhibition, the Ideal Home Show, and continues to attract new business welcoming 5G World for the first time this year.
Outlook Capco is very well positioned with two significant prime estates in central London.
London remains a very attractive investment market and whilst we expect market challenges to continue into 2017, Capco has a clear strategy to deliver long-term value creation from its two estates in Covent Garden and Earls Court.
Covent Garden has been transformed into one of the leading destinations for global street retail.
Following the strong demand in 2016 from excellent brands and dining concepts, 2017 will be one of our most active years for retail and dining openings across the estate, further underpinning the estates reputation as a Ideal Home Show premier global retail and dining destination.
We remain focused at Olympia London on our ambitious strategy to introduce the best brands for our visitors, invest in strategically expanding the portfolio and manage the estate to create value for our retailers to underpin rental growth.
The estate remains well-placed for continued success and accordingly we will be focused on achieving a new ERV target of 125 million by December 2020.
Ian Hawksworth The Earls Court Masterplan is the only central London GLA Chief Executive Opportunity Area of scale and is a strategic scheme for the Capital.
With its excellent existing transport infrastructure, it has the 21 February 2017 potential to deliver much-needed homes across various tenures and places for Londoners to enjoy.
Our strategy remains focused on maximising the potential of this strategically important mixed-use scheme and fide-risking the site through land enablement, preparing it for future development.
Capcos financial position has been strengthened by the financing activities undertaken during the year.
With low leverage, high liquidity and modest capital commitments, the Group is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
We enter a new year focused on our strategy to deliver long-term value creation for our shareholders from our two exceptional central London estates.
