Chief Executive Officers Review I believe that our retail offering and market position will be further strengthened in the years ahead Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer As referred to below, we have started to refine and Overview develop the multi-channel offering of the Card Factory Card Factory has had another record year, generating fascia from a very low base.
Including sales from the strong growth in both revenues and profits, and recently relaunched Card Factory transactional website, delivering in all areas of our proven four pillar strategy: the total LFL for the Card Factory fascia increased by 3.0% FY15: 1.8%.
Continue to grow like-for-like sales in existing stores considerable potential to leverage the existing loyal and The Groups consistent like-for-like LFL' sales established store customer base.
performance continued with annual LFL store growth of 2.8% FY15: 1.8%, towards the upper end of the 2.
Continue to roll out profitable new stores historic 5 year range of 1.4% to 3.2%.
We continue to The Groups established new store roll out programme target annual LFLs in line with this historic range.
continues to be an important driver of sales growth for the business.
This strong performance was driven by a number of factors, including further improvements in the quality In the year under review, 50 net new stores were opened and range of our card and non-card offerings, benefits FY15: 51, bringing the total estate to 814 stores at the of our new EPOS system, new merchandising initiatives year end.
During the year 10 stores were closed FY15: 5 and further market share gains as stores mature.
The overall quality of our new store openings and their performance to date The performance of the diverse non-card category, continues to be in line with our expectations.
The quality which typically has a lower gross margin than the card of our retail estate remains high.
Of our stores open for category, continues to be particularly strong.
Our over one year, only five less than 1% of the estate were Design Studio has significantly improved the quality loss making, and their aggregate loss was only 0.1m at of our non-card category over the past five years, store contribution level.
generating incremental sales and increasing non-card sales mix from 35.3% in FY12 to 41.3% in FY16.
We We have a strong pipeline of additional new store expect this gradual trend to continue as we further opportunities and remain confident of opening a develop and enhance our non-card offering.
total of approximately 50 net new stores in the new financial year.
12 12 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s 4.
Increase penetration of the complementary 3.
Continue to focus on delivering business efficiencies online market The Group continues to consistently deliver one of the Our online operations have had another strong year best operating profit margins in the retail sector and with total Group online revenues growing by 22.8% to we remain focused on delivering further business 19.2m FY15: 15.7m.
efficiencies and economies of scale.
Getting Personal, which currently represents the A key aspect of our strategy has been to ensure that majority of the Groups online operations, grew revenue this margin focus does not compromise our value by 17.5%, having delivered 23.1% growth in FY15.
proposition, particularly when faced with cost EBITDA increased by 46.7% to 4.1m FY15: 2.8m.
We believe that this approach is in the best Over the last two years, Getting Personal has therefore long-term interests of the Company and shareholders.
grown revenue by 44.6% and EBITDA by 145.8% an As referred to in the Chief Financial Officers Review, excellent performance.
We continue to target double we anticipate that the current significant cost pressures digit revenue growth at Getting Personal albeit we facing our sector, in particular foreign exchange rates expect this to be at a lower level than that achieved in and the new National Living Wage, will slightly reduce the past two years given these much tougher our operating margin percentage in FY17, post comparatives.
We have a number of business efficiency projects underway and, given our market leading The new Card Factory transactional website continues position, unique vertically integrated model and to progress well, having been relaunched during the superior margin structure, we believe that we are better year on the responsive technology platform developed placed than most to manage such costs pressures.
by the team at Getting Personal.
We continue to Indeed, our strategic response to such cost pressures often, in our view, strengthens our competitive position enhance, test and evolve our online proposition and in the market.
product offering and, in the second half of the year, introduced a wider selection of personalised cards and We continue to leverage our investment in EPOS and gifts, including a small range of photo upload products.
our increased ability to analyse more granular sales Whilst this initial trial range is much smaller than that of data has contributed to the strong LFL performance in more established online competitors, our new offering FY16.
The new system is now deployed in approximately of personalised cards and gifts has been well received 60% of stores and, given the characteristics of our retail by customers.
Taken together with a more user-friendly estate, we can use this data to improve the performance website, this contributed to annual revenue growth of of the whole estate.
In order to optimise the benefits of approximately 500% to 1.0m FY15: 0.17m, despite this system, we have recently commissioned an very limited marketing support.
We have now started to independent detailed review of a potential software increase the promotion of this new online offering in upgrade to enable further system improvements and Card Factory stores and whilst annual revenue remains efficiencies.
We expect the conclusions to be available small relative to the size of the Group, with over 100 later this year.
In the meantime, we continue to deploy million in-store customer transactions each year and a the current version in all new stores.
loyal customer base, we are optimistic that this channel has significant growth potential over the medium term.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 13 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Management and employees As announced in January, Karen Hubbard has been appointed as my successor and we welcome her to the Group.
Karen and I have worked closely together over recent weeks as part of a managed transition plan.
I am confident that I leave the Group in good hands.
We have also continued to invest in the wider team with some newly created roles at more senior levels in existing functions for example, Head of Loss Prevention and a Marketing Director at Getting Personal.
We will continue to strengthen all aspects of the business and invest in the wider team in support of our medium-term growth plans.
Summary and outlook As I enter the final few weeks of my tenure as CEO, it is pleasing to be able to announce another set of record results.
We remain confident in the Groups future prospects, and in its ability to continue to grow sales profitably over the medium term.
Our clear value proposition, underpinned by our unique vertically integrated model, remains highly differentiated and I believe that our retail offering and market position will be further strengthened in the years ahead.
I am fortunate to have had the opportunity to lead Card Factory through an exciting period of growth and change.
It is a very strong business, with a great team of experienced people at Executive level and right across the business, and I know they will give Karen every support as she takes the business further forward.
I wish them all the very best for the future.
Finally, I would again like to thank my Board colleagues, management team and all our employees for their support and commitment over many years and also Dean and Janet Hoyle, the founders of the business, who entrusted me with the leadership of their then family business in 2008.
Together we have all contributed to growing Card Factory from a small chain of discount stores to a vertically integrated high margin value retailer with over 800 stores nationwide and two transactional websites.
We should all be proud of what we have achieved together over a number of years in building Card Factory to the position of clear market leader proud but not complacent.
Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer 4 April 2016 14 14 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Our clear value proposition, underpinned by our unique vertically integrated model, remains highly differentiated Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 15
