STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Group Chief Executives Statement Finally, the world beyond the customer For Centrica, 2016 was a year of robust performance and progress isalso evolving.
2016 has seen some inimplementing our customer-focused strategy.
We delivered our bigchanges in the political and economic keyobjectives including improved safety performance, better environment.
Centrica must be a trusted customer service, and more innovative offerings and solutions, while and constructive partner with governments repositioning the portfolio, building capability and driving significant and regulators, while also pursuing our own goals and the interests of our shareholders.
cost savings as we build a platform for the future.
2016 was a year of solid strategic progress CENTRICA IN 2016 we have been able to unlock, we have and good performance as we delivered for our givenourselves the time to establish the customers in a rapidly changing economic, 2016 was a very busy year for the Centrica capabilities necessary to pursue growth.
team, but they have delivered a lot, and We mustnt waste that opportunity and Centrica enters 2017 a stronger company, RESHAPING CENTRICA wehave exciting plans, but the world of with encouraging underlying momentum Against this backdrop, we have been energy and services is changing rapidly.
and positioned to deliver longer-term repositioning Centrica to be more customer returnsand growth.
There are three shifts driving change in the focused, and reallocating resources from energy market and in our business.
The first Our stated purpose is to provide energy Exploration & Production E&P and Central is the decentralisation of the energy system.
and services to satisfy the changing needs Power Generation towards the customerThis arises from more viable technologies of our customers.
But, as that mission facing businesses.
The asset businesses and many types of solutions for energy statement also recognises, the nature of the remain important to the diversity of management at the point of use.
world in which we operate is evolving rapidly ourportfolio and therefore our cash flow and we need to respond equally fast if we stability but, in relative terms, we are The second shift, which follows on from are to survive and prosper.
concentrating more resources on thefirst, is that customers, communities, thecustomer.
businesses and individuals, are gaining During the year, we made a good start in greater power to choose and control the fundamental repositioning of Centrica by In February 2017, we announced a major theirenergy use.
focusing on our customers, in line with the stepinreorganising our customer-facing 2015 strategic review of the business, and businesses.
We have established two And thirdly, these trends are being accelerated concentrating on making ourselves more operating divisions, Centrica Consumer by digital technology, especially big data and efficient and improving capability in the key andCentrica Business.
These two divisions the actionable insights provided by analytics.
functions which will allow us to deliver for will contain all of our businesses which face Our focus must be on what customers them and build a real competitive advantage.
the residential consumer and the business wantand how we can best serve them.
We are organising It is by no means an easy task and we They want affordable energy: they want torespond to their changing needs.
arestill in the early stages of the process.
choice: they want control and the ability to Inaddition to these two customer-facing Butbecause of the difficult choices we have use less energy: and, increasingly, theywant divisions, we will continue todevelop our already made, and specifically the refocusing lower carbon.
We are very well positioned portfolio in E&P and in Centrica Storage.
of the company and the significant efficiencies todeliver on all of these needs.
2016 was a very busy year fortheCentrica team, but they havedelivered a lot, and Centrica enters 2017 a stronger company, with encouraging underlying momentum and positioned todeliver longer-term returns andgrowth.
Iain Conn Group Chief Executive 6 If we are to grow the business and enter areputting their prices up.
Bord Gis Energy new markets, we need to get our basic also cut household gasand electricity costs We must ensure we satisfy levelof effectiveness right.
So, we have by 2.5% and 5% respectively, making it the tackled duplications and inefficiencies and only supplier inIreland to have reduced our customers and deliver we will continue the journey to simplify prices three times since February 2015. operational excellence andstandardise how Centrica works.
To this end, we Altogether, our reorganisation programme Centrica will only grow and prosper if we are investing 50 million in has so far required a direct like-for-like have the right people and invest in human headcount reduction of around 3,000. improving customer service, capability across the company.
Regrettably, I recognise the significant challenges we have taken on more but understandably in the light of our facedby colleagues over the last two years.
restructuring, we suffered a decline in callcentre advisers and we The Centrica team has performed very employee engagement last year.
Were haveincreased the number wellin extremely difficult circumstances.
committed to change that and foster an of their training days.
We Butwe are now more resilient and adaptable engaged, diverse and inclusive workforce to the external environment and all the which will help us to better understand trytomake surethat our internal changes we have made are aligned thechanging needs of our customers.
customers canalways speak to achieving the purpose and strategic goals We pay at least the Living Wage to all to someone who truly of the Group.
We are now in a much stronger ourUK employees and we continue to position to deliver for our customers, deliver understands theirneeds.
trainthousands of British Gas engineers for our shareholders and ultimately deliver andapprentices every year.
We are also for our own employees.
diversifying our talent pool through the SAFETY Movement to Work scheme which helps As we reposition the business, our overriding young, unemployed people secure priority remains safety, compliance and theskillsthey need for the workplace.
If we dont get this right, we wont Since2014, we have provided 700 training be able to execute all our other plans.
Last placements, of which 60% gained permanent year we saw a big improvement in customer employment.
As a whole, along with our safety, with the number of incidents falling partner organisations, Movement to Work by a quarter.
Recordable and lost time injury has trained over 50,000 people and 54% frequency rates among our own people ofthem have secured some form of alsofell.
Sadly, however, one of our partner employment in the workplace.
engineers was in a road accident in which In 2016, we launched Spectrum, our Lesbian, they tragically died.
One incident like this Gay, Bi-Sexual & Transgender Plus LGBT isone too many.
We continue to focus on employee network which, together with our building safety capability with our people networks for women, carers and parents, through effective communication and training.
provides a vital source of support for our We also pay close attention to compliance people and ensures we listen and get and the relationships with all our regulators.
feedback on how we can be more inclusive SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS as an organisation.
We must ensure we satisfy our customers Despite all of the organisational change, and deliver operational excellence every day.
across the Group we have been focusing To this end, we are investing 50 million in onbuilding capability and ensuring we have improving customer service, we have taken the processes and tools to compete and on more call centre advisers and we have serve our customers for the long-term.
increased the number of their training days.
You can read more about our people and We try to make sure that our customers some of their stories on pages 32 to 35 canalways speak to someone who truly ofthe Annual Report.
TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION Our continued focus and investment in customer service has resulted in higher Reshaping the business is not simply netpromoter scores and significantly lower aboutefficiency and structure, it is also complaint levels across our UK, Ireland and about building new capabilities for the North America customer-facing businesses.
And here we laid some strong foundations in 2016.
We aim to be clear and competitive on billsand pricing.
We committed to freeze We are working hard to understand what our standard tariff, one of thecheapest on our customers want and to develop new the market, for the entire Winter 2016 17 technology and services to provide it.
We have since extended this freeze Weare pioneers of the Connected Home.
until August 2017 just as other providers Inthe UK, we have over half a million users Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Group Chief Executives Key Events in 2016 Statement continued of our Hive connected hub.
Hive customers 05 02 can now use voice control, through Amazons Alexa Voice Service, and Hive Centrica announces 11 02 products are also being sold in North America.
sale of Glens of British Gas leads Our customers are seeing tangible benefits.
Foudland, Lynn and Our HomeEnergy FreeTime tariff for smart witha further gas Inner Dowsing GLID meter customers provides free electricity price cut of 5.1% 9.00am 5.00pm ona Saturday or Sunday, wind farms which can save an estimated 60 per year.
READ MORE ON And our Boiler IQ offering provides early PAGE 49 warning of faults with heating or hot water.
Our Distributed Energy & Power fide&P business has been boosted by a first full 21 04 years contribution from Panoramic Power, Centrica announces a leading provider of wireless, device-level management solutions, which is helping our the acquisition business customers to take control of their of Neas Energy a energy by giving them the tools to monitor, operate and optimise their own assets.
trading optimisation Distributed energy is growing, altering the business 05 05 traditional supply model, and increasingly consumers are becoming prosumers, READ MORE ON Equity placing PAGES 45 generating their own energy.
to access key We have made strategic, value-creating 16 05 acquisitions and additions to our technological capability.
Centrica acquires strengthen the Last year we acquired Flowgem, which specialises in water leak detection: Neas ENER-G Cogen balance sheet in Energy, a leading Danish provider of energy a combined heat uncertain times management and optimisation services for decentralised and renewable assets: and and power CHP ENER-G Cogen, an established supplier solutions business and operator of Combined Heat & Power.
READ MORE ON This year we will start a pioneering 19 PAGES 14 AND 15 million trial in Cornwall, which will see the 01 07 creation of a virtual marketplace to buy andsell energy locally and the installation British Gas launches ofnew technology in over 150 homes and innovative new businesses.
You can read more about it inone of our Case Studies on pages 12 energy plan for smart 15 09 and13 of this Annual Report.
meter customers Hive brings Innovation is a key driver of growth.
That called FreeTime voice-control to iswhy we have announced the formation ofa new unit, Centrica Innovations CI, to READ MORE ON heating, lighting PAGES 20 AND 21 focus our efforts in this area and act as an and plugs incubator and accelerator of new ventures.
The team will be small, agile and outward looking, drawing on experience from ourown businesses, other companies, start-ups and entrepreneurs.
30 11 01 12 We plan to invest 20 million a year over Centrica sells Trinidad thenext five years 2017 to 2021 up to British Gas makes and Tobago assets 100million in total in CI.
Our existing Ignite commitments to 10 million social enterprise investment fund READ MORE ON PAGE 47 energy customers will become part of the new CI unit.
Find out more about some of our ground- 15 12 breaking products and services in the First gas flows Technology & Innovation section on pages 10and 11 of the Annual Report.
from Cygnus READ MORE ON PAGE 47 8 2017 2016 PERFORMANCE As far as the UKs withdrawal from the on its investigation into the UK energy EUisconcerned, many details of the market and the UK Government confirming Operationally, against a background of weak implementation process remain unclear.
reforms to the UK Capacity Market.
commodity prices, 2016 marked a distinct Extricating ourselves from all the European improvement on the previous year.
In a We have supported the CMA investigation treaties is a task of immense complexity.
highly competitive market we delivered throughout the process, even when we ButIhope that, despite the difficulties ahead, newcustomer offers in energy supply disagreed with some of its conclusions, the UK will find a pragmatic way to deal with andservices and were very focused on andwe are now actively implementing the issues, and Centrica is well-positioned improving our service levels.
Changes to Retail Market tomanage any market impacts.
accounts in the UK were broadly flat in the Reformrules, especially the increase in second half, UK Business continued to Our focus continues to be understanding thenumber of tariffs we can offer, will also deliver strong capital inflows, and North what the result means for energy and other allow us to provide more choice for our America Energy Supply & Services recovered business regulations.
As the UK is now a UKHome customers.
well from a warm first half of the year.
major energy importer, what happens in The proposed reforms to the UK Capacity theEuropean energy market will ultimately We made progress in reducing the scale of Market will bring on more generating affect the price consumers in the UK pay our asset businesses and in simplifying the capacity earlier than planned and improve fortheir energy.
We will continue to engage portfolio.
We have now completed our exit thereturn to investors.
Three of our new with the UK Government and the European from wind power generation, while in E&P distributed energy projects and the replant Commission as they move towards we announced the divestment of our Trinidad ofour Kings Lynn A power station all aresolution.
We are targeting the cleared the capacity market auction in sale of our Canadian E&P assets this year.
A strong and open trading relationship with December, in addition to our existing the US is vital if we are to continue to prosper Langage, Humber and Brigg gas-fired In 2016 the Groups financial performance as a nation and a business.
Freetrade is power stations and the UK nuclear fleet.
Adjusted operating profit and fundamental to global prosperity and to the earnings were both up 4%, with adjusted OUTLOOK efficient functioning of international markets.
Adjusted Centrica made significant progress and It is important for the UK and the US to operating cash flow was up 19% to delivered robust performance in 2016. maintain transatlantic alignment on markets 2.7 billion, significantly inexcess of our Wedelivered our key objectives while and regulation, so as to minimise distortions 35% per annum target from 2015 to 2020 repositioning the portfolio, improving and to safeguard the access which and providing strong underpinnings to that capability and driving significant cost businesses need.
Correcting for one-off working synergies as we build a platform for capital inflows and for changes in commodity US climate change policy is now in a state thefuture.
prices between years, underlying adjusted offlux.
In the UK, we continue to support the Looking ahead, we are confident that operating cash flow growth was 14%.
Governments policy aims of decarbonisation, thetrends we have identified are the right security of supply and affordability.
We are We delivered savings of 384 million as part ones and our response ensures we are not a passive partner.
In fact, our focus on of the Groups cost efficiency programme, wellpositioned to compete and deliver for customers, in providing them with more which aims to save 750 million a year by ourcustomers.
We will place increasing insight and more tools with which to use less 2020.
Organic capital investment came in emphasis on developing and delivering new energy and to have more choice to produce, below the 1 billion limit we set, ataround products and services for our customers store and save it, means we are a major 850 million.
and turn our eyes more to growth in a enabler of the response to climate change.
Our net debt was 27% lower at the end of We welcome the publication of the UK 2016, coming in at3.47 billion, reflecting a We will continue to concentrate on: Governments industrial strategy.
This strong cash focus and capital discipline.
We represents a unique opportunity to forge High standards of safety, compliance have strengthened our balance sheet, and anew partnership between businesses andconduct: our own sources and uses of cash continue andthe Government: a partnership where tobe more than balanced.
Customer satisfaction and theGovernment focuses on creating : RESPONDING TO CHANGING TIMES theconditions for businesses of all sizes Cash flow growth and strategic momentum: 2016 was the year which upset political togrow and flourish across the UK: and Cost efficiency and simplification: and orthodoxies on both sides of the Atlantic.
where businesses invest to upgrade our People and building capability.
Asan international business, Centrica is not economy for a post-Brexit world.
apassive spectator of these events.
They We will continue to strengthen the company But the Government must also take the affect us and we must manage through and to pay an attractive level of dividends leadin tackling one of the major burdens them, making an active response to toour shareholders.
The UK changing and complex issues.
lags US and German labour productivity Through all of this, we will be able to deliver The UK referendum vote in June to leave by30 percentage points, France by over for our customers, for our employees, the European Union and the outcome of 25and Italy by nine.
To tackle this, we need andfor our shareholders.
theUnited States Presidential election in toupgrade our economy by investing in November have added to the uncertainties infrastructure, jobs, skills and technology.
However, we believe We intend to play our part at Centrica.
Iain Conn the direct impact on Centrica and Direct Group Chief Executive 2016 brought greater clarity on the regulatory Energy specifically of these events is 23 February 2017 front, with the Competition and Markets limitedin the short term.
Authority CMA publishing the final report Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
