14 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Whilst the gold market conditions improved, Centamin remained focused on its drive for productivity and efficiency, and undertook a growth strategy aimed at enhancing shareholder returns.
A seventh successive year of The open pit total material movement growth in 2016 saw production of in 2016 was 62.2Mt, an increase of 551,036 ounces increase by 26% 8% on the prior year due to improved over 2015 and exceed the top end mining productivity and equipment of our revised annual guidance range utilisation, at an average mined grade of between 520,000 and 540,000 of 0.93g t. During the third quarter ounces.
Fourth quarter production of 2016, open pit mining rates had achieved our annualised base case rate was 136,787 ounces, an 8% reduction of approximately 65Mt of total material on the previous quarter, mainly due a movement ore plus waste and mined lower average head grade of open pit grades had progressed towards the ore of 0.85g t versus 1.14g t in the reserve average.
During Q1 2017 third quarter, in line with the mining the open pit is scheduled to develop plan as a low-grade cutback in the east a low-grade east wall cutback and wall of the pit was developed.
planned gold production will be lower Safety is a critical area of Centamins than in Q4 2016.
Grades are forecast performance and our aim is to ensure Andrew Pardey to return towards the reserve average Chief executive officer that every person returns safe at from Q2 2017 and the operation the end of each shift.
Continued remains on a secure footing to deliver development of the onsite health and the scheduled material movements for safety culture at Sukari has resulted the remaining mine life.
Centamin remains The underground mine delivered committed to further improving health 1.02Mt of ore a 12% decrease on and safety during 2017 towards our 2015 at a grade of 9.04g t up 40% on zero-harm target.
2015, achieving a sustained annualised rate in excess of our base case forecast of 1Mt per annum of ore at a grade of at least 6g t. 15 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Underground operators in the Cleopatra decline The process plant also continued to As a result of these factors, To the end of 2016, further operate at levels above our base case the cash cost of production of distributions of profit share amounting forecast rate of 11Mtpa, with 11.6Mt of US$513 was below guidance of to a total of US$18.5 million had ore processed in 2016 a 9% increase between US$530 and $550 per subsequently been made to EMRA.
The AISC of US$694 was Both EMRA and PGM will benefit from recovery was 89.4%, an increase of similarly below guidance of between advance distributions of profit share 0.6% on 2015.
Work continues to US$720 and $750 per ounce, on a proportionate basis in accordance develop the potential to improve and despite an increase in sustaining with the terms of the Concession sustain recoveries at the 90% level with capital expenditure of US$27 million Agreement and considering ongoing increasing throughput rates.
a 74% increase on 2015, mainly cash flows, historic costs that are due to a planned increase in fleet still to be recovered and any future Sukaris cost performance during 2016 maintenance costs.
provides a strong indication for the potential of the operation to generate Centamin had previously elected Free cash flow generation from Sukari significant free cash flow over the to make advance payments against of approximately US$200 million coming years.
There was a year-on-year future profit share from 2013 onwards, has further strengthened Centamins decrease in operating costs per tonne to demonstrate goodwill towards financial position during 2016, in both the open pit mining and the Egyptian government.
The total a trend we expect to continue as processing areas, principally driven value of these payments, amounting we forecast 2017 production of by reductions in the local diesel price to US$28.75 million, was recovered 540,000 ounces at a cash cost of during the first half of 2016, driven by against entitlement to profit share production of US$580 per ounce and international fuel price movements.
by the Egyptian Mineral Resources an all-in sustaining cost of US$790 During the fourth quarter, a devaluation Authority EMRA.
This guidance is based on of the Egyptian pound versus a plant throughput of 11.75Mt and US dollar also had a positive impact approximately 1Mt of underground on local costs.
ore mined at a grade of 7.26g t. 16 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT continued The objective of our producing asset, as always, is to generate substantial free cash flow.
this cash flow to our shareholders.
mineralisation, as interpreted from Ongoing optimisation of the The remaining cash flows are allocated existing data.
The initial project is processing and mining operations towards our medium and long term aimed at developing infrastructure continues to offer scope for objective of organic growth, which with the capacity to support mining further increases in productivity is aimed at realising incremental rates of up to 1Mtpa from this area.
At the shareholder value and returns.
Ultimate production rates will depend underground mine, we see potential on future results from the programme for further increases in mined tonnages We remain committed to our and further development, and would whilst retaining a priority on stable disciplined approach to capital be in addition to the current 1Mtpa grade delivery.
The additional allocation, as well as the potential underground ore production from the shareholder value that can be gained for exploration to deliver significant Amun and Ptah declines.
through improving the delivery of shareholder value over the long high-grade underground ore has the In Cte dIvoire, exploration drilling term.
Results from our programmes potential to be significant and requires over targets defined by geochemical in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire no material capital expenditure.
and geophysical surveys has led to a continue to build momentum and At the process plant, further planned new discovery at the Doropo project warrant further investment, and we upgrades to the secondary crushing in the north-east of the country, again exit the year with a robust circuit with an estimated capital cost of adjacent to our licence holding across financial and operating base on circa US$6 million offer the potential for the border in Burkina Faso.
A maiden which to continue delivering our throughput rates to exceed 12Mtpa.
resource of 0.3Moz at 1.6g t indicated growth strategy.
In parallel with these productivity and 1.0moz at 1.3g t inferred has improvements, there remains scope Exploration at Sukari continues to been estimated from drilling results for lower unit costs as the expanded prioritise extensions of the high-grade over five prospects within a 5km radius operation continues to be optimised underground resource and reserve, area.
Preliminary metallurgical test and further efficiency gains are realised.
as the development and drilling work has returned positive results, extends along strike and at depth.
indicating mineralisation is amenable We expect further growth of the We expect to continue to deliver to conventional leaching.
Mineralisation Sukari reserve over the coming positive news in line with our strong at these prospects remains open years as underground development results to date and a further resource along strike and at depth and drilling and exploration continues, and the and reserve update is planned in 2017 will focus on expanding and numerous regional prospects are during 2017. upgrading this initial resource in these evaluated.
An updated resource and areas.
Regional exploration will also reserve estimate for Sukari is expected During August, we began continue to test existing and new in 2017. development of a new exploration prospects for laterally extensive and decline within the north-eastern The objective of our producing asset, near-surface mineralisation.
We have Cleopatra zone of Sukari Hill.
The total as always, is to generate substantial continued to expanded our portfolio project expenditure is expected to be free cash flow even under challenging of highly prospective licence holdings US$11.5 million, of which US$3 million gold price assumptions.
In line with in Cte dIvoire and, with licence has been spent to date.
A portal has our updated dividend policy, and applications pending, we expect to been established and approximately supported by the boards proposal increase this further during 2017.
900 metres of development was for a final 2016 dividend of 13.5 US completed to the end of the year.
Initial cents per share equating to a full-year exploration drilling has commenced dividend of 15.5 US cents per share, to target multiple zones of high-grade we intend to return at least 30% of 17 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Exploration drill rig in Cte dIvoire In Burkina Faso, exploration during We will continue to evaluate potential We welcome Ross Jerrard who was 2016 continued to test the potential opportunities to grow the business appointed as our new chief financial for lateral and depth extensions through the acquisition of projects officer CFO.
Ross joined Centamin of the more advanced targets, offering the potential for the Company from Deloitte Australia.
He has worked with priority on the Wadaradoo to deliver on its strategic objectives.
in Southern Africa and the Middle East, and Napelapera prospect areas.
including a  period Maintaining good community relations We continue to evaluate the results based in Egypt, servicing a range of is a core part of our operational from these programmes, and the multinational and natural resources strategy and corporate governance resulting interpretation will guide companies.
I am pleased to report that standards.
As the first mining company further drilling to be carried out in during his first year as CFO, Ross has in Egypt in modern times, we strive to 2017.
There remains potential to add overseen continued improvements in set an example of a socially responsible significant shareholder value from the Companys financial control and industry through adopting a good this district-scale licence holding as reporting functions.
We take every action we continue to make progress towards to ensure Sukari has the minimum Finally, I would like to thank all my developing our next stage of growth impact on the social environment, colleagues for their hard work over the in West Africa.
as well as to deliver positive benefits to years including the employees onsite We expect a total exploration Egypt and the community as a result of at Sukari, those on the exploration expenditure of circa US$25 million our investment, and further details of sites in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire in 2017, split between Cte dIvoire our various initiatives can be found in as well as those in the corporate and and Burkina Faso.
In line with our the social responsibility report.
administration offices in Jersey and overall exploration strategy, the Australia.
I would also like to thank your Our workforce is remunerated well actual expenditure on these projects board of directors for their continued above the average for Egypt and our is results driven and the current support and I am very much looking career development programmes estimated expenditures are therefore forward to another prosperous year for are highly valued.
In general we subject to ongoing revisions.
Centamin and its stakeholders in 2017. enjoy a very positive and constructive relationship with our employees.
Andrew Pardey Chief executive officer 1 February 2017
