STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER FOCUSED ON PEACE OF MIND FOR OUR CUSTOMERS GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Focused on Peace of Mind for our Customers I hoped the smart meter would guide me on whether I was wasting money, which it has.
To be honest, I didnt think itd be as good as it is.
I would say I was quite relaxed before I got Pauline, London asmart meter.
Lights left on and telly on forbackground noise.
Ijustwouldnt think about it because I didnt I love it.
Then panic when the bill came in.
The problem was the gas meter is outside but its changed the house and I couldnt find the key to do that.
The electric meter inside the house isquite high up.
I could get my steps out mylife.
todo it and then Id have trouble reading it.
After calculating it, Id spend all day and then forget the standing charge.
It was a I live in Greenwich in South East bithit or miss and not very successful.
Im a pensioner and I I hoped the smart meter would guide me on whether I was wasting money, which it has.
I live in a To be honest, I didnt think itd be as good as it is.
two-bedroom house, and theres The smart meter is really easy to use, also my dog.
Everything isincluded in your daily charge, so you dont get hit with unexpected costs.
You literally press a button, and it comes to the day that youre on.
Then you press next, and youll get what you used the day before.
Control Save Relax Next for what youve used all week.
Press it again and youll get the monthly total.
The main thing is that it gives me peace I know exactly what Im spending each day.
I chose Sunday because I usually spend ofmind that everything is okay in the house.
Instead of worrying about the bill, I know them on my own anyway.
The minute it gets Ido worry about gas leaks etc.
living on what Im spending.
I can budget my money to 9 am, the total showing how much Im myown, butIfeel much more confident better.
I dont feel that Ive got to hang on using shuts off on the smart meter.
It stays now that Ihave the smart meter.
I can spend my atthat right until 5 pm.
The dials still go money more worthlessly I think!
round, but the actual money doesnt alter.
On a number of occasions, Ive gone out the house and left something burning on Ive made tons of changes, almost too It makes me feel marvellous.
Because Ive got the smart meter, many to list!
Ive turned the thermostat itand say, Oh, look at all that Im saving.
Ijust glance at that and you can always down, I cook two meals at once, I turn The only thing that moves is the gas.
Its tellif something is left on.
It gives me real theoven off early, loads of things.
I wouldnt do peace of mind.
I think thats the best way things on set days unless I knew Ive got I turn off the lights when I leave the room, toput it, if that doesnt sound too silly.
It means I feel more relaxed as which I never did.
Iget everything done on a Sunday.
You literally press a Iswitch off all appliances on the wall.
I feel guilty about leaving the washing until button, and it comes to the day that youre switch off the cooker clock, because I think, then so I can enjoy my week.
Then you press next, and youll get Ihave a clock, so I dont need that.
I know whatyou used the day before.
Next for its silly little things.
I keep my fridge and I do all my washing on a Sunday.
I save what youve used all week.
againand youll get the monthly total.
So, everythings done on a Sunday.
I got an email about HomeEnergy Free Everythings there so clear.
Ivacuum the house while the washings Time which I responded to, and then doing.
And, Imake sure everything that aphone call back.
It was all very needs charging up is fully charged.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
