STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu T The hea at tr re e O Op pe er ra ati tio ons ns UK, Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel In 2016, there were over 100 million customer admissions across all our cinemas.
Slovakia 3 29 Total 226 2,115 Our Brands: Rest of the World 949 Screens | 98 Sites 124 Screens | 10 Sites Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands which the Group territories, and is either the number one or two chain in each operates in Israel.
Yes Planet is the market leader, operating of the markets in which it operates.
The cinemas are modern, cinemas which, include IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens.
The well-designed multiplexes offering a high quality cinema Rav-Chen cinemas are a smaller version of the multiplexes.
experience, showing a variety of movies, and providing great As in the other territories, all the cinemas in Israel provide a customer service.
In each of the markets, Cinema City work high level of quality and service.
The styles and designs of the closely with the local communities to provide its customers with cinemas are modern and all have stadium seating, large screens a great tailored viewing experience for both international and and the latest digital technology.
The cinemas show a range local productions.
The cinemas have large screens among the of popular films from both international and local producers.
highest screen hall ratio in the world, significant stadium During 2016 a state-of-the art 18 screen cinema was opened seating and market leading technologies such as IMAX, 4DX in Beer Sheva with IMAX, 4DX, and VIP screens, and another and VIP auditoriums.
In order to maintain Cinema Citys position modern 12 screen multiplex site is due to be opened in Zichron as the leading chain, both in number of screens and the quality during 2017. of the experience, constant renovation of the circuit takes place, and new sites are developed.
While Cinema City opened new cinemas in a number of the territories, Romania was the most important market for expansion in 2016 with three new cinema sites opened.
In 2017 there are two sites planned to be opened in Poland, one in Romania and one in Czech Republic.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 3
