S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Chief Executive Officers Statement We want to provide our customers with choice the choice of which movie to watch, the choice of how to watch a movie and the choice of retail offerings whilst always receiving Our Strategy great customer service.
During 2016, we have made great progress in delivering our strategy and vision to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
We served over 100 million customers who came through our Moshe Mooky Greidinger doors, and provided them with the choice of which movie to Chief Executive Officer watch, the choice of format and the choice of an expanded range of retail offerings - all with great customer service.
can enjoy unlimited buffet food, popcorn and soft drinks Our strategy is to: before watching the movie in a dedicated auditorium with Above all deliver a great cinema experience for all luxurious reclining seats.
Three new VIP sites were opened cinemagoers, every time: during the year in Glasgow Renfrew Street UK, Beer Sheva Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities Israel and Bucharest Titan Romania.
At 31 December to grow through consistent cash generation and our 2016 we had nine VIP auditoriums in the Group.
debt facility we have the financial strength to take advantage of opportunities which present themselves: Our membership schemes, the most significant being the Enhance our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we Cineworld Unlimited programme, continue to provide our deliver a consistently high quality offering across the customers with a range of benefits, and are one of the pillars Group our refurbishment and construction programme of our strategy for growing revenues and admissions.
The is at the heart of achieving this: schemes also bring operational benefits by encouraging Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the repeat visits, often at off-peak times.
The Unlimited latest audio and visual technology expanding the programme was launched in Poland at the end of 2015 premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, 4DX, Superscreen andhas performed in line with expectations during 2016. and VIP auditoriums and ensuring we invest in the latest innovative technology: and We also focused attention on our wider communities the Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth Group undertakes a range of activities and initiatives with plans in an efficient and effective way.
charities, schools, and community groups.
As an example, part of our schools programme, included holding over 400 Our main achievements in 2016 are summarised below.
education screenings on weekday mornings with a total of over 32,000 students attending from 450 different schools Customer Experience across the UK.
Similar activities are also undertaken in each Our cinemas now offer up to six different formats of how to of our ROW territories.
In 2016 for the first time we were a watch movies: regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen partner with BBCs Children In Need fundraising initiative and VIP auditoriums.
Through both our expansion and where we raised over 400,000. refurbishment programme, we are focused on ensuring as many of our sites as possible have a range of these choices Cinema Expansion for our customers.
Following the record number of 18 openings in 2015, we opened a further eight cinemas during 2016, four in the UK, As well as developing our exhibition offerings and capacity, Yate, Loughborough, Dalton Park and Harlow and four in we continue to pay particular attention to our retail products the ROW, Beer Sheva - Israel, Timisoara Nepi, Bucharest and services.
Our on-site concessions aim to be best in class, Titan and Piatra Neamt - Romania.
We have a further 441 providing a variety of food, drink and snack options.
During screens scheduled to open in the next four years, 132 which 2016, the Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee are scheduled to open in 2017.
New sites will be opened in outlets in our cinemas in the UK, taking the total number to both our growth markets in the ROW as well as in the more 24 at 31 December 2016 with further outlets planned for 2017. mature markets of the UK and Israel.
Our growth markets We have expanded the number of VIP auditoriums where still hold significant potential for the Group, as the culture customers experience a premium offering from the moment ofgoing to the cinema becomes more established and they walk through the door.
A VIP ticket includes access to a attendance increases with the rising standard of living.
private lounge ahead of the movie screening where customers | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 6 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu During the year we announced the acquisition of the five We are also proud that many amongst our current Senior Empire sites which has enabled the Group to increase Management team have worked their way up into those itsLondon presence, an area of the UK where we have positions after having started as trainees.
The Hemel Hempstead cinema was recently refurbished and is in line with our Another key part of our people strategy is our fair wage new generation style sites.
In the near future we plan to policy we are amongst the highest payers in the industry also refurbish the Basildon and Poole sites.
As the Bromley and we pay more than our statutory obligations, across all site is smaller, with four screens, we feel it is more age groups and in all territories.
appropriate to form part of the Picturehouse circuit.
Value for Shareholders As we proactively focus on the management of our estate The cash generative nature of our business underpins our this may occasionally include closing specific sites where business model.
Our priorities for the use of our cash have lease terms expire and it is not commercially beneficial remained consistent: to invest in the business to support orfeasible to renew the lease.
During 2016 we closed five organic growth in revenue and earnings, for selective sites, three in the UK, Staples Corner, Hammersmith and merger and acquisition opportunities and to grow the Liverpool, one in Hungary, Mammut, and one in Romania, dividend.
During 2016 we have been able to reward Arad GTC.
shareholders with growth in both the dividend and adjusted diluted earnings per share, 8.6% and 16.8% respectively.
The Refurbishments total full year dividend declared for 2016 is 19.0p Our refurbishment programme was a key focus for 2016, 2015:17.5p.
with nine major refurbishments completed, six in the UK, Stevenage, Glasgow Renfrew Street, Crawley, Cardiff, Future Outlook Wandsworth and Birmingham Broad Street and three in As a management team we will continue to devote time and the ROW Polus and Au Park - Slovakia and Campona - energy to assessing new site opportunities and potential Hungary.
As previously highlighted, the UK estate is acquisitions, identifying key sites for renovation and generally older than in the ROW and we will continue ensuring we provide the latest innovative technology to our torenovate the estate further in 2017 to ensure all our customers.
cinemas are of the highest quality and equipped with the latest technology.
Looking forward, we are well positioned to continue delivering on our strategy in 2017.
We have an excellent Digital Film and Technological Innovation estate which is growing and constantly being upgraded We continued to expand the IMAX and 4DX formats across where necessary to ensure the cinemas remain aselection of our sites.
IMAX and 4DX are both extremely contemporary and of a high quality.
We have a dedicated popular, especially for major releases such as Star Wars: team who are focused on providing the best customer Rogue One and Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find service and we are investing in the latest technology to Them.
In 2017 Fast and Furious 8, Pirates of the maintain our position as leaders in the industry.
In addition, Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, Transformers: The Last there is an exciting film slate for 2017, which includes a Knight and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol.
2 are expected to number of sequels such as Star Wars: Episode VIII, do well in both the IMAX and 4DX formats.
We opened two Despicable Me 3, Justice League, Paddington 2, Fast IMAX screens during the year in Timisoara Nepi Romania and Furious 8, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No and Beer Sheva Israel and also acquired three as part of Tales, Transformers: The Last Knight as well as new titles the Empire acquisition in Basildon, Hemel Hempstead and such as Beauty and the Beast, Wonder Woman, Leicester Square.
By the end of 2016, the Group was Dunkirk, Coco and many more.
operating 33 IMAX screens in total and 27 4DX screens.
Whilst we remain cautious, we do not believe the expected Towards the end of 2016 new mobile applications were exit of the UK from the European Union will have a soft-launched to our customers across both Android and significant impact on the underlying trading performance iOS platforms.
The key features, as well as a new look and ofthe Group going forward based on the nature of our feel, were the ability to sign-up for Unlimited membership, business which has a proven consumer appeal throughout and easier navigation to find tickets for performances all economic cycles.
across all of our formats.
As I have said before, teamwork is the secret of our success Our People and the key to our future.
Without our people we would not Once again, 2016 saw considerable investment in people able to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
I would like to initiatives across the Group as we recognise that motivated take this opportunity to thank the whole Cineworld team for and engaged people are pivotal to delivering our vision to their continued hard work and dedication during 2016 and I be the Best Place to Watch a Movie.
look forward to working alongside them in 2017.
Nurturing internal talent is a key part of our people strategy, and we are proud that over the last 12 months over 50% of cinema management positions have been filled by internal applicants.
This success rate is underpinned by our regular Moshe Greidinger training programmes and talent development reviews, Chief Executive Officer which link directly to our learning and development offering.
9 March 2017 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 7
