Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Investing beyond the cycle Shipping markets are multi-cyclical, and our strategy of diversifying within our core markets has given us a unique product breadth and global reach and an ability to grow consistently, even in downturns.
In these difficult times, we have continued to benefit from a flight to quality, in which clients are choosing Clarksons as their service provider.
Overall our broking teams have performed well, even though in offshore the operators continue to focus on cost cutting, with limited sanctioning of new field developments and moderated maintenance activities.
The dry cargo market, which started the year with the weakest rates in recorded history, was also depressed, Andi Case though there were some more encouraging signs Chief Executive Officer towards the end of the year.
However, the tankers, specialised products, gas and sale and purchase markets performed particularly well.
Clarksons teams have again increased broking volumes.
Our research offering has grown significantly this year, At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus particularly in digital and valuations income, as our clients continued to value the importance of on developing best in class client service, authoritative intelligence.
coupled with our unique product breadth and The port services teams remained profitable in some of global reach, has allowed us to face these the toughest markets ever seen for this type of business: headwinds again and continue to invest in the reduced spending by the oil and gas sector in the North Sea affected our supplies activities.
our business, ensuring we are positioned for We are also particularly encouraged with the future opportunity.
performance of our financial division, in its first 12 months as a fully-integrated division.
The solutions and expertise of the financial team has greatly enhanced our client offering, uniquely positioned our business amongst 2016 has been a year of growth, consolidation and its peers and places us well to deliver a service, with delivery for Clarksons, despite the shipping market deep industrial understanding, to debt and equity undergoing one of the most challenging periods in providers alike.
The team has achieved a leading living memory, as highlighted by the lowest level for the position in the market, participating as sole or joint ClarkSea Index since 1990, and the offshore market lead on a number of capital-raising transactions facing challenges as a result of the depressed oil price.
throughout shipping and offshore, whilst also leading To have once again increased market share shows we restructuring mandates and generating a strong have a stronger, more diverse business that remains pipeline for future business.
cash generative and highly profitable and has enabled us to deliver a 14th consecutive year of dividend growth Clarksons is a highly cash generative business and our for investors.
strong balance sheet ensures that we have been able to invest strategically and react quickly to take advantage We had anticipated that 2016 would be another tough of opportunities as they arise.
Our cash position gives year, with oversupply, volatile commodity prices and us great comfort that, regardless of market conditions, global macro-economic uncertainty creating significant we can position the Group for upturns in each of our challenges for the sector as a whole.
It is testament to markets when they come, invest in growth tools for the calibre of our teams and the breadth and depth of trade and deliver shareholders a growing cash return.
our client offering that, even in the most difficult of times, We have also looked hard at the structure of the we have maintained or improved upon our market business and focused on efficiencies where necessary leading position across all of our divisions.
to ensure our model is fit for purpose and best placed for the current market conditions.
Despite the headwinds, we have focused on our long-term strategy for growth, delivering best in class client service, investing in tools for trade and positioning the business to capitalise when the upturn in our markets comes.
16 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We are seeing significant benefits from our investment in our market-leading technology platform, which is Our market context changing the way our brokers are able to access and use information, increasing knowledge and improving With seaborne transportation accounting for around the communication of vast amounts of data across the 85% of the worlds international trade, shipping is an business.
The sheer scale of the market activity in which Clarksons is involved means that we are able to leverage essential part of the global economy.
The increasing our deep understanding of activity across the market by industrialisation and liberalisation of economies interpreting this data, and thus delivering the best advice has fuelled free trade and a growing demand for to our clients.
consumer products, positively impacting a myriad We constantly strive to deliver best in class client of cargo sectors.
service, and the quality, knowledge and experience of our employees are central to Clarksons continued To put this in context, world seaborne trade by volume across all sectors outperformance across all sectors and geographies.
We was estimated at 11.1bn tonnes in 2016, almost twice the size than at are a truly international and culturally diverse business, the turn of the millennium, and over three times the size than the employing the best people from 65 nationalities across mid-1980s.
At the same time, the worlds population has continued to 21 countries to deliver first rate advice and expertise to expand at a phenomenal rate, caused predominantly by increasing life our clients.
The security of a robust balance sheet gives expectancy and major improvements in fertility rates.
This, combined us the ability to hire and retain the best candidates and with human aspiration, has led to rapid urbanisation and accelerating we have also made a number of extremely experienced migration which in itself also fuels further population growth.
hires across all of our divisions this year.
As a team, we In addition to these underlying mega-trends, seaborne trade per capita is share the same goals and ambitions and I would like also on the rise and essentially compounds the upward shifts.
To put this to thank all of our employees for their hard work and in perspective, in 1990 every person on the planet required 0.7 tonnes of dedication over the course of the year.
cargo to be shipped: in 2016 this figure stands at more than double at 1.5 tonnes of cargo shipped per person.
Whilst we anticipate that the market will remain challenging in the near-term, we believe the mediumWith population growth momentum expected to continue for decades term outlook for the sector is more positive.
Demand and emerging economies likely increasing their requirements for goods continues to progress and the recalibration of the and raw materials that shipping transports so safely and efficiently, demand supply balance is improving following lower Clarksons are well placed to take advantage of these underlying levels of ordering and continued scrapping assisted by long-term market fundamentals.
the impact of environmental regulation.
Seaborne trade continues to increase and further positives for growth World seaborne trade include the prospect of higher infrastructure spending from the worlds two largest economies.
We have also Major dry cargo Lique ed gas seen a change in investor appetite from the fourth Minor dry cargo Containers quarter.
All of this gives us encouragement that the Crude oil Other dry cargo Oil products World population shipping and offshore markets are recalibrating.
Chemicals Accordingly, we are well positioned to benefit from any improvement.
The diverse nature of our business has enabled Clarksons to deliver healthy profits and continued dividend growth despite challenging shipping markets.
As the markets progress, we believe we are well positioned to capitalise on the opportunities that 2017 will provide and look forward to the year ahead.
We remain focused on executing our proven strategy of delivering best in class service and offering a unique product breadth across our globally connected business.
Andi Case Chief Executive Officer 10 March 2017 Seaborne trade as a Cargo transported % of global trade per person globally 85% 1.5mt 17 www.
