Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 4 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement The group has achieved a good performance, with adjusted operating profit of 234 million 2015: 225 million and strong return on opening equity of 18.9% 2015: 19.5%.
We are confident that our clear and consistent strategy and the disciplined implementation of our business model will ensure we continue to support our clients and generate good returns for shareholders in a wide range of market conditions.
Strone Macpherson, Chairman Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 5 Good Performance in More Challenging Conditions Good Loan Book Growth While Maintaining Discipline In the UK, the political environment and financial markets The current benign environment, with low interest rates and have been dominated by the EU referendum vote in June.
low impairments, is inevitably attracting more credit into The eventual timing and nature of the UKs exit from the EU some of our markets from both larger banks and newer is still uncertain, and the longer-term impact on consumer competitors.
Despite this, the loan book grew 12% 2015: confidence, SMEs and their appetite to invest, and on the 8%, benefiting from good underlying demand across our wider financial markets is also still uncertain.
businesses, as well as an increasing contribution from new growth initiatives, particularly in Ireland and green energy.
However, our own strategy is clear and unchanged.
We continue to focus on providing a differentiated and Most importantly, we continue to lend at criteria which are relationship driven service in specialist markets, where we consistent with our objective of delivering strong and have long-standing expertise, and on maintaining our consistent returns through the cycle.
Although competition prudent and consistent underwriting, founded in a deep has impacted the net interest margin in some parts of our knowledge of the sectors and asset classes we lend in.
This business, the return on net loan book remains strong at in turn allows us to generate consistent profitability through 3.6% 2015: 3.7%.
the cycle, allowing us to support our clients, invest in our business and generate returns for our shareholders in all market conditions.
Our business is deliberately built for Our business is deliberately built for resilience against resilience against changes in external changes in the external environment.
The diversity and market conditions.
maturity of our funding reduce refinancing risk, and we match assets and liabilities which minimises our exposure to interest rate and currency movements.
Our consistent profitability supports our strong and prudent capital position, These strong returns are supported by the differentiation of ensuring that we continue to comfortably meet all regulatory our offering, which focuses on providing a high level of requirements while maintaining flexibility for future growth.
service and building personal relationships with borrowers and intermediaries, and the quality and consistency of our The strength of our business model has been validated by underwriting across all the lending businesses.
This the groups performance this year, with all our businesses customer focus is strongly endorsed by our borrowers and responding well to their particular market conditions.
evidenced by our high levels of repeat business and strong Adjusted operating profit continued to increase in the net promoter scores.
Banking division, as we generated good loan book growth across all our lending businesses, while maintaining the In Retail Finance, our lending is intermediated through a discipline of our lending model.
Winterflood has traded network of motor dealers, insurance brokers and retailers, successfully through difficult market conditions in the first who value the personalised service and flexibility of our half, and performance improved significantly in the second, offering, which supports their ability to provide an attractive notwithstanding the EU referendum which actually stimulated and accessible finance package for their customers.
more trading activity at the end of the financial year.
Although Although the market is competitive, the motor finance adjusted operating profit in Asset Management was business has continued to grow, benefiting from strong impacted by the lower market levels in the period, we underlying demand for second hand cars, and particularly continued to achieve positive net inflows.
from further expansion of our operations in Ireland.
We have also made significant progress in the premium finance Overall, this has resulted in continued profit growth and business, with increased new business levels, and a number strong returns to our shareholders, with a return on opening of significant new account wins.
equity of 18.9% 2015: 19.5% and supporting our sixth consecutive year of dividend increase.
In Commercial Finance, we have lending relationships with over 20,000 small businesses across the UK.
Competition in the broker distributed part of the business has increased significantly, however we are differentiated through our experienced direct sales force, who offer a personalised service, and are empowered to make speedy underwriting decisions.
As a result, we continue to see good new business levels particularly in our more specialist lending areas.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 6 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued Our specialist Property Finance business, which focuses on residential development lending to a small number of experienced, professional developers, continues to perform very well with good growth and bad debts at an all time low.
The consistent application of strict underwriting criteria over many years supports our long track record of profitability in this business and gives us confidence that we can continue lending profitably and support our customers in all market conditions.
Navigating Market Headwinds Financial markets have been challenging throughout the year, with headwinds caused by commodity prices and concerns about global growth in the first half, and dominated by the EU referendum in the second.
Winterfloods performance in the year has demonstrated its ability to trade successfully in a range of market conditions.
Although performance in the first half was weaker, reflecting volatile markets and low risk appetite, trading remained consistently profitable.
The second half saw a marked increase in profits as Winterflood benefited from an improvement in retail trading activity, further accelerated by the EU referendum vote.
Overall, Winterflood achieved a good result in these conditions, demonstrating the strength of its business model and the long-standing expertise of its traders.
Photographed on location at Mark Priestley SDT Ltd. Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 7 Although lower market levels have affected the progression of income in Asset Management, we have continued to see Our established business model, long good demand for our products and services, with positive net flows despite the increased market uncertainty leading track record and strong balance sheet up to and post the EU referendum.
We remain confident in our business model and are focused on driving further leave us well placed to continue to growth by expanding our adviser force and distribution perform well in a range of market capacity, and where appropriate through the selective acquisition of teams or small businesses that fit our strategy conditions.
Protecting and Sustaining the Business Board Changes We continue to invest in protecting, sustaining and Stephen Hodges has informed us of his decision to retire developing our proven business model and brand to protect and will step down from his position as chief executive of the our returns and maximise growth opportunities in the long Banking division and a director of the group.
The strong profitability inherent in our business means will not seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General we can invest through the cycle, and in the past year we Meeting AGM on 17 November.
Stephen has been with have progressed a number of key initiatives.
At the same the group for 31 years and a director since 1995.
The board time we have tightened our focus on cost to ensure cost would like to thank Stephen for his outstanding contribution growth has remained in line with revenue for the year overall.
to the group and his leadership of the Banking division over many years.
We are continuously exploring new ways to extend our business model into new market segments, while Following the AGM, Preben Prebensen will assume the role maintaining the same specialist focus, prudent approach of chief executive of the Banking division, in addition to his and discipline as in our existing businesses.
This year we current role as group chief executive.
Prebens leadership, launched our new technology leasing business, which supported by the strength and depth of the senior team provides IT financing solutions for corporates, and we are within the Banking division, will ensure continued continuing to expand our point of sale finance offering to implementation of our well-established strategy and business retailers.
In Asset Management, we have launched Intelligent performance.
Retirement, an integrated solution focused on managing the changing needs of individuals leading up to and following Outlook retirement.
We are also continuing to develop Winterflood Looking ahead, our established business model, long track Business Services, which provides outsourced trading and record and strong balance sheet leave us well placed to custody services to institutions.
continue to perform well in a range of market conditions.
This year, there has been a significant focus on talent To date, we have seen little direct impact on our businesses management and succession planning.
This includes the from the EU referendum result but we continue to monitor development of detailed succession plans for key positions developments closely.
in the Banking division and across the group.
Our priority remains to maintain the discipline of our banking We have a number of programmes in place to attract, model.
We remain confident in our market position and develop and retain talent at all levels across the organisation.
expect continued growth at strong returns, and will continue The sales training programme in asset finance, which to actively invest in our business while maintaining a strong launched in September 2015, has been a success with the focus on cost control.
Winterflood has continued to benefit candidates now an active part of the sales force.
We from increased retail investor trading activity since the continue to run a number of successful training programmes financial year end, but remains sensitive to changes in across the group, including leadership programmes and market conditions.
In Asset Management, we are focused on tailored training for our financial advisers.
Although we are principally a people driven business, We have had a good start to the year and are confident that technology plays an important role in supporting and our business remains well positioned longer term.
We continue to put significant investment into upgrading and enhancing our IT systems, to ensure they are scalable, efficient and secure.
Current projects include our ongoing investment in the premium finance infrastructure, a new deposit system in Treasury, and continuing to simplify and optimise our infrastructure in Asset Management.
