Chief Executive Officers Statement There is significant untapped potential to exploit In the short time I have been with the business, I have been able to visit Cobham sites in France, Australia, the UK and the US.
At each of these sites I have met people committed to the technology, products, systems and services we offer our customers.
They strive daily to meet the needs of all our stakeholders.
All too often we make it difficult for our employees to deliver the value from our offering to our customers.
There have been extensive reorganisation costs incurred over the last five years which illustrates an increasing level of change.
Financially, it was a very challenging year for Cobham and we have reported a statutory operating loss of 779.1m and basic earnings per share of 52.8 p. On an underlying basis, we have reported an operating profit of 225.0m.
Organic revenue showed a disappointing 7.7% decline year-on-year.
In hindsight, it is clear that the integration of Aeroflex into Cobham, alongside the management of pre-existing change programmes, was beyond the capability of the Group, despite extensive spend on third party help.
Momentum was lost and the Group became internally focused.
These factors, combined with poorer than expected results in 2016, ultimately resulted in the major goodwill impairment we have taken, as well as a loss of talent and capability.
Underlying issues The Group has many issues which require attention to reverse the current negative The Group has many performance trajectory and this is the relentless focus for every employee, starting with me.
issues which require During 2016, there have been a succession of attention to arrest performance issues in a number of Cobham and reverse the businesses.
These have stemmed from weaknesses in management and financial controls: contractual current negative and commercial failures and, in a few businesses, more challenging market conditions.
performance Change projects and initiatives driven from the trajectory and this centre have diverted focus from improving critical production, operational and contract is the relentless focus performance.
These change programmes have consumed significant financial resources and management energy over a number of years with disappointing outcomes.
com Cobham plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T The Groups reporting structures, including In 2016, Cobham spent approximately 130.2m, Actions to address the Balance Sheet its internal processes and the allocation of or 8.2% of revenue, on Private Venture PV, Year end net debt was 1,028.2m, a reduction of responsibilities have become overly complex or company funded R&D.
This was matched by 178.6m on the prior year, after the 490.6m net and unclear.
In a number of instances, this has led a broadly similar amount funded by our customers.
proceeds from the June 2016 rights issue.
Net debt to duplication, reduced accountability and slow This investment provides a powerful platform on also reflected the Groups modest free cash flow decision making, which has contributed to the period which we can develop world-class technologies generation, 126.1m of dividend payments and of sustained operational and financial challenges.
In the adverse exchange rate movements of 236.4m.
This situation has ultimately impacted employee past, the substantial programme of technology Due to the limited reduction in net debt and the motivation and morale, evidenced by Cobhams investment has not always yielded the expected lower than expected profitability, the Groups net high voluntary staff turnover.
We will be looking at ways of focusing this debt EBITDA ratio at the year end at 3.0x was slightly R&D spend to generate maximum shareholder value.
higher than at 31 December 2015, but remains Furthermore, with hindsight, the Group may have within the covenant upper threshold.
misread the cycles within its markets and within Leadership and simplification its businesses, making poorly timed acquisitions or We will reduce complexity and duplication in the As the Chairman has stated, the balance sheet integrating them poorly.
These acquisitions appear business by simplifying systems, processes and is not strong enough to support the operations of to have amplified internal weaknesses, rather than reporting and, with this in mind, we are also the Group, given the important role it plays in many compensated for them.
commencing a review of the breadth and shape customer programmes.
A stronger balance sheet will of the Groups portfolio.
underpin the confidence of our customers and other Technology and market positions stakeholders, supporting our medium term growth The poor 2016 outcome and the underlying By aligning reduced complexity with strong aspiration, for the benefit of our shareholders.
problems set out above are in stark contrast to and visible leadership, we will build a sense of what I have seen since I became Cobhams Chief momentum and clear purpose among Cobhams The Group is targeting a net debt EBITDA gearing Executive Officer on 14 December 2016.
The Group management and employees.
This will also improve ratio of around 1.5x.
This should be an appropriate holds leading positions in many of its specialist accountability and enhance the speed and quality capital structure given the requirement for balance markets, and its technologies are critical to customer of decision making.
The timeframe to achieving needs.
Many of these markets are highly attractive this target needs to be accelerated to give our and offer good medium term opportunities.
The high To help me drive all these priorities, I am pleased customers, suppliers and employees confidence technology value-add and Cobhams leading market that David Mellors has joined me as Cobhams CFO.
positions represent significant barriers to entry.
The David is an experienced CFO, who, among other key, of course, is to monetise these attributes by attributes, has a proven track record of improving Having considered the cash required to complete improving our execution.
financial discipline, driving cash generation and our ongoing development programmes, including achieving effective cost control.
As with any new the impact of the provisions taken at the year end, Consistent with these observations, I have also met partnership, you can strike lucky, and this is one and to strengthen our balance sheet position, the a number of customers and partners, and have had such occurrence.
Board has concluded that it is in the Groups best very encouraging early engagements with them.
It interests to raise 500m by way of a rights issue, is apparent that there are many opportunities for Outlook which is fully underwritten on a standby basis and our businesses to increase market share, as there is Whilst market uncertainties undoubtedly exist, the on customary market conditions.
The rights issue a need and a real enthusiasm for the products and ability of the Group to forecast performance is is anticipated to complete during the second services that Cobham can offer.
not as strong as it should be which contributes to quarter of 2017. our early view for 2017 having a wide range of Priorities for 2017 potential outcomes.
The Board intends to use the proceeds of the Having carefully considered the Groups position, rights issue to pay down borrowings on its revolving I have set the following priorities for 2017: The Group has many operational issues which credit facilities.
There is no current intention to require attention in addition to arresting and pay down the senior notes prior to maturity and Control and execution reversing the current negative performance incur make-whole charges before the Group has With leadership from the top, we need to trajectory.
Some actions to address these have refinanced its bank facilities in 2018.
The Board also deliver consistently to our customers and already commenced but are at an early stage.
intends to more closely align the currency mix of shareholders expectations, recognising that we Some actions may also have associated costs.
net debt with the currency mix of profits, thereby have not always done so.
We are in the early Given these and the issues highlighted above, reducing foreign exchange exposure on the gearing stages of enhancing our management controls the Board considers that delivery of a similar ratio net debt EBITDA.
and our operational and financial disciplines to performance to that of 2016 in 2017 may address this, understanding that a strong operational be challenging.
However the Group will also look to optimise its performance and financial control are key pillars of working capital position over time and, as noted improvement for us.
Despite the challenges facing Cobham, the Group above, will consider the breadth and shape of has a portfolio of businesses with differentiated the portfolio.
Customer focus technologies and know-how, and it has leading It is also vital that we bring additional focus to positions in attractive markets.
These offer good our customer relationships.
This starts with me, opportunities over the medium term and the Board the CEO, and then must be reflected throughout is confident that the fortunes of the company will our businesses.
We will allocate an appropriate be restored over time.
level of resource and contact to each customer David Lockwood and prioritise winning and retaining key platform Chief Executive Officer and programme positions.
com Cobham plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
