CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Compass clear strategy and scale has led to another year of good growth.
DELIVERING GROWTH HOW DID COMPASS PERFORM THIS YEAR?
Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our business model.
The Group returned 596 million Revenue for the Group increased by 5.0% on an organic to shareholders in the year, 496 million by way of basis.
New business wins were 8.8% driven by strong dividends and 100 million in share buybacks.
Our MAP 1 client sales and marketing performance in most leverage policy is to maintain strong investment grade countries.
Our retention rate was 94.1% as a result of credit ratings, returning any surplus cash to shareholders our ongoing focus and investment.
We aim to increase to target net debt to underlying EBITDA of around 1.5x.
participation and spend through MAP 2 consumer sales and marketing initiatives.
Like for like revenue growth WHAT IS THE GROUPS STRATEGY?
of 2.1% reflected sensible price increases and modest Food is our focus and our core competence.
The volume improvement in North America offset by addressable food service market is estimated to be negative volumes in Rest of World.
With only around 50% of the The restructuring programme announced in July 2015 to market currently outsourced, there is a significant reduce the cost base in our Offshore & Remote business structural growth opportunity.
We believe the benefits of and in some emerging markets is now complete and outsourcing become increasingly apparent as economic delivering the expected savings.
Restructuring costs conditions and regulatory changes put pressure on totalled 51 million 25 million and 26 million charged organisations budgets.
As one of the largest providers in 2016 and 2015 respectively.
These costs have been in all of our sectors, we are well placed to benefit from included in underlying Group operating profit.
Underlying operating profit increased by 5.6% on a Our approach to support and multi services is low risk constant currency basis.
The underlying operating and incremental, with strategies developed on a country margin was flat, as we continue to drive efficiencies by country basis.
This is a complex segment and there are across the business using our Management and significant differences in client buying behaviour across Performance MAP framework.
We have maintained countries, sectors and sub-sectors.
Our largest sector in our focus on MAP 3 cost of food with initiatives such this market is Defence, Offshore & Remote, where the as menu planning and supplier rationalisation, as well as model is almost universally multi service.
In addition, continually optimising MAP 4 labour and in unit costs we have an excellent support services business in and MAP 5 above unit overheads.
These efficiencies North America and other selected countries.
enabled us to invest to support the exciting growth opportunities we see around the world.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT IS THE GROUPS GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD?
WHAT ARE THE GROUPS MAIN USES OF CASH AND BALANCE SHEET PRIORITIES?
We have a truly international business, with operations in over 50 countries.
We manage the business in three The Groups cash flow generation remains excellent and geographic regions.
it will continue to be a key part of the business model.
Our priorities for how we use our cash remain unchanged.
North America 56% of underlying Group revenue is the We will continue to: i invest in the business to support principal growth engine for the Group.
The outsourcing organic growth where we see opportunities with good culture is vibrant and the addressable market is significant.
returns: ii pursue M&A opportunities, our preference We have a market leading business, which delivers high is for small to medium sized infill acquisitions, where levels of growth by combining a sectorised client facing we look for returns greater than our cost of capital by approach with the cost advantage of our scale.
the end of year two: iii grow the dividend in line with constant currency earnings per share: and iv maintain The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe 28% of strong investment grade credit ratings by returning any underlying Group revenue are good and we see many surplus cash to shareholders to target net debt EBITDA opportunities to drive revenue growth and margin of around 1.5x.
We have invested in MAP 1 sales and retention to return the region to growth.
This year, we HOW WOULD YOU SUMMARISE 2016?
have created nine new business units to leverage our Compass has had another strong year.
Performance scale in procurement, lower costs and speed up the in North America continues to be excellent, and we sharing and implementation of best practices.
are pleased with our progress in Europe.
In the Rest Rest of World 16% of underlying Group revenue of World, the performance is mixed, with the impact offers very good long term growth potential.
Our largest of the cyclical downturn in our commodity related markets are Australia, Japan and Brazil, and we are business offsetting reasonable progress elsewhere.
growing in India and China.
Lower commodity prices WHAT IS YOUR OUTLOOK FOR 2017?
and weak volumes have impacted our Offshore & Remote Our expectations for 2017 are positive, with growth business.
We have restructured our business to adapt to weighted to the second half of the year.
The pipeline of the changing market environment, and remain excited new contracts is good and our focus on organic growth, about the attractive long term growth prospects of efficiencies and cash gives us confidence in another year the region.
WHAT ARE THE GROUPS MAIN In the longer term, we remain excited about the COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES?
significant structural growth opportunities globally SECTORISED APPROACH and the potential for further revenue growth, margin We segment the market and create sectors and subimprovement, and continued returns.
sectors to develop customised solutions that meet the requirements of a wide and growing range of clients and consumers.
Our portfolio of B2B brands enables us to differentiate these propositions and maximise our market coverage.
SCALE Richard Cousins As we continue to grow, our increasing scale allows us to Group Chief Executive achieve our goal of being the lowest cost, most efficient 22 November 2016 provider of food and support services.
Scale is a benefit in terms of food procurement, labour management and back office costs.
It underpins our competitiveness and enables us to deliver sustainable growth over time.
MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE MAP CULTURE We speak one common MAP language.
All our employees use this simple framework to drive performance across the business.
It helps us focus on a common set of business drivers, whether it is winning new business in the right sector on the right terms MAP1, increasing our consumer participation and spend MAP 2, reducing our food costs MAP 3, or labour costs MAPs 4 and 5.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 11
