Chief Executive Officers review In this our first Annual Report as an During the year we continued to independent public company I am delighted to be writing to our shareholders about a year of significant execute on our strategy to drive sales progress, during which we continued to execute on our strategy to drive sales and earnings momentum.
and earnings momentum in large and structurally growing chronic care markets.
As is highlighted in the timeline below, ConvaTec has evolved significantly since it was founded in 1978 as a division of E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc. Our first product, Stomahesive skin barrier, revolutionised ostomy care and established our reputation as an innovator of skin adhesives.
Since then our product portfolio has grown to include complete ostomy care and advanced wound care lines and, following the acquisition of Unomedical in September 2008, continence and critical care and infusion devices.
In recent years ConvaTec has continued to develop and expand.
In particular, we have continued to drive innovation and bring to market new products and technologies that are focused on our customers needs.
In addition, in 2014-2015, we formulated a new strategy to deliver further growth, drive innovation and increase efficiency.
In 2016, a transformative year for ConvaTec, our development continued.
We successfully raised 1.465 billion in the largest healthcare IPO in Europe for 20 years.
We have strengthened our management team and, shortly after the year-end, completed our first acquisition as a listed company, Netherlands-based EuroTec which will further strengthen our Ostomy Care franchise.
We have also refinanced our debt on terms beneficial to our long-term plans.
Results In 2016 we delivered results in line with or ahead of the guidance set out in our IPO Prospectus.
At constant currency, revenue grew 4% to $1,688 million and adjusted EBITDA was $508 million, up 6.5%.
We are ahead of schedule on our Margin Improvement Programme MIP, a range of initiatives we launched in the fourth quarter of 2015 to increase our efficiency.
Our MIP delivered 90 basis points of gross margin benefit in the year at constant currency, against a target of 300 basis points by the year 2020.
We now expect to deliver around half of our target during 2017.
Further information about our MIP is set out on page 25.
The reported net loss after tax was $203 million compared to $93 million in 2015, reflecting the costs related to our 12ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 reorganisation details of which are continue to leverage the reach of 180 contained in Note 3 to the Financial Medical, our home delivery company in Further information 1 Statements and our IPO.
the US, to support the adoption of our This Strategic report includes new products.
Later in the year, we information about our leadership All our franchises delivered growth intend to commence the launch of team, our market environment, how during the year.
Advanced Wound Care GentleCath outside the US market.
we create value, our strategy for had a further strong year, with revenues driving long-term success and our up 6.5% at constant currency.
We Our Infusion Devices franchise grew performance during 2016. continued to see consistent growth in revenues by 4.0% at constant currency.
our AQUACEL product lines, particularly Our partners experienced strong Our markets Key performance in EMEA and the US and an increasing end-market demand for infusion pumps Page 16 indicators contribution from AQUACEL Foam, where our devices are a key component.
Our business model Page 26 where we are continuing to add to our We will continue to strengthen our Page 20 Principal risks and portfolio in the protection and long-term partnerships with insulin pump Our strategy uncertainties Page 24 Page 28 prevention segments.
We entered the manufacturers whilst innovating to CFOs review Negative Pressure Wound Therapy develop products for insulin and other Page 50 market with the launch of the Avelle drug delivery.
System in the UK and Nordic regions, which is being rolled out to other Further information about our number one company overall.
In 2016 we markets, and we launched the operational performance is included on also received two prestigious industry AQUACEL AG Surgical SP dressing, pages 34 to 43. awards from the Journal of Wound Care expanding our reach into new surgical World Union of Wound Healing Societies.
indications including caesarean sections Leadership Further details of these recognitions are and spine surgery.
Our new status as a public listed set out on pages 46 and 37 respectively.
company has brought with it some Our strategy to return our Ostomy Care changes to how we operate our business.
Our culture franchise to consistent growth has Details of our new Board and its In recent years we have transformed our continued to gain traction, particularly in committees are set out in the culture and as the Chairman highlights in the Americas and APAC regions.
Governance section on pages 53 to 82.
In his letter on page 10 this has played a key Revenues grew 1.7% at constant currency addition we are evolving our leadership part in our success to date.
Our core in the year, reflecting our actions to structure and have established an Purpose, to improve the lives of the improve engagement with the nursing Executive Committee which will focus on people we touch, will continue to be at community, invest in our direct-tothe execution of our strategy, our overall the heart of everything we do and, as a consumer programme and launch new priorities, resource allocation and, in public company, we will ensure we products.
We have also successfully conjunction with our franchise and achieve this in a way that benefits all our renewed a number of key strategic functional leaders, manage the day-tostakeholders.
distributor agreements in the US day running of the business.
Information including the two major group about the Executive Committee Our people purchasing organisation agreements.
members, who have extensive As highlighted above, much has been experience and strong track records in achieved in recent years and everyone Revenues in Continence & Critical Care the MedTech sector, is included on pages across ConvaTec played their part in were up 3.6% at constant currency, 14 and 15. delivering this success.
Personally, and on reflecting good growth in our behalf of the Board and our Executive GentleCath intermittent catheter Our customers and partners Committee, I would like to thank all our portfolio, partially offset in the second It is particularly pleasing to report that employees for the great work they do half of the year by the start of planned our work is being increasingly recognised every day.
rationalisation initiatives within the by our customers and partners including Hospital Care business, which were doctors and specialist nurses.
During the Outlook identified as a part of our MIP.
We will year in the Corporate Reputation of We have made significant progress in the continue to innovate and expand the Medical Device Companies survey, which past year, and I am confident that with GentleCath portfolio to address a captured the views of patient groups the experience and advice of our Board, wider range of needs and we will around the world, we were rated the the strong leadership of our management team and in particular, the hard work and dedication of all our employees across ConvaTec, we will Milestones in our history Early history Carve-out from Transition period New management, strategy continue to deliver value to our Bristol-Myers Squibb and growth momentum shareholders whilst improving the lives of people across the world who live with 1978 2008 2 2 0 0 11 4 1 201 4 2016 chronic conditions.
Founded in 1978 as a Acquired by Nordic Capital Launch of new products.
Strengthened division of E. R. Squibb and Avista Capital Partners.
Re-focusing product First product, Building infrastructure and development.
Developed growth Stomahesive skin barrier, systems.
was a game changer in ostomy care and Focus on Ostomy Care.
established ConvaTecs Execution of Margin Paul Moraviec reputation.
Chief Executive Officer Listed on London Stock 17 March 2017 Exchange and admitted to FTSE 100.
Throughout this Annual Report, any references to Notes to the Financial Statements refer to the Notes to the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise stated.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc13
