Strategic Report Chief Executives Report We are continuing to deliver Relentless innovation driving Crodas model is highly cash generative, record profit delivering a superior Return on Invested Capital ROIC and excellent returns Croda has delivered a record profit in 2016. forinvestors.
In 2016 we paid over 230m We have grown sales through strategic individends, including a 136m special acquisitions and organic growth in premium dividend.
We invested over 100m in market niches, drivingbottom line capital expenditure for future organic performance through high value products growth, including an industry-leading and relentless innovation.
Our innovation bio-surfactants plant in North America to pipeline is exciting, with sales from New produce sustainably sourced ingredients and Protected Products NPP increasing for consumer markets.
Despite this record for the fourth consecutive year and strong level of investment, we increased free cash momentum across all market sectors.
flow to over 155m and reduced leverage Wecontinue to expand in higher growth to the lower end of our target range at markets, with Asia the stand out performer.
ROIC remained We are growing with regional and smaller excellent at19.3% restated 2015: 20.1%, customers and are well positioned for the despite dilution from ongoing investment digital revolution across our customer In a low growth environment and acquisition programmes.
We are investing in new technologies Croda has continued to and further strengthening our existing Headline sales up 15.0% prioritise profitable growth market leading positions.
Sales increased by 15.0% to 1,243.6m over top line sales.
In a low growth environment Croda has 2015: 1,081.7m.
This included an 11.9% continued toprioritise profitable growth benefit from currency translation due to Steve Foots over top line sales.
In constant currency, Group Chief Executive weaker Sterling.
Sales in constant currency adjusted profit before tax grew by 4.8%, increased by 3.1%, with acquisitions whilst sales grew by 3.1%.
Sales growth business but with 95% of sales made Underlying sales which excludes the impacts overseas, our results also benefited from of currency translation and acquisition favourable currency translation, with sales 15.0% declined by 1.6%, largely reflecting our increasing by 15.0% and adjusted profit strategy of reducing sales oflow value-add before tax up 13.2% toarecord 288.3m.
co-products and tolling business in Industrial NPP sales as % of Group sales Croda is a knowledge-based business, Chemicals.
Within the Core Business withinnovation at the heart of our culture.
which excludes Industrial Chemicals, 27.4% NPP reached 27.4% 2015: 26.1% oftotal although underlying sales declined by sales as we added new Intellectual Property 0.7%in the full year, there was a return to IP to the product portfolio, increasing our growth in the fourth quarter.
Encouragingly, Return on sales pricing power through the novel benefits sales continued to grow in many premium weare able to deliver to customers.
markets, including actives in Personal Care, Wecontinued to increase sales of premium 24.0% and in high purity excipients and crop products in Personal Care and Life Sciences, delivery systems in Life Sciences.
and returned to growth in Performance Offsetting this, we saw weaker demand Technologies.
In Life Sciences, progress was inless differentiated areas of Personal supported by the successful integration Care, together with significantly lower sales ofIncotec, a leading Seed Enhancement from our generic Active Pharmaceutical business acquired in 2015.
Atthe same time, Ingredient API contract inNorth America.
we tightened our focus inless differentiated markets, successfully reducing sales of lower value-add products, exiting almost 20,000 tonnes of commodity sales in Industrial Chemicals and enhancing the product mix.
Croda International Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strong profit growth with adjusted Focused acquisition and clever Refining the mix in Industrial EPS up 15.4% innovation offsetting API weakness Chemicals Adjusted profit before tax increased by inLife Sciences 2016 saw continued progress in our 13.2% to 288.3m 2015: 254.7m.
This Life Sciences achieved a good performance, strategy to reduce sales from co-products was 4.8% higher in constant currency.
with the majority of the business delivering and tolling in Industrial Chemicals, Profit before tax on an IFRS basis was also robust sales and profit growth, supported whilstcreating new products fornovel up strongly at 275.7m 2015: 252.3m.
by the acquisition of Incotec.
During 2016, wereduced currency, sales rose by 19.0%, reflecting sales volume by almost 20,000 tonnes, Return on sales increased by 40 basis the integration of Incotec and initial synergies including diverting glycerine by-product points in constant currency, reflecting a with our Crop Protection business.
toa new bio-fermentation plant in the richer product mix of high end products Wecontinued to grow the diversified, Netherlands to produce lowcost, green and innovation.
Reported return on sales IP-rich delivery systems business in the energy.
As a result, inconstant currency, was slightly lower at 24.0% 2015: 24.4%, Health Care and Crop Protection markets, sales declined by8.5%.
due to the dilution impact of the Incotec with sales in the latter growing by 4% in acquisition and lower profit from the API Continued sales growth in Asia constant currency.
Adjusted operating contract in North America.
Adjusted EPS andEurope profit grew by 3.6% in constant currency, rose 15.4% to 155.8p 2015: 135.0p and We saw good underlying sales growth astrong result and overcoming a halving the proposed final dividend has been acrossthe Core Business in Asia and ofsales in the North America generic increased by 8.6% to 41.25p 2015: 38.0p.
by 5%, with growth across all three Investment in fast growing niches Improving sales and margin market sectors, driven by increased driving profit in Personal Care inPerformance Technologies proximity tolocal and regional customers.
Personal Care delivered a good profit Performance Technologies saw an improving The market in Europe remained positive, improvement as ongoing innovation, growth sales trend through 2016, excellentprofit withunderlying sales up 2%, reflecting in premium market niches and improved growth and a better return on sales.
These proximity to customers helped offset reflected increased innovation leading to encouraging performances were offset softerconditions in more mature and new products forfaster growth markets: bylower underlying sales in the Americas, lessdifferentiated markets.
NPP increased continued geographic expansion outside with North America down by 6% and to 40% of sector sales, driven by our Actives its traditional European heartland: and Latin America nearly 7% lower.
North business, where sales grew by 6%, reflecting anenhanced product mix through America included the adverse impact further success in Sederma.
Asia delivered upgrading into more value-add products.
oflower API sales, whilst poor macroexcellent growth with increasingly Atconstant currency, sales grew by economic conditions in Latin America sophisticated, innovation-driven customers.
1.4%in the year and by 6% in the fourth saw weaker sales in US Dollar-denominated In a market where regional and local quarter, with adjusted operating profit prices, although sales value was up players drive much innovation and growth, 12.1% better in the full year.
Encouragingly, we are getting closer to more customers, quality continued to improve.
Our focus both these regions showed an improving replacing distributors with our direct selling onvalue, rather than volume, saw exits trend in the fourth quarter.
model, delivered through locally based sales, from low value products in Coatings & marketing and technical personnel.
We are Polymers, driving better profitability better aligned to new independent, or Indie, through greater differentiation.
NPP brands, fast to market and increasingly salesimproved, with progress innovel delivered through digital channels.
patented slip additives and speciality By contrast to the Actives business, the bio-based coatings.
Sales expanded market for Specialities was slower in 2016. inAsia, with strategic investment We have a programme to drive greater underwayinthe Sipo joint venture in China.
product differentiation with multinational The sector remains ontrack to achieve customers and expansion of our areturn on sales of 20% in the medium sustainable product portfolio.
Overall, in term, through better product mix and constant currency, Personal Care adjusted building market leading positions in operating profit increased by 4.0%, despite high-tech niches.
sales being 0.8% lower, improving reported return on sales by 100 basis points.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09 Strategic Report | Chief Executives Report Continuing to deliver our strategy from distributors to our direct selling model, giving us direct access to hundreds of new Our strategy Croda creates innovative ingredients for customers in growth territories, such as niche markets in order to create shareholder China and Indonesia.
Our strategy to deliver this comprises three components: We are developing in faster growing niches by investing organically in new technologies, 1.
Delivering consistent top and bottom expanding capacity in existing technologies line growth and acquiring technology-rich businesses.
Increasing the proportion of protected In 2016 we continued our investment ina Delivering Growth innovation new bio-surfactants plant in North America, Delivering consistent top and 3.
Accelerating our customers transition we expanded the Sederma skin actives bottomline growth to sustainable ingredients.
facility and opened a new R&D facility inCrop Care in Europe.
We integrated the In 2016 we delivered in each of these most recent bolt-on acquisition in Life threeareas.
Sciences, Incotec, a below the ground Delivering consistent top and bottom crop technology with excellent synergies line growth tothe existing Crop Protection business.
We aim to deliver profit growth ahead of Wehave successfully repositioned Incotec Driving Innovation sales value growth, in turn ahead of volume for top line growth and margin improvement.
Despite weak global demand, In2016 we added an encapsulation delivery  Croda made good progress in delivering technology to Crodas portfolio through the top and bottom line growth in 2016.
Sales acquisition of Inventiva in Brazil.
value grew by 15.0% and adjusted Increasing the proportion of operating profit by 12.9%.
protectedinnovation In a low growth environment, less Innovation is the lifeblood of Croda and differentiated markets are becoming isdeeply embedded across our global increasingly mature.
In response, Croda Sustainable Solutions sectors.
It is a key differentiator between isconnecting to faster growth markets Accelerating our customers transition ourselves and our peers, making us a bydeveloping faster growth technologies: to sustainable ingredients preferred supplier for many customers.
expanding in faster growth geographies: In constant currency, NPP sales have and finding faster growth niches.
Through increased by over 40% since 2012, from our global sector teams, we identify and 20.5% of total sales to 27.3% today.
We have anticipate consumer trends and respond an extensive innovation pipeline, supported swiftly to satisfy customer needs through by 250 Open Innovation partnerships with key technologies which are often unique universities, specialist research laboratories toCroda.
In 2016, these faster growth and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises technologies included actives in Personal SMEs.
In 2016 we secured funding for Care, crop delivery systems in Life anumber of PhD R&D chemists through Sciences and new coatings solutions the UKs Biotechnology and Biological inPerformance Technologies.
We continue to develop in fast growth Weare targeting to grow NPP twice as fast geographies.
Asia continues to be a growth as non-NPP sales.
engine, accounting for 22% of sales in Personal Care has the richest innovation, 2016.
We have invested in new application with NPP sales reaching 40% of sector laboratories, including in Korea, where sales in 2016.
Building on our pioneering many global personal care trends originate.
heritage in skin active ingredients, we are We are establishing greater customer developing our Actives business with a intimacy, with our locally-based sales, target to deliver half of Personal Care sales technical and warehousing ensuring close from high value, protected niches.
In 2016, proximity to regional and local customers, we saw sales grow in plant cell cultures as well as multinational customers.
In the from IRB by Sederma, new biological digital world, 2016 saw the rapid growth of systems in hair care and enjoyed rapid new virtual customers.
We are structuring growth in metal oxide sun care ingredients our Business to help these customers for cosmetics.
Weare investing in a new create, formulate and bring products to state-of-the-art Materials Innovation market quickly.
In addition, in 2016 in Asia Factory at the University of Liverpool, and Latin America we transitioned sales alongside a key multinational customer.
Croda International Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report In Life Sciences, NPP sales now account Future opportunities forover 30% of sales.
In 2016 we developed Our priorities for 2017 are to drive profitability new applications for ultra-pure systems through a greater focus on premium, forthe delivery of complex pharmaceutical fastergrowth niches: improve performance drugs.
Customers need to deliver more from in less differentiated markets: and continue new and existing drug actives and Crodas to grow margins in Performance clever technology delivers the purity and Technologies and Incotec.
We are supporting this by We have seen some encouraging signs investing in additional capacity.
Collaborative ofimproving sales trends, which have product development with multinational continued into 2017.
We are supporting customers is securing significant growth thisthrough innovation and investment.
Innovation will be supported by technologyIn Performance Technologies we are driven acquisitions, investments and smart building the innovation pipeline from a low partnering, including more Open Innovation.
In 2016 we achieved a Focused investment in new manufacturing preliminary registration for MyCroFence, capabilities will also access higher growth, anovel non-leaching anti-microbial including new ECO products, expansion coatings technology, and delivered new inhigh purity Health Care systems and innovative products in lubricant additives, extending our leadership in Polymer helping NPP sales in this sector to reach Additives.
We will continue to leverage our almost 20% of total sales.
industry leading position in sustainability.
Accelerating our customers transition Croda is a strongly cash generative to sustainable ingredients business with substantial balance sheet We are passionate about sustainability, akey capacity.
We will remain disciplined in both component of our growth plans.
Weare an our capital allocation and in driving returns industry leader in using sustainable raw for shareholders.
materials and processes tomeet consumer We are confident of delivering continued demand.
This demand is expected to grow: progress in our performance in 2017. in Personal Care, forexample, more than Additionally, if current exchange rates are 25% of customer product launches now maintained, there will be a further currency make a sustainability claim.
With around two-thirds of raw materials already coming from natural sources, weare ideally positioned to help deliver ourcustomers promises and assist them in achieving their sustainability targets.
Steve Foots In2016 we progressed construction of the Group Chief Executive US$175m bio-surfactant plant in North America.
Due to commission in the second half of 2017, the facility will replace petrochemical feedstocks with a new and unique ECO range of 100% sustainable surfactant products, creating growth opportunities across the Core Business.
We continue to reduce our own environmental impact.
Waste to landfill hasbeen cut by 60% since 2010.
IntheNetherlands we commissioned abio-fermentation plant to convert glycerine by-products into greener energy.
In Spain, we are investing to reduce thequantity of water used by 90% through waterrecycling and high-efficiency coolingsystems.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
