Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that in our first year as a PLC, CYBG has delivered on our promises to our customers and shareholders.
We have built strong foundations and positive momentum going into 2017.
We are optimistic about the future as the only true full service, challenger bank of scale to the status quo in the UK market.
Our 2016 results demonstrate the progress we have made on our omni-channel model.
The delivery of our strategy will provide our journey towards being a more customer focused and an improved branch experience, supported by a strong digital commercially minded bank with continued mortgage loan offering, reflecting the new face of banking and putting growth ahead of the market: our SME book returning to growth customers at the heart of what we do.
We have already for the first time in four years: a stable net interest margin: costs embarked on that journey with online account opening, B, and 33m below our initial guidance for the year: a reduced bad debt Apple Pay all going live during the year, and further launches charge: and underlying profit before tax up 39% year on year.
Our strategy remains unchanged our priorities of sustainable CYBG is perfectly placed to disrupt the market we have the full customer growth, efficiency and capital optimisation will be service capabilities that no challenger bank can offer, yet we are delivered by a strong customer focused culture, a robust smaller and more agile than the complex structures of the big 5. approach to change management and investment, and We are well capitalised, have a high quality loan book and prudent development of our omni-channel capabilities, all within a risk appetite, along with powerful, established local brands, now framework of prudent risk management and governance.
My joined by an innovative new brand in B which is already focus, and that of my leadership team, is on execution, and our broadening our customer demographic and reach outside of our organic plan is predicated in large part on improving areas of our core regions.
performance that we can control, such as costs and efficiency, thereby reducing the risk in delivering on our targets.
We firmly believe that our size and scale, strong funding base and balance of assets across retail and business lending give us a solid We will continue to evaluate potential inorganic opportunities to foundation.
Our flexibility will also enable us to selectively target enhance our business, provided they are in line with our strategic growth opportunities in specific market segments as they arise objectives and will create value for our shareholders.
We have and we remain focused on delivering improved returns for established a set of capabilities including a scalable digital shareholders while adapting to the new economic environment.
platform, customer service excellence and senior management cadre that give significant confidence in our ability to execute, While it is still too early to draw firm conclusions regarding the CHIEF should such inorganic opportunities arise.
impact of the referendum vote to leave the EU, we are mindful of the greater uncertainty now facing the UK economy and how In September we updated our medium term targets, bringing this will impact on our customers and the demand for credit.
We EXECUTIVE forward delivery of key metrics such as our CIR now 55%-58% will continue to support customers through the current period by FY2019, previously below 60% by FY2020 and RoTE, of uncertainty and beyond with our range of products for both where we are bringing our target of double digit percent forward consumers and SMEs.
Across CYBG we are focusing on the future with confidence.
CYBG is committed to providing customers with a banking Over the next twelve months I am confident we will show STATEMENT experience that is useful, simple and rewarding.
We know that continued progress against our targets and delivery of people want to manage money on their terms, not ours, so we commitments for our customers, our people and our will invest more than 350m over the next two years to simplify shareholders.
Finally, I am very grateful to the Chairman and the our business, drive cost and capital efficiency, maintain the rest of the Board for their backing and insight as we embark on resilience of our platforms and support the continued roll out of the journey ahead.
4 5 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW B SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHED Growth in mortgages STRONG PROGRESS IN DELIVERING 6.5% OUR STRATEGIC TARGETS 63% 30% 47% Growth in Core SME book B customers increase in NPS so more 6.1% Maiden annual results show improved aged under 45 customers from likely to financial performance, with growth and at initial our target recommend to Underlying operating and account segments family and friends momentum across business including enhanced administrative expenses 4.0% opening below initial expectations customer experience During the year we maintained our momentum in the on data analytics and customer economics.
We have solid Delivering on Strategic Objectives Sustainable customer growth mortgage sector, with above market growth of 6.5%.
We saw a plans in place to develop a truly omni-channel model and the Our strategy is simple drive shareholder returns through Our customers are right at the heart of our strategy and we change in mortgage origination mix, as expected, with a higher focus is now on delivery.
sustainable customer growth, improved efficiency and have been laying the foundations for a truly seamless service proportion of owner occupied mortgages compared to buy-tocapital optimisation underpinned by a strong culture of risk our digitally enabled omni-channel strategy.
We are moving let BTL than in 2015, despite very strong BTL volumes in our and control.
to a model where customers can interact with us through second quarter in advance of the changes to stamp duty.
Efficiency whichever channel they choose online, mobile, tablet, phone, We are making good progress in creating the right cost This will be achieved by a cultural transformation of our branch whenever they want and in a seamless way.
We have Reflecting the hard work of colleagues across the Bank and a structure for our bank.
Our underlying CIR of 74% is still too business, and the simplification and streamlining of built a new digital platform to enable this, and the first service commitment to delivering a superior experience to customers, high, but has improved from last year 2015: 75%.
As a operations and processes to enhance productivity.
weve launched is B, developed in response to direct feedback over the last 12 months, Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks management team we have already taken action with from our customers.
It has intuitive and intelligent features collected 35 accolades, of which 25 were for first place in their underlying operating and administrative expenses for 2016 Underpinning the Groups strategy is a balanced and such as savings pots, financial projections and a unique respective category.
These included: winning Best First Time of 729m 4% below the initial expectations we gave during controlled approach to the management of risk.
The timeline of transactions on all accounts to help customers in Buyer Mortgage Provider and Best Personal Loan Provider at our IPO, as a result of a number of measures to reduce the principles of the Groups approach are to firmly embed a budgeting, saving and managing their finances.
Initially offering the Moneynet awards: achieving outstanding ratings for our 2 cost base, including reduced standalone costs vs initial strong risk culture across the Bank.
The fair treatment of a current and savings account and a debit card, B was and 5 year fixed mortgages and Gold MasterCard 0% purchase expectations, the closure of 27 branches and a reduction in customers is central to the delivery of this, as is managing the successfully launched in May, attracting both new and existing offer from Moneyfacts: Yorkshire Bank winning Best Regional core Full Time Equivalents FTEs.
While our core employee Groups risk framework within clearly defined risk appetite customers.
Of initial account openings, 63% were by customers Lender at the Your Mortgage awards: and winning Scottish numbers fell to below 6,500 by the end of the year, the measures which set the context for the strategic plan.
aged under 45, and c. 30% in our target segment of younger, Volunteering Team and Scottish Employee Volunteer of the reduction of around 500 principally came from managing more affluent customers around a third higher than the Year Awards at the Business in the Community Scotland vacancies and attrition: 150 also came from a voluntary We delivered 6.5% growth in mortgages in 2016, and saw proportion in our existing base.
B customers are also more Awards 2016.
Further details of our awards are on pages 25 severance scheme for senior grade staff, which is part of growth in our SME book for the first time in four years, with engaged, with a 47% net promoter score NPS, so more likely and 28. our programme to simplify our organisational structure.
over 2.2bn of new loans and facilities for SMEs made available, to recommend the B account to friends and family.
and continued growth in current accounts.
We have also In SME, building on our strong origination performance last year We recognise that the business can be run more efficiently.
delivered on key financial metrics with a stable net interest Bs functionality will be developed further in 2017 with the we saw growth in the total loan book for the first time in four As such, we updated our medium term targets in margin and costs running below initial expectations.
launch of a credit card and development of a B for Business years, with gross new loans and facilities up 15% year on year.
September to deliver 100 m of cost savings by 2019, and proposition to help small businesses manage their finances.
an underlying cost base in that year below 630m.
We have We have already begun the process of streamlining our We also continued to grow our deposit base, with strong a structured approach to cost reduction, built on the operating model, while continuing to invest in delivering a Our branch network remains a key element of our omniunderlying growth of 6% year on year and at a lower cost vs progress made this year, with clear accountability for better service to our customers.
We have identified 22 key channel approach, and this year we announced changes to the FY2015.
We also view lower costs from a processes or customer journeys where we see great network reflecting the evolving patterns in customer usage.
A customer, as well as a shareholder perspective, and will opportunity to simplify, introduce more automation and significant number of branches will extend their opening hours, We have much more to do to create a truly integrated ensure that the business will still be able to support our digitise.
We are moving the business towards being more opening on Saturdays, ensuring investment is diverted to the offering for our customers and continue to align our growth ambitions, and that our initiatives to reduce costs focused on customers, being more commercial and more areas where demand is growing.
A programme of investment and approach to emerging customer needs and are aligned with our risk appetite.
refurbishments, relocations, co-locations, concept branches commercial and statutory requirements and imperatives based and digital development is ongoing as our network adapts to customers changing preferences.
6 7 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Against a backdrop of a challenging economic and regulatory Customer loans 4.7% 3bps 12bps 13.3% environment, we will maintain appropriate risk appetite for increase in NIM reduction in bad growth in lending, a prudent approach to funding and margin dynamics, from FY2015 and doubtful debt underlying basic Retail & SME deposits 2.5% and a strongly capitalised balance sheet.
now 226bps charge to earnings per average customer share vs FY2015 loans vs FY2015 New SME loans and facilities 15% There are four areas of focus within our cost reduction with our non-core book reducing by 270m in the period, Capital optimisation Economic and regulatory environment programme: supporting overall SME yields.
New loans and facilities totalled We have begun discussions with the Prudential Regulation The economic and regulatory environment is 2,223m this year, an increase of 15% vs 2015, with average 1.
Customer Banking transformation is expected to account Authority PRA and have a detailed programme of work in challenging and we will maintain appropriate risk yields on the front book of 351bps continuing to be above for around 25% of cost savings, through optimising our flight to progress the adoption of an Internal Ratings Based appetite for lending, a prudent approach to funding and average yields on the back book 321bps.
branch network, accelerating transaction activity to digital IRB approach for calculation of credit risk capital.
Moving to margin dynamics, and a strongly capitalised balance self-service and improving productivity in the front line.
This IRB will improve our competitive positioning, bring a stronger sheet.
This will be done while ensuring we continue to The loan impairment charge as a proportion of gross average will lead to fewer people and a smaller number of branches alignment of risk appetite and strategy and also reduce the deliver on our overarching principle of treating all of balances was 9 bps 2015: 21 bps, reflecting strong asset as customers change the way they bank.
intensity of our risk weighted assets RWAs and potential our customers fairly.
quality underpinned by our prudent underwriting standards.
future bail-in debt requirement MREL.
Our initial focus is firstly 2.
Improved customer service - We have identified 22 key customer journeys that will be optimised end-to-end on achieving IRB accreditation for our mortgage portfolio, Since the EU referendum vote we have seen a limited We have continued to see growth in current account which we currently anticipate to be during FY2018, subject to through simplification and automation.
We are also creating impact on our business.
The mortgage pipeline remains balances.
Overall customer deposits grew by 2.5% during a platform for the future digitisation of processes, a key regulatory approval.
Our subsequent focus will be IRB robust whilst our pipeline for SME lending is currently the year, with strong underlying growth offset by treatment of other retail asset portfolios and the SME book, enabler of our omni-channel model, which will support our higher than at the same time last year.
Clearly the EU management actions to optimise the mix, pricing and growth ambitions through an enhanced customer with the remainder of the bank moving to IRB approximately referendum vote means a more complex economic liquidity value of the deposit base, which included the run off one year later.
This area is expected to account for around 15% and market environment in the future and as of large highly liquid corporate deposits.
Excluding these of cost savings.
negotiations between the UK and EU progress we will actions underlying customer deposits grew by 6.2%.
monitor developments, retain our flexibility, and react 3.
Right model - this addresses how we organise ourselves, Financial performance accordingly.
As set out at our Capital Markets Day in rightsizing of our organisational support functions so that We also re-priced our ISA offering in March 2016, while still September, we expect and are planning for a slowdown they are smaller and more efficient and targeting a maximum We have delivered on our key financial targets in 2016. remaining competitive in the market, which in part helped in the economy, with GDP between 1%-2% over the of six organisational layers.
We will also change how we Underlying profit on ordinary activities before tax increased reduce our overall cost of deposits to 72bps from 78bps in next three years and unemployment increasing deliver large investment programmes, reducing the cost of to 221m from 159m in the prior year, driven by higher FY2015 and will continue to benefit funding costs next year.
The current prolonged period of investment.
This area is expected to account for around 20% operating income and lower bad debt charges, with broadly low interest rates, with the Bank of England BoE base of cost savings.
flat operating expenses compared to FY2015, despite the NIM was 226bps, an increase of 3 basis points compared with rate at 25 bps following a further 25 bps reduction in additional costs of being a standalone business.
Getting more for less will improve how we procure services FY2015 and in line with our guidance of broadly stable.
August, has created challenges and put downward from third parties, the suppliers we use and the value we Pressure on asset yields was offset by balance sheet action pressure on margins.
The BoE Term Funding Scheme receive.
We will implement a comprehensive supplier We remain focused on sustainable, prudent growth and are on liabilities, including the re-pricing of savings products and should help to offset some of this pressure by providing well positioned in both the retail and business banking contract review, and enhance our procurement capability to run off of non-relationship corporate deposits with low low cost funding, and our planning assumption is for 0% deliver a greater than 10% reduction in our current third segments in which we operate.
Customer loans grew by 4.7% liquidity value.
and asset quality remains strong.
The mortgage book grew by party spend of around 300m.
We will take steps to improve the management of our capital investment profile, with a 6.5% year on year to 21,836m and owner occupied Our funding position remains strong.
The loan to deposit We welcome the measures taken by the Financial mortgages accounted for around 60% of new business flows.
framework in place to ensure cost savings are sustained.
ratio LDR increased from 109% to 112% due to growth in Policy Committee of the BoE to support lending to UK These actions will create a change in cost culture within our Front book yields declined broadly in line with swap rates, customer lending combined with a managed reduction in businesses and households, by reviewing capital levels used to price fixed rate mortgages, which accounted for business and deliver around 40% of our targeted savings.
This remains well within our including the counter cyclical buffer.
This creates around 90% of new business written in the year.
The Groups CET1 ratio remained additional capacity, subject to customer demand and We anticipate that the cost to deliver these initiatives will be robust at 12.6%, notwithstanding the impact of restructuring our normal risk appetite criteria, to make over 2bn of c. 200m pre-tax, with 45m already incurred in FY2016, and Our core SME book, which was 6,358m at 30 September, costs in the year and volatility in the pension scheme.
new mortgage loans or nearly 1bn of new SME loans.
this is included within our CET1 guidance.
grew by 6.1% and we continue to run off lower yielding assets, 8 9 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW The regulatory environment continues to evolve, with People NEW APPOINTMENTS consultations and new guidance emerging from the Basel The ability of the Bank to execute its strategic plan is Committee, as well as the PRA and Financial Conduct predicated on ensuring that the appropriate talent, Authority FCA.
capabilities and experience are in place throughout the organisation.
This starts with the Board and the Executive We continue to make progress on resolving legacy conduct Leadership Team.
As part of our half year report at 31 March, we B OA R D determined that a further charge of 450m was required to The Board has been further strengthened, with Clive deal with expected future costs in relation to Payment Adamson, David Bennett, Paul Coby, Fiona MacLeod and Tim Protection Insurance PPI, incorporating the Groups Wade appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors, estimate of the impact of CP 15 39 and a reassessment of complementing the Boards expertise and governance the costs of processing cases and the impact of experiential oversight.
I have reorganised and strengthened the adjustments.
Only 9.7% of the charge impacts the Groups Leadership Team for better individual and collective income statement 44m as a result of the conduct accountability, and created the right mix of experience that indemnity provided by NAB.
we need to meet forthcoming challenges.
DAVID BENNETT PAUL COBY FIONA MACLEOD TIM WADE CLIVE ADAMSON We welcome the FCAs statement as part of its further Fergus Murphy joined the bank as Products Director in Deputy Chairman Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive consultation CP 16 20 that the package of proposals on January, with over 20 years of experience in financial Director Director Director Director PPI complaints laid out in CP 15 39 should be taken forward services, including as Director of Corporate and albeit with the deadline for complaints now likely to be the Institutional Banking at Allied Irish Banks plc AIB.
We look forward to the rules and Gavin Opperman joined as Director of Customer Banking guidance concerning the deadline, the consumer in November, with a 20 year career at Barclays Group in communications campaign fee, and PPI complaints and Asia, and most recently Regional Head of Consumer Plevin, being published by the end of December 2016.
In Banking at Standard Chartered plc.
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM advance of this date, reflecting our current experience and Kate Guthrie joined as Group Human Resources Director expectations we have not made any further changes to in January, with over 30 years of domestic and existing unutilised provisions related to PPI.
We consider that international HR experience, most recently spending more the total cover remaining of 1.5bn unutilised provisions and than a decade at Lloyds Banking Group plc.
conduct indemnity is sufficient to cover the costs of dealing Mark Thundercliffe joined as Chief Risk Officer from HSBC with all legacy conduct matters including PPI.
in September, where he had management and oversight of risk for HSBCs retail banking and wealth management businesses in 18 countries including the UK, Europe, Middle East and Africa.
FERGUS MURPHY GAVIN OPPERMAN KATE GUTHRIE MARK ENDA JOHNSON THUNDERCLIFFE Products Director Customer Banking Group Human Director of Corporate Enda Johnson was appointed to the Executive Leadership Director Resources Director Chief Risk Officer Development Team in June as Director of Corporate Development and and Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement.
Before joining CYBG in 2015, Engagement Enda was Head of Corporate Affairs & Strategy at AIB.
In addition, we have made a number of appointments at senior levels across the organisation, as we seek to deepen our talent and capabilities.
Key to our success will be the continued development in the strength and capability of our leadership population.
10 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW UP TO UP TO Outlook Employee engagement score Advocacy score In September this year we laid out our targets for the coming financial year ending 30 September 2017 which are detailed 79% 70% in the table below.
The operating environment continues to be dynamic, the impact of Brexit is not yet fully understood, and our markets remain competitive.
Short term performance targets Metric FY2016 FY2017e NIM 2.26% Broadly stable 5 million Underlying costs 729m c. 690m-700m raised so far for our chosen charity - Hospice UK Loan growth 4.7% Mid single digit % 1 LDR 112% 120% CET1 12.6% 12%-13% range 1 Assuming participation in Term Funding Scheme.
Looking further ahead, we also refreshed plans for the next three years to 2019, bringing forward and improving two key targets: we now anticipate that we will deliver, by the end of 2019, a CIR ratio of 55%-58% previously 60% by 2020 and double digit RoTE previously by 2020.
Updated Medium Term Targets Metric IPO targets Updated guidance CIR Below 60% by FY2020e 55% - 58% by FY2019e Retail lending Implied 8% CAGR to FY2020e Mid single digit % CAGR to FY2019e SME lending Implied 4% CAGR to FY2020e Mid single digit % CAGR to FY2019e As we begin to transform our culture to create a high management approach to ensure it fully aligns our CET1 12% - 13% Unchanged performance, customer centric bank, the results from our colleagues individual objectives with the strategic plan.
2 LDR up to 115% 120% employee engagement survey in June were encouraging.
Dividend Target modest inaugural dividend for Unchanged Our engagement score of 79% is an improvement on last We want to be an employer of choice, engaging and 1 FY2017: in time 50% payout of earnings year and 2 percentage points above the UK financial inspiring our employees to build a bank of which they can be RoTE Double digit by FY2020e Double digit by FY2019e services norm.
Our advocacy score confidence in proud.
We are building on our existing strengths and recommending the Bank to friends and family increased 1 capabilities by hiring the very best talent.
We are developing After paying Additional Tier 1 AT1 distributions.
Assuming participation in Term Funding Scheme.
92% of our people our cultural framework to ensure that we have a clear vision understand how the work they do contributes to the and values which form the foundation of our performance In order to deliver these targets we are targeting more than respect to 2017 with a longer term goal to pay out up to achievement of the Companys goals and objectives.
management framework with clear links to reward and with 100m of sustainable cost reductions by 2019, in addition to c. 50% of earnings after paying AT1 distributions.
diversity and respect for difference built in.
the cost savings already delivered in 2016, after incurring Given the significant amount of change in the Group over pre-tax restructuring costs of c. 200m.
We also expect to Across CYBG we are focusing on the future with the past 12 months, these results are a positive indication We have a long tradition of supporting local communities.
fully transition to the IRB basis of measuring RWAs on a of where we are on our journey.
Delivering brilliantly simple service to our So far we have raised 5m for our chosen charity, Hospice whole bank basis during FY2019, subject to regulatory customers is at the heart of our bank and over the next UK, and have relationships with a number of local approval.
Our CET1 ratio is expected to remain in the range year we are confident we will show continued progress We aim to create a high performing, customer centric organisations such as Scotlands Charity Air Ambulance, of 12% to 13% throughout this period.
against our targets and delivery of commitments for our organisation and drive accountability and responsibility, Royal Zoological Society of Scotland and Cycle Yorkshire.
customers, our people and our shareholders as part of our alongside appropriate reward structures.
Key to our Through our Spirit of the Community Awards, now in their We also confirmed that our dividend ambition remains two year 350m investment programme.
progress is the engagement and commitment of all of our fourth year, we will donate 150,000 to 30 charities this unchanged, targeting a modest inaugural dividend with people.
To support this we have introduced an integrated year and we have an active volunteering programme.
We communications strategy to assist in the delivery of our key encourage every employee to take two days paid leave for strategic areas.
We have also undertaken a comprehensive volunteering and provide Employee Volunteer Grants for review of reward, ensuring it is closely linked to the delivery those who volunteer in their own time.
A fifth of our people of our strategy.
We have simplified our performance donate to charity via Payroll Giving.
David Duffy | 21 November 2016 12 13 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY OUR BUSINESS MODEL 248 40 Retail Branches Business Banking Our strategy is clear and its execution allows us to create value for our Regional hubs Clydesdale stakeholders through: 111 Centres - Life-long customer relationships built on trust and confidence.
Retail co-located Yorkshire 137 - Segment and value-led approach to new customer acquisition and proposition development.
1 - Holistic balance sheet management approach, focus on sustainable growth within prudent risk appetite.
- Capturing increasing organisational efficiencies: right-sizing our network, automation of processes, digitisation of customer journeys, increasing operating model productivity.
- Optimisation of capital allocation within an improved risk management framework.
OUR STRATEGY IS UNDERPINNED BY THE GROUPS CORE BUSINESS STRENGTHS by offering customers: - Full service retail and SME banking propositions to a growing customer franchise, supported by well-established, respected brands.
- Simple, straightforward financial products supported by great customer service.
experienced 2 long established Executive - An increasingly integrated omni-channel distribution model that provides customers with franchise in core Leadership seamless access to relevant information, services and products via mobile, online and regional and selected Team telephone banking and across our branch and advisor network.
national markets clear strategy sector to drive resilient and expertise growth and strongly capitalised returns balance sheet Our leveraging our competitive advantages: - Established, trusted brands that resonate in our core regions.
strengths - Highly engaged colleagues focused on customer service.
simple, - New, highly experienced and energised leadership team and Board members.
3 low risk - Strong and enduring relationships with customers and intermediary brokers.
a high-quality banking balance sheet, set - Resilient customer deposit franchise providing low cost, sustainable funding.
model within a strong risk - New cutting edge, scalable digital platform underpinning distribution plans.
management standalone, - Scale and scope of large incumbent players with the agility of much smaller UK challenger banks.
framework scalable and full strongly service operating capitalised platform 14 15 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Improve efficiency Our strategic priorities Significant opportunities remain to improve the cost The Group is committed to delivering a strong, customerstructure of the Group.
centric banking proposition in the UK.
In September 2016, management announced detailed plans to reduce the Companys cost structure, focusing on four We believe customers want straightforward and transparent areas: Customer Banking transformation: Improved customer products combined with the ability to access their products service: Right model: and Getting more for less.
and services through the channel of their choice.
Service We will build on the progress made in 2016 - during the year, remains one of the key drivers of customer satisfaction with drive the outlook for underlying costs was reduced by 33m, from customers increasingly less forgiving of poor service.
sustainable a previously announced 762m cost base 4% reduction.
capital Demand for omni-channel banking is established and customer Efficiency improvements will be viewed from a customer customers expect to be able to manage their finances optimisation perspective.
We are targeting sustainable cost improvements, whenever and wherever is most suitable for them, whether growth while supporting our growth ambitions, which are aligned by telephone, online, or by using their mobile device.
OUR with our risk appetite.
STRATEGY Our strategy is simple: We have clear accountability for delivery.
drive sustainable customer growth Capital optimisation: improve efficiency The Group has established a programme to progress an IRB optimise capital capital approach to modelling risk, subject to regulatory approval.
Drive sustainable customer growth Moving to IRB will improve our competitive positioning, improve The Groups goal is to be a strong, customer-centric bank enhance our risk management capabilities and also lower efficiency that proactively responds to changes in customers needs the intensity of our RWA and future bail-in debt and builds long-standing relationships, delivering requirement MREL.
customer-driven product and service propositions across Our initial focus is firstly on achieving IRB accreditation for both retail and business banking.
our mortgage portfolio which we currently anticipate to be A deposit first philosophy we aim to secure the during FY2018, subject to regulatory approval.
Our primary account relationship to drive increased product subsequent focus will be IRB treatment of other retail asset penetration and low cost sustainable funding.
portfolios and SME book, with the remainder of the bank We are focused on the acquisition of customers in key moving to IRB approximately one year later.
target segments for example, a younger, more affluent As an IRB accredited bank the PRA will continue to customer demographic.
SUPPORTED BY DEVELOPMENT OF OUR CORE CAPABILITIES determine our ultimate capital requirements through We aim to deliver an agile approach to product supervisory processes.
proposition development, targeted at our key customer The Group also continues to have two portfolios that are in segments.
The first portfolio relates to tracker mortgages while We will ruthlessly focus on simplifying operational the second is a cohort of low yielding SME lending.
Both processes to drive customer experience which is portfolios are high quality, but low returning.
Progress is monitored through a portfolios down will enable capital tied up supporting these number of metrics including surveys, resolution of loans to be recycled, over time, into higher returning assets.
We will drive stronger performance and a focus on end Through omni-channel delivery Strong Robust change Omni-channel Prudent risk customer management and capabilities management and to end product profitability through an integrated Our strategy is underpinned by our omni-channel approach.
focused culture investment approach governance product, portfolio and balance sheet management We are focused on delivering seamless end to end customer capability.
journeys across different distribution channels - anytime, any Further integration of product and service across channels place, anywhere.
will drive enhanced customer experience and efficiency.
Our omni-channel distribution model will allow us to differentiate on customer experience.
16 17 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Our digital strategy is an important part of our growth There were some indications that housing market activity and households which is equivalent to a reduction in the with four or more BTL properties so called portfolio agenda driving efficiency, process simplification and Groups counter-cyclical buffer of around 100m.
In landlords, and adequate risk management with limits on ended FY2016 somewhat weaker than it started.
early in the year the continuation of positive domestic addition, in December 2015 the BoE announced that the flow and stock of BTL lending, including LTV limits.
banks with less than 175bn of assets will not be subject Affordability stress tests need to be met by 1 January economic factors underpinned demand, post the EU This will be supported by an investment programme to referendum vote uncertainty could lead to a drop off in to Systemic Risk Buffer requirements.
2017, the remaining principles by 30 September 2017. extend our digital platform, simplify our IT architecture CYBG already meets the core elements of these demand - BoE data showed mortgage approvals in August and enhance our platform resilience, as well as support In response to the European Bank Recovery and were down 10% year on year.
growth and improved efficiency, and ensure we keep our Resolution Directive, the BoE launched a consultation growth in UK average house prices overall continued in business safe and secure.
on setting the Minimum Requirement for Own Funds The Competition and Markets Authority CMA issued its 2016, up 8.4% in the year to August, continuing the strong and Eligible Liabilities MREL, which completed on 11 final report on 9 August on the supply of PCAs and growth seen since the end of 2013 and as a result of March 2016.
The BoE proposed that MREL will be banking services to small and medium-sized enterprises.
resilient economic conditions together with sustained low Operating environment calculated as the loss absorption amount plus the The CMA will implement a package of reforms, including mortgage rates.
recapitalisation amount, with the latter dependent on requiring the largest banks to implement Open Banking UK economic environment the agreed resolution strategy for the Group.
A to allow customers to manage their accounts with multiple While overall the economic environment was benign for the As announced in the 2015 Autumn Statement, people Statement of Policy was issued by the BoE in November providers through a single digital app and compare majority of the year, the impact of the EU referendum on purchasing BTL properties and second homes paid an extra 2016 and firms will be advised of their MREL products: banks to publish quality of service information 23 June has created more uncertainty around the future 3% in stamp duty from April 2016, which prompted a surge requirements by the end of 2016.
The requirement for on their websites and in branches: make switching easier, direction of the UK economy.
in BTL mortgage applications prior to the deadline, bringing firms to meet MREL will be phased in between 2016 with changes to the CASS Current Account Switching forward demand from the second half of the year into the and 2022.
It is expected that MREL will lead to a Service to improve its performance and increase UK GDP growth has been remarkably resilient post Brexit, first half.
Changes to mortgage interest tax relief from April requirement for increased qualifying debt issuance by customer awareness: changes to unarranged overdraft growing by 0.5% in the July-September quarter, following 2017 could also impact on demand for BTL mortgages in CYBG, and the UK banking industry as a whole.
fees including sending customers alerts to help them avoid 1 growth of 0.7% in the April-June quarter.
FY2017, although the materiality of this is difficult to gauge charges, and requiring banks to set a monthly cap on In March 2016 the BoE announced details of its 2016 at this time.
these charges: measures to help small businesses to stress test to assess the resilience of major UK banks.
The BoE has raised its forecast for economic growth next compare BCAs, lending products, and other products and This included a revision to the stress test hurdle year to 1.4% from 0.8%, but cut expectations for 2018 to The outlook for the retail savings market continues to be services, including online quotes and eligibility checks and framework so that each bank will now be expected to 1.5% from 1.8%.
In addition, global growth is coming under strong.
There are a number of macro-economic factors standard terms and conditions.
B is well placed to comply meet its minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A CET1 capital pressure, primarily due to a slowdown in emerging markets supporting this positive growth outlook, including with standards such as PSD 2 Payment Services Directive requirements after the stress, which for the Group is and falling commodity prices.
continued real wage growth, increasing the capability to 2 to allow customers to manage accounts with multiple 7.7% as at 30 September 2016. save and government policy, including increased ISA limits providers through the B app and we welcome measures In December 2015, the Basel Committee on Banking Other key UK macro-economic indicators were strong in in 2017.
The continued low base rate environment offers that deliver more choice, functionality and a better Supervision BCBS published further proposals to revise 2016.
The unemployment rate continued to fall, to 4.9% from further opportunity to reduce the cost of deposits.
It is anticipated that it will take 1 the standardised approach to credit risk.
They form part 5.4% a year earlier, and the employment rate rose to 74.5% until summer 2018 for all elements of the CMAs package of the BCBSs broader work on reducing variability in which is the joint highest rate since records began in 1971. to come into force, though some remedies will be in place RWAs, increasing risk sensitivity, reducing national Regulatory and political environment sooner.
discretions and enhancing comparability of capital 1 Real earnings grew by 1.8% from a year earlier and inflation, On 26 November 2015, the FCA issued a consultation The regulatory and political environment in which the requirements across banks.
All things being equal, the as measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rose to 1% in CP 15 39 in relation to the introduction of a deadline Group operates continues to evolve.
Key changes, all of proposals will increase the level of capital the Group is 1 the year to September, its highest level since November by which consumers would need to make their PPI which the Group is responding to, include: required to hold against portfolios that have not 2014, as a result of higher costs for petrol and clothes.
complaints and also on how firms should handle PPI transitioned to IRB by the point of application.
2 Inflation is forecast to rise further to 2.7% in 2017 and not In March 2016 the BoE Financial Policy Committee complaints in light of the Supreme Court decision in the A supervisory statement of 29 September 2016 return below the Monetary Policy Committee target of 2% announced that from 29 March 2017 the CounterParagon vs Plevin case Plevin.
The FCA issued a outlined the PRAs expectation of minimum standards until 2020, given the impact of Brexit and the falling pound.
cyclical Buffer will be set at 0.5% in the UK up from 0%.
further consultation on 3 August CP 16 20 which the that firms should use to underwrite BTL mortgages, In response to the EU referendum vote, the BoE Group has responded to.
The revised proposals in CP which included affordability tests using a minimum The BoE base rate remained at 0.5% until August, when it Financial Policy Committee withdrew the countercyclical 16 20 are expected to become rules in December 2016 increase of 2 percentage points in BTL mortgage was reduced for the first time since March 2009, to 0.25%, buffer to make more funding available to UK businesses based on the FCAs current timetable.
interest rates and assume a minimum rate of 5.5% for its lowest ever rate.
the first 5 years, specialist underwriting for customers 1 Source: Office for National Statistics 2 Source: BoE 18 19 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16
