S TR ATE G I C R E P O RT The Kelpies, Falkirk Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2016 has been a landmark year in the long history of our bank as we became independent for the first time since the 1920s.
This year has heralded big changes for our bank the We have a strong international shareholder base who have demerger from National Australia Bank NAB and IPO at shown great support for our business, a high calibre leadership the start of the calendar year gave rise to CYBG PLC, a team and we have strengthened the Board with Clive FTSE 250 company, holding a dual listing on both the Adamson, David Bennett, Paul Coby, Fiona MacLeod and Tim London Stock Exchange LSE and Australian Securities Wade appointed as new independent Non-Executive Exchange ASX and we became an independent Directors, complementing the Boards expertise and company for the first time since the 1920s.
At the same time we have put in place appropriate control and governance standards for a listed company, which we benchmark against the market leaders.
Im delighted to deliver the first Annual Report of CYBG, and I would like to thank the Board, the Executive Leadership Team, and my colleagues throughout the In our first year as CYBG we have demonstrated significant business for their hard work in delivering a successful set of progress in delivering on our plan.
Despite the uncertainty results in 2016.
Everyone has played a part in making this a in the wake of Brexit, we believe the strength of our landmark year for our business.
franchise a robust capital position, strong asset quality, low cost diversified funding and resilient, scalable infrastructure combined with our talent and capability Our ambition is straightforward: to become the credible alternative to the big UK banks.
We intend to achieve this gives us the flexibility to adapt to the changing operating environment.
Our focus for next year is to build on the using our scalable infrastructure to support our growth ambitions, and our enhanced digital capability to streamline progress and achievements of 2016, and continue to build a culture that puts the customer at the heart of everything processes and deliver a superior customer experience.
I am confident that we can deliver on our strategy, further improve our performance and enhance returns for CHAIRMANS As outlined at our Capital Markets Day in September, our our shareholders.
strategy is also straightforward: drive shareholder returns through sustainable customer growth, increased efficiency and capital optimisation.
STATEMENT Jim Pettigrew | 21 November 2016 2 3 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16
