CHieF exeCUTiVeS reVieW Market background: another year of deflation In the past year we have once again seen significant price deflation in the cheese, whey and butter categories.
Another year of strong UK and global milk production has resulted in downward price pressure across all dairy products.
This showed no signs of slowing in the second half of the year.
Regrettably, in this environment, we have had to reduce the price paid to our farmers for their milk: a reduction of about 17% over the course of the year.
We continue to pay farmers a fair, competitive price for milk and have recently introduced a new, innovative milk contract for our farmers.
This will promote more stable and transparent pricing for core milk volumes that support our cheese business requirements.
Inevitably, the market environment has put downward pressure on selling prices.
Our cheese margins have been pressured because the benefit of lower input costs take up to 12 months to be reflected in the income statement.
This is the average maturation time for our cheese.
This effect is compounded by lower realisations from whey sales.
We therefore are particularly pleased to have delivered margins slightly ahead of last year given this background.
The major food retailers, our principal customers, have Summary: well-positioned for growth had to deal with both food deflation and continued intense 2015 16 has been a significant year for Dairy Crest.
We expect these tough conditions to continue.
In successfully sold our Dairies business and completed a this environment it is crucial that we continue to work with our programme of significant investment in functional ingredients customers innovatively to help grow the categories in which we manufacture at our Davidstow facility in Cornwall.
These initiatives operate in ways that are mutually beneficial.
Our Dairy for Life have transformed the Group.
Dairy Crest is now a simpler initiative continues to play an important role in helping to grow business, focussed on growth and innovation in branded and dairy categories in partnership with our retailer customers.
It is well-positioned to generate cash and framework to grow the categories in which we operate and guides deliver attractive margins that should improve in the future.
plans for future innovation, marketing and category merchandising.
Dairy Crests continuing business posted a solid financial performance in 2015 16 despite continued deflation in dairy Key brands perform robustly in deflationary environment markets.
Against this background, I am particularly pleased In line with our expectations, overall revenue from our four key by the improved profitability in the second half of the year.
Our brands was down by 2.3% over the financial year.
This was a key brands have performed well and have good prospects.
We good performance in a deflationary marketplace.
Key brand sales will continue to focus on growing brands and establishing our volumes increased by 1.7% with all four brands growing volumes functional ingredients business.
This gives us access to new, year-on-year in the second half despite very challenging conditions higher-growth markets and a range of new customers.
This in the butters and spreads market.
will ensure that the company is well-positioned for the future despite current market conditions which are expected to remain challenging in the short-term.
Brand Market Dairy Crest Dairy Crest volume growth sales growth Cheese 6.4% 0.8% Butters, spreads, margarine 6.4 % 14.9 % Butters, spreads, margarine 3.9% 6.2 % Oils 29.1% 27.9% Total 1.7% 2.3 % Dairy Crest volume and value sales 12 months to 31 March 2016 vs 12 months to 31 March 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 9 Strategic report CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED GoinG for Cathedral City outperforms again leaving combined volumes down 2.2%.
Selling prices fell in both IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 compared to markets resulting in retail sales down 2.1% for butters, 13.1% for the same period last year show that the total cheese market spreads and 6.5% combined.
excluding discounters grew by 6.1% in volume but fell by 0.4% Retail sales of Clover moved broadly in line with the market in value.
Within this, the everyday cheese market fell by 3.6% over the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016.
Cathedral City outperformed the market with volumes improved in the second half following the re-launch of Clover in increasing by 6.4% and revenue increasing by 0.8%.
This launch was the culmination of a two-year accounts for 55% of branded everyday cheese sales in the UK.
project that removed all artificial ingredients from Clover and was Cathedral City market penetration over a 12 month period is supported by marketing and promotional activity in the autumn.
Almost three fifths of households bought Cathedral Since the re-launch, over 500,000 more customers have City in the last year and this is a measure of how the brand has bought Clover.
In the second half of the year Clover volumes grown over recent years.
We are determined to continue building increased by 1.2% compared to the same period last year despite on this success.
In April 2016 we began to roll out updated and market volume declines overall.
IRI data for the last quarter of refreshed branded packaging across the Cathedral City portfolio.
the year shows Clover has gained 1.7% share volume versus the This brand evolution simplifies and standardises the master brand: previous year.
it will also improve Cathedral Citys prominence on the shelf.
The Country Life delivered volume growth of 3.9% in the year with brand refresh will be supported by a new advertising campaign a step change in performance in the second half.
This was helped and promotional activity.
by new British themed packaging which, we know from consumer research, plays to the brands strengths.
Volumes and revenue Butters and spreads performance improves over the year grew by 20% and 3% respectively in the last six months of the IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 show that butters year compared to the second half of 2014 15.
This gives us strong volumes grew by 6.4% but spreads volumes declined by 8.6%, momentum as we move into the new financial year.
10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Frylight delivers strong growth We continue to carry out research with universities and Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, has once again delivered commercial trials with partners into the effect of GOS on animal strong growth: volumes were up 29.1% year on year and revenue development.
The laboratory data seen to date is encouraging and work will continue in this area during 2016.
Based on Kantar data for the 52 weeks to 27 have allocated an increase of over 2 million in the GOS research March 2016, the retail oils market is worth 330 million at retail budget for 2016 17.
We intend to validate laboratory findings with and has grown in both volume and value by 4% over the last 12 field trials and find additional commercial applications for GOS.
Frylight is now the number one brand in this market with household penetration of over 20%.
A simpler business The brand has benefitted both from increased listings and Dairy Crest is a simpler, leaner and more responsive business product innovation.
2015 16 saw the introduction of both coconut following the Dairies sale.
We now have five well-invested oil and rapeseed oil variants.
This continued pace of innovation will manufacturing sites and fewer than 1,200 employees.
There be crucial to growing the brand in the future.
are opportunities to further simplify procedures and support structures within the business.
Over time this will allow us to infant formula ingredients on track reduce overheads and increase efficiency.
We are currently We have successfully completed our investment programme embarking on a change to our core IT systems which will roll out at Davidstow to manufacture ingredients for the infant over the next three years.
This will deliver a more appropriate formula market.
This unique UK facility is now producing both and cost effective IT infrastructure for a business of our scale.
It demineralised whey and GOS.
Following successful food and will also be the catalyst for us to simplify the processes that sit infant formula quality audits, these products are being sold to our alongside these IT systems.
Final commissioning took somewhat longer than We continue to drive operational efficiency improvements and expected although we started production in March 2016.
We will following the successful consolidation of butters and spreads get a full year benefit from the investment in the financial year to production into one site at Kirkby in early 2015, we will continue to 31 March 2017. focus on improving line performance efficiency.
We have already This is an important step for our business as it delivers a seen improvements in efficiency measures over the year to 31 premium on all of our whey by-product.
It also allows us to March 2016. grow a profitable GOS infant formula business while researching further GOS applications and uses.
It gives Dairy Crest access Future prospects to important business-to-business ingredients customers and This is an exciting time to be leading Dairy Crest.
Although we an ability to develop in emerging markets.
In December 2015 we expect food price deflation to persist in the short-term, the business acquired the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited is well-positioned to deliver profitable and sustainable growth.
Promovita our GOS joint venture.
This has allowed us to control We are making progress with all of our four key brands and the the direction and pace of our GOS development.
continued investment we are putting behind them this year gives Whey, along with other dairy products, has experienced steep me confidence that we can continue to grow their market share.
falls in price during the last 12 months.
However, demineralised The other focus for 2016 17 will be on accelerating sales from whey continues to deliver a price premium compared to the sweet demineralised whey and GOS, the new infant formula ingredients whey that we produced previously.
This uplift will deliver a project and continuing to explore further applications for GOS.
payback in line with our expectations despite short-term weakness Future free cash generation will improve as the sale of our in the market.
Dairies business and completion of the investment at Davidstow removes a significant drain on cash.
innovation at the heart of what we do The continuing business is much more focussed following the sale Mark Allen Chief Executive of the Dairies business and pace of innovation is, and needs to 18 May 2016 be, an important point of difference.
Future growth is underpinned byinnovation.
In December 2015, our research and development and technical teams moved into our new Dairy Crest Innovation Centre on the Harper Adams University campus.
This state-of-the-art facility will help drive our ambitious target of 10% of sales each year coming from innovation in the previous three years.
This year, We are now focussed on growth helped by the re-launch of Clover we achieved 11% of sales from recent innovation across our four key brands.
and innovation in branded and valueThe Innovation Centre consolidates all of our technical and research expertise and equipment in one place and allows us added products.
The business has to benefit from cross-fertilisation of people and ideas with the been simplified and is well-positioned university which is a leading centre of food and agricultural research.
It will also deliver Innovation continues to drive our business forward in other ways.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, we: improved margins in the future.
successfully re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients: brought two new Frylight products to market coconut and rapeseed spray oils: introduced a new milk purchasing contract for our Davidstow supplying farmers that aligns our growth ambitions with theirs: and agreed in principle a partnership with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd, a logistics specialist, to maximise the throughput at our Nuneaton distribution and warehousing site.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 11 Strategic report
