Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement With three acquisitions, pipeline product launches, successful trading in our new subsidiaries and solid growth in our focus portfolio, Dechra has delivered another strong performance in the 2016 financial year.
Read the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43.
Michael Redmond Ian Page Read Delivering Our Strategy on pages 13 to 15.
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer We are pleased to report that the Group has Portfolio Focus delivered a strong financial performance, has Dechra Veterinary Products Europe continued to implement its strategic objectives DVP EU and has invested in its infrastructure, people, Growth in the existing DVP EU business product development and acquisitions to during the year was modest at 5.7% at CER.
Progress has been Including the eight months contribution from made in all aspects of our key strategic growth Genera, it was 13.9% at CER.
Revenue growth drivers: Our Companion Animal Product CAP in EU Portfolio Focus: we continue to sales were driven predominantly by strong outperform in the majority of therapeutic performance in endocrinology, and anaesthetics areas and markets in which we trade, and analgesics.
Within endocrinology, Vetoryl significantly so within the US: continues to grow in all major territories and the launch of Zycortal into 14 countries Pipeline Delivery: our product has strengthened our position in this key development pipeline has delivered therapeutic sector.
Our equine portfolio has also two novel global products and several performed well.
Osphos has been launched regional and national registrations in the across all major territories and is performing to period: our expectations.
We are also re-positioning Equipalazone following palatability trials.
Geographical Expansion: we benefited from a solid performance in territories The recovery in FAP that was reported in the established in the previous financial year first half has continued in the remainder of the and have established positions in Austria, financial year.
The decline in antibiotic sales in the Adriatic region and Mexico within the Germany has slowed and after several years of financial year: decline in the Netherlands we are now seeing sales flatten.
Against this background, overall Acquisitions: three acquisitions have growth has been achieved by increasing market been made in the year, providing penetration in Poland and in countries where we critical mass and an enhanced product had a lower market share historically, such as development pipeline in the US market, Progress has been the UK, France, Italy and Spain.
We have also poultry vaccine development capabilities launched Solamocta, a new antibiotic lifecycle to broaden our EU Food producing made in all aspects improvement which will be key to our recovery Animal Products FAP business and a of our key strategic in Germany.
Other new product registrations marketing and registration platform for have been received within FAP and are being growth drivers Dechras portfolio in Mexico.
prepared for imminent launch in Europe which should ensure that we continue to see positive momentum within this important therapeutic sector.
08 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 8 05 09 2016 17:24:44 09Strategic Report Diet sales have not fully returned to previous to enhance sales of the Dechra and Putney levels following the supply problems in the range of veterinary pharmaceuticals.
We have appointed an the newly acquired Mexican business, is experienced manager to focus on developing managed by an internally promoted Country our therapeutic diets business and have Manager, Arturo Bravo, and a newly appointed recently won two new contracts with major Finance Director, Roco Aguirre, and reports veterinary groups which should ensure an under our DVP NA segment.
59.5% improved position in the future.
Pipeline Delivery DVP North America DVP NA Team Integration Revenue growth Performance within our existing North Following the acquisition of Putney and the in NA American business remains exceptional with assessment of the drivers behind the teams revenue growth of 37.9% at CER.
Including success, we have promoted its Director and Putney and Brovel since acquisition it was Head of the Development function, 59.5% at CER.
The US has driven the majority Dr Anthony Lucas, to lead the enlarged of this growth as we continue to gain strong Groups product development teams.
market penetration in our key focus areas of Dr Anthony Lucas will retain his current dermatology and endocrinology.
This growth regulatory team at Putney and will work closely has been enhanced by a good performance with Dr Susan Longhofer to ensure effective from Phycox, strong growth and traction utilisation of the Groups resources.
with Osphos and the successful launch of Ian Page Successful Approvals Zycortal in March 2016.
Furthermore, our Chief Executive Officer Zycortal, a novel canine endocrine product biggest product, Vetoryl capsules, delivered for the treatment of Addisons disease, has double digit growth as we have maintained received approval throughout the EU, USA, our educational and marketing campaign Canada and Australia.
and introduced a low dose 5mg capsule to increase flexibility on dosing options.
DVP Following the successful registration of Canada delivered a good performance across Osphos last year in the US and UK, approval the portfolio which was also enhanced by the was subsequently received in 17 additional launch of Osphos and Zycortal.
The business EU countries in September 2015.
Osphos has also benefited from the acquisition and is a unique product which treats navicular launch of HY-50 in the territory, a product syndrome in horses.
which we have marketed in Europe since its We have also had numerous successes in acquisition in January 2012. our FAP portfolio in Europe: two new water The primary focus of the management team soluble antibiotics, Solamocta and Phenocillin Glossary towards the end of the trading period was to have been approved in 17 member states: Terms used within this section: integrate the commercial team from the recent a liquid antibiotic, Metaxol, was approved in acquisition of Putney.
The enlarged team will 18 member states: and our existing antibiotic CAP give Dechra improved penetration and more aerosol, Cyclospray, was extended into Companion Animal Products direct contact with US veterinary practices 12 new territories.
FAP Food producing Animal Products CER Constant Exchange Rate DVP EU Dechra Veterinary Products Europe DVP NA Dechra Veterinary Products North America 09 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 9 05 09 2016 17:24:47 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Our new Croatian facility has achieved development teams into our global operations.
approval for a poultry vaccine, Avishield ND, Additional focus has been provided to the to treat Newcastle disease in 12 major poultry vaccines unit which historically sold European markets and has also achieved a products solely into less regulated developing 12 number of other national registrations including markets.
It is now pleasing to report that they Egypt and Ukraine.
have received their first approval for an EU Approval in registered vaccine.
Whilst one vaccine on its We continue to gain international approvals own will not be commercially significant, it does 12 major European to enhance our geographical expansion and demonstrate that we have the correct quality have received several registrations in both markets for the and regulatory capabilities in place to register established and developing markets around the core range necessary to market poultry poultry vaccine, the globe.
vaccines in Europe and other important world Avishield ND markets.
Pipeline Progress In the period, we have terminated an early Brovel stage project for canine ophthalmology In January 2016, Dechra acquired 100% of and a canine cardiology project.
We have, the share capital of Laboratorios Brovel S. A. however, initiated eight new projects across fide C. V. Brovel, a veterinary pharmaceuticals both FAP and CAP.
Furthermore, successful company based in Mexico City.
The Group development has continued on the Genera paid US$5.0 million 3.3 million consideration vaccines and Putney generics since in cash on completion and a further acquisition with significant filings being made US$1.0 million 0.6 million is contingent from both locations.
To facilitate the increased upon Brovel reaching successful registration number of projects we have created a third milestones for Dechras products in Mexico.
pharmaceutical development laboratory in Brovel was a family owned business with more Zagreb, Croatia, staffed with five scientists than 52 years experience in the production who will expand our formulation and analytical and distribution of pharmaceutical veterinary development capabilities.
It has a diverse product portfolio with a turnover of MxP$66.2 million Geographical Expansion 2.6 million.
The Board believes this Geographical expansion is progressing well.
acquisition will help open the significant In addition to the acquisition of Brovel, which Mexican animal health market to Dechra as creates a foothold and an opportunity to well as offer the potential to access other Latin develop a presence in the significant Mexican New pharmaceutical American markets in the future.
The primary market, the acquisition of Genera provides development objective of this acquisition is to use it as access to the smaller markets of Croatia, a platform to register and market Dechras laboratory in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Slovenia.
Several of our products have Croatia A greenfield start-up subsidiary has been been identified as suitable for the Mexican established in Austria which commenced market and the registration process with the trading in January 2016.
Initial sales are authorities has commenced.
Our subsidiaries in Canada Putney and Poland, established in the prior financial In April 2016, Dechra acquired Putney Inc. year, are performing well, with Poland being for US$200.0 million 134.2 million which above our expectations.
was funded by the refinancing of the existing Acquisitions debt facilities and a placing of new shares Genera of approximately 5% of the Groups issued In October 2015 Dechra acquired a controlling share capital.
The acquisition was the most Read Strategy in Action: interest in the shares of Genera d. d. for complementary US opportunity we had Pipeline Delivery on pages 36.6 million 26.8 million which was funded 16 and 17. identified and provides significant scale from existing cash and revolving debt facilities.
and access to a strong drug pipeline in the Read Strategy in Action: The objective of the acquisition was to broaden key North American market.
The business, Portfolio Focus on pages our EU FAP business by entering into the 18 and 19. which had a turnover of US$49.6 million in fast growing poultry vaccines market.
The the year ended December 2015, markets Read Strategy in Action: business also provides us with a variety of dose Geographical Expansion and 11 approved products and has a further 10 Acquisition on pages 20 to 22. form manufacturing and technical know-how generic products in its pipeline which are in a low cost environment and extends our expected to be launched over the next five View further content on our geographical reach into the Adriatic region.
Since acquisition we have started to have successfully completed the first major deliver synergies with the rationalisation of steps of integration.
Following consultation duplicated functions and the integration of our with the Croatian authorities and trade unions, commercial teams.
The product development we have rationalised the business to improve team, who have successfully registered 43.0% efficiency and effectiveness and have integrated of all generic CAP approvals in the US since the commercial, manufacturing and product 2012, are a key resource for Dechra.
10 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 10 05 09 2016 17:24:47 11Strategic Report Strategic Enablers She left the Company at the end of July 2016 People to take up a role as Chief Financial Officer with Our people remain the most important enabler a FTSE 100 business.
As announced on to deliver success to the Group.
We have 17 August 2016, Richard Cotton is expected Our people remain the continued throughout the year to invest in to join the Company in January 2017 as Chief performance and talent management systems Financial Officer.
As outlined earlier in this most important enabler and have also recently implemented a new report, the SET is also being strengthened to deliver success to Oracle-based integrated HR system in 16 with the promotion of Dr Anthony Lucas to countries enabling us to better standardise head up the Groups product development the Group.
and monitor performance and reward teams, and the appointment of a new Group packages throughout the organisation.
The Manufacturing and Logistics Director, Greig HR team have also been heavily engaged Rooney.
in our recent acquisition activity in the due Technology diligence, communication, consultation and Oracle Roll Out restructuring of the businesses.
The roll out of the Oracle ERP system We are currently undergoing significant continues to be one of the primary operational change in our Board and Senior Executive objectives of the business.
The current Chairman, Michael the core Oracle solution was successfully Redmond, will step down from the Board in implemented into DVP US.
Following our October 2016 at our Annual General Meeting.
go-live for the Oracle Group Financial We have recruited his successor, Tony Rice, Consolidation solution in June 2015, the full who has been appointed to the Board as a Oracle roll out programme continues.
We are Non-Executive Director and will be appointed currently targeting a roll out to most sites in as Chairman with effect from the conclusion 2017 followed by an upgrade to the current of the Companys Annual General Meeting, Manufacturing Oracle system.
Chris Richards stepped Technology Upgrades down from the Board as a Non-Executive We have commenced Windows 10 Director after almost six years of service with deployment across all Group devices and the Company to further other opportunities.
utilising Surface Pro 4 devices as standard We are currently engaged in the recruitment laptops for all personnel.
New firewall security process to add additional expertise to the models have been implemented and new Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Annecyber security initiatives have been taken Francoise Nesmes, the Chief Financial Officer to enhance system security and improve during the 2016 financial year, who supported user awareness.
The Group now operates significant changes for Dechra over the last on an MPLS network across all major sites three years, has also resigned from the Board.
indd 11 05 09 2016 17:24:49 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued following the transition of DVP NA early in the material wastage rates and batch reject rates financial year.
Work has begun to bring the are lower than the previous year.
recently acquired businesses onto the Groups Contract Manufacturing standardised systems.
Manufacturing volumes have increased overall due to internal sales increasing: however, Communication Tools like-for-like external sales have decreased We have developed and launched a Group 12.91 Learning Management System, Delta, by 4.8% at CER due to reduced volume The Board is proposing enabling us to train employees across the with some customers.
Overall contract a final dividend globe in a structured and standardised way.
manufacturing has increased following the Initial modules focus on policies such as Genera acquisition.
Contract manufacturing of 12.91 pence Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and also, assists the Group in utilising capacity and per share from a commercial perspective, on sales contributes to fixed overheads, thereby team training and the key technical and improving the unit cost of goods for all products, including Dechras own products.
unique selling points of our major products.
Service to customers has increased with onThe Dechra Academy, which provides online certified training for veterinarians and time delivery ahead of internal targets and the veterinary nurses in our key therapeutic previous year.
sectors, has been enhanced and is well Dividend received by veterinary professionals.
We The Board is proposing a final dividend of are also developing social media marketing 12.91 pence per share 2015: 11.82 pence tools with regular communications to our per share.
Added to the interim dividend of customers across several media platforms.
5.55 pence per share, this brings the total The Group intranet is also undergoing dividend for the financial year ended 30 June complete redevelopment to provide improved 2016 to 18.46 pence per share, representing capabilities for internal communication.
9.0% growth over the previous year.
Manufacturing Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual People General Meeting to be held on 21 October Mike Annice, our Group Manufacturing 2016, the final dividend will be paid on Director, retired in July of this year following 18 November 2016 to shareholders on the 25 years with the Group.
In preparation Register at 28 October 2016.
The shares will for his retirement we have recruited his be become ex-dividend on 27 October 2016.
Good progress has successor, Greig Rooney, who has extensive been made on the experience in the pharmaceutical, automotive Outlook Although we anticipate a degree of and food industries.
Greig will operate out integration of the recent uncertainty following Brexit, the business is of our Head Office site in Northwich and acquisitions naturally hedged by its geographical spread will have responsibilities for all our global and international sourcing.
Any significant manufacturing sites, Group logistics and downturn in the UK economy may impinge on supply chain management.
To assist Greig we growth rates: however, we do not anticipate have appointed a new Manufacturing Finance any material effect on the Group.
Director, Milton McCann, who commenced his role with the Group in January 2016.
We have Good progress has been made on the also promoted Andrew Parkinson to Group integration of the acquisitions.
Our pipeline Quality Director and have appointed Chris has also been strengthened through both new Ashcroft as the Skipton Site Director.
internally generated ideas and the integration of acquired development programmes.
We Efficiency Improvements have continued to invest in people and the In our previous financial year we made infrastructure to ensure we maximise revenues an investment to upgrade the pre-mix and execute our strategy successfully.
department in Bladel to increase batch sizes and reduce the cost of goods.
This The Group continues to deliver growth and department is now fully commissioned and identify opportunities across all aspects of our product transfer to the new lines is under strategy: we therefore continue to look forward way.
We have also invested in a new tablet to the future with confidence.
and capsule blister packaging line in Skipton The Strategic Report has been approved by which will increase volumes and speed, the Board and signed on its behalf by: therefore improving efficiency.
This is currently being commissioned and it is anticipated it Michael Redmond will be effective from the beginning of our new Non-Executive Chairman financial year.
Other initiatives to reduce the 5 September 2016 cost of goods and improve efficiencies have been implemented, resulting in raw material Ian Page price reductions, predominantly for our FAP.
Chief Executive Officer We have also seen a small reduction in 5 September 2016 12 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
