12 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives statement CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT This has been a year of significant progress for Diageo.
Our performance demonstrates our focus on disciplined execution in everything we do.
It is this focus which has delivered volume growth, our fifth consecutive year of margin improvement and strong cash conversion.
I am confident we now have the platform to deliver sustainable growth.
Ivan Menezes, Chief Executive Volume Organic volume movement movement 0.1% 1.3% 2015: 58% 2015: 1% Net sales Organic net movement sales movement 3.0% 2.8% 2015: 5% 2015: flat Operating profit Organic operating movement profit movement 1.6% 3.5% 2015: 3% 2015: 1% We have sustained positive price mix despite Performance North America delivered organic net We have a clear strategy, consistently applied a weaker pricing environment globally, and sales growth of 3%.
This performance which has returned Diageo to both organic we have strengthened our leadership is in line with our expectations, with the volume and organic net sales growth, position and brought our brands to an biggest contributor to organic net sales increasing number of consumers.
Our beer delivered margin improvement and a strong improvement being that our biggest cash performance.
business has grown for seven successive brands are back in growth.
This year we delivered organic volume quarters and continues to provide a strong Organic operating margin was up, driven up 1.3%, and organic net sales up 2.8%, with distribution platform for our spirits ambitions by favourable mix effect and marketing in Africa.
a stronger performance across both in the efficiency.
Operating profit grew 3.5% on an second half.
The improvement in organic All six global giant brands reported organic basis.
On a reported basis, operating net sales has been driven by a return to improved performance this year.
Smirnoffs profit was up 1.6%, negatively impacted by volume growth, and a significant turnaround and Captain Morgans improvement was exchange and disposals.
Earnings per share in US Spirits.
driven by their performance in the United before exceptional items was up 1% as profit We are a more focused company States combined with continued good growth, higher associates income and lower following the disposal of non-core growth in Europe.
Guinness momentum finance charges more than offset the impact businesses.
These disposals, along with continues with the brand growing in Africa of exchange and disposals.
adverse exchange, did however impact and in Great Britain and Ireland, supported reported net sales, which declined 3.0%.
by innovations from The Brewers Project.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Chief Executives statement DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 13 implementation of the Global Producers outcome of this referendum will not have 2016 net sales by category % any material near-term impact on our Commitments to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, an unprecedented partnership business and we are well placed to continue of the worlds largest alcohol companies our global business without significant coming together to tackle harmful drinking disruption.
and, as an industry, we are seeing good progress against the targets we set ourselves Our people for 2017.
We welcome the trends we are I would like to thank all our 32,000 people seeing, such as consumers, and particularly for their energy and dedication during the year.
I am fortunate to lead a business with young adults, drinking better not more, and the significant fall in the number of alcoholmotivated, committed teams around the related road traffic fatalities in many world.
This was demonstrated by this years Scotch 24% IMFL Whisky 5% countries.
This suggests that initiatives annual employee Values Survey, which Beer 18% Liqueurs 5% showed another year of improving such as the multi-stakeholder approach Vodka 13% Gin 3% advocated by the Global Producers engagement scores.
Our results compare NAM Whisk e y 8% Tequila 1% Rum 7% Other 10% Commitments are having a positive impact.
very well with those of other multinational Ready to drink 6% We are not complacent and there is more companies, which I see as a real competitive advantage for Diageo.
This year, we signed a strategic We continue to drive productivity and cash partnership agreement with the United Franz, in his statement, highlighted that conversion, delivering over 100% cash Nations Institute for Training and Research Javier Ferrn, who joined the Board as a conversion for a second year and free UNITAR which, over the next two years, Non-Executive Director on 22 July 2016, will cash flow improved by 134 million.
succeed him as Chairman on 1 January 2017. will work towards reducing traffic death and injuries, and improve road safety I would like to extend my thanks to Franz Business transformation globally.
I was proud to learn that we were for his role in making Diageo the strong Over the past three years, my goal has been approached to partner with UNITAR on the business it is today, and for his stewardship to put the consumer at the heart of our of the Diageo Board during his eight years basis of our strong track record in supporting business.
Consumer trends are moving programmes and policies to address as Chairman.
I look forward to working faster than ever before and companies that drink driving.
with Javier as we build on Diageos can interpret and deliver quickly against We are long-standing leaders in providing leadership position.
The renewed consumer information to help people make momentum we have in the business is informed choices as part of a balanced Outlook because we have the consumer-facing lifestyle, and recently announced that Diageo has an enviable portfolio of brands, culture required to succeed and the agility Johnnie Walker Red Label will be the first a truly global footprint and exposure to the to move at pace.
fastest growing opportunities in our sector.
global brand to provide per serving alcohol We have shifted the focus of our content and nutritional information on-pack.
The business is now able to respond faster marketing to be centred on the recruitment The new labels are designed to help to consumer insights, to shape trends and and re-recruitment of consumers and on consumers understand whats in their glass, to deliver.
We have been embedding a what drives consumption occasions, and and conform to the new Diageo Consumer productivity culture, and are committed we are introducing more rigour around Information Standards which came into to sustainable efficiency in every area of our the evaluation of the effectiveness of our force on 1 July 2016 and applies to all cost base to achieve 500 million in savings spend.
We continue to uphold the highest Diageo brands.
in the coming three years.
Two-thirds of the standards of responsibility, ensuring that all During the year, I also had the efficiencies identified will be re-invested our marketing activities adhere to our strict opportunity to launch our new DRINKiQ back into the business to drive growth.
exhibit at the Guinness Storehouse in are confident of achieving our objective of Dublin, Ireland, which is one example of mid-single digit organic net sales growth, Our role in society our work to help people make informed and in the three financial years ending 2019 We know that the issues that are most decisions.
This exhibit supports our global delivering 100 basis points of organic material to our business and stakeholders are: responsible drinking website, DRINKiQ.
To create a positive role for alcohol which was relaunched in January this year I am also confident that, with the consumer in society in 12 languages.
at the heart of our business, we will extend Build thriving communities our leadership position and become one of Reduce our environmental impacts.
United Kingdom UK and the the most trusted and respected consumer Our strategy recognises that these issues European Union EU products companies in the world.
are connected to our opportunities as a Following the UKs vote to leave the EU business, as well as the UN Global Goals on 23 June 2016, we are working closely launched in 2015.
Our strategy also reflects with government and our industry bodies how the elements of our value chain are to ensure our views are reflected in the interdependent, and how contributing transition process.
We welcome the to society, to communities, and to the formation of a specialist international trade Ivan Menezes environment strengthens our business.
department, as it is important for Diageo that Chief Executive We are passionate about ensuring alcohol the UK continues to benefit from open access has a positive role in society as part of a to the EU as well as favourable international balanced lifestyle and are committed to trade agreements.
We believe that the tackling misuse.
We do this through our PDF Page: 1 13. p13.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
