Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Consistent outperformance Overview Our strong sales growth was sustained It is naturally pleasing to again report record throughout the year, as many of our strategic initiatives continued to deliver results that demonstrate the robustness of our ahead of our expectations within a healthy furniture market environment.
business model, the effectiveness of our growth This performance enabled us to deliver strategy and the excellence of our products and profit before tax at the upper end of market expectations despite the our people.
Together these unique assets give increased operating costs arising from our investment for the future in the DFS the proven ability to achieve consistent development of Dwell, Sofa Workshop outperformance of the retail furniture market over and DFS internationally.
The business also remains highly cash generative, the long term.
enabling us to fund our investments in store openings and refurbishments, and an accelerated programme of retail space conversion, while reducing gearing and increasing returns to our shareholders.
Growth strategy update Broadening our appeal to customers We remain committed to creating and making sofas that every home loves and can afford, and have focused on extending our appeal to an even broader range of customers so as to consolidate our position as the UK market leader in upholstered furniture across all customer segments.
Our ranges of Exclusive Brands have performed well ahead of our expectations, with a 35% increase in total sales orders over the year as a whole.
Highlights included the introduction of a number of new models under the House Beautiful brand, and the continued outstanding success of the French Connection Zinc range.
Our close supplier relationships and vertical integration insights have enabled us to introduce a seven-day express delivery option across the Zinc sofa range.
We extended our partnership agreements with French Connection, House Beautiful and Country Living during the year, and are also achieving encouraging results from the sale of sofas from our own Sofa Workshop Dillon and Ellie ranges through DFS stores.
indb 20 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 UK and Republic of Ireland As expected, our investment in long-term EXCLUSIVE BRANDS TOTAL DFS store roll-out brand-building for DFS in The Netherlands SALES ORDER INCREASE Our well-established programme of adding was reflected in operating costs, net of new 10-15,000 sq.
ft. DFS stores at the rate incremental revenue, of approximately of three to five per annum has continued to 2 million during the year, and we expect 35% plan, with the successful opening of three to maintain a similar 2-3 million of net new stores at Christchurch and Kettering investment in the current financial year.
in the UK and Limerick in the Republic In September 2016 we opened a 3,300 EXPRESS DELIVERY LEAD of Ireland.
ft. store in Amsterdam as our first trial TIMES ON CERTAIN RANGES catchment area model, leveraging our in The Netherlands of a smaller format comprehensive delivery postcode data, store in a shopping centre location.
We intend to maintain a measured approach enables us to make a highly accurate 7 days assessment of new store opportunities to to additional store openings as we strengthen customer awareness and target new stores likely to deliver substantial incremental EBITDA, and achieve rapid reputation in this market, with the longterm aim of building the scale needed payback within two years.
Progress in opening new stores in the 2017 financial to support national TV marketing based on the proven model of DFS in the UK.
year is well advanced with two new stores opened in Truro and Salisbury, and further openings planned in the next six months.
Following the success of our initial trial of a smaller 2,500 sq.
ft. store last year in the Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, London, we opened a further small store in Bromley in April 2016 and will shortly open a third store in this format in Crawley, extending the trial outside the M25.
The development of this smaller concept is made possible by our market-leading website and innovative Swoosh furniture visualisation technology, allowing us to demonstrate the comfort of our products to customers with just one unit from each range in store, while using large screens to show our complete range of sizes, types, coverings and colour options.
International expansion We continue to make progress in The Netherlands, where we opened a second store in Rotterdams Alexandrium shopping mall and retail park in September 2015.
ft. this store is smaller than our initial trial opening in Cruquius and is achieving comparable results, giving us reassurance that store performance is replicable and predictable in new locations.
Cruquius also achieved satisfactory growth in sales year-on-year.
indb 21 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED DFS Spain, acquired in October 2015, of beds and dining furniture.
Whereas allow us to continue to grow our scale and add incremental functionality.
performed well during the year following previously we have guided to incremental the refit of its showroom in San Javier, EBITDA per CDC of c. 500k, we now The integration of online technology with near Murcia in January 2016.
However, expect each of the CDC conversions since our brand primarily appeals to will generate 650k700k of incremental our stores has also continued during the financial year, with roll-out of Swoosh the 800,000-strong British expatriate EBITDA including both the benefit of the community in Spain, recent trading incremental Dwell profitability and also furniture visualisation technology in over 70% of the DFS estate, with all stores in this business has understandably the impact of DFS LFL sales growth.
seen some impact from the uncertainty planned to have the technology before our key Winter Sale trading period.
This arising from the EU Referendum vote.
The roll-out of this programme involves significant pre-opening costs in the short allows us to project the full range of models, colours and materials on a video wall in Retail space optimisation term, as new sales staff are recruited and We have established a successful model trained and we scale up our supply chain store, enabling customers to see exactly how their chosen product will look in for Dwell to occupy store warehousing and head office to support the new stores.
space converted for retail use within the With the scale and pace of roll-out this their homes, and helping our store staff financial year, we believe the incremental to sell the full breadth of the DFS range.
This has two positive results.
First, the new Dwell stores generate benefits we are currently seeing will be offset by implementation costs, however Customer service higher revenue and profits than we have been able to achieve by using converted from FY18 and into FY19 we expect We remain determined to deliver the there will be a 3-4 million increase in highest standards of service to all our space to sell ranges of beds and dining furniture.
Secondly, the first twelve Dwell EBITDA in aggregate above the previous customers.
Our approach relies both guidance given for this growth lever.
on proactive training and Net Promoter stores opened have also generated a c. 2% like-for-like increase in DFS bookings Score NPS linked incentivisation of our Omnichannel staff, combined with a feedback system within the associated DFS stores, as these stores have benefited from increased Today the web is the natural starting that allows us accurately to measure point for most people researching and track the satisfaction of customers footfall through new customers and an increased frequency of return visits.
a potential furniture purchase and a throughout their purchase down to product, vital gateway and complement to our store, factory and employee level.
The success of the Dwell store-in-store physical stores.
co. uk remains a strong leader, continuing to I am pleased to report a further concept has led us to accelerate our investment in the Customer Distribution attract over 40% of upholstery sector improvement in our post-purchase NPS web traffic over the course of the year.
This programme releases additional retail As I indicated in our last annual report, Continued investment in our web channel we have placed increasing emphasis on space by removing DFSs warehouse operations from stores and consolidating this year has included the upgrading of our ability to deliver established customer our product viewer and room planning satisfaction the willingness of customers them into larger, purpose-built, off-site facilities.
A further six CDCs opened during apps, the development of a new online to recommend our products to their friends payment system, and the introduction or family six months after making their the year, giving us a total of eleven at the year-end, which serve approximately half of an online order tracking service that own purchase.
This established customer allows customers to follow the progress satisfaction surveyed six months postof our store estate.
We now expect to complete the programme with of their new furniture through every step delivery showed a substantial improvement from placing their order to its installation to 31.2%, compared with 21.9% in the the opening of a further eight CDCs during the new financial year.
Our mobile and tablet prior year.
All our management and sites have remained a focus for our customer-facing staff are now incentivised On completion of the CDC conversion development reflecting the changing mix according to the results achieved in of devices our customers use to visit our these established customer NPS.
programme and store-in-store roll-out we will have over 40 Dwell stores giving site.
We have also enjoyed continued double-digit growth in sales completed us nationwide coverage, together with more than five new Sofa Workshop online, making a valuable contribution to overall Group sales growth.
Subsequent stores, whilst in the remainder of the DFS estate we will utilise the remaining to the end of the financial year we also successfully replatformed our website retail space to carry additional ranges 22 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 22 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 LED equipment.
Our ISO 14001 Outlook SHARE OF THE UPHOLSTERY environmental accreditation was extended The relatively short trading period inevitably SECTOR WEB TRAFFIC during the year to cover DFS retail stores makes it hard to predict the impact of DFS.
CO. UK ATTRACTS as well as our head office in Doncaster.
"the EU Referendum on the furniture retail DURING A YEAR market however we are reassured that In the community, we have continued the Groups trading in the last fourteen our partnership with the British Heart weeks has not indicated any weakening 40% Foundation BHF"" both in fundraising of demand to date."
We recognise that in through the successful sofa recycling 2017 retailing of furniture in the UK faces ESTABLISHED CUSTOMER scheme, and in training and raising an increased risk of a market slowdown NPS SIX MONTHS POST ORDER awareness among our people.
All with additional cost pressures from foreign INCREASED TO exchange movements, whilst it is likely that new starters at DFS receive training in CPR skills which may prove literally the retail environment will remain intensely competitive.
However, with its proven life-saving.
We are proud to have raised 31.2% 3.4 million for BHF during the year resilient operating model the Group remains very well positioned to mitigate economic and also to have raised more than 750,000 for BBC Children in Need.
headwinds and achieve continued growth AMOUNT RAISED FOR THE in its share of the UK retail furniture market.
BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION Team GB partnership IN 2016 Overall we believe DFS enjoys excellent We were delighted to play a part in the historic and well-deserved success of prospects to deliver long-term profitable growth, strong cash generation and a Team GB in the Rio 2016 Olympics through 3.4m our sponsorship as Team GBs official progressive dividend policy as one of the UKs best-known brands, a major homeware partner.
In this role we were Management responsible for making Team GBs base British manufacturer and the countrys I would like to join the Chairman in leading retailer of upholstered furniture.
in Rio a comfortable home-from-home thanking Bill Barnes for his great for our athletes.
It was naturally a source contribution to DFS as our Group of particular pride and pleasure that all Finance Director since 2003, and to wish our participating Brand Ambassadors Ian Filby him a very long and happy retirement.
Chief Executive Officer Adam Peaty, Laura Trott and Max Whitlock won gold medals during the 5 October 2016 As well as welcoming Nicola Bancroft games: successes which we were able to her new role as Chief Financial Officer, to celebrate on digital billboards across I would like to welcome Toni Wood to our the UK highlighting our partnership.
Executive Committee as Chief Marketing Officer.
Toni joins us from Costa Coffee, As well as helping to enhance the profile where she was Global Brand & Digital of DFS through connected advertising, Director, and has previously held senior the partnership enabled us to engage our marketing roles at The Jordans & Ryvita staff with the athletes philosophy of how Company, Findus and Procter & Gamble.
marginal gains in many areas can add up to a noticeable improvement in overall Corporate responsibility performance.
We held a number of internal We have continued to work hard to events to drive staff engagement across be a responsible and sustainable the business, including holding our very business that puts something back own DFS Olympics in Doncaster, and into the communities where we operate.
were grateful to our Brand Ambassador Our Energy Management Policy has Denise Lewis, the 2000 gold medallist continued to reduce our environmental in the heptathlon, for helping to build impact by reducing emissions from excitement and support in the run-up to our delivery vehicles and company car the games by undertaking a nationwide fleet, and by upgrading store lighting tour of our stores and factories.
through the installation of low-energy 23 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
