Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 8 Dignity plc 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Chief Executives overview A strong platform to drive growth and deliver long-term value.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Links Performance in 2016 % 98.8 See Marketoverview: Strong cost control.
p. 06 and p. 07 98.8 per cent of families said that Core portfolio continues to deliver growth.
Dignity met or exceeded their See Strategy and business model: Invested in the business where p. 08 and p. 09 expectations.
See Operating review: Acquisitions add further value.
p. 16 to p. 22 Overview the launch of Simplicity Cremations, Maintaining investment and development a nationally available, online, affordable A year ago, we described an extraordinary momentum in our core business period in 2015, with the number of deaths direct cremation service where there is We continue to set aside resources to increasing by seven per cent to 588,000. no traditional funeral service, simply the invest in our existing funeral and crematoria We noted that it was likely this sharp collection and unwitnessed cremation locations.
We have increased the staffing of the deceased and then return of the increase would normalise in 2016, but this of our property team in the year to manage has not been the case.
This does not replace the full our estate and associated capital were slightly higher than 2015 at 590,000. service, traditional funeral that we provide, expenditure more efficiently and to create Allowing for the fact that 2016 represents but rather provides families with a lower additional recourse for finding funeral cost simple option.
The market for this a 53 week period for the Group, means satellite locations and crematorium sites.
that even on a 52 week comparable basis, service is currently small but given our This should help to free local management deaths were only approximately two per significant national networks of funeral time so that they can further focus on cent lower in the period.
This has enabled locations and crematoria we are able to delivering excellent client service.
offer this service in a more comprehensive us to grow profits year on year and Long-term focus drives strong outperform expectations despite some and cost effective way than other operators.
performance headwinds experienced by the business.
Corporate activity The business has yet again demonstrated The business invested 56.3 million The performance reflects a larger market its robustness and is well placed for the share loss in our core business than seen on acquisitions in the period, including future.
We hope to achieve our revised before, combined with additional costs 41.1 million excluding external medium-term target of eight per cent per incurred to support the business.
The transaction costs to acquire five annum increases in earnings per share crematoria locations from Funeral Services market share decline follows stronger by staying focused on excellent service, market share than expected in 2015.
Limited trading as Co-op Funeralcare operating efficiently, selling pre-arranged 2017 has started well but we continue the Crematoria Acquisition.
This was an funeral plans, acquiring and developing to keep this under review.
unexpected opportunity for the Group and quality businesses where possible and one we were able to quickly respond to keeping our capital structure appropriately We expect 2017 to be a year where we thanks to our strong balance sheet and leveraged.
develop the business further in response detailed understanding of the market.
to the changing environment in which we We will also need to ensure the high The Crematoria Acquisition generated operate.
For example, we have engaged standards Dignity operates at are properly 1.0 million of operating profit in the with the reviews into funeral services by understood by all stakeholders: particularly period, in line with expectations.
the Scottish and Westminster parliaments, given continued political and media interest arguing for regulation of funeral services We have also seen further developments in the sector and our ongoing support for in our plan to build new crematoria.
We are also better regulation of the industries in which working hard on introducing new digital An update on this is described in the we operate.
The first such example is Operating Review.
Driving sustainable performance Differentiating through service quality Sustainability and continuity and consistency Our clear and consistent strategy remains The results of our funeral service surveys focused on the principle that by operating continue to demonstrate the strength and with the best people and practices, we will quality of our people and operations.
continue to deliver outstanding service to Our objective is to lead the funeral our clients and generate sustained value High levels of client satisfaction help us sector in professional standards for all our stakeholders.
to build trust and maintain loyalty to our and service.
I believe we do this brand and services and develop strong Our strong capital management underpins and that we continue to improve.
relationships with both returning and our ability to enhance our operations and new clients.
services through: continuous improvement: Our clients value this which is why investment in steady organic and acquired Strategic and effective management of they return to us and recommend growth:and further strategic development.
our resources and relationships is vital in us, allowing us to report strong ensuring the sustainability of our business.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
