06 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Review This year, underlying organic revenue growth has again been hard won against a background of challenging market Building larger, broader conditions across all three Sectors and across all geographies served.
Total revenue grew by 15%, of which 3% was underlying organic growth, with based businesses the balance coming from acquisitions and translational currency benefits.
This continues a trend over five years of 11% compound annual revenue growth, with an average of 4% p. a. underlying organic revenue growth.
Group strategy and corporate objectives The Groups strategy is designed to Adjusted operating margins this year generate strong growth in earnings and were 17.2% of revenue, compared with shareholder value over the business a five-year average of 18.6% and as cycle, by building larger, broader-based always there were a number of factors businesses in the three Group Sectors impacting the Groups margin.
Margins of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls.
were negatively impacted again this year by transactional currency effects The Groups principal corporate in the Healthcare businesses, initial objectives are to achieve double-digit dilution from acquired businesses and growth in adjusted earnings per share reduced operating leverage in a lower EPS over the business cycle, to growth environment.
The Groups generate total shareholder return TSR medium term target for operating growth in the upper quartile of the FTSE margin, in an improved economic 250 and to deliver progressive dividend environment, remains 1819%.
growth with two times dividend cover.
Agility and responsiveness in the This year the Group delivered 10% businesses ensure close management of growth in adjusted EPS, with modest The Groups strategy, operating costs and working capital and underlying organic growth boosted by deliver strong free cash flow.
This year, a good contribution from acquisitions consistently applied, free cash flow was very strong at 59.0m, completed over the last 18 months and which represented 124% of adjusted delivers strong growth from translational currency benefits.
TSR earnings, compared with an average growth this year has been 36%, which in earnings and of 96% over the last five years.
The compares with a 4% increase in the principal driver of the strong cash flow median and a 23% increase in the upper shareholder value.
this year, was the close management quartile TSR performance of the FTSE of working capital which was managed 250 index excluding Investment Trusts.
back down to 16.6% of revenues by the Dividends have increased progressively year end, compared with a five-year in each of the last 17 years and this year average of 1617%.
In addition, free the dividend has increased by 10%, cash flow benefited this year from the covered 2.1 times by adjusted EPS.
sale of the Medivators product line and the sale of certain legacy properties.
Business model Our businesses target GDP plus levels Growth strategy of organic revenue growth over the Overall growth is accelerated from business cycle.
Stable and resilient the underlying GDP plus levels to the revenue growth is achieved through corporate target of strong, double-digit our focus on essential products and growth, through carefully selected, services funded by customers operating value enhancing acquisitions which rather than capital budgets and supplied fit the business model and offer across a range of specialised industry entry into new strategic markets.
By supplying essential solutions, not just products, we build Acquisitions are not made just to add strong long term relationships with our revenue and profit, but rather to bring customers and suppliers, which support into the Group successful businesses sustainable and attractive margins.
which have growth potential, capable Finally, we encourage an entrepreneurial management and a good track record of culture in our businesses through our profitable growth and cash generation.
decentralised management structure As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow and these essential values ensure that strategy, we invest in the businesses decisions are made close to the customer post-acquisition to build a firm foundation and that the businesses are agile and to allow them to move to a new level of responsive to changes in the market growth.
These acquisitions form a critical and the competitive environment.
part of our Sector growth strategies and are designed to generate a pre-tax The key performance indicators return on investment of at least 20% KPIs we use to measure the success and hence support our Group objectives of the business model relate to for return on total investment.
recurring income and stable revenue growth, sustainable and attractive margins and strong cash flow.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 07 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Again we measure the success of the growth strategy with KPIs, the first of Strategic objectives which is acquisition spend.
To achieve the Groups objective of strong doubledigit growth, acquisition spend at the level of ca.
This Generate stable GDP plus year, the Group continued to benefit from a positive acquisition environment organic revenue growth and invested ca.
33m in acquisitions, bringing the average over three years over the business cycle to ca.
The acquisitions completed over the last three years contributed 20% of 2016 revenues.
The Groups return on total investment Maintain stable attractive measure is the pre-tax return on adjusted trading capital employed, excluding net cash, but including all goodwill and margins acquired intangible assets ROATCE.
This is used to measure the overall performance of the Group and very importantly, our success in creating value Accelerate growth through for shareholders through our acquisition programme.
Over the last five years, ROATCE has comfortably exceeded the carefully selected, value 20% target and this year was 21.1%.
enhancing acquisitions Management strength The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing management teams in the operating businesses, making decisions close to the customer and Generate consistently agile and responsive to changes in the market and competitive environment.
strong cash flow to The Group places very high importance on planning the development, motivation and reward structures for the ca.
90 fund growth strategy senior managers which make up the senior management cadre.
This and dividends group has an average age of 47 and an average length of service of 11 years.
Although we place high importance on our decentralised organisation and the Create value by entrepreneurial culture this encourages, we also recognise that there are consistently exceeding significant synergy benefits which can be achieved through managing clusters 20% ROATCE of similar businesses.
Typically these synergies come in the form of crossselling and joint purchasing between the businesses and shared back-office functions in finance and administration.
There are also best practices which can be shared within the clusters in areas such as IT and digital capabilities.
At the beginning of this year, a formal Executive Management Group EMG was established to ensure that we have a strong and broad-based senior management team in place to support the next stage of the Groups growth strategy.
The members of the EMG are the senior managers responsible for the major business clusters and for certain key Group functions.
The EMG combines individuals who have developed internally as well as selective external recruits.
The EMG gives the senior management bench strength to manage a growing and broadly spread Group, while laying the groundwork for For more information, please visit: succession in key executive positions.
