Chief Executive Officers review Building on our success The fact that our own brands have grown shows that customers like the many changes we have made in recent years.
In particular, the success of Direct Line has encouraged us to keep innovating for our customers.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer However, as 2016 revealed, we can do well in uncertain What is your view on the Groups financial times.
We hold our head, know what were trying to achieve, performance?
and have experienced teams that are well prepared to tackle It was a strong year, maintaining our record of strong financial whatever the world throws at us.
We also have to keep pace performance and underwriting discipline since our IPO, but with what customers expect from technology.
We expect also with an added ingredient: growth.
This is particularly profound revolution with connected cars and homes: the risks gratifying because it shows that customers really like the new we cover: new sources of data: and new propositions for propositions, the great value and the excellent service that our customers.
brands are delivering, especially Direct Line.
In terms of regulation, weve actively lobbied Government to make whiplash claims more efficient for customers and The Group has hit nearly all its targets since ourselves.
If we reduce costs, we can be in a position to its IPO four years ago.
To what do you attribute pass on savings to customers, so we hope the Government this success?
consultation will produce effective reform for the industry.
We found the whole IPO process actually helped us get really clear on our strategy and plans, and motivated the How do you feel the Group is progressing whole team to deliver against them.
In particular, the fact that towards its goal to make insurance much we have now given all of our colleagues three grants of free easier and better value for our customers?
shares helps everyone to care about the Company enough to change it.
We listen to colleagues ideas, for example, The fact our brands are growing is evidence that were through the employee representative bodies and through doing the right thing.
In a market that people believed was our IdeasLab scheme, and continue to invest in their training commoditised and only about cheap prices, growing the and development.
All this has helped us to do hard things Direct Line brand is the ultimate accolade.
It shows customers like reducing our costs yet at the same time increase the still value great products and service too.
engagement of our colleagues and improve our service Our TV advertising helps show where we believe our to customers.
propositions differentiate us from our competitors.
Our people have also received training on how to better understand and What do you believe will be the risks, empathise with customers to help meet their needs appropriately.
As 2016 has shown, no one can predict the future.
Everything Alongside this, we have improved both the sales and claims from the unpredictability of the weather, combatting new types processes for our customers.
Improving the digital journey of fraud such as cyber attacks, the uncertainties of Brexit and through mobile devices, allowing customers to use their the change to the Ogden discount rate means we all have to smartphones on more aspects of their claims and enabling remain vigilant.
customers to amend their policies with no additional fees are just a few ways were making Direct Line much easier and better value for our customers.
12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have seen quite the opposite, and the fact that 88% of This year saw many success stories.
What were our people complete the Dialogue survey means it represents the highlights for you?
all the various views across our business.
Apart from the great success of Direct Line, we made good progress on our other brands too.
Churchill equals Direct Line The Dialogue approach enables over 900 teams to discuss for customer recognition, and it has been great to see how the how they feel about the business, whats working well and brand is so central to the British sense of identity.
Launching a tackle whats not quite right.
Say it like it is is a core value Bring Back Lollipoppers campaign for schools also linked the of ours: whether its through dialogue or through talking to our brand to improving road safety in a tangible way.
employee representative body and other representative groups.
We have big ambitions for our Green Flag business, and we This years survey showed that we now also have a record think technology will continue changing what it means to be number of colleagues we can identify as champions good at rescue.
So, we have introduced an exciting service people who are both fully engaged and committed to the called Green Flag Alert Me, which tells drivers whats going Group.
They want to contribute to our success, something on in their cars via an app.
And alongside this, the Green Flag which Im able to see and feel when I visit our sites and talk app enables people to easily let us know they have broken to individual teams.
I believe it is our engaged colleagues down, where they are, and track the Green Flag unit coming themselves who can drive the changes and efficiency to help them.
Direct Line for Business has also seen strong growth, with policy What do you feel unites and defines the numbers rising by 6.4% over the year.
We have ambitions of Groups people?
ensuring the Company can do more for businesses in the future.
We are unique in that we are small enough as a business that every person can make a difference, but also big enough What is the Groups opinion on driverless cars?
that we can invest in our people and support their growth We have an open-minded, optimistic attitude to new car and progress.
This investment is crucial and we have been technology.
However, there are two dangerous attitudes that I developing our frontline teams, managers and professional sometimes hear in our industry.
The first is that new technology technical teams to ensure that we have the best people, trained will remove the need for insurance because cars wont have to the highest standards that can Do the right thing for our accidents at all, or that drivers will not be held responsible for customers, investors and other external stakeholders.
I think that, for now, this remains in the realms of science fiction.
Its not the way legislation is shaped, its not Supporting this are internal initiatives such as our diversity the current reality, and it wont be for many years ahead.
network alliance, external schemes such as the 2016 Women in Finance charter, and several other associations that I am However, a second and more dangerous view I hear is proud we have joined.
These are all helping us to chip away that nothing will change.
We believe technology will make at the male, pale, stale image of insurance.
cars much safer and improve driver experiences.
Usage, ownership, prices, and how people choose to buy cars and Every day, I see evidence of people bringing all of themselves insurance will evolve.
So, while I feel the market will remain to work I think this is because we are diverse, and value large, what it means to be an insurer can be expected to the individuality and the unique strengths of each person.
This is backed up by our Dialogue results, where 90% of our colleagues say that they feel they can be themselves at work.
I believe we are thought leaders regarding what car technology will mean.
We talk to many groups, including This is important as it ensures we have the most talented car manufacturers and technology companies.
There are teams and truly represent the ever changing Britain we look also many strands to our work, such as developing the legal to protect.
I believe this further helps our people genuinely framework for autonomous driving, through to becoming the care about their actions, whether thats in the way they treat market leader for insuring safer cars.
We are already giving our customers, or how they help other parts of the Company to customers discounts, for example, if their cars have features be efficient and effective.
Although there is even more we can such as autonomous emergency braking.
do in this area, diversity is something that unites and defines us.
Not only in the conventional sense, but also through striving Reducing accidents can only be a good thing.
I lost my best to have a powerful combination of people, with a rich diversity friend in an accident so Im absolutely behind it.
Technology of experience and thinking.
might change how our business is configured.
The market may get smaller, so well need to win more of it.
If we have the right My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support attitude: consider all the opportunities: and remain experts at throughout the year.
I am excited by their passion and by how using data, helping our customers, and finding new partners, they work tirelessly to make insurance much easier and better I believe we can grow our market share.
What are your thoughts about 2016s employee engagement survey Dialogue?
Im delighted that our efforts on engaging and motivating our colleagues continue to pay off.
There is a risk that engagement can suffer in organisations like ours that are undergoing rapid Paul Geddes change, seeking to improve their efficiency and lower costs.
