STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement DOUBLE-DIGIT SALES AND EARNINGS GROWTH Overview SUMMARY 2016 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong o UK system sales up by 13.8% performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record to938.7m number of openings at very strong average sales per address.
This is theresult of a relentless focus on driving our digital offering through o ROI system sales up by 10.1% investment and innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings and a continued focus on franchisee profitability.
to61.7m We had a good year in ROI, with volume growth driven by improved o 81 new stores in the UK performance from digital channels and a strong economy aiding consumer spending.
We made a strategic investment to acquire the o Group Operating Profit up by 13.5% largest pizza delivery chain in Germany through our associate investment.
Iam also encouraged by our continued progress in Switzerland, where to83.0m we have generated a positive EBITDA for the first time since our acquisition.
Our investment in the Nordics, which we announced inJune, gives us o Investments in Germany, Iceland, access to over 15m people in three markets and our partnership with Norway and Sweden of 46.8m our colleagues is off to a promising start.
o Underlying profit before tax for the Our strategy remains simple and clear.
We aim to be the number onepizza company in each neighbourhood in the countries in which Group up by 17.1% to 85.7m weoperate, through a commitment to offering the best product and service to our customers.
UK and ROI UK The UK business delivered a robust set of results from the 950 stores that were trading at the year end 2015: 869.
System sales were 13.8% ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 7.5% 9.8% removing the impact of split stores.
Like-for-like order volumes were ahead by 4.5% whilst average order value grew by 3.0%, helped by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering value for money.
06 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We continue to enjoy strong like-for-like sales growth, up 7.5% in the UK.
In 2016, easy-order wasmade available on Facebook Messenger We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in ourpreliminary announcement two years ago remains fundamental to Digital our success in the UK: The Groups investment in e-commerce software development increased o New store openings: The rate of new store openings continued significantly in 2016, reflecting our continued commitment to providing toincrease in the period and the UK opened a record 81 new stores the business, our customers and franchisees with a best-in-class digital in2016: these continue to perform well, providing a foundation for platform.
In the UK, online system sales now represent 72% of all delivered future growth and confirming our long-term opportunity.
sales, up from 67% in 2015, with mobile sales accounting for 73% of o Digital: We have continued to increase investment in our digital online system sales.
This will drive further growth in the UK business.
offering, driving an increased number of customer visits, improved Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer conversion rates and higher order values.
From a consumer perspective, ordering is easier and o Franchisee profitability: The Group has continued to focus on promotional offers are more easily accessed.
Franchisees benefit through franchisee profitability by passing on cost savings, fuelling the store labour efficiencies and being better able to target local marketing appetite for further investment.
campaigns, particularly through customer relationship management.
The results of this strategy are continuing to pay off, with total online New stores orders in the UK 18% ahead and average order value 2.6% ahead oflast 2016 saw record store openings of 81 in the UK, bringing the total year.
Mobile sales continue to drive much of our success, with orders portfolio to 950 2015: 869.
The performance of these new stores 2.7% ahead and mobile order value 2.9% ahead of last year.
hasbeen excellent with strong penetration in the territories in which 14.9mcustomers have downloaded the app.
These stores are operating in lower address count areas with a 15.4% increase in sales per address.
They include both Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital virgin territories and those existing areas which have been split, innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more.
increasing density, improving service for customers, and raising sales In August 2016, Dominos launched chat-bot via Facebook Messenger, and profitability for franchisees.
53 of the 81 stores opened were splits.
the first app allowing us to broaden our e-commerce platform from Weprovide incentive packages to franchisees to encourage opening ordering to customer service.
ofstores in areas that meet our strategic requirements for the estate, including lower address counts and splits.
Depending on the nature Brand ofthe incentive these may be spread over the life of the lease.
Nostores Our brand purpose is to fuel the power of possible one pizza at a time.
The origins of this stem right back to the foundations of the brand, whenTom Monaghan challenged convention and set about delivering pizzas to customers, at a time when it was not possible to have a pizza delivered to your door.
Innovation is in the very DNA of the brand, be that the invention of the spoodle a device for applying pizza sauce quickly, or the revolutionary heat-wave bag, to the first forays into e-commerce back in 1999.
We are fuelled by our desire to inspire our customers through our actions.
It also plays right into the heart of the service we provide to our customers.
We recognise that Dominos has the power to bring busy families together in front of the TV on a Saturday night, provide comfort and relaxation on a lazy Sunday or that much needed downtime during the busy working week.
2016 saw record store growth of 81 new stores in the UK and one in Switzerland Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 07 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement continued We continue to innovate, refreshand improve our productrange to respond to changing customer demand.
Since its launch in 2016, our handmade Italiano range has sold over 2 million pizzas UK and ROI continued UK continued Brand continued range is superb.
My husband is not a big pizza fan but thought the Dominos Verona pizza was the best pizza hed ever had!.
It also taps into the franchisee ownership of the business, how Dominos can turn drivers into shift runners, into store managers and into entrepreneurial Franchisees franchisees who run multi-site retail operations.
Our franchisees are some of the best entrepreneurs in the Dominos It is underpinned by our relentless commitment to uphold our promise system worldwide, and we continue to share in their success and provide to our customers to handcraft every one of our pizzas just for them and the support and guidance to assist them in their future growth and to give exceptional service all the time, providing delicious tasting pizza ambition.
The Group is committed to ensuring that they are successful, at great value.
and in 2016 cash profitability improved year on year, primarily as a result of increased sales and the benign food cost environment combined with Dominos now enjoys dominant levels of awareness in the branded delivery the DPGs purchasing power.
This has enabled the franchisees to invest takeaway category, and market-leading levels of customer satisfaction.
the additional profits in labour and to deliver improved service.
During the Smart deployment of the national advertising fund allows us to year, we passed on food savings in the region of 5m.
DPG has agreed drivegrowth through broadcast communication that places the brand the prices of its main food costs, except for dairy, well into the first half topof mind at key occasions, to increase saliency and relevance by of 2017 and there was a negligible impact on input prices as aresult communicating product and service benefits.
Demand is then increased ofthe UKs decision to leave the EU.
through digital performance channels with more precise targeting that Supply chain optimises conversion to sale by customer, and is then optimised further through our own digital, social media and CRM tools with content that We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is engages with customers.
oneofthe most sophisticated and efficient across the Dominos global network.
Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, Product with a secondary plant in the North West in Penrith and satellite bases In 2016, we launched our biggest ever refresh of our menu.
The Italiano inLivingston and Bristol.
We have broken ground on our new facility range is a range of handmade Italian inspired pizzas, that take our signature inWarrington, which is due to open in early 2018.
Although the supply fresh dough and authentic Italian ingredients like Ventricina Salami and chain handled record volumes in 2016, it did so whilst improving on Prosciutto Ham with premium toppings like Roquitto Pepper Pearls and already excellent service levels to stores, with delivered-on-time to fresh Rocket leaves: alongside new sides such as Italiano Garlic Bread and stores measures increasing to 99.9%.
a Tomato & Mozzarella Salad, with classic Italian inspired desserts like It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high Sicilian Lemon Cheesecake and Tiramisu.
Since launch we have now sold quality products at low cost.
Our philosophy is based on establishing over 2 million Italiano pizzas, and reached out to a different customer base long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the Groups buying generating strong repurchase rates and comments like.
The new Italiano power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers.
ROI ROI delivered a good set of results, with system sales of 61.7m 2015:56.0m in local currency, a sterling value of 50.1m 2015:40.7m.
In local currency, sales were ahead by 10.1%, but in sterling they were 23.2% ahead, reflecting the relative strength of the euroagainst sterling.
We operate 47 stores across the ROI with the Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the continued economic recovery.
We will be upgrading our Supply Chain Centre capability.
Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI.
Online system sales were 26%ahead of 2015 and now represent 49% of total system sales, up from 43% last year.
Mobile-based growth continues to drive digital adoption and now accounts for 74.4% of online system sales We remain committed 2015:68.6%.
tohighquality ingredients, withour dough freshly madeat our commissaries 08 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Switzerland We made good progress in Switzerland with strong local currency salesgrowth of 21.1% to CHF 20.6m sterling 33.1% and 15.4m.
Like-for-like sales were 5.8% ahead of last year in local currency, with themature store portfolio significantly improving profitability.
We had one new storeopening, resulting in 16 stores at the end of 2016 2015: 15, allofwhich are under corporate ownership and operation.
There were discernible improvements in all operational metrics at store level, which contributed to the better financial outcome.
Underlying operating losses for the year were 1.3m 2015: 1.3m.
Thisbusiness broke even at EBITDA, up from a loss of0.5m in 2015.
We remain encouraged by the improving performance ofour mature stores, which provides a solid footprint for the future, while focusing During 2017 we expect to management attention on accelerating the maturity curve for new open around 80 new stores andimmature stores.
inthe UK A further major contributor to the better Swiss performance has beenthe progress with online ordering.
The website was relaunched in January 2016 and online sales grew steadily through the year, reaching We also recruited a new Supply Chain Director, Peter Trundley, to replace 59.9% by Q4.
Peter Trundley has deep manufacturing and supply chain experience from roles in Masterfoods and ABF.
Germany In addition, Robin Caley was promoted to Property & Business The acquisition of Joeys Pizza, the largest German pizza delivery Development Director, succeeding Julia Poulson in July 2016. business in Germany through our associate Daytona JV Limited, in which we hold aone-third stake, was completed on 1 February 2016.
Finally, Jane Franks, our long-serving HR Director, decided to step down Contingent consideration was payable by the associate based on the after 30 years in the business.
She left with our appreciation of a significant rate at which existing franchisees signed up to become Dominos contribution to the Company.
We were delighted to appoint Nadine Wyncoll franchisees.
We are delighted to report that conversion has been very as her successor.
Nadine has operations and HR experience from Tesco successful and consequently this was paid earlier than anticipated and Dixons Carphone.
Our people The investment has performed well and in line with plan, contributing I would like to thank the Dominos team for its hard work in a most 0.7m to the underlying Group profit before tax.
The programme to challenging year.
I also want to echo the appreciation from our Chairman convert Joeys stores toDominos and subsequent rebranding have ofthe franchisee community.
Our success is in large measure due to its been a success, with allstores now converted.
The Groups share of unrelenting efforts, pride in the brand and determination to bring its these costs amounted to3.1m and is included in non-underlying items.
Discontinued operations includes 8.1m income in respect of the Outlook MarketAccess Fee, which is the fair value of the deferred consideration payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises Ltd DPE for the divestment 2016 has been a record year for system sales, and also saw us entering ofour German business.
This becomes payable from 2017. into a landmark investment transaction to transform our activities in Germany as well as a new partnership in the Nordics.
In Switzerland, Nordics weare seeing encouraging signs of progress with the business profitable On 8 June 2016, the Group acquired an interest in the Dominos at EBITDA level.
The UK and ROI business continues to set sales records, business in Norway, Sweden and Iceland for consideration of24m and we sold 94m pizzas in the year, averaging over 257,000 per day.
This strategic investment means that theGroup holds a Weare very happy with the new store opening programme, in particular 49% interest in Iceland and a 45% interest in both Norway and Sweden the average sales per address of these stores.
We continue to exploit the through direct and indirect holdings.
Existing management continues opportunities of new technology to the full, with online orders now being torun the business and will be responsible for executing the strategy to the source of over 71.5% of our total system sales.
This has been a year expand further in Norway and to open up the Swedish market over the of significant positive change.
The strength of the core business and medium term.
This is an exciting opportunity for us in attractive growth international investments gives us the ability to build for the future.
markets and will enable us to grow the Dominos brand further.
During 2017 weexpect to be opening around 80 new stores in the UK, and we are investing in additional supply chain centres to ensure we can Profit contribution for the 7 month investment was 0.2m.
supply our new long-term store target of 1,600 UK stores and 76stores Leadership team in ROI.
We look forward to the continuing success of the Swiss, German and Nordics businesses.
During the year, we promoted our Sales and Marketing Director, SimonWallis, to the role of Chief Operating Officer for the UK and ROI.
Simon has been with Dominos for seven years, during which time he has made amajor contribution to our success and the promotion is David Wild richly deserved.
He is succeeded by Tony Holdway, an experienced Chief Executive Officer multi-site marketing professional, who joined us in September 2016.
8 March 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 09
