Q&A WITH THE CEO The new Group strategy is underpinned by new people and IT strategies which are crucial to its successful delivery.
Haven Power has also seen significant change with the arrival of CEO Jonathan Kini.
He, along with his team have been working to ensure we are well placed to continue growing and to boost our retail offer with therecent acquisition of Opus.
HOW DO YOU THINK 2017 WILL BE DIFFERENT TO 2016?
The focus will be on continuing to deliver good performance right across the Group, but there will also be changes as we work closely with the Opus team to ensure we create the best possible retail offer for the UKs SMEs.
Drax Power will be progressing the OCGT gas projects, and it will be an exciting year for Drax Biomass as they look to secure acquisitions of pellet mills and opportunities Group CEO, Dorothy Thompson, answers to export compressed word pellets to other the key questions that have been put to markets.
Everyone across the Group will see further evidence of the new strategy roll-out, her by shareholders in 2016. particularly in the form of the people and IT strategies.
DO YOU THINK PERFORMANCE GOT Q HOW DOES DIVERSIFYING INTO GAS FIT BETTER OR WORSE IN 2016?
WITH YOUR AIM TO REPLACE COAL WITH A.
Financially, EBITDA was in line with RENEWABLE GENERATION AT DRAX?
The European This principally reflects very challenging Commissions approval of the CfD enabled us commodity markets and the removal of to complete the upgrade of half the power the Climate Change Levy exemption.
station to run on compressed wood pellets in place of coal and in 2016, 65% of the electricity We were able to partly offset the impact we generated at Drax was renewable.
of these factors with a focus on flexible system support, in the prompt and balancing The job is not yet done, and with the right markets, ancillary services and improving conditions we will upgrade the remaining coal retail profitability, all of which are important units.
We can do this in just two to three years, parts of our strategy to develop broader, when the conditions are right.
The planned gas power stations will not be Operationally, 2016 was another good run to produce baseload power, but as rapid year across our business, but particularly response units to plug the gaps at times of in generation where the team completed system stress, for example when wind and a significant outage programme and on the solar fail to contribute whats required.
regulatory front the European Commissions They will also be part of a solution that approval of the CfD meant we could complete can accelerate the end of coal in the UK.
the final stages of the upgrade to our third biomass unit.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN THE ACQUISITION OF OPUS?
WOULDNT IT HAVE MADE MORE Q.
WHAT WERE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT SENSE TO GROW HAVEN?
We acquired Haven in 2009 when it A.
The most important change was the was an SME focused business.
Since then new Group strategy, which gives us all a the business has grown significantly by very clear direction for the future and will principally focusing on the I&C market to see Drax become a broader business across provide a route to market for around half the our markets pellet supply, generation and electricity Drax Power produces, although retail.
The acquisition of Opus Energy will it retains a relatively small SME presence.
strengthen our retail offer, and our plans to build four rapid response gas power stations Opus like Haven is a challenger business will plug the gaps at times of system stress.
and brings with it 265,000 customer metered sites, largely SMEs.
Opus also supplies gas, 04 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT which for the first time will see us having the as weather and time of day determine the The transformation weve been through has ability to provide a dual fuel offer, something availability of wind and solar.
It is already meant weve learnt a huge amount over the that is vital for many SMEs.
common place for Drax to two-shift the last few years, and theres no doubt that for coal units: using them to provide flexible, future upgrades we can carry them out Opus gives us immediate scale in the SME responsive power, rather than baseload.
market and we think the complementary nature of the Haven and Opus models can But its not just about generation Q.
WHY DO YOU THINK QUESTIONS provide a compelling challenger retail awell-functioning grid needs other AROUND THE SUSTAINABILITY OF proposition for our customers.
2017 will see Drax seeking BIOMASS CONTINUE TO BE RAISED?
further opportunities to provide the A. I think many companies involved in the Q.
HAVE YOU GOT THE RIGHT TEAM electricity grid with this increasingly sourcing and supply of sustainable products ANDSYSTEMS IN PLACE TO ENSURE important system support.
will face questions in this area.
What we will THAT OPUS WILL JOIN THE GROUP do is continue to be open and honest about WITH MINIMAL DISRUPTION?
DID THE RESULT OF THE UKS EU all aspects of how our business operates A.
Yes, Jonathan Kini, who leads our retail REFERENDUM HAVE ANY IMPACT including sustainability.
Much of that business has a great depth of experience ON THE BUSINESS?
evidence can be seen in this annual report, in SME markets and integration.
Our business model is largely unaffected from our own stringent sustainability policy, strengthened his team to ensure we by the decision to leave the EU.
We will to how we comply with the UK Governments have the expertise required to make continue to generate and sell power in sustainability legislation criteria.
this a very successful transition as Opus the UK.
We purchase a significant amount becomes a member of the Drax family.
of the fuel we require in foreign currency However, we are never complacent and for and our long-term hedging strategy five example each new pellet supplier to Drax is However, Im in no way complacent about the years ahead has protected us against fully and independently audited before a challenges, thats why we developed a plan any negative impacts of exchange rate contract is signed and our existing suppliers to embed Opus covering everything from IT fluctuations for the medium-term.
are audited at least once every three years.
Its vital we get this right and that our new colleagues become part of Q.
WHICH OTHER BUSINESS ROLES DO delivering our new Group strategy and share GOVERNMENT RESULTED IN ANY YOU HAVE OUTSIDE OF DRAX AND HOW in our values.
Clearly I also want both Haven DIFFERENT SIGNALS BEING SENT DO THEY HELP THE GROUP?
and Opus customers to continue experiencing OUT TO THE RENEWABLES SECTOR?
A. Im a non-executive director at the high levels of service along with the benefits A. I think that still remains to be seen.
We Eaton Corporation and also the Court of of a more comprehensive retail offer.
have to look at the huge changes that the Bank of England.
I think its important have happened in Government since the to have roles outside the business, as Q.
HOW IS DRAX POWER DIFFERENT TO EU referendum as a potential opportunity long as they allow you to get the balance WHEN YOU JOINED?
for us as we continue to make the case for right and these do.
In many ways Drax is now a very different investment in further biomass upgrades.
in no way be a distraction from the day place to what it was when I joined Drax more job, but worth an investment of time that than ten years ago.
The fact that in 2016 65% What is clear is that the focus is still very allows you to see how others operate and of our output was renewable is something much on affordable energy.
In 2016, whether there are lessons that we can Im very proud of, and right across the power Imperial College London and the economic learn or best practice that we can adopt.
station you can actually see the difference consultancy NERA published new research that using compressed wood pellets has that we commissioned.
It showed that when Q. WHATS THE FEELING AROUND THE made: huge storage domes, specially designed whole system costs are factored in biomass BOARD TABLE?
train wagons, and a visitor centre and guides is the cheapest large scale renewable A. Id say its one of excitement at the explaining the latest chapter in the Drax story.
If Government applied this opportunities our new Group strategy and method of support to future CfD auctions, acquisitions present for the future.
While Essentially today the power station operates consumers could benefit by up to 2.2 billion.
theres obviously satisfaction that weve as two power stations: a reliable, flexible, delivered on what we initially set out to renewable generator producing electricity As we take forward our new strategy do upgrade three generating units to for businesses and homes and a fossil fuel we will also be clearly communicating run on compressed wood pellets, there generator providing system support and our plans for rapid response gas is certainly no feeling of job done.
power stations and how the system support they will provide contributes to In the months ahead the Board will rightly Q.
YOU HAVE HIGHLIGHTED THE ROLE THAT decarbonising the UKs energy system.
want to see clear and positive progress as we DRAX COAL UNITS CAN PLAY IN SYSTEM work to boost our retail offer through Opus SUPPORT AND ANCILLARY SERVICES Q.
WHAT ARE THE LATEST PLANS TO Energy and develop our plans to build four WHAT IS THIS AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
CONVERT THE REMAINING GENERATING rapid response gas power stations.
Increasing levels of intermittent renewables UNITS THAT RUN ON COAL?
and inflexible nuclear present the grid with a A.
We have now delivered on our original challenge, and for Drax, opportunities.
strategy to upgrade three generating units to run on compressed wood pellets.
When the grid needs capacity our coal units However, we would like to do more, and have have the flexibility to turn on and off, and consistently said that with the right conditions ramp up and down responding to demand we stand ready to convert further units.
05 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
