CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Operationally, performance across the Group 2016 began with some of the most challenging has been good.
power and commodity markets I have seen in The strong operational performance across our business helped us to respond my career and in a similar way to 2015 this to the financial challenge posed by the created a headwind to profitability.
difficult commodity markets and the removal of CCL exemptions.
This enabled us to deliver EBITDA for 2016 at 140 million, in line with our guidance, but still below 2015 169 million.
There is more detail on our financial performance in the Group Financial Review on page 50.
In response to the challenging commodity PURPOSE HOW market conditions we evolved the operation of our coal units to provide increasingly To help change the way energy By providing inspiring, flexible important flexible system support is generated, supplied and used energy solutions that make a services to the power grid, whilst at the same time our biomass units delivered a for a better future.
record level of renewable electricity.
In the US our pellet plants operated well.
During the year we used the flexibility of self-supply to manage production to allow the Group to benefit from attractively priced biomass cargoes in the short-term spot market.
In Retail, Haven Power has delivered a good performance with volumes at scale and improved gross margin.
2016 was also a year of completion and delivery for Drax Group.
06 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT In December the European Commission responsive solutions to ensure stability granted state aid approval for the Contract for and security of electricity supply for the 14,150 Difference CfD to support the upgrade of our UKs homes and businesses.
This offers a third generating unit at Drax Power Station major opportunity for Drax to provide more Jobs supported by Drax to produce electricity from sustainable support services to the network in the areas across the UK compressed wood pellets.
That same month of security of supply and system stability.
we completed the upgrade works and started producing 100% renewable power 2.
The growth of challenger brands in the from the unit.
This marked the final stage of retail market our biomass transformation project which Secondly, in the retail electricity marketplace, we have been implementing since 2012.
2016 has seen a continued growth of challenger brands.
It also saw the conclusion The transformation extends right across of a very important report from the our supply chain.
From the working forests Competition and Markets Authority CMA of the Southern US to ports in the UK, it on the electricity market.
This concluded extends right through to the millions of that both the wholesale energy market and homes and businesses across the UK that the business retail market are working well, use the renewable power we produce.
with the exception of some concerns about micro-businesses.
The CMA did conclude that In 2016 we produced 16% of the UKs concerns remain about the domestic retail IN 2016 WE renewable electricity from sustainable market.
Their recommendations focused wood pellets.
In total, we produce on how consumers could get better deals.
PRODUCED 16% OF enough electricity to power Sheffield, THE UKS RENEWABLE Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester 3.
Stress on wood pellet prices together.
Meanwhile the wood pellet market has ELECTRICITY FROM suffered from a significant excess of supply SUSTAINABLE WOOD Through our retail business we supplied 7.5% over demand.
This follows three warm winters of electricity required by UK businesses, in Europe where there is a large market for PELLETS.
WE STAND whilst our pellet supply business produced wood pellets for heating.
Consequently, 607,000 tonnes of compressed wood pellets.
demand in this market has been depressed READY TO DO MORE.
and many pellet producers have struggled According to a study published by Oxford to find customers for their output.
co. uk, Draxs total economic impact including However, against this backdrop, there our supply chain and the wages our staff has been increased interest in biomass and suppliers staff spend in the wider generation, particularly in the Netherlands consumer economy was 1.2 billion, and Japan with parallel policy developments supporting 14,150 jobs across the UK.
expected to support more biomass generation.
So, although the market MARKET OVERVIEW has been severely stressed by excess The markets in which we operated were supply, it is expected that demand for dominated by three major trends in 2016: biomass will increase in future years.
A tipping point for UK electricity Firstly, the electricity market in Britain has now passed a tipping point.
Until recently, POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND intermittent generators such as wind and In 2016 we have been working against a solar power have played a relatively small background of significant political change role in the electricity system.
In general, the Brexit vote did not playing an ever more significant role and the affect us because our electricity is used in electricity system needs to adjust accordingly.
We purchase large quantities of fuel in foreign currency.
Britain now has 26GW of wind and solar However, we are well hedged against installed a six-fold increase over the last currency fluctuations for the next five years six years, and biomass has almost doubled including the devaluation of Sterling in 2016. its output since 2014 to over 14TWH.
2016 saw a reduction in our dependency Coal, which in the past has played a on commodity-related earnings.
A growing critical role in system stability and security proportion of our earnings are now based contributed just 9.3% of Britains electricity on system support, pellet supply and retail during 2016 down from 42% in 2012. sales, rather than pure commodity spread earnings from generating electricity.
Of course, these changes represent good This will be even more evident in 2017, news from the point of view of creating a as a third of our biomass generation is low-carbon energy future.
But they also supported under a CfD, which is not subject create an increased need for flexible and to movements in commodity prices.
07 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED SO WHICH TECHNOLOGIES ARE CfD Strike Prices Including System ACTUALLY THE MOST AFFORDABLE?
Integration Costs If biomass were allowed to 140 compete in upcoming renewable 127 auctions on a whole system cost MWh 105 basis, it would clearly be the 9297 96 MWh MWh cheapest technology.
84 MWh 70 35 0 Biomass Solar Onshore Offshore wind wind Prices based on lowest successful bids for each technology in the 2015 CfD auction.
Biomass price based on conservative 15% discount on 2013 strike price and 15 year contract.
The UK Government continues to be clear HEALTH AND SAFETY that affordability of energy is a priority.
The health and safety of all our employees 17% and contractors is of paramount importance We commissioned research from Imperial to Drax.
The Group delivered a world-leading Increased capacity at our College London and economic consultancy performance in 2016.
Overall, this has been pellet plants by the end of 2017 NERA to look at the affordability of biomass by our best year since 2012.
It is especially factoring in whole system costs essentially pleasing given that it was delivered against a the hidden costs of power generation required backdrop of an intense schedule of planned to flex up and down to meet demand created maintenance on our generating units during by intermittent renewables.
When these the year which resulted in man hours worked costs are built in biomass is seen to be the being nearly five million across the Group.
best value large scale renewable technology.
If these new levels of support were to be Safety remains at the centre of our operational reflected in the Governments planned energy philosophy and we are continuing to work to auctions, the mix of generation that could improve our performance across the Group.
win contracts is shown to save consumers up to 2.2 billion over a 15 year period.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Drax Biomass SUSTAINABILITY 2016 was a year characterised by flexible We apply robust and thorough sustainability operations at Drax Biomass, curtailing standards in all of our biomass sourcing.
production for a time to enable the Group to Since 2008 we have used external experts capture value in the distressed wood pellet to independently verify our compliance spot market.
Both our pellet plants are now with these stringent standards.
In 2015 working at full capacity and delivering pellets the Sustainable Biomass Program SBP of good quality.
introduced the first sustainability certification system, including full life In 2016 we continued to work on optimising cycle analysis, for woody biomass.
production from both pellet plants and We are very pleased that in 2016 the identified the opportunity for making low cost, SBPfully certified both our compressed incremental capital investment which will wood pellet manufacturing plants.
increase the capacity of each of the facilities from 450,000 tonnes to 525,000 tonnes.
We Because sustainability is so central to our will make this investment in 2017 and deliver business, we are also delighted to report that the increased capacity by the end of the year.
carbon emissions from the generation of 1 1 See table 1 on pg.
42 electricity at Drax Power Station fell by 53% in 2016, partially driven by replacement of coal with biomass.
36 Sustainability review 08 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY The health, safety and welfare of employees Well established Safety Management Systems SMS are used to deliver safe places to work for all our teams.
In Drax continues to be the highest priority across the Power the SMS is certified to OHSAS 18001 and subject to Group.
Each business unit and corporate team regular compliance reviews, the last of which took place has local arrangements in place, appropriate to during 2016.
In Drax Biomass the SMS is designed to be the operating environment and hazards inherent compatible with OHSAS 18001 and the United States in the various workplaces, to ensure that high certification ANSI Z10.
standards are set and maintained.
Safety performance is reported and reviewed regularly by local management teams, the Executive Committee and the Board.
Each incident is comprehensively analysed and reviewed, lessons learnt are shared with employees and actions are taken to mitigate against future failures.
For the Group the Board received monthly reports which include Lost Time Injury Rates LTIR, Total Recordable Injury Rates TRIR and numbers of RIDDORs or US equivalent.
The TRIR is included in the Group Scorecard shown on page 98.
Performance on each KPI during the year was positive, with results better than targets.
The results are shown in the table below.
2016 2016 2015 Actual Target Actual LTIR 0.02 0.10 0.05 TRIR 0.22 0.35 0.31 RIDDOR 4 6 2 LTIR is calculated by summing fatalities and lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
TRIR is calculated by summing fatalities, lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
09 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Drax Power With a new leadership team in place, Acquiring Opus is directly in line with our In 2016, 65% of our electricity was generated Haven is now well placed to become a strategy of expanding our retail activities from sustainable compressed wood pellets.
more nimble, agile business, embracing into the SME marketplace where it is already change and providing intelligent very successful as a challenger brand.
Of the much smaller proportion of our energy solutions for its customers.
electricity generated by coal, the vast Opus has a well-established business as a majority was used to fill the gaps when Billington Bioenergy dual fuel supplier, enabling us to supply gas additional capacity or flexibility was For our wood pellet business Billington, as well as electricity to end users, which is needed by the grid.
All of our generating 2016 was a year of uncertainty as the critical to succeeding in the SME market.
units at Drax are flexible, dispatchable, and Government reviewed its policy for renewable responsive, making them ideal to adapt to heat across the UK.
The new Renewable As the UK has now passed the tipping point the changing needs of the market, and to fill Heat Incentive tariff rates were finally where intermittent renewable generation the gaps created by the increasing amount confirmed in December, at a level that plays a significant role in the electricity of intermittent renewable generation.
should support steady growth in biomass market, more rapid response power plants heating for both domestic properties are required to keep the system stable.
The future of our coal units remain uncertain.
and larger commercial scale plants.
The Government published a consultation in This is exactly what the four 299MW November 2016 requesting views on whether Against this backdrop Billington continued OCGT plants we are planning to develop conditions should be put in place requiring to deliver a steady performance and has and build are designed to do.
Two could all coal power stations to close by 2025. developed an attractive new strategy to grow be generating electricity as early as the business at the scale and rate required 2020 21, and the others by 2023 24.
Each In 2016, Drax participated once again in the to play a significant role in the Group.
is capable of reaching full capacity in just capacity market.
While we are prohibited 10minutes one third of the time taken from doing this with our biomass units we OUR NEW STRATEGY bya conventional gas plant, enabling them did bid in two of our three coal units.
Both We announced the Groups new strategy in to fill gaps whenever they might arise.
units succeeded in securing a contract December 2016.
It reflects our determination worth 13.6 million per unit per year for to continue playing a vital role in the way This capability for rapid response generation 2020 21.
We elected not to bid for our third energy is generated, supplied and used as can enable Drax to play a vital supporting role coal unit, as with the right conditions, we the UK moves to a low carbon future.
in the UKs transition to secure low-carbon remain committed to upgrading further electricity which is cost-effective and reliable.
Had we bid in the It is designed to help us deliver a capacity market, this would not have stronger, more predictable, long-term Our intention is only to go ahead with been possible in a timely manner.
financial performance for the Group building these plants if we can secure along with greater diversification in an attractive capacity contract to Drax Power review PG.
30 the markets in which we operate.
provide the base revenues required.
Haven Power In December we also made it clear how Similarly, we have also announced our In 2015, Haven achieved the scale of business we would start delivering the strategy.
intention to expand our sustainable which we were targeting for market access We announced our proposed acquisition compressed wood pellet production for renewable products and power.
of business-to-business energy supplier operations to support self-supply of at least Opus Energy along with that of a project to 2030%.
This will require a capacity of at The focus for 2016 has been to design a build four new rapid response Open Cycle least 2 million tonnes per annum, double strategy that would deliver attractive levels Gas Turbines OCGT power stations.
However, we will only of profitability at that scale.
This strategy move forward with this expansion if we is focused on rebalancing our portfolio of The Opus acquisition was a major identify attractive opportunities, including sales to increase the number of small and transaction and was subject to shareholder the potential acquisition of financially medium-sized enterprise SME customers approval.
The acquisition was approved distressed pellet plants in the US.
in our portfolio compared to those from large by shareholders on 8 February 2017 and industrial and commercial I&C businesses.
34 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY ENABLERS perfectly, and two challenger brands will And we will work on the development of The first key enabler is our new people between them offer expertise and experience our four rapid-response OCGT plants with strategy.
We are nothing without our people, in supplying gas and electricity to both small the firm intention of committing to further and our greatest challenge will be further and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and investment as soon as the UK capacity developing the excellence, talent and skill sets industrial and commercial customers I&Cs.
market clears at a price that provides a of the teams to ensure the successful delivery robust underpinning for such investment.
of our new strategy across all our businesses, There is a clear focus on embedding Opus including our recent acquisitions.
That is the into the Group.
This is based on recognising Having taken the first steps in developing driving force behind our new people strategy, the fact that the key to our future success our new strategy, we will continue to which is outlined on page 45 of this report.
together will be continuing to enable the look for opportunities to further enhance Opus team to develop their skills and share and build on it, ensuring we play an even The second key enabler is our new IT their best practice across the Drax family.
greater role in delivering the secure and strategy which will deliver a step-change stable supply of low-carbon, reliable and in the way we work across the Group.
For Drax Biomass the focus will be on affordable electricity the UK needs.
It will not only transform our day to day quality and stability for existing capacity, ways of working, making us more efficient, low cost expansion at existing plants but also improve our analytic capacity and, where available, targeting low cost and create a digital capability that will acquisition of operating pellet plants and put data at the heart of all our work.
identifying possible opportunities to supply compressed wood pellets to new markets.
Dorothy Thompson OUTLOOK Chief Executive, Drax Group Our focus in 2017 is on delivering the In our Generation business we will continue new strategy whilst continuing to deliver to deliver renewable electricity that is excellence across the base business.
reliable and responsive through our biomass units.
With the right conditions, we will For Retail the year ahead will see Haven and begin conversion of three more units to Opus working closely together to deliver run on compressed wood pellets.
We see a compelling offer to the UKs businesses.
our coal units as playing an important role Thetwo businesses complement each other in system stability and capacity support.
2017 PRIORITIES GENERATION OCGT DEVELOPMENTS Capacity and flexibility support Using core competencies New long-term generation earnings Market opportunities in peak price periods Diversified generation mix Attractive financial returns CORPORATE RETAIL CENTRES OF OPUS ENERGY EXCELLENCE Acceleration of retail strategy BIOMASS FUEL AND SUPPLY ENABLING Platform for growth PELLET SUPPLY OPPORTUNITIES VALUE Compatible and complementary Targeting 2030% self-supply to existing retail business Evaluating opportunities to acquire Advances transition to broader, distressed assets higher quality long-term earnings Attractive financial returns Synergy potential Attractive financial returns 11 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
