8 Strategic Report Chief Executives Q&A Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 9 Creating sustainable value Q their potential.
Across our business we At the same time, we have improved THE TITLE OF THIS ANNUAL play an active role in our communities, health and safety significantly, and REPORT IS CREATING enabling our people to support the are proud of our record of reducing SUSTAINABLE VALUE.
WHAT causes that matter to them.
the accident rate at businesses that DOES THAT MEAN TO YOU?
Finally, a commitment to our A Our focus is on creating sustainable environment is a key part of how we value in three key areas: our business, Q HOW IS DS SMITH are working to create a sustainable our people and our environment.
Throughout our operations and supply chains, from WHEN THE ECONOMIC Our business creates sustainable design to production and from supply SITUATION IS TOUGH AND value for our customers through to recycling, we are reducing energy responsible recycling, paper and THE MARKET MATURE?
consumption, minimising waste packaging solutions.
Our focus is on and embedding the highest ethical A We are building the business through providing the right packaging for our acquisitions, by growing our existing standards to ensure the most customers, whilst simultaneously positive impact on our environment.
operations organically, and moving adding value through increased up the value chain by developing and brand impact and ensuring rolling out our innovation offering Q functionality to reflect changing HOW DO YOU MEASURE and supply chain services.
consumer lifestyles and retail trends.
We deliver this through programmes We have made good progress over the We have a range of KPIs covering both A such as Performance Packaging, our past year.
In the 2015 16 financial year financial and non-financial measures, Impact Centres and our More from we have made five acquisitions ranging which we report on annually.
from large, multinational businesses proud of the record of value creation such as Duropack in south eastern We are dedicated to creating at DSSmith over the past six years: not Europe and Lantero in Iberia to smaller sustainable value for our people.
We only has our revenue almost doubled, businesses such as Milas Ambalaj in are committed to the highest standards but our return on sales and return on Turkey.
This has further expanded our of safety, and are keen to ensure average capital have improved geographic reach to cover 30 countries DSSmith is an engaging employer in substantially too.
com 10 Strategic Report Chief Executives Q&A continued Q WHAT IS THE INTERNAL We seek to integrate the OPERATING STYLE OF Our values businesses we acquire DSSMITH AND WHAT as quickly as possible, HAPPENS IN PRACTICE?
because we believe that A Our operating style comes from our five we are stronger together.
core values to be caring, challenging, trusted, responsive and tenacious.
We have also seen excellent growth Be caring we take pride in what among our pan-European customers we do and care about our customers, Our values fit with the way that the and have been investing further in our people and the world around us.
We are a relatively our design and innovation network, decentralised business with many which helps us get the most out of decisions taken at the regional the innovation developed within business level.
Therefore the value of DSSmith by sharing it across our trust is important, as is the value of international footprint.
Be challenging we are not afraid to being challenging.
In a large business, constructively challenge each other and it is essential that management teams In order to get the best from our ourselves to find a better way forward.
around the business can have open expanding business, it is very important conversations and constructively that all employees understand the challenge each other on major corporate values that we work to.
We seek to demonstrate Our common values set the tone for the values from the centre, for example how we behave as a business.
They through the way that employees help us act in a co-operative, open Be trusted we can always be trusted who have joined through acquired manner and learn from each other.
to deliver on our promises.
businesses have risen to some of the It also means that our customers most senior positions in the business.
enjoy the same quality of approach We also seek to support colleagues and standards, whichever part of the when things go wrong, for example DSSmith Group they are working with.
In order to achieve our corporate goals, Be responsive we seek new ideas There are many great examples of every employee has a part to play, so we and understanding and are quick to react employees demonstrating these have a programme to help all employees to opportunities.
values, whether it is going the extra understand their contribution.
This mile to fulfil a customer order, or programme is called OWN IT!
and is working out a smart solution to their now in its sixth year.
The great thing design problem, or the Healthy is that it is not just a one-way process.
Hearts initiative that has been rolled It is intended to help employees take out across UK sites to help employees Be tenacious we get things done.
responsibility for their business area get more active.
The Alliance for and communicate ideas of how we can YOUth initiative, of which DSSmith improve in all aspects of our business.
is a founding member, is a fantastic Q IF VALUES ARE IMPORTANT example of us coming together with other leading corporates in Europe, to TO DS SMITH ACHIEVING help young people get the experience ITS GOALS, HOW DO YOU and skills they need to get their first COMMUNICATE THEM AS job.
There are many other examples THE BUSINESS EXPANDS?
of sites getting involved with their local communities all on their own A We seek to integrate the businesses initiative.
It is great to see and helps we acquire as quickly as possible, to make DSSmith what it is.
because we believe that we are stronger together.
That means that we share best practice in all areas, whether on procurement, operations, innovation or sales.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 11 e-commerce is an Internet-based business, The Modern Man, specialises in providing a range of male grooming opportunity for DSSmith.
As an online only business, its really Q WHAT IS DRIVING GROWTH important that The Modern Mans brand values and ethos are transferred from the website through IN THE EXISTING BUSINESS?
Packaging plays a huge part A Packaging is more relevant than ever, in this: the solution provided by DS Smith combines due to the increased complexity in design innovation with an understanding of the the supply chain of everyday products business needs to produce packaging that meets and the fragmentation of the retail the online shoppers expectations.
environment away from supermarkets to a broader range of shop types and delivery requirements.
These changes Designed for are an opportunity for us.
For example, the growth of products e-commerce bought online, then delivered to the home, or to a click-and-collect location, increases the requirement for packaging for products that may have A great deal of planning takes place truly inspiring to see the energy and otherwise been only displayed in store.
It is an We undertake detailed research about before an acquisition, enabling us to hold an initial integration event within a excellent platform for future growth.
the requirements for packaging used in deliveries and have developed a few days of a business joining DSSmith.
Across the business more widely, At that event, senior management from range of packaging for home delivery we have invested in our external and that fulfils key criteria for product DSSmith will attend, along with our employee communication programmes.
new colleagues from the acquired protection, ease of opening and ease Our intranet offers personalised news of re-use for return.
We provide the managers of and regular updates from all elements the acquired business with a fast-track functional requirements, we also of the business.
For example, Head develop packaging which conveys the training on DSSmith policies and how of Packaging, Stefano Rossi, sends a to implement OWN IT!, among other brand qualities, to ensure consistency weekly message to all employees in of consumer experience.
things, to ensure that they have the that part of the business, updating tools necessary to deliver what is on actions taken in the week and Display packaging is another expected of their business from day challenges ahead.
We are active growth area, where we are investing one.
In addition, it is a great way to on social media such as LinkedIn, substantially in a new site in Germany.
ensure that the key individuals get to Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, This is a growing market as this know each other as quickly as possible.
in order to reach our colleagues packaging is particularly well suited to I attended several of these integration and customers in whatever fast moving consumer goods FMCG conferences this year, and it has been format works best for them.
products commonly sold on promotion, and used extensively in discount and convenience stores as well as traditional supermarkets.
Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive, presents at the Duropack integration conference, June 2015 dssmith.
com 12 Strategic Report Chief Executives Q&A continued We are also seeking to leverage low value.
I take a different view Q THE GROUP HAS GROWN A our packaging innovation with the there is a great deal of value that GREAT DEAL IN THE LAST continued roll-out of PackRight Centres can be created by well-engineered SIX YEARS WHAT NEXT?
typically based at our manufacturing packaging, across the whole supply sites and Impact Centres, which can chain.
DSSmith works in partnership A DSSmith now has a leading market be integrated or stand-alone facilities.
with customers to realise this, and share in Europe.
It is a market we These centres are where our design and deliver packaging products with high understand well, it remains very insight experts work with customers, standards of service, quality and fragmented and I believe that there across a range of functions including innovation.
That is why we have been remains significant scope to grow supply chain, logistics, packaging design investing in developing the businesses further in this region.
We have seen and marketing, to develop packaging along these lines, and why we have the benefit of scale in our recent that adds value across their supply been rewarded with growing market results, and I believe there is further to chain.
In the last year alone, we share and margins.
We will also continue to develop our welcomed nearly 2,000 visitors to our own innovative solutions to customers Our mantra is that our packaging will Impact Centres, including customers requirements.
I am very excited by help customers achieve more sales, from procurement, packaging the work our colleagues in More from lower costs and reduce risk.
Less are doing, offering independent Packaging helps drives sales through consultancy solutions to customers The investment we are making in these the use of retail-ready packs, expertly globally, to make their packaging and growth areas is possible because we designed with the input from our retail supply chains work more effectively are a cash generative business with a insights colleagues, to attract the for them.
This reach attention of shoppers and facilitate means that we are able to serve a purchase.
Q WHAT ARE YOU MOST customers on a pan-European basis and also means that we benefit from PLEASED ABOUT IN THE There are also opportunities to spreading the costs of innovation engineer packaging in order to PAST YEAR?
across the Group, and can then minimise the total cost of ownership A We have taken another large step leverage that knowledge for the throughout the supply cycle and we forward with the five acquisitions benefit of our customers.
have expanded our capability here completed in the year and I would like through our independent consultancy, to take this opportunity to formally More from Less, as well as the Impact Q HOW DOES CORRUGATED welcome the 4,000 new employees and PackRight Centres.
We have PACKAGING ADD VALUE?
across 13 countries, who joined invested further behind technology DSSmith this year.
I have met many A When I joined DSSmith six years ago, to enable us to measure the strength new colleagues and thank everyone I felt that some held the view that of packaging while still in production, in the organisation for playing their corrugated packaging was just a which means that we are able to part in delivering our results this year.
commodity item, and as such was of sell our product according to its performance characteristics.
This in turn means that we can optimise Our packaging will help the type and amount of fibre used, customers achieve more while ensuring that customers sales, lower costs and receive the packaging they need.
Group Chief Executive More Sales Lower Cost Managed Risk Annual Report & Accounts 2016
