22 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Creating sustainable value for our shareholders.
We are delighted to report another year of strong growth underpinned by ten per cent organic growth in our adjusted operating profit supplemented by six per cent from acquisitions, net of disposals.
Strong financial discipline allows us again to deliver on all our priorities.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive This fragmentation of the retail channel results in greater OVERVIEW complexity in the supply chain.
The increase in convenience and In the financial year 2015 16, DSSmith has once again delivered discount stores also drives the use of display packaging and retail on all our financial metrics, with strong organic volume growth, ready packaging.
At DSSmith we are investing in these growth and improvement in margin, returns and dividends.
Our offer to customers of innovative solutions, designed the business has taken another significant step forward in the to be flexible to the customers requirements, with the capability expansion of our European footprint with five acquisitions to serve across Europe, underpins our confidence in continuing completed in the year for a total of 433 million, expanding our to drive growth.
Integration of each acquisition began immediately upon ownership and we have been delighted by the For the full-year, revenues were principally driven by the customer and employee reaction.
In addition to delivering against contribution from acquired businesses net of disposals, which our financial KPIs, we have also made further improvements to contributed 8 per cent growth on a constant currency basis.
our non-financial metrics, in particular a 24 per cent reduction Organic growth contributed a further 1 per cent.
The impact of in our accident frequency rate, and a further reduction in our foreign exchange FX translation reduced reported revenue emissions of greenhouse gases per tonne of production.
by 101 million or 3 per cent over the year as a whole, with this figure representing a significant headwind in the first half year Corrugated box volumes have grown by 3.1 per cent, on a  and a partial reduced impact in the second like basis, with consistent growth throughout the year.
All regions half of the year, as the GBP to euro exchange rate changed have shown growth, with particularly good growth from our significantly in January 2016. acquired businesses in our Western Europe and in Central Europe and Italy regions.
This rate of growth is ahead of both our target Adjusted operating profit increased by 16 per cent on a constant of volume growth of GDP 1 per cent and the overall corrugated currency basis to 379 million 13 per cent on a reported basis, market in Europe.
driven by the contribution from the volume growth, contributing 10 per cent growth 33 million, and from businesses acquired, In particular, our rate of growth from our pan-European customers contributing 6 per cent growth 20 million.
Input cost reductions has been excellent, which continues to demonstrate the appetite were reflected in changes in sales prices during the year.
The among large customers for high-quality providers of packaging, change in foreign exchange rate for the year versus the prior year, with the ability to serve them across Europe.
This customer applied to non-sterling profits, resulted in a reduction of 9 million demand is driven, in turn, by the changes in the retail environment, on translation.
away from traditional large stores, and towards convenience stores, discounters and online retailers.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 16 per cent on a constant currency basis to 27.4 pence 12 per cent on a reported basis 2014 15: 24.5 pence.
This result follows five prior years of consistent growth, with the six-year compound annual growth rate for reported adjusted EPS being 30 per cent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 23 The Board considers the dividend to be an important component AVERAGE WORKING of shareholder returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver a CAPITAL TO REVENUE progressive dividend, where dividend cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 times, through the cycle.
For the year 2015 16, the Board 1.6% recommends a final dividend of 8.8 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 4.0 pence gives a total dividend for the 2014 15: 2.7% year of 12.8 pence per share 2014 15: 11.4 pence per share.
This represents an increase of 12 per cent on the prior year and cover of 2.1 times in relation to earnings per share before amortisation EARNINGS PER SHARE and exceptional items.
27.4p INVESTMENT IN THE BUSINESS 2014 15: 24.5p We remain ambitious to grow the DSSmith business through both continued organic investment and acquisition.
All investment in the business must fulfil our strategic and financial criteria.
Our strategic During the period, the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK has been aim is to become the leader in sustainable packaging.
In order to closed, as planned, and we disposed of StePac, a specialist plastic fulfil this we are seeking to extend our reach, as required by our packaging business.
The exit of these businesses has increased customers, and further improve the quality of our service and our overall focus on corrugated packaging.
Scale is important as it allows us to invest in innovation and design, with the benefit shared throughout the business and On 22 June 2016 we announced the proposed acquisition of across our customers.
It has allowed us to serve customers on a Gopaca, a well invested corrugated packaging business in Portugal pan-European basis, which has been a core growth area.
In order with c. 135 employees.
This acquisition expands our position in to fulfil the Groups financial criteria, the most important metric is the Iberian peninsula and complements the operations we have return on average capital employed.
Acquisitions, on a post synergy in this important region.
The transaction is subject to competition basis, are required to come in line with the Groups ROACE target clearance, which we expect during Q3 of this calendar year with of 1215 per cent in the medium term.
We have made significant further steps this year to expand our On 22 June 2016 we acquired Creo, a specialist in Point of Sale scale and improve the quality of the business through organic and display products and services for in-store marketing, in the investment, acquisitions, and disposals.
south east of the UK with c. 285 employees.
The business is focused on FMCG, retail and media markets and significantly On 31 May 2015 we completed our acquisition of Duropack, a builds on our capability within the UK market.
corrugated packaging business with a market leading position in south eastern Europe.
The business comprised 14 corrugated Embedding corporate values and developing a positive corporate packaging sites, two paper mills and 18 recycling sites across nine culture is paramount to delivering sustainable value.
The business was highly complementary to DSSmiths grown by investment and by acquisition, and new employees existing operations in Austria, Hungary and Slovakia and has have joined, we have worked hard to ensure that they have felt resulted in DSSmith now having leading positions in the region.
part of DSSmith from day one.
Immediately upon completion of an acquisition, we hold an integration event for the senior On 31 July 2015 we acquired Lantero, a corrugated packaging management of the acquired business along with key individuals business comprising seven sites across the Iberian peninsula.
from DSSmith, in order to set out our plan for the business and This fitted well with the smaller business in Spain, Andopack, to provide them with the toolkit they need to deliver.
Building on which had been bought in 2014.
Spain is the fourth largest the due diligence undertaken prior to ownership, we then spend market for corrugated packaging in Europe and this acquisition the initial three month period refining the business plan, taking has enabled DSSmith to strengthen its ability to serve customers into account the ideas of the local management team.
The local on a pan-European basis.
management team will at that time implement OWN IT!, our In October 2015 we acquired Cartonpack, a corrugated packaging employee engagement programme which helps colleagues business in Greece with three sites, and in January 2016 we around the organisation understand their part in delivering acquired Milas Ambalaj, a specialist corrugated display packaging the corporate strategy.
business in Turkey, based near Istanbul.
These acquisitions We have continued to invest in our assets ahead of depreciation, extended our reach across Europe and give us a small position with net capex of 201 million 2014 15: 149 million.
We are in the fast-growing Turkish market.
investing to support our strategic priorities, with around one In March 2016, we acquired a business in the north west of third of capex going to growth projects, for example, the England, TRM Packaging, a specialist in retail-ready packaging, development of a new plant for display packaging in Germany, to enhance our capabilities in the region.
digital printing in the UK, and additional box capability in regions experiencing high growth.
com 24 Strategic Report Chief Executives review continued During the year the Group generated free cash flow of 238 DELIVERING ON OUR MEDIUM-TERM TARGETS million 2014 15: 307 million.
Cash conversion was 112 per cent, AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS in line with our target of being at or above 100 per cent.
We have again made progress against our key performance indicators over the full-year with another year of improvements DS Smith is committed to providing all employees with a safe and in all of our financial metrics.
As set out above, corrugated box productive working environment.
We are pleased to report a further volumes grew by 3.1 per cent.
This exceeded our target of GDP 1 substantial improvement in our safety record, with our accident per cent, with year-on-year GDP growth, weighted by our sales frequency rate defined as the number of lost time accidents per in the markets in which we operate, estimated at 1.8 per cent million hours worked reducing by a further 24 per cent from 4.2 to Source: Eurostat resulting in a 30 basis point outperformance 3.2, reflecting our ongoing commitment to best practice in health against the target of 2.8 per cent.
All regions have again recorded and safety.
Our target is for zero accidents, which we are pleased volume growth in the period, with a particularly strong to report that 211 sites achieved this year.
We continue to strive contribution from newly acquired businesses in Iberia and south to achieve zero accidents for the Group as a whole.
This positive reaction from our customers to The Group has a target for customer service of 97 per cent our new businesses demonstrates the demand for a high quality on-time, in-full deliveries.
In the year we achieved 92 per cent, pan-European supplier of corrugated packaging.
As a consequence similar to the level achieved in the prior year, but below our target.
of our volume growth, DSSmith has gained market share across Over the year we have focused on raising service levels in both Europe, where the overall corrugated packaging market has shown the existing business and those acquired over the year, and are weighted volume growth of 2.3 per cent Source: FEFCO, May 2015 pleased to see an improving trend.
We remain committed to March 2016. delivering high standards of service, quality and innovation to Adjusted return on sales has increased by 50 basis points on a all our customers.
constant currency basis to 9.3 per cent, in the upper half of our One part of the DSSmith strategy is to lead the way in target range of 8 to 10 per cent, reflecting an improved mix of sustainability.
We play our part in the sustainable economy, with business as we add value to our customers, operational gearing our principal product of corrugated packaging being fully recyclable, and benefits of investment.
This target was updated from and substantially constructed from recycled material, as are many 7-9 per cent in June 2015. of our plastic packaging products.
Our Recycling business works Adjusted return on average capital employed on a constant with customers across Europe to improve their recycling operations currency basis has improved by 70 basis points to 15.4 per cent, and overall environmental performance.
In 2015, compared to 2014, above our medium-term target range of 12 to 15 per cent and our CO equivalent emissions, relative to production, have reduced 2 significantly above our cost of capital.
The improvement is by 8.1 per cent and we remain on target to achieve our 2010 principally driven by our improved profitability, which has increased commitment to a 20 per cent reduction by 2020. ahead of capital and benefited from the disposal of some less profitable businesses in the period.
We have maintained our OUTLOOK continual focus on tight capital allocation and management within The current year has started positively, building on the momentum the business, including working capital, which has shown further of last year.
The integration of the five businesses acquired in the improvement this year.
Return on average capital employed is past year is going well and we are excited by opportunities to grow our primary financial measure of success, and is measured and with our customers.
All senior management have part of their remuneration package linked to this measure.
Looking ahead, while economic conditions remain uncertain, our innovation-led offering and the scale of our business means that Net debt has increased due to the acquisition of new businesses we are confident about further growth and sustainable returns to 1,099 million 30 April 2015: 651 million while net debt in the years ahead.
EBITDA calculated in accordance with our banking covenant requirements was 2.0 times 2014 15: 1.5 times.
This is in line with our medium-term financial KPI of a ratio of 2.0 times or below and reflects the acquisitions made as well as ongoing tight cash management and control throughout the business.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2016
