Chief Executives Review John Browett Chief Executive Read more online at @ dunelm.
com One of the great things about Dunelm more effectively.
We continue to work on stores and growing our home delivery is that we are able to offer tremendous developing our IT platform to provide channel.
We also identified eight key value for money for our customers and more efficient processes as well as a initiatives that I believe will enable us to an unrivalled range whilst remaining better customer experience in-store and achieve this and will be the key method a low cost retailer.
In the last year we by which we improve our business online.
Our internal Keep it Simple have continued to strengthen our offer programme looks at activity in our head substantially for our customers and and expand our store base, allowing office to ensure that we are eliminating shareholders over the medium term.
us to further increase market share and unnecessary work or improving broken Online enhance our market leading position.
Last year, we invested heavily Whilst we continue to work towards We are confident that our ambitious in our logistics infrastructure to enable increasing our store estate to 200 stores, plans will bring further improvements for better customer service at lower costs we still believe in a multi-channel world customers and underpin our prospects, in the future.
The store teams have also for homewares and continue to see even if the market proves to be difficult.
made great progress in simplifying their online as a critical part of our shopping operation to free up hours to serve Customers love what we do: our wide trip.
product ranges are suitable for all We are working on making our website budgets and tastes.
Our prices are In the year ahead it may be that the easier to access: for example allowing always competitive or market leading.
economy proves to be difficult.
However, customers to browse and order inWe have fantastic colleagues in our even if there are short term problems, store.
We want to make the range and stores, in the supply chain and our life continues and for a business like relevant content broader and provide an support centre who give great service.
Dunelm this is almost sure to bring improved site experience.
We also want We have high on-shelf availability innew opportunities.
Our Simply Value to provide greater convenience through store and online.
Indeed, our offer is for Money proposition becomes even an increase in collection points, times unmatched by our competitors.
more appealing if consumers feel under and availability.
In addition, our Our low cost model is a critical part of business is not significantly reliant on We have also made progress in multiple making our business work for customers.
big-ticket purchases: our average basket other areas.
The integration of our oneOur store costs are low because we size remains around 30. man fulfilment process into our Stoke have built a network of stores that work distribution centre is a significant step for customers but have been rented Dunelm is a strong business due to the towards broader fulfilment options.
We have modern level of profit and cash flow generated, We have grown our email database to IT systems that are cost effective and combined with its low leverage, even over two million customers, an increase easy to upgrade.
By running a defined including our lease liabilities.
We have an online Made to contribution pension scheme we have that changes because of Brexit.
Indeed, Measure service, and are building a clear costs and no legacy liabilities.
We in uncertain times our strengths become more comprehensive solution, due to be always endeavour to run a lean operation even more of an advantage.
It should launched later this year.
so we can invest more in lower prices mean that we can expand faster and and better products.
offer even more to our customers.
Over the coming year, we are looking to extend our range through a new Last year, we continued to improve the At the end of my first year, Id like to DSV drop shipped vendor service.
We shopping trip for our customers.
We express what a tremendous privilege it are also rolling out tablet devices and have improved our ranges, have become is to work with all of our colleagues at associated chip and pin payment options more competitive on price, made our Dunelm and I want to thank them for all in-store and are working towards a full stores easier to shop and launched a their effort, enthusiasm and dedication vastly improved website.
I think almost Click & Collect service.
to making Dunelm a great place to shop all our customers have noticed the work and work.
It is hard to get everything London we have done to clear the aisles, put the right every day, but it is both pleasurable As part of our challenge to find 50 product back into logical places and run and rewarding to find a company which new stores to reach our 200 target, we our promotions much more tightly and is always trying to do the right thing.
recognise that London and the South effectively.
These may seem like small Growth Strategy East will provide a significant proportion things, but through customer feedback of this opportunity.
When we reported our half year results in we know they make a major difference.
February, we reiterated our commitment Encouragingly, we have legally The improvements in the customer offer to our three-part growth strategy: committed to nine new stores in the are paid for by running our business growing like-for-like sales, rolling out new coming year, of which three are within dunelm.
indd 10 12 10 2016 09:57:35 the M25: an excellent result given that stock management to further improve Furniture we have only eight stores currently in this our product ranges.
We see major Dunelm continues to develop its area.
opportunities in product design, furniture offer across all channels.
We are innovation and sourcing.
We are also focusing on improving the working hard to deliver new ranges, with better quality and greater choice.
We are capability of our colleagues in the region The work on product should enable us trialling new formats in-store using roomand will be looking to increase our online to grow by appealing to a broader set of sets and new ways to display products.
participation in London, aided by the customers across more categories.
Our We are also working on an improved sourcing work should also improve our increased store presence.
service model and our new POS system value for money proposition.
Store Operations will help our colleagues to sell our entire Enablers We have reviewed all activities range in-store.
carried out in-store and found several While our key initiatives are the Supply Chain opportunities to help our colleagues focus for improving the business for work more effectively.
As a result, we We have successfully opened our new customers, there are several initiatives warehouse in Stoke, which doubles our have reduced hours worked on certain we are working on to make the business tasks in the business, partially to mitigate capacity and provides a purpose-built more effective.
This work ranges from the cost of introducing the National platform for reducing costs over time.
Keep it Simple changes in the Store We are correspondingly reducing our Living Wage, but more importantly to Support Centre and Contact Centre, to third party storage requirements which reinvest back into helping customers, developing our IT systems to support improving service and driving sales.
the key initiatives and customer offer.
We could also talk at length about the use of We are near the end of the process of We see this as a continual process, with better customer insight, service and sales moving our one-man delivery operation several rounds of improvements that will training in stores and investment in skills allow us to continue to reinvest in wages into Stoke, which is a precursor to and training across the Company.
moving to a Click & Collect offer.
will enhance the attractiveness of our At Dunelm we are always looking for Store Format online offer by providing greater choice opportunities and working on making Our customers love our stores, but they and ease to customers.
our business better for customers and a do tell us that we could make them more fulfilling place to work.
The agenda We will look to further integrate our easier to shop, particularly in terms of is always ambitious.
e-commerce and direct-to-store navigation and making our displays more distribution over time.
This will enable Outlook attractive.
improved availability, productivity and a Whatever the market brings us, our We are trialling several new category cleaner end of season clearance.
Indeed, merchandising initiatives, and are we may be able to achieve more in a Stock Management particularly pleased with the work that difficult economy.
We cant forecast To meet customer expectations, we rely we have done around rugs, lighting and what will happen to the broader market the till area.
We will continue to roll these on having full ranges available in-store but we know we will be busy improving which previously resulted in a high out across the estate in the coming year.
our Company, through our self-help stock holding.
We are working towards We also continue to improve the store initiatives and also by continuing to rollreducing the amount of stock that we format design as we open new stores.
out and reinvest in our stores.
This Our recent openings in Nottingham and will make us more efficient and enable us As we have seen in previous years, hot Sheffield in particular reflect a lighter, to reinvest in the customer offer.
weather can have a dampening effect on more open environment with lower footfall, so the start to the new financial shelving and easier navigation.
We are We have reduced our stock holding by year has inevitably seen some impact 16.5m 12.4% during the course of aiming to refit around 15 stores in FY17 here.
However, the weather is outside the year by focussing on sensible retail in this new format, as well as using the of our control and our job is to trade disciplines such as reducing minimum format in our new store openings.
order quantities, reducing pack sizes Made to Measure and through the better use of order Encouragingly, we believe that we Made to Measure is a service that replenishment systems.
In-store we have continue to outperform the homewares differentiates us from most of our focused on better stock management, market as a whole and therefore are competitors.
We manufacture the both on shelf and back of house, by confident of continuing to deliver on majority of our curtains ourselves and enhancing stock control processes.
our growth ambitions, including new offer great value for money.
store openings which should number Although we believe we can reduce at least nine this year.
We have the key We are trialling new operations in-store stock levels further in time, we consider infrastructure in place, the right team, a and developing a greater understanding this to be business as usual and stock great heritage and a continued focus on of how investment in service, management will therefore no longer product and people.
presentation and range can enhance form one of our strategic initiatives in our offer.
We are looking to improve our FY17.
John Browett manufacturing performance by creating Product Chief Executive more efficiency in our processes.
We Great product is the lifeblood of our are also working on a new IT system 14 September 2016 to manage customer orders and make business.
We have started work on a new strategic initiative replacing things easier for customers.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 11 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
