Strategic report Governance Accounts Chief Executives review Investing in our strengths higher holiday costs for UK OVERVIEW travellers following the EU easyJet has delivered a resilient referendum and subsequent performance in the 2016 financial weakening of sterling: and year, inthe midst of a challenging environment.
Over four million more severe disruption during the year passengers flew with easyJetduring due to strikes, severe weather, theyear reaching 73.1million, and the airport issues which resulted in Company achieved another year of 8,349 flights 2015: 6,789 being record load factorat 91.6%.
This reflects either cancelled, delayed over easyJets successful strategy of three hours or diverted.
defending and maintaining market- 1 Total impact of external events leading positions in high-traffic, slotduring the year on profit before constrained airports.
Medium-term fundamentals across Non-seat revenue growth of 17% due Europe remain robust with continued primarily to tailoring our on-board GDP growth supporting spending in all product range, reflecting increasing CAROLYN MCCALL DBE our major markets.
Although low fuel knowledge about our customers.
Chief Executive prices continue to encourage increased Taking control on costs: capacity which impacts yields, easyJet has performed strongly in a highly Total cost per seat improved by 2.0%, competitive market by focusing on decreasing to 52.26.
Total cost per We remain focused building numberone positions in selected 2 seat at constant currency improved markets and strong cost control.
The on our network by 4.6%, primarily driven by fuel price Companys business model and strategy savings.
Total cost per seat excluding advantage, digital leave it well positioned to be a structural fuel increased by 2.6% due to the winner within its chosen markets in the leadership and offering impact of foreign exchange and at overall European short-haul market.
constant currency improved by our customers great 1.1%, slightly ahead of target.
Strong passenger growth and resilient revenue performance: lowfares and highOur reinvigorated lean cost programme delivered savings Record number of passengers at quality service.
of95million, in airport, ground 73.1million, increasing by 4.5 million handling and maintenance costs, 6.6% during the year.
Load factor aswell as supplier management also increased to a record level of improvements, overhead reductions 91.6%, an increase of 0.1 ppts from and benefits realised from last year, reflecting the attractiveness 495m lean basing.
of easyJets network of destinations PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2015: 686M This partially offset increasing costs and frequencies at affordable prices.
of disruption and underlying airport Capacity increased by 6.5%, with and ground handling cost inflation.
growth focused on strengthening Foreign exchange cost headwinds easyJets leading network of number 2.0% of112million.
one positions at Europes TOTAL COST PER SEAT IMPROVEMENT primary airports.
Pre-tax profit margin decreased FROM THE 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR byfour percentage points to 10.6% Total revenue declined by 0.4% to profit before tax of 495 million 4,669 million 2015: 4,686 million.
inthe 2016 financial year versus Revenue per seat decreased by 6.4% 686million in the 2015 financial to 58.46due to: year mainly due to the decline increased market capacity and inrevenue and foreign aggressive pricing stimulated by exchange impact.
asustained low fuel price: easyJet continues to target flat cost cooling of demand and reduced per seat excluding fuel at constant consumer confidence following currency for the 2019 financial year multiple terrorism-related incidents: versus the 2015 financial year at normal levels of disruption.
1 Includes terrorist related events Paris, Egypt, Brussels, Nice and Turkey and the immediate impact of the EU referendum outcome.
2 Constant currency is calculated by comparing the 2016 financial year performance translated at the 2015 financial year effective exchange rate to the 2015 financial year reported performance, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses on balance sheet revaluations.
