Chief Executive Of cers overview How we will reignite growth inElementis Paul Waterman Chief Executive Of cer It is an exciting time for Elementis.
Having In 2016 our people agenda was focused on transforming our joined the Company early in 2016 I have been organisational structure.
Elementis is a relatively small company inthe role long enough to develop an informed and every person counts.
So getting the organisation operating view of how we need to progress.
ef ciently is essential to grow the business.
We have made some changes in 2016 to let us do that.
I have spent time in this first year going to visit our people, customers and sites around the world, and as I re ect on the Prior to 2016 there were two main business segments Chromium business we have today, there are a number of strengths that and Specialty Products, and functions such as Marketing and wecan build upon: R&Dwere embedded into regional business activities.
We have now moved to a structure that is much atter, where the Specialty We have a strong heritage, with the Companys roots going back Products business sector leaders, such as inPersonal Care, over 150 years.
Energy and the Coatings regions, all report to me, and we have globalised the functions so they can develop capability across the We have a talented team of very motivated employees.
world and focus on fewer bigger things.
Wealso created a global We have distinctive technology that our customers value.
supply chain organisation so that we can manage assets, Our teams are customer focused and quick to respond.
operations and procurement on a global basis.
We have a good position in China that continues to grow.
In HR we have initiated new processes to develop the leaders for Our Personal Care sector is doing well and offers a number tomorrow.
We implemented a global HR management system ofopportunities.
supported by Workday so we can systematically manage our people processes such as talent, succession planning and reward.
Overall we are a high quality business, generating good free cash ow, and have a prudently nanced balance sheet that offers Turning to our business performance in 2016, the biggest decline options for the future.
was in our Chromium segment.
Elementis offers its customers real distinctiveness and that has We have great distinctiveness in this business with the only North enabled it to grow successfully.
Ten years ago it made $58 million American manufacturing base combined with unique delivery pro t and was worth around $0.7 billion.
Today it is a great deal systems to our customers.
This enabled us to maintain a strong more than that.
The reality is also that more recently growth has performance in North America in 2016.
However, the rest of the stalled, with earnings declining in the past two years.
In 2016 this world business was vulnerable to the impacts of a stronger US decline was quite pronounced.
dollar, which had the impact of reducing volumes and margins signi cantly.
Results were also adversely impacted in the latter In looking back at 2016 I will start with safety.
There is nothing part of the year by operational interruptions due to a hurricane and moreimportant to us than our people going home safely every day.
a centrifuge failure at our Castle Hayne site.
We will continue to Whilst we continue to deliver safety performance that is amongst strengthen our North American base.
the leaders in the industry, we will not be satis ed until we achieveour goal of no one getting hurt working at Elementis.
Towards the end of 2016 we saw the price of our key raw material, Oneimmediate change was to make our VP Global HSE report TM chrome ore, rise signi cantly.
As a result we are now implementing directly to me.
In 2016 we initiated the Take Twofor safety price increases to protect our margins.
Our expectation at this time programme to reduce risk in our operations.
is that underlying Chromium pro tability in 2017 will be comparable to 2016.
4 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016
