Chief Executive Officers statement 'We are now in full growth mode. '
'In 2016 we have delivered strong growth in premiums and profitability, and have provided more quotes to a wider number of customers through our footprint expansion programme.
This gives us great confidence to deliver our ambition of 3 million in-force policies by 2020. '
'We continue to focus on and control carefully our approach to underwriting, underpinned by our enhanced customer contribution modelling. '
'As a result, we are on track to deliver increased value to shareholders both in 2017 and beyond. '
Introduction What a year 2016 has been.
We have exceeded our gross written premium expectations for the year with growth of 19%: increased underlying profit by 18% and profit from continuing operations by 19%: successfully demerged Gocompare.
com: and returned excess capital to shareholders through special dividends while maintaining sufficient capital flexibility to carry on our growth ambitions in 2017 and beyond.
Focus 2016 has been a year of growth through focused underwriting.
We added nearly 200,000 in-force policies to the business and momentum continues to build in our footprint expansion programmes with the launch of a further 12 segments in Motor towards the end of the year.
Through enhancements to our underwriting capabilities we are now able to quote for 7080% of the Motor market, without materially moving the dial on risk, giving us great opportunities to deliver our ambition of 3 million in-force policies by 2020.
Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer In Motor, our customer contribution modelling continues to evolve.
With regular and detailed monitoring we are able to make more informed value-based decisions on a daily basis.
Through a customer contribution approach we are able to offer competitive prices to customers allowing them to benefit from our great products and service throughout their time with the Group, while generating value for the business.
The Home market remains challenging, in particular the rating environment on price comparison websites, and we do not believe market conditions are conducive to growth at this time.
Adverse weather events in the early part of the year, along with flash flooding in June, impacted the profitability of the market and our portfolio, and we have taken corrective action on the portfolio as we look to improve the underwriting performance of the account.
Despite this, Home remained a key contributor to the Group in 2016.
Control We remain committed to only growing when we believe it is profitable to do so, rather than for vanity, and our ambition is to reach three million in-force policies by 2020, underpinned by this philosophy.
There is an acquisition cost to growth, however through our enhanced contribution analysis, great service and strong customer retention, we are confident our growth will deliver value.
12 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Effective claims management and expense efficiency Matt Gilham Head of Financial Crime provide the foundations to deliver increased value and our counter fraud capabilities continue to lead the way Counter Fraud across the market.
Over the past three years the Group has What is esures approach to counter fraud?
utilised device profiling to deter 'ghost broking' with great We follow a risk-based, proactive strategy with success and this would not have been possible without our a robust stance taken to deter and take action collaborative and innovative approaches across the business.
We have well established counter fraud systems and controls and target Our low risk approach to underwriting and conservative market-leading performance.
We invest in pioneering reinsurance programme mitigated much of our exposure to solutions where there is financial benefit, competitive the change in the Ogden discount rate and leaves us well advantage or a need to mitigate against an evolving placed within the market compared to our peers.
Scale How do you operate within the business?
Investment in our infrastructure is ongoing to ensure we Fraud is controlled through the close collaboration have agile, flexible and scalable systems in place to meet of a core expert team of 35 colleagues, with further ever changing customer preferences.
Our digital market support across Risk, Underwriting, Claims and place remains focused on price comparison website Operations to counter fraud activity.
distribution and improvements to our online customer journey have improved new business sale conversion and What were the key achievements in 2016?
There is plenty more to come.
We improved our predictive analytics: stepped up our device-profiling capabilities across multiple Colleagues customer touch points: and enhanced our automated We strive to make esure a great place to work as it is our processes to detect policy fraud.
colleagues who are fundamental to our success.
In 2016, we have implemented a new pay and reward framework: How do you work with the rest of the sector?
invested in our talent: and our first employee sharesave We are active in collaborating with law enforcement scheme vested, allowing colleagues to share in the success and the Insurance Fraud Bureau, with a number of of the business.
Applying sanction action on serious fraud remains a key deterrent and one of Summary & Outlook the teams priorities while protecting the majority of 2016 has been a year of strong growth and I am confident our honest customer base.
this will deliver value over the coming years.
As we look out into 2017, assuming stable market conditions and normal What next?
weather, we continue to expect strong growth in both We will remain a pioneer in fraud prevention through premiums and in-force policies at 1520% and 510%, innovation.
In a constantly changing environment respectively: the combined operating ratio to be in the our approach to mitigate and deter fraudulent region of 9698%: and our Non-underwritten additional activity will be key.
services revenues are forecast to grow ahead of in-force policies in line with the trend seen in the second half of 2016.
Our performance in 2017 and beyond will be driven by the hard work of all our colleagues across the business and I would like to thank them for their commitment and dedication in helping us to deliver our ambitions.
Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 13
