COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Chief Executives Statement The strategy we unveiled in March is working.
Progress with implementing the strategy has As well as disposals, we have become more Its a tough environment for our customers, been good, partly because the organisation active once again in our search for excellent and therefore for us, but we are beginning has adopted the strategy more effectively and businesses to add to our existing ones but with to see the results of the strategy, for instance more quickly than we had assumed and partly a greater focus on their strategic t than before.
in the acceleration in subscription growth, because we have been able to use the benets During the year, we acquired FastMarkets, which constituted a record 58% of our of the strong dollar compared with sterling a metals news and prices platform which business in 2016, and in the ow of successful to accelerate investment while still delivering becomes part of the Metal Bulletin Group and product launches.
Focusing the company on results in line with boards expectations.
This accelerates its strategy of becoming the leading delivering growth through investing in areas is despite tougher trading conditions than we metals price reporting agency.
We also bought of opportunity and disinvesting from areas had expected during the year and our bottomReinsurance Security, which rates reinsurance that are structurally and cyclically challenged left businesses performing worse than we had companies, and which now sits alongside, remains my priority.
Our return to acquiring forecast 12 months ago.
We also excellent businesses, like FastMarkets, after a acquired a eet database which now sits at the Our three-pillar and four-quadrant strategy break from acquisitions in 2015, also increases heart of our eet-valuation toolset.
helped to identify the businesses that were my optimism about the future.
Despite lower dragging us backwards and the businesses The continuing strong cash generation year-on-year profits, our strong balance where we have the greatest opportunities.
conversion of adjusted operating profit to cash sheet means that we are recommending to We began to deal with the former and invest in the year at 105% continues our decadesshareholders that we maintain the dividend in the latter.
We have removed the bottomlong record shows that, in the face of tough at 2015 levels.
This is a mark of our measured left profit drag from Gulf Publishing and market conditions, the business can be both confidence about the future.
Petroleum Economist which we sold and strategic and tightly and effectively managed.
from Euromoney Learning Solutions which STRATEGY we restructured.
In addition, we began to PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR At the Investor Day in March 2016, we reduce any operational deficit as we call it Despite tougher than expected trading presented the new strategy for Euromoney.
We to get as many of our businesses as possible conditions, the groups performance was at categorise our businesses into four quadrants performing better introducing, for example, the top end of the boards expectations.
The depending on the position in the business cycle sophisticated pricing policies and market-led drag from bottom-left businesses was worse of their customers and the strength of their product development techniques.
than expected: however, favourable currency business model and take necessary actions in movements, in particular following the UKs each quadrant.
With this new focus on market-led product referendum decision on EU membership development, we launched numerous new This leads to three pillars of strategic activity: enabled accelerated investment in the strategy.
Some examples: It is also encouraging that the benets from Investing around big themes such as 1 the strategy are coming through earlier than BCA research reports and analysis on US the information and services to support anticipated.
equities, US Equity Trading strategy and US the asset management industry, price Technology sector strategy: discovery and others.
Euromoneys performance reects the continuing headwinds experienced by its Institutional Investor RIA and European Ensuring an effective operating model 1 2 customers, particularly within the investment Alternative Investment Institutes created: that marries the best of the companys banking sector.
Revenues were down by 4% entrepreneurial culture closeness 1 Institutional Investor Research Allon an underlying basis, with reported revenues to customers, passion for brands, America Trading Team survey and rankings: at reecting the benefit of a stronger US knowledge of products and accountability dollar relative to the British pound.
Ned Davis Research research data solutions for revenue and profit with, for example, with access to all NDRs data and charts and modern marketing techniques, groupThe pressures on banking and finance and on Explorer which provides interactive content wide talent management, seeking commodity events, which together constituted distribution: and economies of, and opportunities from, 26% of revenue continued to offset the scale and adopting a strategic approach improving performance in its operating Airnance database and eet analysis tools to developing each business.
companies focused on price discovery, data for Airnance Fleet Analyst.
and market intelligence and those serving the Actively managing the portfolio, 3 2 asset management sector.
disinvesting in businesses where the market is weak and the business model structurally challenged and investing where the businesses are structurally strong and there are market tailwinds.
04 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Subscription revenues continued to grow, PRIORITIES FOR 2017 supported by a strong asset management In the year ahead we expect to continue to 1 market, and were up an underlying 1%.
implement the strategy, investing in our big Advertising revenues deteriorated through the themes, making sure we have an effective year and declined at a faster rate than in 2015, operating model which combines Euromoneys reecting continued budgetary pressures in entrepreneurial culture with a more strategic global financial institutions and were down an approach, sharing best practice and achieving 1 underlying 11%.
Large events, particularly in economies of scale.
We will continue to the finance sector run by the IMN business and manage the portfolio actively, buying where those in the telecoms sectors, performed well we see value-creating and strategically sensible but smaller events fared less well.
Overall event opportunities to do so and selling when we 1 sponsorship was down by an underlying 2%.
believe a business is more valuable to someone Revenue from non-training event delegates else than to us.
OUTLOOK Adjusted operating profit fell by 3%.
As We do not expect markets to improve in the expected, the adjusted operating margin fell year ahead and our plans are built around from 26% to 25%, reecting the impact of them not doing so.
We said at the Investor higher property and investment costs as well as Day that our strategy would not change the the impact of the loss of contribution from the trajectory in 2016: that we expected, subject to sale of the Capital DATA joint venture which the usual caveats, to return to growth in 2018: formed part of the Dealogic transaction.
and that 2017 would be a year of transition.
During the year, Euromoney increased its investment in developing and launching ANDREW RASHBASS new products to enhance organic revenue Chief Executive growth.
M&A activity remains an important November 24 2016 feature of the groups strategy to supplement organic growth and to manage the portfolio more actively.
As part of that, Euromoney disposed of Gulf Publishing during the year to reduce exposure to the energy market and to advertising, and acquired FastMarkets to become part of the Metal Bulletin Group and Reinsurance Security to add to its portfolio of services aimed at the reinsurance market.
1 Underlying revenues exclude the impact of acquisitions, disposals, event timing differences and currency movements.
A detailed reconciliation of the groups adjusted and underlying results is set out in the appendix to this statement.
