Chief executive officers letter Dear shareholder, Last year was one of considerable volatility, beginning with steel and raw material prices falling to multiyear lows and ending with a four-fold increase in coking coal prices and an 80% increase in steel prices compared with the beginning of the year.
Many of the market movements were driven In this light, in 2016, EVRAZ strategy remained on 31 December 2015 to US$4,802 million on by Chinese government measures, such the same: to focus on business sustainability, 31 December 2016. as investment stimulus, limitations on coal develop the product portfolio, retain a low-cost production and ongoing steelmaking capacity position, make prudent CAPEX investments and Overall, thanks to numerous improvement optimisation.
initiatives based on our long-term vision and more favourable market conditions, we While the market did not anticipate these EVRAZ considers safety to be the number-one delivered fairly strong financial results.
EBITDA developments, we tend to see Chinas efforts priority.
In 2016, we continued to improve injury reached US$1,542 million, up 7.2% from as positive for the global metals and mining reporting transparency and implement standard US$1,438 million in 2015, driving the EBITDA industry.
Ultimately, they should lead to more safe work procedures across our operations.
margin from 16.4% to 20.0%, while free cash effective capacity utilisation and healthier flow totalled US$659 million.
The results of 2016 support EVRAZ also continued to focus on developing this view: on average, the dynamics of steel, coal its steel product portfolio and premium coking and iron ore prices improved year-on-year.
coal sales at home and abroad, which had a Steel segment total financial effect of US$169 million.
Our Given the volatile nature of the industry, we cost position regarding steel and coking coal EVRAZ remains the largest producer of long steel believe that our efforts should remain focused products remains one of the lowest in the products in Russia, with its market share in 2016 on our long-term vision and be less dependent world: in 2016, our cost-cutting programme ranging from 14% for rebar to 72% for rails.
EVRAZ brought an overall effect of US$316 million.
creates value by serving infrastructure clients, In 2016, Russian Railways, one major domestic mainly in the CIS and North America, and In addition, by maintaining a strategic approach customer, substantially increased its rail delivering coking coal to customers in Russia, to implementing investment projects and purchases due to its rail track maintenance cycle, Ukraine and Asia.
As such, each year, the prudent financial discipline, we maintained a modernisation drive and underinvestment over Group strives to reinforce its leading positions CAPEX at US$428 million in 2016, the same the last couple of years.
We continue to develop in these markets through higher quality, better level as a year before.
We reduced net debt a joint technical partnership and customer focus service and greater efficiency.
by US$547 million, from US$5,349 million initiatives with this important client.
8 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 As a market leader in construction steel, the increased by 42% to 2.0 million tonnes, while coal industries led to the decline of railway Group supplied products for a number of sales to premium Asian markets totalled shipments and consequently Class-I railways infrastructure initiatives in Russia, including 2.6 million tonnes.
As a result, rail demand in North football stadiums for the 2018 World Cup, the focused initiative to switch to formula-based America was weaker than in 2015 and output Yamal-SPG natural gas project, the Zvezda contracts with domestic clients enabled EVRAZ of the segments railway products decreased to shipyard in the Far East and the Zaryadye to benefit from the surge in global coking prices 328 thousand tonnes.
The segments EBITDA landscape park in Moscow.
EVRAZ exported 75 thousand tonnes of rails In 2016, investment activity focused primarily from its Russian mills in 2016, up 2.8 times on maintaining current production volumes Management from 27 thousand tonnes in 2015.
In the and ramping up the Mezhegey project.
EVRAZ reporting year, the Group also certified its rails coking coal cash cost position remained In 2016, Pavel Tatyanin, the CFO of EVRAZ, for use in Europe, India and the Middle East mostly unchanged as a result of productivity submitted his resignation to pursue other and wheels for Europe, Latin America and improvements and labour optimisation.
I would like to thank Pavel for his Kazakhstan.
Through a continuous focus on leadership and valued contribution to EVRAZ developing new products, EVRAZ became the In addition, by effectively optimising mining over the last 15 years.
first Russian company to master the production process, the Group boosted raw coking coal of 100-metre rails in accordance with European production to 22.3 million tonnes, up 6.6% Replacing Pavel is Nikolay Ivanov, who joined standards.
Driven by a surge in coking the management team in November.
I would coal prices towards the year-end, and the like to welcome him and believe that his broad To maintain the competitiveness of our implementation of customer-focused and costexperience will help EVRAZ to successfully assets, in 2016, EVRAZ further decreased cutting initiatives, the Coal segments EBITDA implement its financial strategy and take the its semi-finished steel cash costs by 4.7% to increased by 83.5% to US$644 million.
support processes to the next level.
US$185 per tonne through production yield improvements, labour optimisation and energy efficiency initiatives.
Steel, North America Outlook for 2017 segment In addition, the Group launched a new project As we progress into 2017, while market to build blast furnace 7 at EVRAZ NTMK.
This Despite unfavourable demand dynamics in key sentiment is positive, the outlook should will allow EVRAZ to shut down blast furnace 6 product segments in North America, EVRAZ remain cautious.
Key risks include the pace of instead of performing category-1 repairs and secured its position as the largest producer steel capacity optimisation in China and the maintain stable pig iron output.
of large-diameter pipes LDP and rails, with general health of the countrys economy.
respective domestic market shares of 27% Crude steel production volumes at the Groups and 28%.
In 2016, the Group continued to In any market development scenario, EVRAZ mills in Russia and Ukraine remained primarily focus on developing its product portfolio will continue to act in accordance with the unchanged in 2016, totalling 12.2 million in key segments.
EVRAZ completed major strategic priorities that will support its position tonnes.
Output of railway products increased to construction works for investment projects at as a leader in infrastructure steel products 1,166 thousand tonnes, up 16.5% year-on-year, the new LDP mill and a steelmaking upgrade globally and in the Russian coking coal market.
as a result of operational improvements at in Regina, Canada, as well as created a tube EVRAZ ZSMK rolling mill and more favourable coating joint venture.
At present, the Group is demand.
The Group also resumed rolling qualifying new LDP grades and wall thicknesses operations at Palini e Bertoli due to good with key customers.
In addition to that, the plate market fundamentals in Europe.
For the research and development team launched year, the Steel segments EBITDA amounted three new tubular premium and semi-premium to US$1,004 million, down 7.1% from connections for OCTG products.
In 2016, the segments crude steel output decreased by 23.7% to 1.4 million tonnes, Coal segment while LDP production fell to 296 thousand tonnes amid demand issues relating to delays In 2016, EVRAZ secured its leading position in in approval for key pipelines.
However, late in the domestic coal market, with market shares the year, the Canadian government approved for high-volatile hard and semi-hard coking the Kinder Morgan Trans Mountain Expansion coal grades of 33% and 51% respectively, and Project and the Enbridge Line 3 Replacement enhanced its presence in premium coal export Program, which will support demand for EVRAZ Alexander Frolov markets.
The Groups coal sales to Ukraine products in 2017.
Low activity in the oil and Chief Executive Officer www.
