26 Strategic report Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Introduction We have made significant progress against our strategic objectives over the past year.
We have returned Experian to organic revenue growth within our target range and driven greater efficiencies in our business, whilst rigorously applying our robust capital framework.
Brian Cassin Chief Executive Officer We have made significant progress We delivered organic revenue growth Regional highlights against our strategic objectives over the of 5% for the year, with sequential North America past year.
We delivered organic revenue improvement throughout the year We returned to growth in North America growth within our mid single-digit target 4% in the first half year and 6% in during the year, with organic revenue up 3%.
range and enhanced the efficiency of the second.
This reflected strong our business, whilst rigorously applying growth in Credit Services and Credit Services performed strongly.
As we Decision Analytics and improved Lenders have continued to engage look forward, were investing in a range trends in North America Consumer actively in credit marketing and new of initiatives to enable us to deliver good Services.
Foreign exchange effects underwriting as consumer confidence growth consistently.
were a significant headwind and total has remained stable.
This has supported revenue from continuing activities strong volume growth in our business.
Highlights this year include: declined by 4% as a result.
We have also secured a number of We made significant progress on the sizeable wins from financial services We maintained margins at constant five strategic priorities we outlined clients by taking a One Experian currency.
We benefited from positive last year, having: approach, integrating data, analytics, operating leverage, counterbalanced software and expertise from across backed a range of new organic by organic investment initiatives.
investments in health, business Foreign exchange was a significant information, decisioning software, headwind, causing the EBIT margin Our strategy of diversifying and building fraud prevention and in other areas: to decline overall to 26.7% at out specialised businesses in new actual rates.
made good progress in vertical markets continues to produce repositioning our North America After the year-end we announced strong results.
Our health business is Consumer Services business a definitive agreement to acquire developing very well.
Were building on and returning it to growth in the CSIdentity Corporation CSID, a our market-leading position in revenuesecond half year: leading provider of consumer identity cycle management, where we help management and fraud detection taken steps to enhance our healthcare providers to get paid.
We see services, further accelerating the operating model to fully leverage potential to expand into adjacencies, for execution of our Consumer Services synergies between businesses and example were introducing services to strategy and enabling us to address drive greater efficiencies: prevent identity and payment fraud.
a broader spectrum of the consumer sold six non-core activities: and market.
The acquisition is subject to returned US$972m in total to Hart-Scott-Rodino regulatory approval shareholders through dividends in the USA and is expected to and net share purchases.
complete by the end of September.
Strategic report Chief Executives review 27 Highlights 2016 5% 26.7% Total and organic EBIT margin revenue growth Revenue and EBIT by region, EBIT margin 1 2 2 2016 2015 Total growth Organic growth US$m US$m % % Revenue North America 2,471 2,390 3 3 Latin America 633 856 7 7 UK and Ireland 956 971 5 5 EMEA Asia Pacific 417 441 7 7 Total continuing activities 4,477 4,658 5 5 Discontinuing activities 73 152 Total 4,550 4,810 EBIT North America 755 741 2 Latin America 226 313 7 UK and Ireland 300 308 4 EMEA Asia Pacific 4 10 n a Sub-total 1,277 1,352 5 Central Activities central corporate costs 82 81 n a Continuing activities 1,195 1,271 5 Discontinuing activities 15 35 n a Total EBIT 1,210 1,306 3 EBIT margin continuing activities 26.7% 27.3% 1 2015 restated for discontinuing activities see note 3 below for details.
3 Discontinuing activities comprise Baker Hill North America, FootFall North America, UK and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Pacific, Consumer Insights all regions and other small businesses in EMEA Asia Pacific.
See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, EBIT and EBIT margin by business segment and note 6 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
28 Strategic report Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued Were also positioning Experian Health The prospective acquisition of CSID is a our product set.
Over the year we saw to address emerging marketplace further important step in the execution strong market uptake of credit preneeds such as the trend towards payof our strategy, enabling us to attract qualification and business information, for-performance, which will affect all a broader range of consumers by as well as identity verification services.
We think this will packaging identity protection as part of We have delivered progress across a place greater emphasis on transparency our membership services, broaden our number of client segments including in the payment process, heightening offer to third-party white-label partners small businesses, banks, government the need for data and analytics and and expand consumer identity protection departments and other areas.
It was expanding our addressable market.
a good year for new business, with a large proportion of our new wins While Marketing Services has remained Latin America coming about from the combination of weak, we are pleased with progress in Helped by counter-cyclical revenues and services from across our key business cross-channel marketing, having onour new growth initiatives, our business activities.
This approach has helped us boarded a number of new clients across in Latin America has held up well in a to maximise opportunities as clients a wide range of industries.
While growth worsening economic environment, with have invested in systems upgrades and in cross-channel is not yet sufficient to organic revenue growth of 7%.
We are also creating offset attrition in email marketing, we new markets as we find new uses for our While we continue to be cautious on are encouraged by a growing pipeline data, such as in the UK energy sector the economic outlook in Brazil, we are of opportunities and a positive reaction where we are helping to track fraud.
investing during the downturn to develop for our products from industry analysts.
our business for the longer term.
We We are also executing on our strategy While Consumer Services delivered have restructured our sales approach in to more closely align our Experian data growth for the year as a whole, we order to capture a greater share of the quality operations with other parts of are seeing evolutionary change in the small and medium enterprise market.
Experian, and this is opening up new market, similar to the changes which We are building relationships with market opportunities across several have occurred in North America.
This consumers to provide new services as vertical markets.
market shift gave rise to some slowing well as to collect positive data opt-ins.
in signing new member subscriptions Over the past two years we have taken We have made significant progress and some attrition towards the end of many actions to reposition Consumer in integrating our software and fraud the year, and we expect these trends to Services.
Organic revenue growth moved prevention services, which has led continue in the forthcoming year.
We are into positive territory in the second recently to much stronger performance responding in a similar way as we have half of the year and the business is in Decision Analytics, and we are done in North America, by broadening now poised to address a larger and repositioning our Marketing Services our product range and diversifying our more dynamic market.
Our goal is to business to focus more on crosssources of revenue.
For example, we enrich the services we provide, making channel marketing and data quality.
We recently secured wins from B2B clients them more attractive to consumers have also taken steps to make our cost who are providing Experian scores and helping to diversify our sources base more efficient by setting up a new on statements to their customers and of revenue.
facility in the city of So Carlos.
This helps to reinforce our leadership position Our premium service, Experian.
com, These factors have helped us this year as the provider of scores and data is growing strongly.
Were attracting and will continue to support growth in used by the majority of UK lenders members who want to interact and the coming year.
We engage, and the take-up rates for our plan to launch further new services for UK and Ireland mobile apps and educational services consumers in the coming months.
We delivered a good performance in the such as ScoreTracker are encouraging.
UK and Ireland, with organic revenue During the year we also launched a growth of 5%.
new service enabling consumers to access their credit report for free.
This is Our business-to-business B2B proving to be a successful mechanism business in the UK has performed for drawing traffic to our site, which can well as we benefit from investments be commercialised in a variety of ways.
made in product innovation, customer Since launch we have accumulated over service and ever closer integration of three million totally free members.
Strategic report Chief Executives review 29 EMEA Asia Pacific Cash generation and We have delivered good revenue growth uses of cash in EMEA Asia Pacific, with organic Cash flow conversion was strong, with revenue growth of 7%.
EBIT conversion into operating cash flow of 105%.
Operating cash flow was The actions weve taken to improve US$1,270m, of which US$325m was performance in EMEA Asia Pacific are utilised in organic capital investment.
paying off with better revenue growth Net disposal proceeds amounted and improving margins.
We have to US$163m, net share purchases reorganised to drive scale and adopted were US$592m and equity dividends a more customer-centric approach.
After other Were now focused on fewer markets.
small outflows, Net debt was reduced We have reduced complexity, centralised by US$194m to US$3,023m.
functions, and got our largest countries focused on our most successful At 31 March 2016, Net debt was products.
Our growth is being driven 1.9 times EBITDA, compared to our by combining credit data with credit target leverage range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
decisioning software and analytics, After the year-end, we announced a and by focusing on fraud prevention definitive agreement to acquire CSID for and identity verification, and were US$360m.
Pro forma for this acquisition, winning new deals in cross-channel Net debt to EBITDA would be 2.1 times marketing.
As a result, the average for the year ended 31 March 2016. contract value on new wins is increasing, particularly in Asia Pacific, and we Return on capital employed have a strong pipeline.
We will continue Return on capital employed for the with this focused approach and look to year was 15.4% 2015: 14.9%.
This further enhance profitability over the represented organic improvement of coming year.
70 basis points, offset by a 20 basis points headwind from disposals and EBIT margin foreign exchange effects.
We maintained EBIT margin at constant currency.
We faced exceptional foreign Dividend and share purchases exchange movements which reduced We are announcing a second interim reported Group revenue by US$412m dividend of 27.5 US cents per share, and EBIT by US$137m compared to last to bring the total for the year ended year and which gave rise to a 60 basis 31 March 2016 to 40.0 US cents per points reduction in the actual EBIT share, up 2% on the prior year.
If recent rates prevail, dividend will be paid on 22 July 2016 to we no longer expect foreign exchange shareholders on the register at the close to be a headwind for the year ending of business on 24 June 2016.
We also 31 March 2017. expect to execute share purchases of US$400m in the forthcoming year, which includes US$144m to complete the existing US$800m programme.
