Chief Executives strategic review Overall we have made encouraging progress this year inrepositioning FirstGroup for improved financial We are encouraged by the performance and more consistent returns overall progress we have morebefitting our strong service capabilities and made tostrengthen our ourmarket positions in our five business divisions.
As we indicated at the start of the year, a smaller rail franchise portfolio and fewer operating days in our school bus business werefactors that Although our plans have would make delivering headline earnings growththis yearchallenging.
hadto adapt to changing However, by being flexible with our planswe have delivered a comparable adjusted operating profit to lastyear as well asa net cash circumstances, the Group inflow ahead of our expectations, despite several headwinds some anticipated at the start of the year and some emerging in our isnow in a position to deliver marketsover the course ofthe last twelve months.
Wehave done sustainable cash generation.
sobyadapting our plans in response to evolving market conditions, while maintaining our focus onour five strategic objectives: focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses: driving growth throughattractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses: continuous improvement in operating and financial performance: prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems andpeople : and maintaining responsible partnerships with our customers and communities.
Our performance in the year In this regard, our First Bus division reacted well to disappointing passenger volume trends across the industry in the year, rapidly adjusting commercial and cost efficiency plans including our depot footprint while maintaining a focus on long term investments in smarter ticketing, improved connectivity for our passengers and better partnerships withour local authorities.
In Greyhound we also flexed our operations in response to reduced passenger demand from lower fuel prices which continued to fall over the course of the year while improving our medium term prospects through investment in yield management and other systems.
In First Student we delivered another year of contract awards at prices more reflective of the capital we employ whilst delivering significant cost efficiencies, though disappointingly this was offset by higher than planned costs incurred in response to worsening driver shortages in some of our locations as US employment markets continue to tighten.
In response to this challenge we have taken a number of additional cost reduction actions including a realignment of our regional and central services structures at the start of the 2016 17 year.
We are also reflecting these cost challenges in our bid proposals going forward and continue to upgrade our employee recruitment and retention practices.
First Transit has continued to win contracts in our core markets but also in adjacent areas such as Bus Rapid Transit BRT and new geographies, though the oil price resulted in lower activity in the Canadian oil sands region, as expected.
The recent wildfire which devastated the city of Fort McMurray presents further challenges for this part of First Transits business in the coming months.
In First Rail we have continued to develop our franchise portfolio, winning the new seven year TransPennine Express contract in the year and securing opportunities to grow our open access operations, while maintaining good passenger volume and revenue growth and strong financial performances across all our networks.
Wecontinue tobeactive in a number of upcoming rail franchise competitions.
08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report We are encouraged by the overall progress we have made to strengthen with modest capital investment, and expect to return to overall growth, our businesses in recent years.
Although our plans have had to adapt despite further reductions in demand for our shuttle services in the tochanging circumstances, the Group is now in a position to deliver Canadian oil sands region due to the oil price and recent wildfire.
Going forward, we will continue to drive Although Greyhounds passenger revenue decline trend has shown progress with our pricing, margin and operational improvement plans signs of moderating, we expect a year of muted passenger demand and inorder to complete the programme we set out in 2013, but will also modest margin benefits as our systems upgrades begin tobuild and we place increasing emphasis on growth.
Across the Group we are already continue to flex operations in response to the demand environment.
In enhancing our ability to understand and interact with our passengers First Bus we expect market conditions to remain challenging in the year throughout their experience of our services, while providing more and ahead.
We therefore expect moderate margin progression from the full better journey information and related services tailored to their needs.
year benefits of past cost saving actions, additional cost and operational Inthis area our scale and the range of experience and expertise efficiency initiatives and some benefits from our fuel hedging programme.
available throughout the Group is a significant asset.
For example, We are expecting the rate of passenger revenue growth in First Rail to FirstBus is already working very closely with the Greyhound team moderate in line with recent industry-wide trends and our divisional onusing IT to deepen customer relationships.
margin willrebase toward industry norms following the start ofthe new TPE franchise.
Our sustained reinvestment in our non-rail fleets and systems is now largely complete, and going forward our capital allocation decisions Overall, we expect the considerable efforts of our people in recent willincreasingly focus on the maintenance of our existing asset portfolio years to be reflected in a significant improvement inour profile of and selected growth opportunities with good returns.
As we continue sustainable returns and cash generation goingforwards.
tofocus on increasing our operating earnings, our free cash flow is expected to improve over time.
We also expect our financing costs Tim OToole tocontinue to reduce ascash flow increases and our relatively high Chief Executive coupon bonds mature over time.
14 June 2016 People In the year we welcomed two new members to the Board.
Wolfhart Hauser joined the Board in May 2015 and became Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM in July.
With his considerable track record ofsustained value creation, Wolfhart has already begun to make important contributions to the development of the Group.
In December 2015 Matthew Gregory joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer, succeeding Chris Surch on his retirement.
Matthews financial, strategic and international experience will be invaluable as FirstGroups strategy continues to evolve.
I echo the sentiments of the Chairman in thanking Chris Surch for his contribution to the Group since he joined in 2012.
We continue to invest in our people throughout the Group, giving themleadership, professional development and other support which isincreasing the level of collaboration throughout our organisation and leveraging the extraordinary breadth of expertise across our business.
Outlook In the coming year we expect the Group to make strong progress despite a challenging trading environment in several of our markets.
Thiswill come from our ongoing focus on disciplined contract bidding and our cost efficiency programmes, as well as lower fuel costs and a higher number of First Student operating days compared with the prior year.
We also expect to deliver a significant increase innet cash generation for the first time since we launched our transformation of the Group in 2013.
In the year ahead we expect First Students up or out contract pricing programme to offset cost inflation and our performance to benefit from further cost efficiencies, a higher number of operating days and a reduction in our fuel costs due to our hedging profile.
Although these will be partially offset by the driver shortage headwinds we are experiencing, we expect significant margin progression for 2016 17 to at least 9%.
In First Transit we will continue to bid for contracts offering good margins FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09
