Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 16 Chief Executives Letter Optimising performance There were challenges and setbacks, I am pleased to report a solid to be sure three fatalities, which we see performance in 2016, with a as unacceptable, slower than expected rise in production, delivery of turnaround at our flagship Fresnillo mine By design our the first phase of a key growth and technical issues and construction project, expansion of our delays at San Julin but also remarkable mines are set resource base and a maturing improvements in capacity utilisation, sustainability framework.
notably at Saucito and Herradura, to yield returns and cash costs across the organisation.
This comes in the context of volatile across the price but improved metal prices that boosted revenues, profits and our cash position.
cycle with all-in My enthusiasm for improved market sustaining costs conditions is somewhat tempered by their current unpredictability.
In years past, precious metals prices were generally that are amongst driven upward by supply constraints, geopolitical tensions and investors seeking the lowest in the safe havens.
Over the course of 2016, these fundamentals may not have impacted industry.
pricing the way we have come to expect, confounding both industry analysts and market experts.
However, at Fresnillo, we have always believed that strategy and execution are the true drivers of value creation.
We look to operational excellence, targeted investment, disciplined cash management and sustainable business practices as the benchmark of success.
In that regard, I remain confident that we are on the right path to meeting our commitments to profitability and sustainability across precious metal price cycles.
To support this, we are undertaking a comprehensive review of the role technology and innovation play in managing the internal variables under our control, and the extent to which our systems and data are secure.
I am leading the IT Governance Committee through a digital transformation: everything from personnel management and predictive maintenance, to mine ventilation, simulator training and reactant consumption.
We have implemented a number of new systems already and will continue to monitor their effectiveness in delivering results and driving our competitive advantage, while bolstering our cybersecurity protocols.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 17 Operating performance Following Board approval of project IT Strategy We produced a record 50.3 moz of silver resumption, we completed engineering in 2016 including Silverstream, 7.1% over for the new Pyrites plant, placed initial Ensure the security, continuity and 2015 and within our range of 49-51 moz.
equipment orders and began construction.
confidentiality of our networks, This was primarily due to the start-up of This US$155 million project will increase systems and data.
San Julin, higher ore grades at Fresnillo silver and gold recovery rates by Optimise execution to reduce and Cinega and, to a lesser extent, higher processing tailings, both historical and costs, increase productivity production from Silverstream.
ongoing, from the Fresnillo and Saucito and throughput, and improve mines, generating an expected 3.5 moz safety metrics.
While we met our silver production silver and 13 koz gold per year.
The first Transform processes with disruptive targets, I am disappointed that the Fresnillo phase leaching plant is expected to come technologies that will evolve the mine fell short of its turnaround objectives.
on line in 1Q 2018, and the tailings flotation business model.
Our aim was to stabilise the rate of facility by year end 2018.
Support decision making with development at 4,500 metres per month big data analytics and automatic in order to maintain throughput at levels The Centauro Extension project at generation of insights.
that would offset the natural and expected Herradura, encompassing a second line decline in ore grade.
However, due to a lack to the dynamic leaching plant, has also See pages 56-57 of equipment availability and a shortage been approved.
Progress in the year of skilled personnel, we were unable to included detailed engineering, advancing prepare sufficient infrastructure to sustain the foundations of the milling area that rate of development, which put and placement of orders for various pressure on volumes.
The US$110 million project produced 15.9 moz silver in 2016, 1.6% is expected to extend the life of the mine higher than in 2015, against our target with average gold production of 390 koz of a double-digit increase.
already made improvements but are looking to make additional progress Investment in exploration totalled US$137.9 in 2017 to deliver our targets.
million, mainly focused on areas of influence at current operating mines and Gold production reached a record level, key exploration sites.
Good results were increasing 22.8% over 2015 to 935.5 koz, achieved at Fresnillo, Saucito, San Julin, against our revised guidance of 850-870 Pilarica and Guanajuato.
This was the result of the reductions of inventories from the leaching pads at Resources and reserves reflect the Herradura, the start-up of phase I at San following price assumptions: silver at Julin and a higher speed of recovery at US$17.50 per oz 2015: US$15.00, gold Noche Buena, which partially offset the in underground mines at US$1,250.00 per expected lower ore grade and ore oz 2015: US$1,150.00, and gold in open processed at Cinega.
Our high quality asset base By-product lead production increased remains healthy.
Gold and silver resources 13.5% on 2015, to 48,144 tonnes, mainly increased by 8.2% and 10.2% respectively, as a result of higher ore grades at Fresnillo whilst gold reserves remained unchanged and Cinega.
Similarly, by-product zinc and silver reserves decreased 3.2%.
Refer production increased 23.5% to 56,845 to Exploration pages 71-75 Top: Development at Las Casas, Cinega District tonnes due to higher ore grades and recovery rates at Fresnillo and Cinega and A commitment to sustainable business Bottom: Water treatment Plant in the Fresnillo District increased ore throughput and recovery practices rate at Saucito.
Robust sustainability practices not only underpin our licence to operate, they also Construction of phase I of the San Julin lower operating risk and ensure alignment mine was completed at a slight delay due with stakeholders.
To coincide with our to the need of the contractor to do some HSECR framework reaching maturity this initial rectification.
The milling facility and year, we conducted our first materiality leaching plant were commissioned in the assessment to gauge the effectiveness of summer, and the plant exceeded design our sustainability strategy and the quality capacity in the final quarter of the year, of our reporting, the results of which are contributing 2.1 moz to the Groups total set out on page 77. silver production and enhancing our productivity metrics.
Start-up of the phase continued on page 18 II flotation plant has been delayed from year end 2016 to 2Q 2017 due to unusually high rainfall, contractor turnover and delays in the delivery of certain equipment that affected the pace of construction.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 18 Chief Executives Letter continued These factors more than compensated Outlook 2017 Key commitments for 2017 for the additional production costs arising By design, our mines are set to yield from the increased ore throughput at returns across the price cycle, with all-in Strengthen our safety performance Herradura and Saucito.
However, cost sustaining costs that are amongst the with zero tolerance for nonof sales increased by 1.2% over 2015 lowest in the industry, giving us financial compliance, and increased mainly due to the decrease in inventories and operating flexibility in a range of investment and support for at Herradura following the increased market conditions.
We aim to produce training and oversight.
processing capacity achieved with the 5861 moz of silver, including 4 moz from commissioning of the second Merrill the Silverstream, and 870900 koz of gold Improve and optimise performance Crowe plant, as well as higher depreciation.
in 2017, reflecting no further production at the Fresnillo mine by developing benefit from the reduction of inventories infrastructure at the lower levels The increase in revenues more than offset at Herradura.
sufficient to increase the the higher cost of sales, resulting in a development rate to 4,800 metres 103.7% increase in gross profit to US$882.1 Given the uncertainty of forecasting per month by year end: commence million.
Gross margin was 46.3% compared precious metals prices in the current work on plant optimisation: and to 30.0% in the previous year.
The higher environment, we continue to take a continue the deepening of the San gross profit and lower administrative and cautious approach and investment Carlos shaft and expansion of the exploration expenses resulted in an 88.5% decisions will be evaluated on a project-bytailings dam.
increase in EBITDA, with an expansion project basis against key criteria: US$800 in the margin from 37.9% in 2015 to 54.2% million has been budgeted for capital Commission the second phase of in 2016. expenditures in 2017, to be allocated San Julin on time and on budget primarily to San Julin, the Pyrites plant, in 2Q 2017, including installing Profit from continuing operations the second line of the DLP and, pending vibrating screens at the leaching before income tax increased by 238.2% approval, initial construction at Juanicipio, plant to achieve an average to US$718.2 million.
Income tax expense as well as sustaining capex at current of 4,000 tpd milling capacity.
increased 101.4% to US$259.9 million as operations including the Fresnillo Furthermore, we will deploy a result of higher profits, with an effective expansion.
A further US$160 million efficiency teams to reduce costs, tax rate of 36.2% excluding the special has been budgeted for exploration, with a focus on drilling methods, mining right 2015: 60.7%, and 40.8% including capitalised expenses.
and identify additional long-term including the effects of the special mining sources of water for industrial use.
Net profit for the period The Centauro Deep and Cinega was US$425.0 million, a 512.4% increase expansion projects are still under See pages 28-29 over 2015. exploration prior to Board evaluation, while every effort will be made to improve and The 20.1% devaluation of the Mexican peso enhance project metrics for longer-term against the US dollar as of 31 December growth prospects such as Orisyvo.
We fell short of our safety targets this year, resulted in non-cash charges to the income with three fatal injuries in 2016 and one statement and affected the monetary Our strategic goals are unchanged: to at the beginning of 2017.
We have taken position and value of certain assets and profitably and sustainably maintain the a number of steps to strengthen our safety liabilities, resulting in a higher deferred Groups position as the worlds largest culture, including the implementation of tax charge.
primary silver company and a leading gold a new Safety Information System.
Our high quality, low decision to terminate a Company contractor Cash flow generated by operations, before cost assets, extensive growth pipeline and this year reflects the prioritisation of safety changes in working capital, increased by balance sheet strength leave us well placed above all other operational considerations, 90.5% to US$1,023.3 million as a result of to deliver on our 2018 production and notwithstanding the shortage of contractors higher profits.
Capital expenditure totalled reserves targets.
More immediately, we are in certain districts as well as the short-term US$434.1 million, a decrease of 8.6% over focused on meeting our commitments to impact on production.
2015: key investments in the year included improve and optimise performance at the construction at the San Julin project, Fresnillo mine, commission the second However, we made important advances in stripping activities and the construction phase of San Julin on time and on budget, other metrics of sustainability in the areas of the leaching pads at Herradura, and and strengthen our safety performance.
of health, environment and community development at Fresnillo, Cinega and relations.
These include chronic illnesses Saucito.
Other uses of funds in the year I am grateful for the continued confidence and water utilisation rates.
were income tax and profit sharing paid placed in us by our people, communities, of US$114.8 million and dividends paid of suppliers, clients and shareholders, and Financial results US$88.2 million.
We closed the year net look forward to another year together.
Our average realised gold and silver prices cash flow positive.
As a Octavio Alvdrez result, adjusted revenues totalled US$2,045 The Group maintained a strong balance Chief Executive Officer million, 29.2% above the previous year.
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totalled US$912.0 million, an 1 Adjusted production costs decreased by 82.3% increase over 2015: debt remained at 2.5%, mainly explained by the favourable US$800.0 million as at 31 December 2016. effect of the 17.7% average devaluation of the Mexican peso vs. the US dollar during A detailed review of our performance is set 2016, lower energy prices and the positive out in the Financial Review.
impact of our cost reduction initiatives.
Adjusted production costs is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing and the effects of exchange rate hedging.
