24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Chief Executives review Strategy Galliford Try has a successful strategy, which has delivered excellent growth in recent years.
Going forward we will be following a similar course, focused on achieving sustainable and disciplined organic growth.
We are currently finalising our strategy beyond 2018 and will communicate this in due course.
While we will factor in the result of the EU referendum into our strategy, and need to be mindful of the wider economic climate that may result from the referendum, we anticipate pursuing the same strategy of disciplined growth across our core business segments.
Fundamentally, we believe that the macroeconomic environment in all three of our businesses will be favourable.
It may be necessary to make investment decisions in the shorter term that reflect any dislocation, but at the same time we remain confident about future prospects and continue to plan accordingly.
The long-term underinvestment in housing and strategic infrastructure in the UK still exists regardless of any potential headwinds over the coming months, and our businesses are well placed to exploit Galliford Try has strong, complementary the opportunities that will arise.
businesses and positive prospects in each Sustainability of our markets.
To implement our strategy, we need to have the right people.
Galliford Try has many skilled and dedicated employees but strong market Peter Truscott conditions mean demand for quality people Chief Executive is high and employee churn remains high across the industry.
Over the last 12 months, we have continued to improve the way we recruit, develop and retain our people.
This includes succession planning and talent management as well as effective reward and recognition.
All of these factors, as well as simply being a good place to work, will help us to attract the people we need and to keep them within the Group.
We continue to bring the next generation of talent into the industry, taking on around 100 graduates and trainees each year.
Our challenging and rewarding graduate programme has made us one of the top 100 companies and the sixth best construction company for graduates to work for.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 25 Health and safety is always our top priority.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Revenue m While we maintained our Accident Frequency 10% Rate at 0.14 in 2016, which is in line with the 2,670 industry average, we were disappointed not 2,431 ONE to have improved our performance, which 1,851 1,576 1,559 I believe does not fully reflect the benefits Deliver disciplined growth by focusing on the quality of opportunities of our significant work in this area.
More and prioritising margin over revenue.
information about our approach to health and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 safety can be found on pages 44 and 45.
We work hard to meet the needs of our customers and clients.
We were therefore Profit before tax m pleased that Linden Homes retained its four 18% star National House Building Council NHBC 135.0 customer satisfaction rating and increased 114.0 TWO 95.2 its score from 80% in 2015 to 83.5% in 2016.
74.1 63.1 Partnerships and Construction both seek Operate sustainably, recognising that health and safety and to develop long-term relationships with our people are our top two priorities.
clients and continue to receive high levels 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of repeat business.
Conditions in the supply chain have eased Outlook this year and we are generally able to source The outlook remains positive for all three the skills and materials we need.
Our supply of our businesses.
chain has a critical role in our delivery to The construction market continues to clients and we continue to look for ways to THREE provide a pipeline of opportunities, not least work more collaboratively, such as through because of the substantial infrastructure our Advantage through Alignment initiative Generate shareholder return renewal required in the UK.
However, the by growing earnings and dividends, in Construction see page 39. and carefully managing our balance sheet.
speed of some work coming through in the Building strong relationships with local public sector is slower than expected.
While it communities is important to us across the is too early to predict how the construction Group.
As evidence of our commitment, market will perform following the EU we were delighted to win 30 Considerate referendum, our solid order book and focus Constructors Scheme National Site Awards, on the public and regulated sectors give including three Gold awards.
us a strong position going forward.
We will remain disciplined in our approach.
While Our environmental performance is also See our Strategy p14 it is desirable to maintain some scale of important.
Reducing energy use and waste operations, we will always prioritise the helps to cut our costs at the same time as quality of the order book over quantity.
It also supports our ability to win work in Construction, The prospects for Partnerships are where clients often look to their supply chain considered to be excellent, with significant to help improve their own sustainability.
unmet demand for low-cost, intermediate and Demonstrating this continued strong rented affordable homes.
Further geographic performance against environmental, social expansion and the growth in mixed-tenure and governance benchmarks, we were revenues will drive both the top line and pleased to retain our position within the margins in this business.
FTSE4Good Index, and, furthermore, The long-term underinvestment in housing improve our score.
and demand for private homes still exists regardless of any potential headwinds over the coming months.
Linden Homes has a great brand, and is solidly positioned, with good locations and well-designed homes.
We have the opportunity to grow further geographically, as we increase our presence in the North and the Midlands.
While we continue to create developments that are designed to complement their local area, we are using more standard floor plans and processes to increase profitability.
Overall, Linden Homes is well placed to exploit the opportunities that will arise.
