Chief Executives review SECURING YOUR WORLD Since 2013, the year in which we commenced the transformation of G4S, the Groups continuing businesses have grown revenues by 15% and EPS by 45% while generating operating cash flow of 1.9 billion.
Our investment in organic growth, innovation and productivity is clearly evident in the Groups improving performance and financial position as reflected in our 2016 results.
G4S now has much stronger foundations, growing competitive capabilities and an attractive array of market opportunities, which underpin our aim of delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer 4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report People and values: Strategy transforming G4S: Our people and values are critical to the successful Our strategy addresses the positive long-term demand execution of our strategy.
We have beenstrengthening for security and related services and our enduring our organisation by investing in talent through strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and recruitment, internal development, promotion and performance that make G4S the company of choice for training.
In 2015 449,000 colleagues participated in a customers, employees and shareholders.
We aim to do global employee survey and in 2016 we used that this by delivering industry-leading, innovative solutions information and feedback toengage actively with our and outstanding service to our customers, by providing colleagues across the Group.
Since 1 January 2016, we engaging and rewarding work for employees and by have two new regions Asia Pacific and Middle East & generating sustainable growth and returns for India replacing Asia Middle East which brought our shareholders.
additional executive resource and focus to these The Group has materially improved its focus over the important markets.
past three years and implements its strategy across two In October 2016, Tim Weller succeeded Himanshu Raja main business segments: as Chief Financial Officer.
Tim is a highly accomplished Secure Solutions, comprising: executive with extensive commercial and financial experience in global businesses.
Tim previously served Security services, software, technology and systems as a non-executive director on our board and it is Care and Justice services focused on custody, greatly to our advantage that he already has deep detention, care and rehabilitation in the UK understanding of G4S and ourtransformation and Australia programme.
I thank Himanshu for thecontribution Cash Solutions comprising secure transportation, hemade over the past three years.
processing, recycling and storage of cash and valuables As a result of the very substantial investment made in in domestic and international markets.
recruitment, development and training since 2013, In 2013, we set out our strategy to transform G4S and G4S today has a much stronger global leadership team.
I am pleased to report that in 2016 we made further, In turn, this places the Group in a stronger position to substantialprogress in each of the key programmes in achieve our strategic goals in the coming years.
During our strategic plan: 2016 we launched our new Group values.
These clear values reflect the standards we set for the way in which PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND we conduct our business.
Through our behaviours and actions, we are working to embed these values in the SERVICE EXCELLENCE culture of our organisation.
I firmly believe that these valuesare vital to the long-term success of G4S.
They are described in further detail on page 15.
Customer relationships and service excellence: During 2016 we continued to embed a customer and market focussed approach to sales operations and GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL customer service management.
In addition to adopting INNOVATION EXCELLENCE AND a standard sales management system we have established PRODUCTIVITY a Net Promoter Score model across the Group to measure and respond to customer satisfaction scores see page 20.
Alongside these measures we continue to invest in strategic account management to ensure that we anticipate and serve our customers needs.
Growth and Innovation: FINANCIAL AND During 2016, G4S won new contracts with an annual COMMERCIAL value of over 1.3 billion and total contract value of DISCIPLINE 2.5 billion.
At the same time, we replenished our pipeline which now has an annual value of 6.8 billion and sustained average contract retention rates of around 90%.
We expect demand for our services to Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 5 Chief Executives review continued grow by around 4% to 6% per annum over the medium Health & Safety: term and we continue to see the benefit of investing The safety and wellbeing of our employees and those in 1.5bn in product and service development.
Our technology, our care is a key priority for the group executive team Revenue from software and systems revenues grew strongly and and the global leadership team.
Our goal is zero harm technologynow account for 13% of continuing business revenues.
and to achieve this we are striving to ensure that every enabled services This included substantial progress with services such G4S employee understands and complies with safe and in continuing as Symmetry integrated access control system and secure working practices.
We work in an inherently businesses in secure integration, Retail Cash Solutions and Deposita hazardous industry: many of our employees travel 2016 cash management.
Further information on these extensively and many are trained and deployed to solutions can be found on pages 21, 22 and 23.
In our protect our customers and their property.
As a result, Secure Solutions business, technology-enabled services road traffic accidents and criminal attacks are inherent and solutions contributed over 1.5 billion in revenues risks we face in delivering some of our services.
We have in 2016. therefore invested in considerable improvements to our health and safety policies, practices, training and Operational excellence and Productivity: resources across the Group.
Whilst we have made Our operational excellence and productivity progress in significantly reducing road traffic fatalities, we programmes delivered further benefits, allowing us to faced a sharp increase in both the number and intensity continue to invest in product and service development of armed attacks, particularly in our emerging markets whilst at the same time improving the Groups profit Cash Solutions businesses.
As a direct result of this before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA.
Some of increase, I regret to report that 47 colleagues lost their our emerging markets businessesare at a much earlier lives in the line of duty in 2016.
We are working with stage in our transformation programme but in our peer companies and the police to mitigate these attacks.
developed markets we expect to extract greater We pay tribute to the courage and service of colleagues efficiencies through the implementation of automated, who lost their lives and we remain committed to our lean business processes and we will be piloting this goal of zero harm.
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS: GLOBAL RESOURCE & CAPABILITY G4S countries of operation See page 10 for our Security Operation Centres business model 6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report ONE G4S Financial and commercial discipline: The scale and breadth of G4S is a key strength and % Since 2013 we have strengthened capital investment our One G4S approach will help us to achieve 16.6 processes and we are applying capital with greater strategic, commercial and operational alignment Increase in consistency and rigour.
Strengthening our working capital and to maximise synergies both revenue and cost earnings from management processes was a key priority for our across the Group.
We are striving for One G4S continuing finance and line management teams in 2016 and the through consistency in the following areas: businesses in weighting of operating cash flow in our annual incentive 2016 Brand and marketing plans was increased accordingly.
I am pleased to report that we saw a  in working capital Product and service development management and operating cash flow in 2016.
Sales and operating models We have also strengthened contract approval Processes for line and support functions processes, whether they require significant capital Common values and culture investment or not.
Portfolio programme: Our portfolio programme has materially improved our strategic focus.
Since 2013 we have divested 29 Outlook: businesses with annual revenues of c. 1 billion and During 2016, the Group made good progress with its PBITA of 25 million, realising proceeds of 345 million, transformation strategy.
We now have much stronger and a further 27 businesses with revenues of foundations, growing competitive capabilities and an c. 445 million are being sold or exited.
In 2016 we attractive array of market opportunities.
We believe that closed four businesses and sold a further 12, realising the long-term demand for our core services remains proceeds of 82 million, including 52 million in respect positive and that the Groups transformation strategy of the UK Utilities business and reached agreement for will produce further performance improvements and the sale of G4S Israel for 88 million.
The impact on our underpin our aim of delivering sustainable, profitable 2015 results from continuing businesses due to growth.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our colleagues re-presentation of portfolio businesses is provided on across the world whose expertise and dedication to our page 34. customers and G4S is reflected in the substantial progress made by the Group in 2016.
Performance: Continuing business performance Supported by the continuous investment in organic sales Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer and business development, revenues rose by 6.3% to 6.8 billion.
In addition, our investment in technology and innovation was clearly reflected in the favourable change in our revenue mix, with revenues from technology, software and systems now accounting for 13% of Group revenues 2015:10%.
The combination of growing revenues and improved productivity saw the Groups PBITA rise by 9.7% to 454 million, whilst earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 15.9 pence per share.
The increase in profit and more effective working capital management saw operating cash flow rise by more than 61% to 638 million.
Statutory results Revenue growth was 10.6% and profit before tax increased by 279.5%.
A more detailed review of the statutory results can be found on page 32, with a reconciliation to results from continuing businesses provided on page 33.
Net debt and dividend: Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together with disposal proceeds of 82 million helped reduce the Groups net debt to EBITDA to 2.8x 2015: 3.4x.
In line Watch the CEO Review online with our intention to maintain dividends until net debt at www.
com investors to EBITDA is below 2.5x, the board is recommending that the final dividend be maintained at 5.82p per share DKK 0.5029, bringing the total dividend for the full year to 9.41p per share unchanged from the previous year.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 7 MEETING THE DEMAND Market growth drivers SECURITY 500 TOP TRENDS The world continues to face a series In November 2016, Security of divergent and emerging threats.
Magazine published some of the key Governments and companies require concerns and priorities of the top holistic approaches to ensure the 500 chief security officers in the security of their people and assets United States: both at home and abroad.
Asset protection, theft The evolving nature of terrorism, which continues to and investigations threaten societies outside insurgent strongholds, has elevated security risks and concerns in many parts of Workplace violence the world.
The key trends are featured in G4S Risk Consulting publications.
Terrorism The rapidly changing nature of crime, social unrest and political uncertainty has added complexity to the Business continuity security needs of our customers around the world.
Budget and funding G4S offers a comprehensive range of security services and solutions see pages 2 and 3 across a global footprint.
Training and employee retention, hiring We have invested and will continue to invest in technology, software and systems in order to provide innovative, reliable and efficient security solutions Technology management that help our customers respond to more complex and dynamic security needs.
Secure executive and employee travel Global Security Operations Centre management Cyber security 8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report WELL POSITIONED TO MEET DEMAND For a more detailed description of G4S products Global presence Secure Solutions and services please see pages 2 to 3.
of countries Cash Solutions business model and its customer approach please see page 10.
Prosegur 16 Global security market by region 2010-2025 $m % 120,000 5-6 Expected market growth from 2015 to 2025 per 100,000 annum % 80,000 4-6 revenue growth per annum expected for G4S in the 60,000 medium term 40,000 20,000 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 Asia Paci c North America Latin America Western Europe Africa & Middle East Eastern Europe Source: Freedonia World Security Services report January 2017 excluding residential security.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 9
