26 Chief Executives Review Robust Performance 2016 was another good year for Genus.
The Group performed welloverall and we met our financial and operational goals, as In 2017, we will further the breadth of our business by geography and species helped drive growth, despite challenges in some of our markets.
We accelerate our efforts to develop also made strong progress with implementing our innovationled strategy, as we develop Genus into a company, based on and apply the science and leading-edge science and biotechnology.
technology that is essential Group Performance Genus achieved a robust performance in 2016, with adjusted toour longer-term success.
profit before tax including joint ventures JVs rising 7% 10% in constant currency to 49.7m.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax rose 5% to 60.9m.
Porcine volumes rose by 4%, although bovine volumes were 6% lower in tough dairy markets.
Strategically important revenues such as porcine royalties rose strongly, however, total revenue was 3% lower.
Genus PIC had another strong and successful year, despite challenging conditions for our customers in most regions, achieving a 9% growth in adjusted operating profit including JVs inconstant currency.
Profits were up in all regions and the business achieved strong growth in royalty volumes and revenues.
Over the last few years we have repositioned PICs European operations away from low margin up-front parent giltsales towards royalty contracts, particularly with integrated pork producers, and we saw encouraging results in the year fromthiswork.
Karim Bitar Chief Executive Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 27 With dairy customers facing depressed milk prices across major biotechnology pioneer Caribou Biosciences.
This gives us an markets, Genus ABS had a tough year and saw adjusted operating exclusive worldwide licence to use the revolutionary CRISPRprofits fall by 16% in constant currency.
We took tactical actions Cas9 gene editing technology to develop new traits in pigs, on costs and margins to protect short-term performance and cowsand potentially other livestock species.
Since the end of strategic actions outlined below to position the business for theyear, we have also announced an exclusive worldwide licence long-term growth.
IVB, the worlds leading supplier of bovine IVF with Washington State University, for patents and know-how services and products, was successfully integrated following our relatingto gene editing targets for BRD.
acquisition of 51% in March 2015 and delivered an encouraging performance in its first full year in Genus.
Our Asian operations Genus continued to target key growth markets during the year, achieved very strong results across the region, more than with particular progress in India and China.
India is the worlds doubling operating profit including joint ventures.
Growth in China largest dairy market and the opening of our joint ventures new stood out, as we saw the benefit of our work to focus on large bull stud was an important milestone for Genus.
This new stud scale pork producers while reducing farming risk in this business.
is one of the most advanced designs in the world.
China is the We also benefited from strong porcine market conditions in biggest pork producer globally and we strengthened our position China.
Performance in Russia also improved as porcine import by signing landmark royalty agreements with three key Chinese restrictions were lifted.
Strategic Progress People and Organisation R&D is the starting point for our innovation-led strategy to With Genus Asia now well established and growing successfully, enable us to increase genetic control and product differentiation.
we intend to integrate its porcine and bovine operations into Genomic selection techniques continue to advance and our PIC and ABS in the coming year.
This will support our strategy application of them to accelerate genetic gains in porcine for each species and help us to deliver a consistent experience continues in our nucleus herds and is now starting to feed into to customers around the world.
Jerry Thompson, who has performance gains for our customers.
We also apply these successfully led Asia, will take on a new role to further focus our techniques in bovine, developing proprietary indices such as efforts in establishing a greater presence with beef customers TransitionRight see the case study on page 25 focused on dairy globally as COO Genus ABS Beef.
He will work closely with Saskia health traits and progressing our internal breeding programme, Korink, who will now lead our global Genus ABS Dairy operations.
which is now producing some of our most elite bulls.
Our employee pulse survey continued to show that our On 1 September 2016, we formed fide Novo Genetics, a majoritypeoplefind Genus an engaging and stimulating place to work.
owned Holstein breeding strategic partnership, with fide-Su, the They are committed to our vision and understand our strategy worlds leading independent Holstein breeder.
fide Novo will further for achieving it.
I want to thank all my colleagues for their accelerate the proportion of bulls Genus produces internally by contribution to delivering for our customers, which in turn combining ABSs and fide-Sus elite Holstein breeding programmes.
This will gives us greater control of the genetics we need in order to create differentiated solutions that help commercial dairy Outlook farmers increase profitability through improved herd productivity, Over the last two years, Genus has grown adjusted profit before health and efficiency.
tax in double digits in constant currency.
In 2017, we will further accelerate our efforts to develop and apply the science and We made excellent technical progress with our GSS technology technology that is essential to our longer-term success.
This will in 2016, as we prepared it for commercialisation.
Our litigation lead to a significant step up in R&D investment in 2017 resulting against ST went to trial in August 2016 and, while there are several in profit for the year being similar to 2016 in constant currency.
issues still pending with the Court, the initial verdicts finding that However, we anticipate a benefit from exchange rates, with ST had wilfully maintained a monopoly should give us a path to Sterling having declined sharply towards the end of 2015 16. the commercial launch of the technology.
This could be within Overall, we expect to make further strategic progress in 2017 the next few months if our request for an injunction releasing us andto perform in line with market expectations.
from our contract with ST is granted.
The jurys findings that our technology infringes two of STs patents and specifying royalties to be paid to ST will be subject to further review by the Court and is not expected to delay commercialisation.
We look forward to bringing competition to this important market.
Karim Bitar Chief Executive Gene editing is becoming a key part of our technology platform 7 September 2016 that could transform Genus over time.
Our collaboration with the University of Missouri produced a major breakthrough during the year, by using gene editing to create the first pigs resistant to the devastating PRRSv disease.
We are working to develop this technology, aided by our new strategic collaboration with Genus plc Annual Report 2016
