STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Sharpening our focus 2016 was another year of been tough, shrinking their sales and the size of the potential opportunity.
While in time encouraging progress for GKN.
the markets will recover, we have more Management profit before tax grew immediate investment opportunities in other 12%, helped by favourable currency divisions offering stronger, faster growth.
effects and the first full year image An additional part of sharpening our focus contribution from Fokker.
We also was an initiative to reduce fixed costs across made good progress in executing the Group, largely though a reduction of 650 staff positions.
This entailed a charge of 39 our strategy, sharpening our focus million included within management results and building momentum as we in the second half of 2016 and will benefit enter 2017.
2017 and future years by 30 million a year in fixed cost savings.
While difficult to do, We continued to invest in technology, Nigel Stein with these reductions and the synergy cost reinforcing our market leading positions Chief Executive savings achieved in Fokker behind us we can in automotive and aerospace.
This included now focus on maximising operating developing our expertise in eDrive and performance in 2017. additive manufacturing AM, also known as 3D printing, both of which we see as offering excellent opportunities for GKNs Sector performance future success.
GKNs two main markets, aerospace and Financially the year could have been even automotive, performed broadly in line with better, but for the impact of operational issues the expectations we set out last year.
in our Newton, North Carolina, plant which The overall aerospace market was slightly incurred significant cost over-runs on new down in 2016, but GKN Aerospaces content product launches.
GKN puts great emphasis on newer commercial programmes helped on operational excellence and we have increase 2016 organic sales slightly above strengthened our processes in programme last years level, offsetting a 2% decline in management to ensure all our locations our sales to military programmes.
The results consistently achieve the demanding also benefited from the excellent first full standards required.
Profits across the remainder of GKN Sharpening our focus Aerospace were down on 2015s reported In July, we announced a sharpening of our figure, reflecting investment in two new focus and we enter 2017 with a streamlined engine programmes and slower sales of structure of three divisions, with GKN Land engines for the Boeing 747.
Slower ramp-ups Systems industrial business Stromag now on some customer programmes also held sold see page 35 and the rest of the division back performance.
moved to other parts of the Group.
The GKN Looking ahead, rising demand from our Land Systems team has worked hard over military programmes combined with our the last few years, improving their operations position on growing commercial programmes around the world.
But their markets have GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Chief Executives review continued is expected to sustain growth in 2017 and GKN Driveline continues to push forward beyond.
with its technology for an increasingly electrified automotive market.
Its current 9,414m Global automotive light vehicle production in success is primarily in the hybrid electric 2016 increased by around 5%.
GKN Driveline vehicle market, although we believe our Management sales 2015: 7,689m sales grew organically by 6%, reflecting its leading technology will in time also have excellent position as market leader in success in the battery electric vehicle market.
driveshafts, all-wheel drive and eDrive There are more than 300,000 hybrid components and systems.
Profits moved vehicles already on the road using GKN slightly ahead, being held back by the launch eDrive technology.
This includes systems costs referred to earlier, which impacted for the BMW 2 Series Active Tourer and the profits by some 25 million.
GKN Powder Metallurgy saw flat sales, partly CVJ sideshafts and all-wheel drive continue due to the effect of declining steel surcharges to account for the vast majority of GKN and partly due to weaker output at its largest Drivelines sales.
I am pleased we had further North American customer.
Its results also recognition of our leading technology from included the start-up costs of a new powder the Automotive News PACE awards for our plant in China operated in conjunction with VL3 sideshaft, while also picking up an a local partner.
The business continues to run innovation partnership award for our work well and their very strong order intake of on the Ford Focus RS.
more than 200 million in the year bodes well for the future.
GKN Powder Metallurgy continues its geographic expansion, taking a majority stake in a powder manufacturing facility Strategic progress located in Bazhou City, China, in partnership In GKN Aerospace, the integration of Fokker with a highly capable local partner.
While has progressed very well.
Our expectations initially loss making in 2016, it will provide as to the quality of this business and its good growth in that important market, people have been more than met and the adding to our two very successful existing Fokker team has moved rapidly to become components plants in China.
a key part of the wider GKN business.
Looking forward, we are increasingly seeking Looking ahead, we continue to see good to exploit GKN Powder Metallurgys positions opportunities to utilise its technology to help in both powder and parts to create a strong meet the lightweight and electrification offering in the AM market.
Over the course needs of our customers.
of 2016, we instigated a new service in LIVING THE GKN DNA For a business to meet its strategy and deliver results it has to have the right culture.
This years International Leadership Conference in March discussed GKNs DNA and Leadership Behaviours the things that make us tick and bring success.
This is a way of describing the strong culture that exists across the GKN Group and summarising it with a simple set of principles.
GKNs DNA runs through everything we do, every day, around the world.
It has helped us to stand out and succeed for more than 250 years, and is something we are very proud of.
GKNs DNA runs through everything we do, These principles are supported by the GKN Leadership Behaviours which every day, around the world.
We always do make clear what is expected of us all the right thing We take care to ensure we live the GKN DNA every day.
of one another Following the conference, during 2016 we and our We stretch communicated the GKN DNA throughout customers ourselves to be better in everything the organisation to every plant and office We provide we do to help drive a consistent culture and cutting-edge, precision ensure we do business the right way.
technology We adapt and seize opportunities Our DNA has helped us to stand out and succeed for more than 250 years.
com 20 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GKN DNA A2 Poster English v3.
indd 1 13 05 2016 11:31 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Germany, using AM to enable prototyping Focus for 2017 We are a highly of automotive parts for our customers.
On the Not everything went to plan in the year.
Very powder side, a new joint venture with TLS sadly an employee and a contractor both lost ambitious company Technik means that GKN is now offering their lives in separate work-related incidents aerospace grade titanium powder.
We aim to outperform our with a strong A key part of our strategy is to outgrow our industries on safety and it continues to be markets in the medium term.
In 2016, sales the number one priority across all operations.
determination growth in GKN Driveline and GKN Aerospace There is still more work to be done and we to succeed.
met that objective: GKN Powder Metallurgy, will maintain our focus on safety in 2017. on this occasion, fell slightly short.
However, Although most GKN plants raised their all three GKN divisions reported good order output and productivity, 2016 also saw some intake, giving us confidence in future above operational difficulties which led to excess market growth.
In 2017, operational excellence a key component Brexit of our successful strategy will continue to be an area of focus.
We know from experience As a UK-listed company, we are often asked that this capability can help differentiate GKN about the impact on GKN of the UKs decision from its competitors.
to leave the European Union.
11% of GKNs global sales on a management basis are We will continue to sharpen our focus, made in the UK with the majority of these directing capital expenditure towards the being denominated in US dollars or Euros.
most promising areas of future growth, Of our businesses, the UK automotive at the same time looking to favour increased business faces the greatest risk should the productivity over additional capacity.
exit arrangements not take into consideration Automation, through robots that can work the needs of its integrated European supply unguarded alongside people cobots and chain.
Whatever future trading arrangements non-touch automated inspection, are now are agreed, we are not anticipating any much cheaper and easier to implement.
They impact to be significant from an overall also offer more rapid paybacks.
We have GKN Group perspective, although the a number of projects running in our plants weakness of sterling against most other and this will be an area of focus in 2017. major currencies since the result has both Industry 4.0 and related technologies offer added to our reported profits and to our advantages to all manufacturing industries.
debt linked to overseas currencies.
Parts of GKN are already deploying aspects of digital manufacturing, with some 1,500 machines connected to our internal network, allowing greater operating efficiency.
We are Progress towards strategic objectives pushing hard to extend this to all sites and all Strategic objective Progress significant pieces of plant to ensure we can Leading in our GKN Driveline and GKN Aerospace grew sales optimise capacity.
chosen markets above their markets while GKN Powder GKN is a great business, with excellent market Metallurgys sales were slightly below.
We are a highly ambitious company All three divisions reported good order intake, with a strong determination to succeed.
winning both new and replacement business.
We are sharpening our focus while investing Leveraging a strong Contract wins for GKN Aerospace in the growing in technology to retain and enhance market global presence Asian commercial aerospace market.
Prospects for growth are exciting.
GKN Driveline expanded facilities in Turkey, We enter 2017 with good forward momentum China and the US, and opened new facilities and view the future with confidence.
New joint venture established in China to produce metal powder.
Sustaining above market Differentiating Integration of Fokker bringing advancements growth ourselves through in thermoplastics and aircraft electrification.
technology GKN Driveline continues to push forward with eDrive technology.
A new venture with TLS Technik means that GKN is now a key player in aerospace grade Nigel Stein titanium powder for additive manufacturing.
Chief Executive Driving operational Strengthened our processes in programme excellence management and supply chain management.
Continued focus on Voice of the customer programme to improve quality.
Progress in digital manufacturing across the Group in line with Industry 4.0.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
