05 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information CEOs statement The Group executed strongly in 2016, Investment in our R&D organisation delivering sales growth across all three continues to deliver significant innovation.
businesses, remaining disciplined on For example, 2016 saw the European costs and progressing our pipeline of approval of Strimvelis, our first of its kind innovative products.
gene therapy for children with the very rare condition ADA-SCID.
This remarkable Trading performance technology has the potential to be a platform Group sales rose 17% at actual rates, for a number of other gene therapies.
6%CER 5% pro-forma to 27.9 billion, The next two years will be an exciting time despite the uncertainty and volatility for our R&D organisation, with key research experienced globally in 2016.
Total earnings data on 20-30 assets due by the end per share was 18.8p down 89% at actual of 2018.
GSK performed strongly rates, 99% CER, primarily reecting comparisons with the 9.2 billion profit Delivering performance responsibly in 2016, with good sales in 2015 from the disposal of the marketed GSK has a strong commitment to operating Oncology assets.
Core earnings per share growth across all three responsibly and playing our part in meeting a was 102.4p a 12% CER increase and some of societys biggest healthcare businesses, excellent new at the top end of our guidance for the year.
product momentum and We saw growth across all three of In 2016, we took further industry-leading the Groups businesses in 2016, with steps by stopping all payments to healthcare further pipeline progress.
a particular contribution from new professionals to speak about our medicines Pharmaceuticals and Vaccine products.
to other prescribers, and offered essential Sales from this portfolio more than doubled vaccines at our lowest price to organisations to 4.5 billion and in Pharmaceuticals, supporting refugees in acute need.
We new products accounted for 24% of sales.
also introduced a new approach to ling HIV products, Tivicay and Triumeq, continued and enforcing patents and IP based on a to be the standout products with sales of country's economic maturity, and are working 2.7 billion, while our new respiratory with partners to help the world better prepare products Relvar Breo, Anoro, Incruse, for future epidemics such as Ebola and Zika.
Arnuity and Nucala also grew strongly I was very pleased that our efforts to as did our meningitis vaccines, Bexsero and operate as a values-based company Menveo.
We expect the momentum in this were recognised when we came first group of products to continue through 2017. in the Access to Medicine Index for the Our Consumer Healthcare business fifth consecutive time.
performed strongly, with sales up 19% Outlook at actual rates, 9% CER 5% pro-forma The progress in 2016 highlights the to 7.2 billion, driven by power brands investments we have made in the Group such as Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol over the last several years to build scale as well as growth from Flonase which and sustainability as well as develop new we switched from prescription to products.
I expect the Group to make over-the-counter.
continued progress in 2017 and, as we Strong R&D innovation pipeline enter a new period of leadership for the We led four assets with regulators in company, I believe GSK is well positioned 2016 which, if approved, have the potential to deliver long-term performance for to drive further growth in the business, shareholders.
including Shingrix, our candidate vaccine Finally, as this is my last annual report for shingles and our once-daily Closed before I retire, I would like to thank all our Triple therapy for COPD.
In addition, we employees, partners and shareholders also started a number of phase III trials for for their support during my time as CEO.
assets in HIV, respiratory and anaemia.
GSK is a very special company that touches peoples lives across the world and which I have been enormously privileged to lead.
Footnote Sir Andrew Witty a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to Chief Executive officer report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash ow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
