Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Improving market conditions Despite an uncertain start to 2016, commodities finally started reversing five years of underperformance compared to other asset classes.
In thisenvironment, the mining sector has been a significant outperformer, with the SXPP basic resources index uparound 70% over the year, compared to a 17% increase for theFTSE 100 Index.
Chinas willingness and ability to reflate caught markets somewhat by surprise, given widespread scepticism over the sustainability of Chinese demand for commodities.
This was then compounded by increasingly supportive economic conditions in other regions.
Looking ahead, political events across the globe have coincided with the expectation of higher inflation Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive Officer and with it, higher interest rates, a backdrop, which is generally influenced by and or supportive of higher commodity prices.
Creating long-term, sustainable returns The increasing likelihood of various for shareholders regionally signalled fiscal economic stimulus programmes should Debt reduction programme completed: net funding also promote improved physical at $32.6 billion and net debt $15.5 billion by year end demand for and positive sentiment Strong free cash flow generation, underpinned by the towards commodities.
resilience of the marketing business and quality of the industrial assets Robust financial performance Capital allocation maximises value creation for Our robust financial performance shareholders: a fixed $1 billion distribution that during 2016 Adjusted EBITDA of reflects the resilience, predictability and stability of $10.3 billion, up 18% on 2015 reflects cash flows from the marketing business the quality of our industrial asset The right commodity mix to meet the changing portfolio and the resilience of our large needs of key maturing economies: leading, low-cost scale diversified marketing business.
supply positions in midand late-cycle commodities Marketing Adjusted EBIT was and significant operational leverage to improving $2.8 billion in 2016, 14% higher than fundamentals in key commodities, as well as 2015 and above the $2.7 billion top-end substantial volumes of low-cost latent capacity of our Q4 2016 narrowed guidance range, reflecting strong second half contributions from all three business segments.
These activities continue to generate a consistent, high cash return on equity, underpinned by competitive funding rates, a stable cost base and low capex requirements.
Following the sale of a 50% interest in Glencore Agriculture in late 2016, our 2017 Marketing Adjusted EBIT guidance range is $2.2 to $2.5 billion 04 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information up from $2.1 to $2.4 billion in our The success of our deleveraging oil and zinc assets in 2015 2016 to December 2016 update, while also programme and capital structure credit preserve value for the longer term and reflecting such sale, our longer-term repositioning is now well understood assist in market rebalancing.
We have guidance range has been lowered to and recognised by credit markets with significant operational leverage to $2.2 to $3.2 billion.
public funding spreads and default improving fundamentals in our key swaps returning to normalised levels.
commodities with substantial volumes Our various industrial teams As previously communicated, we are of low-cost latent capacity that can be responded to the challenges of now targeting maximum through the restarted as and when appropriate.
low prices, delivering robust cost cycle leverage of 2x Net debt EBITDA structures and margins within our key We believe that our presence previously 3x.
The industrial assets throughout the commodity value chain target is aimed at sustainably reducing Adjusted EBITDA of $7.3 billion in affords Glencore the unique position risk and providing greater flexibility 2016 was almost 22% higher than 2015, to generate superior shareholder value and stability in the future.
We believe reflecting improving commodity prices over the longer term.
our commitment to secure and in the latter part of the year, but mostly thereafter maintain a strong Baa BBB the delivery of material cost reductions Integrated approach to sustainability credit rating is well on track.
It is with great sadness to report that Since 2009, over $38 billion has been 16 people died at our assets, from eight Capital allocation to maximise spent on our industrial assets, which incidents, during 2016.
This loss of value creation for shareholders are now extremely well positioned, life is unacceptable.
We expend great In December 2016, we announced with largely Tier 1 costs, scale, efforts and continuously strive towards the reinstatement of shareholder diversification and optionality.
our goals of eliminating occupational distributions, following a one-year fatalities, injuries and occupational suspension period.
Initially we will Debt reduction programme diseases across the organisation.
We are return $1 billion to shareholders in 2017, delivered committed to achieving strong health to be paid in equal tranches, following The plan of action we initiated in and safety performances at all of our the full-year and interim financial September 2015 to sensibly bring down assets through resolving local challenges results, subject to shareholders approval our financial leverage and strengthen and transforming behaviour at all levels.
at the Annual General Meeting.
our balance sheet is now complete: at We recognise that we have stewardship the end of 2016, net funding and net As announced in December obligations across our business and a debt of $32.6 billion and $15.5 billion 2016, starting from 2018, our new duty to the local communities we work respectively, were around or better distribution policy, in respect of 2017 with.
During 2016, our sustainability team than target levels, with debt coverage actual cash flow generation, will rolled out revised water management and ratios already comfortably below our comprise a fixed $1 billion component health strategies and published a paper recently reduced target levels.
and a variable element representing setting out the potential impact of climate a minimum pay-out of 25% of free This debt reduction was partly change on our business.
cash flow from our industrial assets.
achieved through a highly successful The components will reflect prevailing divestment programme that Going forward conditions and outlook at the time and raised $6.2 billion since September The last 18 months have been challenging will be confirmed annually alongside 2015, including the following for Glencore.
On a positive note, we have release of our full-year results.
2016 transactions: demonstrated that Glencore is a strongly cash generative business, even at low Antapaccay silver streaming The right commodity mix to meet points in the cycle, and is capable and the needs of the future transaction, raising $500 million willing to react decisively and quickly as We believe that not all commodities Sale of 50% of our agriculture circumstances require.
Important lessons are equal and, in general, we have the business for $3.1 billion have been learned and the actions taken right ones.
Glencores diverse asset Disposal of a 30% economic interest ensure that Glencore remains extremely portfolio, comprising low-cost positions plus gold stream in Ernest Henry, well positioned to create value for in midand late-cycle commodities, delivering $670 million and all stakeholders.
such as copper, cobalt, nickel, zinc and Sale of our Hunter Valley coal thermal coal, positively matches the rail haulage business GRail, for changing needs of current and future $840 million.
The disposal programme underpinned We take a highly disciplined approach a $14.7 billion reduction in net funding Ivan Glasenberg towards supply, evidenced by curtailing in just 18 months.
Chief Executive Officer production at a number of coal, copper, Glencore Annual Report 2016 05
