Group Chief Executives review David Brown, Group Chief Executive Partnership and collaboration are key to public transport It has been a year of financial progress in all three divisions.
We strongly believe that todays challenges More information Our market positions have been strengthened, with organic are best met by working together.
While seeking to maximise on page 51 growth supported by contract wins and extensions.
As part of the benefits of operating together as one large organisation, a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won new our companies are locally managed and form an integral part business in Singapore and Germany.
We operate in relatively of the communities they serve.
Testament to our collaborative resilient markets, and have a good balance between contract approach and understanding of local markets are the high and passenger revenues.
levels of customer satisfaction in our regional bus operations, which remain the best in the sector at 89%.
Focus on partnership Public transport is vital to building a strong and sustainable At Go-Ahead we believe that public transport is about economy.
Our services have continued to ensure that millions partnership.
After almost 30 years of building Go-Aheads of people are able to get to work and access key services.
presence, the Group has established a valuable network of Over the past year Go-Ahead has made a significant relationships, and a depth of market understanding and contribution to the UK economy through the 27,500 people knowledge that cannot easily be replicated.
Building we employ, the 222.4m generated by our rail operations for relationships with passengers, central and local government, the government, and 24.8m paid in corporation tax.
We are employees, industry partners and other stakeholders has also pleased to have introduced the voluntary Living Wage as a always been core to the Groups strategy and central to minimum, irrespective of age, across the entire Group.
10 10 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation social services.
These businesses have also taken the initiative to Our vision comprehensively examine their services through the eyes of Our people are critical to the success of the Group and we the customer and understand how they can be better.
believe our new vision, attitudes and beliefs, once fully embedded into our corporate culture, will influence every In the regional bus market the regulatory framework is also aspect of our day-to-day activity and how we work.
The evolving with the Bus Services Bill that is passing through common purpose of taking care of every journey will create Parliament.
It is a very different Bill from the one envisaged a 68.8% advocacy among our customers, encourage people to use our year ago as a result of the industrys engagement with the DfT, Group profit from services and ensure our people feel valued and appreciated.
with the Passenger Transport Executives and other the bus division stakeholders in order to protect the ethos of partnership Performance working.
It is vital that our bus companies remain embedded in local communities.
We continue to work with the DfT on the Bus important secondary legislation that underpins implementation At the core of the Group is our bus division, which delivered of the Bill.
Toward the end of 2015 we welcomed the report another good trading performance.
This is the result of strong and findings of the independent Quality Contracts Scheme operations and service quality, as well as investment in new Board on Nexuss proposals for Tyne and Wear, which vehicles.
Our bus operations have significant flexibility to 100.4m concluded that the scheme failed to meet all the necessary respond quickly to changing market conditions and to ensure statutory public interest tests.
We believe that the overriding Adjusted bus profit we remain resilient.
While this is a mature market, lesson of Tyne and Wear is that rigorous and independent opportunities for organic growth exist, as evidenced by the scrutiny of major transport schemes is a necessity.
Clear increased volume in the London market and the gains that accountability must be in place where there is a fundamental have been achieved in other parts of the country as a result of change to the provision of bus services to safeguard the investment and targeted marketing.
interests of customers and taxpayers.
With reductions in overall public spending, a continuing flow of private sector capital We have had a record year of profits from our regional bus investment will remain crucial to meet important public policy division, which delivered adjusted operating profit of 53.3m.
objectives, as well as keep pace with demographic change and Our sector leading margins, and the achievement of our 222.4m new technology that is rapidly transforming the passenger 100m target, are a reflection of the hard work at our Contribution to expectations.
Our strength in this sector ensures that we can operating companies.
The business is maintaining its strong the DfT be agile and are able to pursue other opportunities as and position by focusing on improving the service, stimulating when they arise.
passenger growth and developing relationships with local authorities.
We invested 72m in buses in the year, maintaining Rail the average age of our fleet at 7.8 years.
We also continued Our three rail franchises carry about a third of all passengers in to invest in our services with more Wifi and USB charging the UK and we have more than 19 years experience of points on buses, advertising, promotions and offers, and managing complex commuter franchises and delivering social media campaigns.
Go-Ahead remains the largest bus operator in London, with its The overall financial performance of our rail business was growing population of residents and commuters.
Over the past robust and slightly ahead of the Boards expectations.
Full year year roadworks and excessive congestion have limited our adjusted operating profit for our rail businesses was 57.0m ability to earn Quality Incentive Contract bonuses.
We are committed to the long term the underlying business is strong.
We have retained our 24% development of rail travel and are investing to improve services market share with annual mileage of around 85 million miles.
In partnership with the DfT, Go-Ahead is at the the second half of the year we opened a new 7m bus depot, forefront of some of the largest long term improvements in rail strategically located in Barking.
By understanding the varying needs of different customer The GTR franchise has experienced a difficult year groups we have shaped our bus networks and services to operationally, and we share the frustration of customers who match demand.
Innovative partnership working also continues have experienced repeated disruption to their journeys and to bring benefits for customers and stakeholders.
Actions taken we apologise for this.
The complex nature of the franchise has to maintain our position include: Brighton and Hove bus created significant challenges.
The major Thameslink company championing accessible travel with the provision of infrastructure programme will ultimately bring vital extra wheelchair access on 100% of the fleet and other on-board More information capacity, but it has caused large scale disruption through innovations for disabled passengers: entry into the inter-urban on page 15 restricted network capacity, particularly in the phase of major market in Oxford with the launch of a new Birmingham works at London Bridge.
Management continues to work express service: the installation of new happy or not customer closely with industry partners on implementing the complex feedback machines on Plymouth City bus services: and a change programme.
This includes the introduction of more creative response to reduced public funding by Go South spacious trains and the evolution of the customer service role Coast to provide a unique combination of commercial and onboard and at stations across the GTR network, in adherence Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to operating profit before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs in the finance review.
The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 11 11 Group Chief Executives review continued to commitments in the franchise agreement with the DfT.
The web and mobile platform provides highly personalised, We have instigated one of the largest driver recruitment realtime information to help customers find the best value programmes ever undertaken in the industry, but training a ticket option available.
Following introduction on Southern driver takes around 14 months so customers do not see the and Thameslink routes, On Track has been rolled out to all benefit of this straight away.
We are confident that the of Go-Aheads rail operations and integrated within its mobile Thameslink Programme will deliver real benefits for customers app and the key smartcard.
Voluntary Living and the wider community.
The DfT values the experienced Wage adopted Whilst we were disappointed that our bids for the new management team in place at GTR which is best placed to Trans-Pennine Express and Northern Rail franchises were steer these changes through.
We are committed to the unsuccessful, the Board still believes that the UK rail sector can delivery of the franchise, enhancing service and building trust.
provide long term growth opportunities for the Group.
The UK We remain focused on delivering improvements, listening rail industry clearly has some considerable challenges, both to our customers, and working with stakeholders to ensure financial and operational.
We are an established operator and the franchise has the resources needed to respond to will be seeking to develop our role in the future of the sector.
Southeastern delivered a strong trading performance and Overseas contract wins continued to operate at maximum profit share, with payments As part of a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won of 39.9m made to the government in the year.
For the new business in Singapore and Germany.
With efficient and remainder of the franchise the focus is to continue to improve effective transport remaining a priority for governments, there the service for customers.
The stated desire of the London are further opportunities overseas.
We continue to explore Mayor and the London Assembly to devolve responsibility for similar opportunities in these and other selected markets.
the metro routes to TfL requires Secretary of State approval.
Go-Ahead was awarded a five-year contract to operate bus If given, Southeastern would work with TfL and the DfT services in Singapore and is set for a successful launch of the to ensure a smooth transition.
From 2017, Go-Aheads 25-route bus service operation from September 2016. rail development team will be working on a bid to retain Singapores bus contracts system is largely modelled on the franchise.
Londons and, as Londons largest bus operator, Go-Ahead has London Midland continued its trend of improvement, reflected the right experience and expertise to deliver high quality in strong customer satisfaction scores that have repeatedly services in Singapore.
We look forward to competing in the increased.
The franchise, which Go-Ahead has been operating next tender tranche of bus services, to be awarded early since 2007, has been successful in terms of both operational next year.
Since 1 April 2016 the franchise has We were also successful this year in our aim to enter the been operating under a new direct award contract.
German rail market, having been awarded two contracts to Management is focused on ensuring that committed obligations operate rail services in the Baden-Wurttemberg region from are delivered in a timely manner.
In the fourth quarter June 2019 until 2032.
The German passenger rail market Go-Ahead was pleased to be shortlisted to bid for the new generates annual revenue of around 9.6bn and we are well West Midlands franchise beginning October 2017. placed to capitalise on future opportunities in this market.
During the year, our joint venture On Track Retail launched its new online ticket sales system On Track in October 2015.
A resilient business Following the result of the EU referendum vote in June we are More information entering a period of economic uncertainty.
The true impact of on page 5 Training and development the vote is yet unknown, but it will weigh on the economy, and More than 18m spent on training the transport industry is not immune.
Nevertheless, the and development of characteristics of our business make it resilient and relatively well positioned for change.
Our strength is our portfolio of 27,500 employees operations with robust revenues in less economically sensitive bus markets in the UK.
Our London bus business has no direct exposure to passenger revenues, and has an excellent record of contract retention.
In the regional bus business, experience of previous slowdowns in We remain focused on delivering continued the economy suggests that overall demand for bus travel is improvements, listening to our customers, resilient.
The flexible commercial nature of the industry further and working with stakeholders to ensure enables it to match supply to the level of demand.
Go-Aheads position is reinforced by substantial investment in new fleet the GTR franchise has the resources during the past few years, helping to improve the attractiveness needed to respond to growing demand.
12 12 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation and marketability of our services.
In rail, we operate commuter routes in and out of London that are less discretionary in Our new vision, beliefs and attitudes nature.
Their unique position in relation to revenue support Created in collaboration with employees at different and profit share mechanisms will considerably mitigate the levels across the Group and external stakeholders, impact of any change in passenger numbers on our these shape our focus, how we make decisions and rail revenues.
As the external environment remains uncertain, we will be proactive in ensuring that the business remains robust.
Our More information business offers value-orientated public transport services that Our vision on pages 32 to 35 are vital to the economy.
We will remain focused on the delivery of existing services, while being agile to identify opportunities that this changing landscape brings.
A world where every journey is taken care of - is our new vision.
Today we are striving to provide a reliable Whilst there are clear links between economic activity and service people can trust.
Tomorrow we will be building demand for our services, transport also enables growth.
stress-free, predictive and seamless connected journeys.
Change presents challenges for every part of the economy, transport included.
It also provides strong motives for fresh We will take care of our customers every need thinking, and opportunities for innovation.
In these times of transforming everyday journeys into positive experiences.
regulatory, economic and social change, our future lies in our ability to engage with stakeholders and customers and develop solutions for their changing needs.
With its wealth of knowledge and experience gained, Go-Ahead is well qualified Our beliefs and highly motivated to rise to the challenge.
Outlook Go-Ahead has made substantial progress over the past year.
We believe in trusting people, being can-do people, The outlook and opportunities for the business are positive.
building relationships and being one step ahead.
Our strategy is clear and our business model robust.
Our businesses have a track record of demonstrating the benefits that the private sector can bring to public transport.
We will continue to work closely with partners at all levels to deliver value for money for our customers and stakeholders.
Our attitudes The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the second half of 2015 16.
We expect continued moderate revenue growth in our bus division.
Significantly reduced fuel We are accountable, down-to-earth, collaborative costs will help offset headwinds such as contract reductions and agile.
from lower local authority contracting.
In London, we expect to see a year on year improvement in QICs payments as We believe in trusting our people to do their best roadworks and congestion stabilise, which will help offset and be accountable for what they are delivering.
Trading in the Southeastern and London We believe in being can-do people, who solve problems Midland franchises continues to be robust and help offset weakness in GTR.
We continue to explore overseas and are pragmatic with a down-to-earth attitude towards each other.
We believe in building relationships within our businesses, with our suppliers, partners and stakeholders and working collaboratively to achieve a greater good.
We believe in staying one step ahead of our David Brown, competitors and emerging trends by working in an Group Chief Executive agile manner to identify opportunities to lead change.
8 September 2016 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 13 13 Group Chief Executives review continued Topical questions from our shareholders answered 14 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information experts and the independent regulator which appetite and to which we can bring knowledge, How do you account for your resilient oversees safety on the railway.
The new role experience and expertise.
of onboard supervisor will still have safety Our margins in regional bus now stand at 14.2%, We are looking forward to running services in training but the main role of these When we started the journey to our 100m Singapore shortly and, in line with our devolved employees is to help passengers and improve profit target in 2012, our Regional bus margins approach, have created Go-Ahead Singapore - onboard customer service.
I am very pleased that this profit an autonomous local bus company employing losses or pay cuts, in fact we need more people growth has been achieved sustainably.
Revenue around 900 people, ready to operate 25 routes for our onboard supervisor roles.
growth has been driven by strong contract in the Loyang region.
We have also established a income, while fares have increased in line with New modern trains which allow the rail company in Germany that has won two inflation.
Go-Ahead has been successful because introduction of modern working practices are concessions in the Stuttgart region and will begin we continue to invest in our services, making life being introduced across the UK and Europe and running passenger services from 2019.
Germany easier for our customers.
We do it, for instance, will bring beneficial changes for customers.
has the largest rail market in Europe operating through more Wifi, more audio-visual passenger over 50bn passengers kilometres and generates information, online methods of payment and annual revenue of around 9.6 billion.
What is the future of franchising?
We are giving The case for railway franchising is a strong one passengers more choice and more flexibility, and What next after Target 100?
with net payments to the government totalling are very pleased to have the joint highest over a billion and an NAO report November Achievement of the 100m target this year is a customer satisfaction score in the UK of 89%.
2015 stating that competitively awarded testament to the hard work of our people Partnership working with local authorities is how franchises, if managed well, could increase across the Group.
We will continue to challenge we have always conducted our business and it returns to the taxpayer.
our operating companies to grow sustainably by continues to bring benefits for customers.
By focusing on customer service and becoming the understanding the varying needs of different Privatisation has been a success and government first choice for journeys.
We have established markets we have successfully shaped our investment has combined with commercial drive businesses, based primarily in the south east, services to match demand.
to create the safest and fastest growing railway where there is economic strength to support in Europe.
The number of passengers has continuing returns.
However, we see some of doubled but this has created limitations on What are you doing to address the our growth in the future coming from places capacity that are being addressed now with issues at your GTR franchise?
such as our overseas contracts in Singapore in billions being spent to upgrade the network, The GTR franchise has been a challenge to run the coming year and Germany in a couple of improve reliability and modernise retailing and years time.
We will also be submitting a strong since its inception in September 2014.
It is estimated that around a third of industry and DfT accepts that the 6.5bn bid for the West Midlands franchise when our the four percent annual increase in rail journeys current contracts end in October 2017 and for Thameslink Programme upgrade including the since the mid 1990s has come from the changes rebuilding of London Bridge station has had a the South Eastern franchise when our current to the industry model according to Oxera one expires in 2018. greater impact on the resilience of those routes 2014 report.
and neighbouring routes than expected in the planning and forecasting stage for the As well as the potential for competitively Are you committed to the new franchise.
awarded franchises to increase returns to the voluntary Living Wage?
taxpayer, the key findings of the NAOs reform We are pleased to have introduced the More than 3,000 train services a day run on the of the rail franchising programme review were voluntary Living Wage across the Group, railway line linking London and the Sussex coast that the DfT has improved the transparency, ensuring all employees, regardless of age, earn at and as demand has grown strongly on this route consistency and clarity of information provided least 8.25 per hour, exceeding the performance has declined.
The number of to bidders and the public: and strengthened the governments National Living Wage passengers on the Thameslink route has grown assurance and governance of franchising.
However, voluntary Living Wage by 32% over the past five years, and by 40% on continue to improve the programme the DfT  in future years could Southern routes.
So more, longer, trains have has started to apply lessons learned from add to wage inflation, so we will always continue been added to the timetable but the completed competitions and feedback from to review this.
infrastructure upgrades have proved to be bidders.
There is now also greater emphasis on insufficient to cope with the growth in passenger passengers experience, with bidders numbers.
This has all led to congestion and a demonstrating how they will deliver punctual noticeable decrease in performance of the train reliable services and limit crowding while service.
When complete in 2018, the Thameslink improving levels of customer service on stations Programme and GTRs introduction of three and onboard trains.
new fleets of trains totalling 1,398 carriages will 1.2bn total net payments to the DfT from train bring vitally needed extra capacity to the region operating companies in 2014-15 but in the meantime it has added an additional strain with fewer routes into and out of London 8.5bn total train operating company revenue in England and Wales, in 2013-14 Bridge station.
Despite around 60% of GTR trains being driver What opportunities do only operated services, the unions have entered you see overseas?
into industrial action, disrupting services from Our established approach to development has spring 2016.
This stance is regrettable and has been to seek opportunities that deliver value to significantly impacted on the service that the our shareholders.
We do not make strategic company is able to provide for passengers.
Trains investments which increase market share where drivers open and close doors are not without generating clear returns.
We look for new, and have been deemed safe by rail safety markets that fit with our strategy and risk The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
