Strategic report Strategic report Chief Executives strategic review Maximising the opportunity in the private rented sector This is my first full year statement Helen Gordon Chief Executive toyou as Chief Executive of your Company andIam pleased to report asolid performance and the swift execution of the planned strategic changes in the business, which will ultimately drive all stakeholder value.
I set out in this report how we have simplified and put focus into the business to capture the opportunity created by the growing demand for private rental housing in the UK.
Strategic review In January I presented my review of theCompanys strategy.
The strategy positions Grainger for sustainable growth in an emerging sector.
It is designed to grow rents, simplify and focus the business and build on the importantly, this PRS modelwill establish sold by May 2016.
We disposedof surplus operational strength and foundations Grainger as an income generating quoted land at Kennel Farm, Basingstoke, and in ofover 100 years of renting homes.
vehicle, whichprovides Shareholders August we were able to secure the easyand liquid access to the UKs unwinding of ourjoint venture in Prague I was supported in this review by an high-growth PRSmarket, which is by securing planning consent and enthusiastic and engaged leadership otherwise onlyachievable through direct disposing of the land.
The whole of the Grainger team realestateinvestment.
report that these disposals have been provided insights and contributions.
The achieved profitably, while successfully review examined every division and all Delivering on our strategy securing the future for Grainger assets and portfolios were appraised ofsimplifying the business colleagues within those noncore and avenues for growth explored.
During the year we sold our businesses under their new owners.
non-core assets and reorganised The key findings supported our ouroperational platform.
These disposals reduced the quantum viewthatthere is a significant market and cost of debt and enabled us to opportunity in an area where Grainger In January 2016 we agreed to sell our embark on a restructuring of our more has unparalleled expertise and Equity Release business asit was no expensive debt resulting in further cost committed employees ready for change.
longer complementary to Graingers reductions.
This is explained morefully core focus.
This was completed in in the Financial review.
In June 2016 we We identified the need for Grainger to May2016.
embarked on the restructuring of our focus on growing rental income, to exit operations by removing divisions and non-UK assets and dispose of assets Having decided to sell our German restructuring thebusiness into Property which consume shareholder capital and business, we disposed of a series of were focused oncapital growth.
We sold our German joint Highlights venture in January.
In February we NNNAV up 8.9% to 287p We concluded that our regulated agreed to sell our German business Net rental income up 15% tenancy business remains a compelling platform with one of the portfolios, Adjusted earnings up 69% investment with robust cashflows.
The thereby securing the majority of the Operating costs reduced by 24% retention of these assets supports and Grainger employees jobs with the new Dividend per share increased by 64% provides financing for Graingers owners and reducing exit costs.
The Profit before tax up 64% to 84.2m evolution to our new PRS model.
Most majority of remaining assetswere also Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 Strategic report Chief Executives strategic review continued and Operations a PropCo OpCo model that by that date net rental income enabled us to make good progress on backed by our central corporate teams.
This is designed to focus on driving model which is more income focused and capital and income growth in the structured to give more sustainable and UK PRS market business as well as significantly reducing less volatile returns.
As you will read in the market review overheads.
The benefit of thiswill be section of this report, the demand for fully realised in 2017 when overheads We also announced we would invest renting is growing and this trend is set are on track to be 24% lower than 850m c. 1.1bn alongside our partners tocontinue.
Ten years ago, one in ten in2015.
We will continue to pursue inthe PRS between now and 2020.
I households in England rented privately.
ongoing improvements where possible, ampleased to announce that we have Today it is one in five.
In London, it is one realising further cost efficiencies that already achieved significant progress in four.
PwC predicts that 1.8 million new our new model creates.
andhave secured 389m with a further rental homes will be required by 2025 to pipeline of 347m of potential sites in meet demand.
This demand, coupled Delivering on our strategy of theplanning or legal process.
with positive support for the build-to-rent growingrents and dividends sector and large scale institutional The growth of our rental income is The growth in rents has been achieved investment in the PRS, presents Grainger atthe heart of the strategic objective by new acquisitions but also by the with a very compelling opportunity.
ofdelivering shareholder returns operations team delivering great whichare a balanced mixture of both customer service and encouraging As the UK market leader in the income and capital growth.
During ourcustomers to stay for longer, and residentialrental sector, we are targeting thistransitional period to 2020 we have increasing demand for our homes.
investment in the PRS in key target cities linked our dividend directly to net rental where demand for renting is highest and income and will distribute the equivalent Disciplined approach to acquisition local economic prospects are greatest, of 50% of net rents to Shareholders.
We have restructured our investment including cities with top universities Themajority of Grainger staff are also andacquisitions teams to enable them andgood graduate retention, teaching Shareholders and this approach will toidentify and assess opportunities hospitals and strong professional further incentivise the teams to drive quickly in our target markets, and services.
Our top five target cities are: rental growth alongside providing a providedan investment framework London, Manchester, Bristol, Birmingham high-quality service.
whichis supported by rigorous analysis and Leeds.
I am pleased tosay that we and in-depth local knowledge.
This has have secured sizeable investments in four In January we announced a target that dramatically increased the number of of five of these citiessince we launched over 50% of our wholly-owned assets opportunities we are evaluating and has our strategy.
would be modern PRS stock by 2020 and Vanessa Simms joins as Acquisition of PRS asset, Kew 2016: A year of Chief Financial Officer Bridge Court by GRIP Sale of German business 124m secured in PRS pipeline significant action Secured 100m PRS PRS rental growth of c. 3.6% in development, Clippers Quay sixmonths to the end of March Q1 Q2 Appointment of Helen Gordon asChief Executive Sale of Retirement Solutions, Equity Release business New strategy and vision announced, including pledge toinvest 850m by 2020 10 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report confidence that we can capture this Working in partnership which to increase the availability of private market opportunity to its fullest.
Our reputation of working in partnership rental housing stock in the UK which is and taking the long-term view of key complementary to housebuilders needs 2017 will be an important year for relationships is well established.
Whilst to build new homes.
Grainger as we forge ahead with the we are clear about our commitment to transition into a more balanced rental existing partners, we believe we should Political and legislative changes model and as we realise the benefits drive returns for our shareholders and There is an undersupply of quality ofthe restructuring and continue to not take on more third-party property housing in the UK and this has been manage our all-important portfolio management mandates at this time.
recognised by central and local ofregulated tenancies.
Whilst the political Our relationship with APG is important environment has been largely Our long-term aspirations for to us and I am delighted that GRIP, our supportive, the sector was adversely Graingerare for the business to be the fund with APG, was converted to a Real affected by an additional 3% stamp acknowledged leader in the PRS market in Estate Investment Trust REIT in July duty land tax surcharge on second the UK, delivering quality services whilst ofthis year.
In June the vote to generating strong shareholder returns.
leave the European Union was seen to Our partners in local and central have a negative impact on the housing Grainger has seen substantial change government are important to market but was not evidenced in our and I would like to take the opportunity us.
Wearealigned in our objective sales pipeline, and the PRS sector is of thanking each and every one of our ofcreating new high-quality homes.
widely regarded as one of the most staff with whom so much has been Graingers longevity and commitment resilient real estate classes post the andwill be achieved.
Together with our tostewardship with communities has EUreferendum.
Shareholders, we look forward to an been evidenced across a number of exciting and profitable future ahead.
In particular, our Outlook work at Aldershot inpartnership with the 2016 has been a landmark year for Defence Infrastructure Organisation Grainger.
The team has worked hardto part of the Ministry of Defence and our support the delivery of the key milestones developments with the Royal Borough of of the strategy.
The UK PRS market is on Kensington and Chelsea are both worthy the cusp of high growth as itprovides a Helen Gordon of highlighting.
practical and compelling solution to the Chief Executive housing shortage in the UK.
Graingers 1 December 2016 We continue to work with some established leading market position and housebuilders and to look for ways in operational expertise provide us with Total cost savings of 24% identified Moving forward New dividend policy linked to growing net rental income and into 2017 PRS investment pipeline Grow net rental income Continue improving operational efficiency Q3 Organisation restructured into Q4 Property and Operations teams 389m secured in PRS pipeline GRIP converted to UK REIT status Legacy swaps recouponed, reducing cost of debt to around 4% Acquisition of 40m PRS development in Leeds, YorkshirePost Czech Republic land sale Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
