GREGGS AT A GLANCE: OUR BUSINESS MODEL Weve been on a journey to transform Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a winning brand in the dynamic food-on-the-go market Having made strong progress in recent years, we are now ready to set the bar higher, refreshing both our vision and strategic plan to reflect our longer-term ambitions and commitment to putting the customer at the heart of our strategy.
an extremely competitive market place.
Our purpose By managing our own logistics operation we can Our business began in the 1930s, serving fresh remain focused on the customer, delivering what bakery products to working families in the North our shops and customers need on time and in full.
East at prices everyone could afford.
Today were just as keen for Greggs to have a positive impact on Our target market peoples lives.
With ambitions to grow to over 2,000 Greggs is a brand with universal appeal and shops nationwide and ownership of our supply we have been working hard to ensure we chain, we are in a unique position to make good, understand our customers and evolve our freshly prepared food accessible to everyone.
offer in response to their changing needs.
This customer understanding informs all our Our vision decision making as we set out to become the In recent years we have shown we can be a customers favourite for food-on-the-go.
winning brand in the food-on-the-go market and our vision now is to become the customers Our market locations favourite for food-on-the-go.
To achieve this As on-the-go eating habits change, we have we need to get even better at seeing our business built on our existing estate of shops to take through the eyes of customers and have continued Greggs where our customers want us to be.
to invest in understanding their needs.
We recently As a result we can now be found in retail parks, appointed a new Customer Director to lead our shopping centres, industrial estates and office development of customer insight, making sure it parks.
We are also located where our customers drives decision making across the business.
need us when travelling, with shops in travel hubs and roadside locations with parking.
Our operations Through our franchise partnerships we are Ownership of our supply chain means that we also in motorway service stations and can make good, freshly prepared food petrol forecourts.
accessible to everyone at great value in What we do Where we operate What we offer Support Delivery Shopping Travel Quality Convenience Manufacturing Shops Work Leisure Value Service Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4 Strategic Report Manufacturing and distribution centre Distribution centre A typical day in the life of Greggs: How we make sure Everyday tastes good at Greggs Manufacturing centre 4:00am Teams in our combined manufacturing and distribution centres pull together shop orders Continued overleaf 5:00am 5:30-6:00am From the bread used to make our tasty Our Shop Managers arrive to sandwiches to the nations favourite sausage prepare their shops for the busy roll, our dedicated manufacturing teams day ahead, one of their first jobs start work early in the morning and continue involves unpacking products that throughout the day, to ensure all of our are delivered fresh every day products are of the highest quality Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 GREGGS AT A GLANCE 7:00am Our shops open for business and the increasingly busy breakfast trade starts, with many customers choosing our outstanding 2 breakfast deal to start their day 6:00am 7:30-9:00am From freshly preparing our tasty Our head office support teams sandwiches to baking-off our iconic arrive at Greggs House and savouries our shop teams set to work to Customer Care lines open make sure we can offer our customers great availability as soon as the doors open Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 6 St Str ra ate teg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Our dedicated delivery fleet work through the night 11:00am 6:00pm To make sure all of our shops receive their orders on time, in With the breakfast rush over, our Closing time for the full and that Everyday tastes shop teams make sure our shelves majority of our shops good for our customers and counters are full with our customers lunchtime favourites 12:00-2:00pm 3:00pm 12:30am Lunch is served!
Our shop teams With the lunchtime rush over our Production finishes deliver fast and friendly service snacking options and 2 sweet until 5am the next day with a smile treat and hot drink deal appeal to customers in need of an energy boost Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
