CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Making progress with renewed focus In 2016 we delivered another strong performance as we continued on our journey to transform Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a modern, attractive food-onthe-go retailer.
Our product offer is evolving to meet the changing needs of our customers and our shop estate and service levels have benefited from significant investment.
We have made good progress in the modernisation of our systems and processes and have commenced the investment programme that will transform our supply chain capability and increase capacity to support our ambitions for shop growth.
Financial performance Total sales grew to 894.2 million in 2016, up 7.0 per cent.
Within this company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew by 4.2 per cent.
Underlying operating profit, excluding property profits and exceptional items, grew by 8.6 per cent to 78.1 million 2015: 71.9 million.
Pre-tax profit including exceptional items grew by 2.9 per cent to 75.1 million.
Market background: Growing food-on-the-go market The overall market for food-on-the-go continued to be favourable during 2016, with growing consumer disposable income supporting demand despite uncertainty in the economic outlook.
Customer footfall remained challenging in a number of shopping locations, supporting our strategy of progressively reducing our dependence on general shopping activity through alternative shop location and enhancing our offer to meet customers needs at different times of the day.
The market for food-on-the-go remains highly competitive but we saw like-for-like sales and transaction growth throughout 2016, demonstrating the strength of the Greggs brand, its relevance and our quality, value and differentiated offer.
Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go Our strategic plan, first announced in 2013, set out to show that Greggs could be a winning brand in the highly competitive food-on-the-go market.
Our business has been transformed in that time delivering an unbroken record of positive like-for-like sales and new levels of profit.
It is now time to set a higher aspiration for the business, our purpose being to make good freshly prepared food accessible to everyone, with the aim of becoming the customers favourite for food-on-the-go.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 Strategic Report GREAT TASTING, freshly prepared food Everyday tastes good because We encourage healthier food-on-the-go choices.
Thats why in 2014 we introduced a Balanced Choice range of products which now accounts for more than 10 per cent of sales.
It includes a wide selection of freshly prepared sandwiches, wraps, salads, yoghurts, delicious hot soups, porridge pots and freshly baked savouries.
For this next phase we have refreshed our plan to reinforce our commitment to putting the customer at the heart of our strategy The introduction of our Balanced Choice range has led it has four key pillars: to the overall fat content of our sandwiches dropping by 12 per cent and salt by 16 per cent with no impact 1.
Great tasting freshly prepared food on flavour.
Competitive supply chain It has also helped to change peoples perceptions of the 4.
First class support teams brand.
In the latest brand study from the Greggs Brand Tracker April 2016, 38 per cent of customers indicated These pillars are all supported by our long-standing approach to a belief that Greggs do sell healthy options a rise of conducting our business in a responsible manner, and in doing so 13 percentage points since 2010. making a positive impact on peoples lives.
Great tasting freshly prepared food Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we draw on our Customer health heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the food-onthe-go market.
The Greggs product offer is differentiated by the way we freshly prepare food each day in our shops and by offering outstanding value for money for good quality, greattasting food-on-the-go.
Making good freshly prepared food accessible to all income levels is embedded in our core purpose as a brand, with outstanding value meal deals setting us apart from the competition.
We maintained the price of our breakfast meal deal for the seventh year running and saw increased participation in our range of all-day meal deals offering any savoury or sweet product plus any hot drink.
We have continued to make improvements to our product ranges that have helped drive positive like-for-like sales growth for 13 consecutive quarters.
Breakfast This continues to be the fastest growing part of our trading day, linked predominantly with customers travelling, thereby lessening our dependence on general shopping footfall.
The value of our breakfast meal deal remains market-leading and we have successfully built on this to offer greater menu choice, encouraging increased spend and visit frequency.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED BEST customer experience Everyday tastes good because We share our success with the people around us, choosing to help charities that our customers and people care about.
Thats why we continue to donate at least one per cent of our pre-tax profits to the Hot drinks Greggs Foundation and fundraise all year round Our reputation for great tasting coffee continues for this great charity.
to grow both alongside our breakfast offer and, increasingly, as an accompaniment to food at any In 2016 fundraising in our shops and bakeries totalled time of the day.
Any hot drink features across our 502,116, including 99,205 raised from the sale of meal deal offers and is proving increasingly popular.
our Jammy Heart Foundation Biscuit.
Significant investment in additional coffee machines is driving speed of service and, as our reputation in this The money raised by the carrier bag charge in our shops category builds, we are successfully extending choice is also donated to the Greggs Foundation, who make in our coffee options.
sure that this new source of funds benefits grassroots environmental projects in the areas where the monies were collected.
In 2016 we distributed over 715,000 Balanced Choice to 286 different organisations to improve their Demand for healthier choices in food-on-the-go environment #greenerwithgreggs.
continues to grow and our Balanced Choice range, offering fewer than 400 calories and good nutritionals, In 2017 the Greggs Foundation celebrates its has been growing to match.
Sales last year exceeded 30th birthday.
Since it was founded, it has given 100 million showing how our reach as a brand can over 23 million to support the local communities have real impact in encouraging people to make that we serve.
In the summer we built on our early success in sandwiches and no added sugar drinks by launching a range of freshly prepared salads followed by a new range of savoury bakes in the autumn.
Alongside these developments Community we extended the availability of fresh fruit, freshly prepared yoghurts, fruit and nut snacks and our first gluten-free products.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Strategic Report COMPANY-MANAGED SHOP LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES GROWTH 4.2% Hot food 2.
Best customer experience This is another area of growing customer demand where we are Investing in service investing in our capability to offer choice and speed of service.
Great products alone will not succeed in food-on-the-go without Hot sandwiches have proved particularly popular and we have great customer service.
Our busy customers demand convenience invested in additional ovens in response to demand.
This opens with fast and friendly service and we continue to invest to up opportunities for menu development which last year included improve in these areas.
Hot soup has been another source of growth lending itself well to full-flavoured Balanced Choice development.
Extended opening hours, particularly early in the morning and on Sundays, are meeting increased demand as our popularity for Good food food-on-the-go grows.
Investment in coffee machines, hot food Customers increasingly care where their food comes from.
Because ovens and new systems to free up more staff time are all we make the majority of the food we sell ourselves, we are well contributing to our speed of service.
Working in a Greggs shop can placed to reassure customers that we deliver food they can trust.
be very demanding so we rely on great people to deliver friendly As a large-scale food manufacturer buying base ingredients, we are service under pressure.
Making Greggs a great place to work is key one step closer to the source than many of our competitors who to a great customer experience and we are investing in training and buy finished products.
We are investing more in telling our story systems to help us release time for customer-facing activities.
to customers, extending our association with Fairtrade, promoting our Good Egg award, committing to sustainable tuna fishing and Alongside our internal measures used to reward teams who gaining accreditation in animal welfare.
deliver great standards we were pleased to be ranked best in sector and 6th overall in the Institute of Customer Services Alongside this we are setting out to lead the food-on-the-go January 2017 Customer Satisfaction Index.
sector in eliminating or reducing unnecessary ingredients including salt, fat and sugar.
In addition, we want our customers Greggs Rewards to be able to make informed choices and are the only major The latest release of our award-winning mobile customer loyalty food-on-the-go brand providing full traffic light nutritional scheme allowing fully flexible payment has created a step change in information on all products via our website.
Customer data capture is now at a level that allows us to analyse behaviour and develop targeted marketing Looking ahead campaigns.
We have recently appointed our first Customer Director We have a strong pipeline of new product developments planned with experience in digital multi-channel marketing who will lead for 2017, offering more choice in growth areas while making sure development of our capabilities in this area.
that we continue to deliver a great customer experience with our traditional best-selling favourites.
Greggs Delivered Food-on-the-go delivery is a growing market channel offering growth potential for Greggs by targeting the workplace sector.
A pilot lunchtime delivery service targeted at offices has been launched in trial locations from which we intend to learn and grow.
Whilst we do not see an opportunity in home delivery, we do believe that a smartphone-based order and collect service for customers offers future opportunity.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED COST SAVINGS PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS CHANGE elements successfully 7.1m 3 delivered Looking ahead 3.
Competitive supply chain Further investment this year in new systems and process In March 2016 we announced a major 100 million programme improvement will deliver additional gains, making shop of investment to support growth in shop numbers and reshape operations simpler and supporting improved service levels.
our supply chain in order to compete more effectively in the Rapid growth in Greggs Rewards recruitment will see this food-on-the-go market.
The first phase of this programme become an increasingly important source of customer insight involves the closure of three bakeries before going on to invest and marketing opportunities.
in our remaining supply sites to create centres of excellence in manufacturing and distribution.
Building experience with customer delivery will enable us to develop this channel with the initial aim of converting our existing In 2016 we successfully opened our new distribution centre in lunchtime platter business to a digital platform.
Enfield and closed both our Twickenham and Sleaford bakeries.
Good progress was also made with the extension of our bakery Estate changes and refurbishments in Glasgow, enabling us to plan for the closure of our Edinburgh We continue to see opportunities to increase our estate to bakery in the second quarter of 2017. substantially more than 2,000 shops and in 2016 we opened 145 new shops including 56 franchised units and closed 79, growing Alongside this work we have undertaken detailed planning for the the estate to 1,764 shops trading as at 31 December 2016.
At the subsequent investment phase across our remaining bakery sites.
end of 2016 we had 157 franchised shops operating in travel and In January 2017 we communicated our proposals to staff at each other convenience locations, with a particular focus on motorway of our sites, including the planned impact of consolidating our services and petrol forecourts.
We expanded our presence in manufacturing operations.
Overall our expansion plans will create Northern Ireland in the year, opening seven company-managed thousands of new roles in retail and distribution operations, but shops and two franchised units, bringing our total shop numbers will result in fewer roles in manufacturing.
We have therefore there to 10 at the end of 2016. entered into consultation with trade unions and employee representatives over the details of these proposals.
We completed 208 shop refurbishments during the year and in total 92 per cent of our shop estate now operates in a food-onOur investment programme will create increased capacity the-go format.
The results of our refurbishment programme and efficiency in shop distribution to support substantial shop continue to be strong, both in terms of return on investment and growth alongside improved quality and efficiency in bakery the repositioning of the Greggs brand as a contemporary place manufacturing by centralising production.
This is a complicated to buy and eat food-on-the-go.
In the year ahead we plan to investment phase, transforming the use of space and equipment refurbish another 200 shops, completing the conversion of our across our bakery network and is expected to take approximately legacy bakery shops and starting to refresh older food-on-the-go two years to implement.
shops to the latest look and facilities.
Strategic decisions of this magnitude impacting jobs are always In 2017 we expect to open 140-150 shops, including further difficult and I am grateful for the contribution and professionalism development of our franchise partnerships, and to close 40-50 of our teams who have been making these changes whilst shops.
We will continue to relocate shops to rebalance our estate, maintaining service standards to our shops.
increasing our presence in travel, leisure and work-centred catchments.
In 2013 only 20 per cent of our estate was located Once implemented this new supply chain platform will substantially in these location types and by the end of 2016 this proportion improve product quality, our competitiveness and, alongside system had risen to 30 per cent.
investment, will complete our transformation from traditional bakery to food-on-the-go.
This is our largest ever investment in our supply chain, reaffirming our strategic commitment to the competitive advantage offered through vertical integration and delivering an attractive return on investment.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 Strategic Report 4.
First class support teams We have made further significant progress in the third year of our major process and systems investment programme.
Last year we successfully deployed SAP Finance as the core platform for integrated system development, and went on to pilot central forecasting and replenishment in trial shops in the second half of the year.
The roll out of central forecasting and replenishment will replace shop-based ordering in 2017 and will be our largest ever new system roll out.
Our business change programme team have now moved on to plan for the next stage of system development, centralising logistics and manufacturing to replace our current devolved local bakery solutions.
We are aiming to launch pilots for both logistics and manufacturing by the end of 2017 with roll out to other sites in 2018.
In addition to this core activity our teams have successfully Everyday tastes good because deployed supporting SAP modules in procurement, product lifecycle management and human resource management, which We use energy efficiently and minimise waste.
together are transforming our working practices and effectiveness.
Thats why Greggs Environmental Management System has been certificated to the ISO 1400: Having a positive impact on peoples lives 2015 standard.
Greggs has a long-standing tradition and reputation as a socially responsible business and as such we want our actions to have a This certification means that we have the systems positive impact on peoples lives.
This ambition covers a broad and processes in place to support our commitment range of stakeholders and is focused on five areas: to finding ways to reduce our impact on the environment, Customer health We encourage healthier which is a key part of our social responsibility strategy.
Responsible sourcing We care about where Our external auditors commented that Greggs should be really proud of what they have achieved.
Its quite our ingredients come from.
unusual for companies in their position to go for Community We share our success with the people certification across their entire Company just because around us.
they believe it is the right thing to do a huge Environment We aim to use energy efficiently achievement and one which should not be and minimise waste.
People We are committed to creating a great place to work.
These ambitions are championed separately but embedded in the core strategic pillars of our business plan.
In 2016 we made further improvements in all areas and were pleased to achieve an increase to a four star rating in the Business In The Community CR index.
Environment Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED Everyday tastes good because We are committed to creating a great place to work.
Thats why we are strong advocates of equality, diversity and inclusion.
We believe gender equality should be treated like any Customer health other business priority, with a clear plan and an objective Customers are increasingly aware of our Balanced Choice range in place.
The completion of the National Equality and in 2016 we introduced traffic light labelling on our website Standard sits as an objective on the front page of our and app.
The Institute of Grocery Distribution has recognised our business plan and a three-year strategy to achieve this Balanced Choice range as having a positive impact on the health is in place.
and wellness of customers and we will continue to extend the From a gender equality point of view the plan involves range of products that meet this need.
We recently launched a supercharging the brilliant talent Greggs already has in healthier shop format at New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton, the business through the delivery of our Female Career designed to meet NHS England, PHE and DEFRA guidelines.
Development Programme and we are proud of the fact that: Responsible sourcing Almost half of our management population is female.
All the tea, coffee, hot chocolate, sugar sachets, orange juice, apple One of the four most senior retail managers is female.
juice and bananas we sell are certified Fairtrade.
We source our Of the eight Board posts, three are held by women.
prawns and tuna from sustainable sources and have recently moved up to tier two in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
In 2016 Roger Whiteside demonstrated Greggs All of our manufacturing sites have achieved top marks on v7 of the commitment to the gender equality agenda by British Retail Consortiums global standard for food safety.
joining the Womens Business Council.
People Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Strategic Report We have made good progress in the modernisation of our systems and processes and have commenced the investment programme that will transform our supply chain capability and increase capacity to support our ambitions for shop growth.
Community Outlook for 2017 We continue to share our success with the local communities in The year has started in line with our expectations, with companywhich we operate.
In 2016 this included doubling the amount of managed shop like-for-like sales in the eight weeks to 25 February end-of-day food that we donated to good causes and continuing 2017 up by 2.0 per cent, and total sales up 5.8 per cent.
As to support the work of the Greggs Foundation.
Staff and expected, the year to date position has been impacted by the customers raised 613,000 for the Foundation in 2016 and this, timing of the New Year public holiday, which fell outside of the combined with donations from the Company and the proceeds of comparative period in 2016.
Excluding the effect of this, carrier bag charges, enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute company-managed shop like-for-like sales have grown by 2.9 2.8 million to support a wide range of initiatives that improve per cent in weeks two to eight of the current year.
the quality of life in our local communities.
These included the award-winning Greggs Breakfast Club programme which, with The UK consumer outlook is more challenging than we have support from 72 partner organisations, now provides five million seen in recent years, with industry-wide pressures emerging in free wholesome breakfasts each year to children in more than commodities as well as labour costs.
As previously stated we 400 primary schools.
expect this to have a modest impact on margins in the short term.
Environment 2017 will be another busy year of change as we continue to We hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work on progress our investment in better systems and the transformation carbon efficiencies and our Environmental Management System and development of our supply chain.
Over the medium term we was certificated to ISO 14001 standard in 2016.
We continue to are confident of making further progress as we implement our trial technologies that could help to reduce our carbon footprint plan to grow Greggs as a contemporary food-on-the-go brand.
even further in the years ahead.
People Roger Whiteside We pay all of our people more than the National Living Wage, Chief Executive including those under the age of 25.
We share 10 per cent of our 28 February 2017 profits with employees and our people will be sharing a record 8.8 million as a result of our strong performance in 2016.
Our Employee Opinion Survey engagement score has increased by five percentage points over the last two years: 80 per cent of our people say they feel committed to Greggs and to helping us achieve our goals.
However, we are not complacent and in the year ahead will be working towards achieving the National Equality Standard as part of our commitment to make Greggs an even better place to work.
Further details of all of our actions in these areas are described elsewhere in this annual report.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
