Chief Executives Statement Car Maintenance LFL revenues increased by 3.4%, driven by good growth in sales of car parts, workshop products and the fitting In November we and sale of bulbs, blades and launched our Moving batteries 3Bs.
The Halfords own brand oil further consolidated its up a Gear strategy number one market position and aimed at driving some of our innovations, such as sustainable long-term 130% brighter bulbs, performed growth, with good strongly.
Car Enhancement LFL progress to date.
revenues increased by 1.0%, supported by exclusive products, innovation and expert service, and dash cams and in-car connectivity Jill McDonald The Board has recommended a sales grew strongly.
The growth in Chief Executive final dividend of 11.3 pence per Operational Review: sales of this new technology for share FY15: 11.0 pence which, if Autocentres the first time offset the continued approved, would take the full-year Total Autocentres revenues were Summary of Group Results decline of sat nav sales: the latter dividend to 17.0 pence per share, up 4.1% and, on a LFL basis, up Sales of 1,021.5m were up 1.7%, continuing to decrease as a result an increase of 3.0% on the prior 2.5%.
Gross margin improved with like-for-like LFL revenue of the  market.
If approved, the final dividend by 90 basis points in the year, growth of 1.5%.
Group gross Our We-Fit proposition drove will be paid on 26 August 2016 to reflecting a lower tyre mix and margin was broadly unchanged at an increase in sales of car audio shareholders on the register at an increase in service, MOT and 53.2%.
Total operating costs rose products and services.
Travel the close of business on 5 August repair margins.
Operating costs by 1.8% reflecting volume-driven Solutions LFL revenues increased 2016.
The Board continues to increased by 5.8%, with the cost increases and investments 2.8%, driven by growth in child car target to grow the dividend every majority of the increase coming made in key areas of the business seats and camping equipment.
year with an average cover of from new centres opened in recent offset by targeted cost savings.
Cycling sales declined by 0.9% around 2 times over time.
years and the balance due to Investment in the expansion of on a like-for-like basis.
This was pay rises, enhanced training and Autocentres continued as the We have announced a target for principally driven by the previously investments in support functions.
business added eleven centres debt of 1.0x EBITDA with a range highlighted challenging July and Underlying EBITDA increased by and in Retail we opened six Cycle up to 1.5x to allow for appropriate August for mainstream bikes, due 13.2% to 8.6m.
This is a prudent level for to a number of factors including debt, taking account of our regular Eleven new Autocentres were Group earnings before nonparticularly strong comparatives, strong cashflow, no pension deficit opened and two were closed, recurring items, finance costs, poor weather and discounting and shorter, more flexible leases taking the total number of depreciation and amortisation across the market.
Bike sales than many other UK retailers.
Our Autocentre locations to 314 at the Underlying EBITDA were up returned to growth in Q3 and Q4.
priorities for capital allocation are end of the year.
Group earnings Parts, Accessories and Clothing explained later in this report.
refurbished during the year, taking before finance costs, tax and nonPACs sales declined in the year the total new or refurbished to just recurring items Underlying EBIT and this is a focus area for us to Operational Review: Retail over 10% of the estate.
10-15 new were 84.5m, which compares improve over the medium-term.
Halfords Retail achieved a solid centres will be opened in the year with 84.6m in the prior year.
Profit year of sales performance in the Service-related sales increased by ahead and any sub-optimal centres before tax and non-recurring items context of the trading conditions, 8.5%, driven in particular by cycle will continue to be closed.
was 81.5m and earnings per with sales up 1.2% to 868.5m.
LFL repair and elements of motoring share before non-recurring items growth of 1.3% reflected Motoring fitting, such as audio and roof Market Update was 33.2p, up 0.5% and 1.5% LFL of 2.5% and Cycling LFL of boxes.
We also introduced new A full review and update of the respectively.
The weather was not helpful, services including 2Bs bulbs and markets in which we operate is set with both a wet summer and a The cashflow performance batteries fitting for motorbikes and out on pages 8 to 9. mild winter, including the warmest remained robust with operating windscreen chip repair for cars.
cashflows more than offsetting the Online Retail revenues grew by Despite this, the motoring side of impact of our capital expenditure 1.4% and represented 12.1% of our business, which contributes programme.
Net debt at the end total Retail sales FY15: 12.1%.
The around 70% of Group sales, was of the year was down 13.9m at importance of our store network resilient and reflected the healthy 47.9m, with a net debt to EBITDA and service overlay continued to be underlying market indicators and ratio of 0.4:1 versus 0.6:1 in the highlighted by the strength of Click the service-led proposition.
& Collect, with around 90% of online orders picked up in store.
4 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation the medium-term.
Tredz is a UK-wide In Motoring, we are embedding Halfords Business Review to beat whatever those growth online retailer of premium bikes our new motorcycle product Our goal is to be customers first rates are.
and cycling parts, accessories and service offer, building our choice for their life on the move and clothing.
It also operates four new windscreen chip repair and we will achieve this by being Maintain Group EBITDA % stores in South Wales.
Wheelies service, launching exclusive Committed to Making Customers margin roughly flat over the is the UKs largest provider of in-car technology products, Journeys Better.
next few years as we continue bicycle replacement for insurance further expanding our ranges In November we set out the to invest for sustainable growth.
and developing our trade offer.
In evolution in strategy from Getting Grow the dividend per share Cycling we have just launched our Into Gear to Moving Up a Gear.
In Collectively, these businesses every year with coverage of Orla Kiely collaboration and there Retail this new strategy has five generated revenue of circa 32m around 2 times underlying will be a refresh of our Apollo and key pillars: for the year ended 29 February earnings on average over time.
Carrera bike ranges, the launch 2016, up from circa 24m in the of the Wiggins and Trott ranges Putting Customers in the A debt target of 1.0 times prior year, and EBITDA of 2.4m.
and extended online PACs range Driving Seat investing in EBITDA with a range up to 1.5 The initial cash consideration is through Cycle Republic.
customer data and insight times to allow for appropriate 18.4m and has been settled from capabilities to maximise the M&A.
We have set out below the Groups existing borrowing The key focuses under the Moving lifetime customer value some important principles in facilities.
Dependent upon the Up A Gear plan include building Service in our DNA this regard.
financial performance of Tredz relationships with more of our embedding the focus on in the year ending 28 February customers, growing more serviceCapital Structure and customer service 2017, there will be an element of related revenue, continuing to Priorities deferred consideration payable in improve our colleague training Building on our Uniqueness Our top priority will be to maintain 12 months.
and retention, implementing exclusive products, relevant a strong balance sheet.
The transformational colleague and innovation and unique From a customer and supplier debt target has been set at a customer-facing distribution and partnerships, such as our perspective the businesses will prudent level, taking into account IT development and improving new collaboration with British continue to trade on a standalone the strong, regular cash flow on our successful store refresh Olympian and Tour fide France basis and will continue to be led by generation, no pension deficit and programme with the Store of the winner Sir Bradley Wiggins the existing management teams.
shorter, more flexible leases than Future concept.
The businesses have strong Better Shopping Experience many UK retailers.
web development capability In Autocentres we remain a seamless customer Our priorities for use of cash, and are supported by office and committed to new centre experience, online as well as based on the balance sheet warehousing premises in Swansea.
openings, along with the in store described above, will be firstly The majority of sales are fulfilled continuation of a roll-out across Fit for the Future capital investment to grow the from the warehouse operation the wider estate of the refresh Infrastructure moving from business in line with previous where a team of highly skilled and programme.
We are also investing fixing the basics to improving guidance, secondly to pay and experienced bike technicians build in a new electronic point of sale efficiency and fulfillment grow the ordinary dividend every bikes which are then carefully system, which will enable us to year within a cover ratio of 2x on boxed and delivered direct to stock and sell Retail products in our On pages 14 to 15 we have set average over time, thirdly for any customers homes.
centres, jointly source parts with out a more detailed explanation appropriate M&A opportunities Retail and implement an e-diary.
of the Retail strategy and on This acquisition is a strong and which may arise and thereafter any pages 16 to 19 we have explained complementary addition to the I would like to thank all colleagues excess cash would be available in more detail our progress on Group, extending our presence for their fantastic contribution, for additional distribution to each of these pillars.
On pages in the online market for premium support and commitment to the shareholders.
20 to 21 we have explained bikes, parts, accessories and further progress and performance our Autocentres strategy and The debt target and range is clothing.
made in Halfords this year.
intended as guidance rather than Current Activity a hard and fast rule.
We anticipate Financial Targets As we look ahead there is plenty to moving towards the debt target Jill McDonald In November we set out four key do as we implement Moving Up a over time.
Our clear priority at Chief Executive financial targets, which we reaffirm Gear and weve already built good present is investment to deliver the 1 June 2016 and update below: momentum.
The year ahead will Moving Up A Gear strategy and for be a busy one, both for product Grow sales faster than the growth.
developments and strategic markets in which we operate.
Acquisition of Tredz and progress.
We anticipate that the motoring See more on Our Retail Wheelies market will grow at an average Strategy on pages 14 to 19 Subsequent to the year end, rate of 23% per annum and the on 23 May 2016 the Group cycling market at an average See more on Our Autocentre acquired Tredz Limited Tredz rate of 35% per annum over Strategy on pages 20 to 21 and Wheelies Direct Limited stock code: HFd halfords.
com 5 slugline Our Strategic Report Our Marketplace 8 Autocentres Strategy 20 Our Business Model 10 Our Key Performance Indicators 22 A Better Life Cycle 12 Chief Financial Officers Review 24 Material Issues 13 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties 30 Our Retail Strategy 14 Operational Review Retail 16 slugline Discovering Potential Halfords was awarded a new Discovering Potential award by Sunday Times Top 100 Companies, presented by Employment Minister, Priti Patel.
