Adjusted pre-tax profit up Chief Executives Strategic Review 8%on revenue up 11% 7% increase in total dividendper share Delivering value to 37th consecutive year of shareholders through growing dividend payments by5% or more recordrevenue, profit Four acquisitions completed anddividend for193m Strong cash generation and significant financial resources for further investment Andrew Williams Chief Executive STRONG CASH GENERATION ANDBALANCE SHEET SUPPORTS FUTURE GROWTH Cash generation was maintained at a high level and we ended the year with net debt of247m 2015: 101m after spending 193m 2015: 84m on current year acquisitions, 24m 2015: 23m on capital expenditure, and paying out 47m individends 2015: 43m to shareholders and 27m of tax 2015: 31m.
Our balance sheet is strong and will support further investment in our future growth.
We have revolving credit facilities of up to 360m until November 2018 and in November 2015 we agreed a US Private Placement totalling US$250m.
We do not aim to become a highly geared business and therefore our balance sheet strategy is to ensure that we have sufficient financial resources to achieve our strategic goal, of matching organic growth with acquisition growth and dividend growth, over the medium term.
FINAL DIVIDEND TO INCREASE BY 7% Halma has made excellent progress, once Halmas continued success is only possible Once again, the Board is recommending a again delivering record revenue, profit and through the commitment and dedication final dividend increase of 7% giving a final dividends for shareholders.
oftalented individuals throughout our dividend of 7.83p and atotal dividend for organisation and I would like to take this the year of 12.81p 2015: 11.96p.
The final Our ability to sustain success over a long opportunity to thank all of my colleagues for dividend per share is subject to approval by period through changing market conditions their contribution to another successful year.
shareholders at the AGM on 21 July 2016 is a testament to the quality and diversity of and will be paid on 17August 2016 to our portfolio of companies, which is focused GOOD ORGANIC GROWTH shareholders on the register at 15 July 2016. onprotecting life and improving the quality ANDHIGHRETURNS oflife worldwide.
Revenue increased by 11% to 808m ORGANIC CONSTANT CURRENCY 2015:726m including 6% organic constant REVENUE GROWTH INALL We have a clear growth strategy, a simple currency growth and a 2% favourable currency MAJORREGIONS 1 financial model and a customer-focused impact.
Adjusted profit increased by 8% The strength of our long-term market growth organisation which enables each business to166.0m 2015: 153.6m including 3% drivers was reflected in the healthy rate of toadapt as their market opportunities organicconstant currency growth and a growth in all developed regions.
The benefits of this were seen 2%favourable currency impact.
from the USA increased by 22% to 273m clearlyin the past year, as growth in 2015: 223m including organic constant ourInfrastructure Safety, Medical and High returns were maintained with Return currency growth of 9%.
Revenue from Environmental & Analysis sectors onSales of 20.6% 2015: 21.2%.
Return Mainland Europe grew by 7% to 179m ensuredHalma made goodprogress onCapital Employed for our operating 2015: 167m and by 7% at organic constant whileour Process Safety sector adjusted companies remained strong at 72% currency while UK revenue was up by 5% tomore challenging marketconditions.
2015:78% and the Groups Return on Total to 145m 2015: 138m with 4% organic Invested Capital was 15.6% 2015: 16.3%.
4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue from outside the USA, UK and Process Safety revenue was 2% lower than Mainland Europe improved by 7% to last year at 155m 2015: 159m including 211m 2015: 197m, representing 26% of the an organic constant currency decline of 5%.
Group 2015: 27% and including 1% organic This was a resilient result given the challenging Our clear growth constant currency growth.
Asia Pacific revenue market conditions caused by the lower oil grew by 7% to 125m 2015: 117m including price in energy markets, which now represents strategy, simple financial 2 3% organic constant currency growth.
Profit model and customerincluded revenue growth of 10% in China to was down 12% to 39.6m 2015: 44.8m 54m 2015: 49m and an increase of 29% including a 15% organic decline in constant focused approach inIndia to 11m 2015: 8m.
Return on Sales remained strong at enables our businesses Other regions was up by 7% with good growth 25.4% 2015: 28.3%.
in Africa, Near and Middle East compensating to adapt as market Despite lower revenue, investment was for weaker demand in South America.
maintained as certain businesses diversified RECORD RESULTS FOR THREE into new markets including utilities and other SECTORS AND RESILIENT DEMAND process industries.
This investment included a INPROCESS SAFETY 4% increase in R&D spend, representing 3.7% Infrastructure Safety revenue grew by of sector revenue 2015: 3.4%.
Consequently, 13% to a record 265m 2015: 234m the sector is better positioned to consolidate including organic growth of 6% at constant its current level of profitability in the year ahead 2 currency.
Profit rose by 12% to a record even though conditions in the energy-related 56.2m 2015: 50.0m with organic growth markets are expected to remain challenging.
Return on Sales Regionally, there was modest organic was 21.2% 2015: 21.4%.
constant currency revenue growth in the There was double-digit organic constant UK and Mainland Europe and a small integrated into Diba Industries within currency revenue growth in the USA and organic decline in the USA.
There was the Medical sector, designs and mid single-digit organic growth in the UK an organic constant currency revenue manufactures fluidic-related plastic and Mainland Europe.
There was excellent decline inAsia Pacific and Other regions, machined components and assemblies progress in Africa, Near and Middle East including asignificant year-on-year for life sciences and analytical instruments.
which more than compensated for a modest reduction in SouthAmerica following Theinitial cash consideration was organic decline in Asia Pacific.
Firetrace USA, a major 4m projectin the prior year.
A further estimated LLC the fire suppression business acquired in US$1m 0.6m will be paid in April 2017 FOUR ACQUISITIONS COMPLETED October 2015 traded in line with expectations based on its growth between joining INLINE WITH OUR DISCIPLINED and has integrated well within the Halma and October 2016, with no further M&ASTRATEGY Infrastructure Safety sector.
consideration due to be paid after that.
Halma completed four acquisitions during In October 2015, we acquired Firetrace In the Medical sector revenue increased theyear, resulting in a spend of 193min USA, LLC, an Arizona-based manufacturer by17% to a record 199m 2015: 169m, a single financial year.
of customised fire suppression systems with impressive organic growth of 10% at 2 This was particularly pleasing as the M&A forconfined spaces serving a range of end constant currency.
Profit was up by 14% market continued to be competitive with markets including transportation, process toarecord 51.7m 2015: 45.4m, which higher multiples being paid for larger machinery, computer server hubs, defence included organic constant currency growth businesses in Halmas attractive market and aerospace.
Return on Sales remained strong sectors.
Additional M&A resources were, to the Infrastructure Safety sector adds fire at26.0% 2015: 26.8%.
andcontinue to be, added to each of our suppression technology to our successful Organic constant currency revenue growth four sector boards so that we can continue fire detection business.
The consideration was strongest in Mainland Europe and Asia to find high-quality businesses to acquire at paid was US$110m 73m with no future Pacific, with good growth in the UK and the sensible prices.
Over the medium term, our contingent consideration tobe paid.
Value Added Solutions, acquired inMay strategic goal is to match the average rate In December 2015, Halma acquired 2015 was successfully integrated intoDiba of acquisition profit growth toorganic profit Visiometrics, S. L. located outside Industries during the year.
The integration growth, since this ensures that we retain a Barcelona, Spain and Visual Performance of Visiometrics and CenTrak, acquired in strong balance sheet, sustaingrowth and Diagnostics, Inc. located in California, USA December 2015 and February 2016 increase dividends toshareholders.
together referred to as Visiometrics.
respectively, is also going well andboth are Visiometrics products are used to measure Our core acquisition strategy is to find well placed to make valuable contributions objectively apersons visual acuity leading privately-owned businesses in, or adjacent to the sectors progressin the year ahead.
to a more precise determination of which to, our existing markets although each sector elements of the eyes anatomy are affecting The Environmental & Analysis sector has the freedom to find new niches which quality of vision, such as the early stages performed excellently, with revenue up by possess the right product, market and of cataract formation.
This novel and new 15% to a record 189m 2015: 164m financial characteristics.
We consider selling technology has high growth potential if it including organic growth of 11% at constant businesses if any of these characteristics becomes a standard of care in the field of 2 currency.
Profit also grew strongly, increasing change adversely over time and attempts ophthalmic diagnosis where our Medical by 26% to a record 34.5m 2015: 27.4m todiversify, or mitigate the situation, are sector already has a strong global presence with impressive organic constant currency notproductive.
andthis was reflected in the deal structure growth of 21%.
Return on Sales improved with the initial cash consideration of 18m Every transaction is approved by the Groups to18.3% 2015: 16.7%, which is now within 13m and a maximum total deferred Chief Executive and Finance Director, with all the Groups target range of 18% to 22%.
contingent consideration of 107m deals worth 10m or more approved by the 78m payable in instalments each Regionally there was double-digit organic Halma plc Board.
Details of the transactions yeardependent on Visiometrics financial constant currency growth in the USA, Asia completed during the year are as follows: performance to the end of 2020.
Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East.
In May 2015, we completed the acquisition There was solid single-digit organic growth of Value Added Solutions, LLC trading as in the UK and Mainland Europe.
VAS, which has been no acquisitions completed in the year.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 Innovation Chief Executives Strategic Review continued New product innovation is a vital component of creating organic growth and enables Halma companies to increase revenue andprofitability through market share gainand market expansion.
Our investment in new product developmentincreased substantially, withR&D spend up by 19% to 41.2m 2015:34.6m representing 5.1% of Grouprevenue 2015: 4.8%.
All sectors increased investment, most notably the In February 2016, Halma acquired Talent development Medical sector which grew R&D spend CenTrak Inc. based in Pennsylvania, Halmas Executive Board has continued to from4.0% to 4.5% of sector revenue - USA.
CenTrak manufactures sensors and spend substantial time building sector boards an absoluteriseof 32%.
proprietary communication technology for each of our four sectors.
A typical sector providing real-time location monitoring of board comprises a Sector CEO, Sector The return on investment of new product people andassets in healthcare facilities.
Finance Director, Sector M&A Director and development is assessed monthly by This is a new market niche for our Medical two, or more, Sector Vice Presidents SVPs each Halma company, both in terms of sector, although many elements of who chair the individual operating company their previous track record and future CenTraks core technology are similar to boards.
By April 2016, each Halma sector expectations, including the proportion of their that used widely in other Halma sectors.
had two Sector Vice Presidents, with five revenue generated from products launched The cash consideration paid was outofthe total eight positions filled through in the past three years.
All measures can US$140m 97m and there is no future internal promotions.
vary significantly from company to company, consideration contingent on performance.
depending on the characteristics of their The sector boards are tasked with boosting CenTrak isHalmas largest ever acquisition.
market and the effectiveness of their new our M&A search efforts and seeking new product development effort.
Since 2013, the CONTINUED STRATEGIC opportunities to accelerate organic growth, for average contribution to Group revenue from INVESTMENTTO DRIVE GROWTH example, by encouraging greater collaboration.
products launched in the past three years Halmas decentralised organisational This requires a clear vision and strategy in has been around 22% although the individual structure gives our diverse range of each sector, as outlined in more detailin the company performances range from single businesses considerable management sector reviews on pages 34 to 41. digit to over 50%.
autonomy, albeit within a well-defined During the year, we reviewed our range of strategic and control framework.
These Halmas commitment to innovation extends Halma talent development programmes areunderpinned by the Halma Values of beyond new product development and we through the lens of the future needs of our Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment are continuing to develop more collaboration growing business.
In April 2016 we launched andCustomer satisfaction.
between our businesses as this is a valuable a new programme, called HPD Enterprise, way in which we can build a more innovative We have aclear view of how each business which will help our SVPs and MDs think more culture.
We foster collaboration by providing can benefit from being part of a larger group entrepreneurially about how they can grow opportunities for our senior managers to build andmake targeted central investments in their businesses in fast-changing markets.
a network of connections across Halma three key areas to leverage this collective including the biennial Halma Innovation We considered also how we can continue benefit: Talent development, Innovation andTechnology Exposition HITE, our todevelop the rich talent emerging from andInternational expansion.
management training programmes and our successful HPD Graduate programme.
Increasingly, these central investments are We have introduced a new initiative which being supplemented by sector-led initiatives will help our graduates to build on at least The best examples of innovation in Halma targeted at the specific challenges and two years post HPD Graduate experience.
arerecognised each year through the Halma opportunities within each individual sector.
We are offering to support them through an Annual Innovation Awards.
This years first Examples include the Medical sector MBA programme with the aim of accelerating prize was won by HWM-Water for their introducing reward plans for increased their progress into senior management PermaNET remote water leak monitoring collaboration and the Process Safety positions within Halma companies.
The runners-up sectorestablishing a Brazil hub to build wereOcean Optics, for a new automated Although we have made some progress astronger presence in South America.
alignment and calibration process for their towards increasing the diversity of our Flame product platform, and SunTech Progress in Halmas three key areas of management talent, we want to do more.
Medical for their Vet20 product, which strategic investment included the following: Inaddition to simple things such as insisting provides non-invasive blood pressure ondiversity in candidate listings from head readings on animals, without the need hunters, we are encouraging our company forsedation.
boards to make better use of existing resources.
This includes co-opting junior managers as board advisers and appointing Managing Directors from other Halma companies as non-executive directors.
While recognising that there is a lot more work to be done to have more diversity in our senior management, these actions will help to realise the benefits of greater diversity now as well as provide newdevelopment opportunities for the individuals involved.
6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS International expansion We review our responsibility and sustainability Halma has continued to invest and reporting in accordance with best practice.
encourage our businesses to accelerate Legislative changes, particularly concerning growth in international markets.
Increasingly, the environment and bribery and corruption, Our decentralised Halma companies in similar markets are have provided an opportunity to review our organisational working together more closely to coordinate procedures in these important areas and their resources and build greater critical ensure they are accessible, compliant and structure gives our mass in key growth regions.
For example, firmly embedded within our business.
diverse range of our ophthalmic diagnostic device businesses A detailed report on Sustainability is on within the Medical sector are building a single businesses considerable pages 48 to 53. sales organisation in China to carry products management autonomy from multiple Halma companies.
OUTLOOK within a well-defined The resilience and diversity of our markets, The Halma hubs in China and India remain a long-term growth drivers and business focal point and catalyst for growth.
In India, we strategic and control model give us confidence that we can have relocated our Head Office to Bengaluru, framework.
continue to grow in todays varied market while retaining commercial offices in Mumbai conditions.
During the year, Halma has and Vadodara.
We have plans to expand made four acquisitions and further increased intoChennai and Delhi inthemedium term.
investment for organic growth through Talent InChina, our R&D subsidyprogramme has development, Innovation andInternational helped 15 Halma companies hire 33 new expansion.
Since the period end, order intake engineers in the last three years to develop has continued to be ahead of revenue and new products for the local market.
This order intake last year.
We expect to make programme was refined and re-launched in further progress in the year ahead in line with April 2016 as we continue to see local product our expectations.
development as critical to sustained growth and building a strong market share.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANDSUSTAINABILITY IS AT Andrew Williams HALMASCORE Chief Executive Halmas core strategy is to protect life and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
Our primary market growth drivers mean thatHalma companies operate in markets inwhich their products contribute positively tothe wider community.
These market characteristics and our commitment to health and safety, the environment and people development are reflected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
1 See Highlights 2 See note 1 to the Accounts Total Shareholder Return three years 200% 175% 150% 125% 100% 75% 50% Mar-2013 Mar-2014 Mar-2015 Mar-2016 Halma FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
