Chief Executive Officers Q&A Building our momentum Its been a year of expansion and continued investment for the benefit of our 4Cs.
Weve welcomed 340 more colleagues to our new site in Leicester, and made a difference to our local communities through our Be the Change local education initiative.
We continue to deliver on our promises and I am delighted to share updated targets for our future growth plans.
Q Its been over a year since IPO, looking back, what are your personal highlights?
A I am very proud to be part of the team that has delivered another successful year for Hastings.
We continue to deliver on the promises we set out at the time of the IPO and I am delighted to be sharing updated targets with you following our strong performance to date.
We have delivered profitable growth for shareholders, increased live customer policies by 15% to over 2.3 million and our share of the UK private car market has increased to 6.5% driving growth across all key metrics.
Gross Written Premiums continued to rise, up 25% to769m, driving revenues of 590m.
Its important to note that our profitable growth has been achieved whilst maintaining our disciplined approach to underwriting with a preI am proud to lead a great team Ogden calendar year loss ratio of 73.7%, below our stated target of between of colleagues and together we have 75% and 79%.
We also continue to make significant investment in our established an enviable and colleagues and infrastructure through the rollout of Guidewire, the state of attractive track record of strong, the art, integrated end to end platform for claims, broking and billing, and profitable growth.
through the expansion of our third UK site in Leicester which has seen over Gary Hoffman 340 new colleagues join us in 2016.
As Chief Executive Officer you would expect, the recruitment of such a large number of new colleagues and the size and scale of the Guidewire implementation have not been without their challenges.
It is our agility and the hard work, expertise, dedication and support of my 2,680 colleagues that have ensured that we continue to deliver for our colleagues, customers and the Company, and we are as focused on the long term as we are on our annual performance.
10 | Q Delivering on our promises Updated targets Tell us more about how you will achieve your new targets?
Original target Updated target A Our planned growth will come from two key areas.
Firstly, growth of Calendar year our core motor book with continued loss ratio 75-79% 75-79% momentum from an increasing share of price comparison new business sales, a profitable maturing book and the Customer launch of a new multicar proposition in numbers but not 2.5m 3.0m 2017.
Secondly, via expansion into home at the expense where we are seeing more customers by end of 2017 during 2019 ofprofitability using price comparison websites PCW to buy their policies instead of through the traditional mortgage lender or bank Net debt leverage route.
We are also able to apply our multiple 1.5x 1.0x successful approach in motor insurance during 2019 to home insurance.
We now have over by end of 2017 168,000 customers and we plan to start underwriting home insurance as lead Dividend insurer in 2017. payout ratio 50-60% 50-60% Weve continued to make steady of adjusted profit after tax of adjusted profit after tax progress in executing our growth strategy with a 15% increase in policy numbers throughout 2016.
11 Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued Q Q Q What factors do you think have What is the impact of Brexit Will there be any change to powered the business successes onHastings?
your strategic focus following in 2016?
RMIsacquisition of up to 29.9% A inthe company?
Hastings is a general insurance A As Ive always said, our provider writing only UK business so its very much business as usual for us.
A achievements reflect the refreshingly I can confirm there will be no straightforward business model weve Our underwriting business, Advantage, change.
We will continue to grow the is based in Gibraltar.
The way in which customers buy core motor book and plan to grow insurance has changed.
The world is the UK under a bilateral agreement with ourhome and telematics propositions.
the UK and this is not expected to be now digitally led and weve created a We believe RMIs breadth of experience model that is built to take advantage impacted by Brexit.
Whilst commentators and capabilities could provide expect some slowing of the UK economy, of this shift throughout the entire opportunities over time to help Hastings customer journey, whether thats motor insurance is a compulsory further deliver our growth strategy.
purchase for motorists and its not through the PCW distribution of our products, which account for around cyclical.
We may just see more customers shopping around.
Our business model is 90% of our new business sales, our innovative use of data or through our well positioned to take advantage of this so we just need to continue to provide advanced risk selection and fraud detection capabilities.
Every element of refreshingly straightforward products that are competitively priced.
We also find our business is optimised for a digital world.
Secondly weve remained agile that when economic growth slows, miles driven also decreases which is a positive as weve grown in size and our model, in particular our use of data, enables us for our claims experience.
Furthermore Hastings is not exposed to undue risk, to respond quickly to changing market conditions, averaging 35 changes to either in terms of the constitution or sizeof its investment portfolio.
pricing per month, giving us a significant advantage over our competitors.
Finally we underpin everything with our culture built around the principles of the 4Cs: Colleagues, Customers, Company and Community.
This defines how we do things and ensures we remain entrepreneurial with a can do attitude that reflects itself throughout every level of the business on a daily basis.
12 Live customer policies Adjusted operating profit pre-Ogden 2.35m 152.1m 15% 21% Q Q Q Can you tell me more about Tell us more about your local Youve been at Hastings for Guidewire and its implementation?
corporate social responsibility over four years now, whats next?
strategy and why its important A to you?
A Guidewire is a state of the art, Ive been asked that question quite integrated end to end platform for claims, a lot recently!
To be clear, I have no broking and billing.
It will greatly enhance A ambition to be a Chief Executive Officer We have a very local approach to CSR our customer experience, including anywhere else.
Hastings is a great place to so rather than sponsor or fundraise for improved communications via a 24 7 work and still retains its family feel which large and you can say equally deserving online self-service portal.
It will deliver is testament to our 4Cs culture.
Im proud global initiatives we have decided to significant benefits to our colleagues and to be part of this successful company that focus on the communities where we work Company, including reducing the claims has grown both in size and profitability.
and live so we can see the difference lifecycle through improved workflow and Colleague and customer numbers have we make, first hand.
Last year, working activity management and more informed doubled since I joined in 2012 and our with the team from social enterprise, pricing, and supporting our future stretching targets show that there is more Humanutopia and local recruiters, growth plans.
We have also built our own growth planned.
We do things differently LoveLocal Jobs, we launched a new digital and mobile components to add to at Hastings.
Were an agile, data and local education three year programme the core platform provided by Guidewire.
digitally focused business that is built for called Be the Change in Bexhill and the way customers buy insurance and we Leicester.
The aim of the programme The claims module was delivered in have astrong and dedicated team that is to help disengaged students, aged November 2015 and is already handling deliver on their promises.
I am proud to 1314 years, remove barriers that stop all of our new claims and around 80% lead a great team of colleagues.
them getting on at school and to provide of our overall claims.
During 2016 we them with life skills to shape their future.
started to roll out Guidewire to broking The programme is delivered through and billing and wewent live with four Gary Hoffman workshops, one to one sessions and price comparison websites by the end Chief Executive Officer workplace visits.
It has been a humbling ofthe year.
and hugely gratifying experience for me 1 March 2017 and a number of my colleagues who We have invested significant capital have been involved as business mentors expenditure in the implementation and Im delighted that the schools are of Guidewire and expect to see already beginning to see a difference the platform deliver operating cost through the reduction of truancy and efficiencies from 2018 onwards to bullying reported.
I really enjoy talking to support our continued growth.
investors and the media about our strong performance, profit and what makes Hastings different.
How we conduct ourselves in our financial and local communities is equally important to me.
I am very proud of Be the Change and the difference we can make to younger members of our local communities.
