Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Alistair Cox Chief Executive Conversion rate progression since FY13 Our Chief Executive, % Alistair Cox, discusses Q.
25 22.3% Was the financial performance of the the Groups performance 21.5% business this year in line with your in 2016 and looks ahead 19.4% expectations?
20 to our areas of focus for 17.5% 2017 and beyond.
2013 2014 2015 2016 I was pleased with our strong set of financial I was also very pleased with our good results for the year, particularly as we underlying cash performance, meaning that we delivered a performance that was above achieved our long-standing goal of eliminating market consensus expectations.
We grew 1 the Groups net debt and again we delivered our net fees by 7% and very importantly this ahead of when the market expected us to converted that into strong operating profit 1 do so.
We achieved this despite paying 40 growth of 13%, thereby further improving 2 million in dividends to shareholders in the year our conversion rate by 80bps to 22.3%.
and investing rapidly to drive organic growth The conversion rate is the key measure of how around the world.
Becoming debt-free means effectively we convert net fees into operating we face the future with our balance sheet profits, so it is an important indicator as to healthier than it has been for many years.
how efficiently and productively the business That gives me even greater reassurance in is performing around the world.
We have long our ability to deal with future market ups and enjoyed the leading conversion rate amongst downs, having the firepower to both invest our peers in the industry, so it was very where appropriate as well as continue to rewarding to see it continue to grow.
reward our shareholders via the dividend.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 to deliver excellent profit leverage, even as the between these candidates and current client market then did soften, as wed predicted as opportunities and we have invested in growing macroeconomic concerns intensified and the our internal capabilities in data analysis and Q. EU Referendum approached.
These actions digital marketing accordingly.
This teams role What were your key areas of operational 1 allowed us to grow UK profits by 14% or is to analyse our data, unlocking insights which focus during the year, and what progress 6.4 million even though net fees were flat will allow us to focus our consultants efforts did you make against your non-financial on the prior year an excellent result.
These and expertise into the most fertile areas.
are both examples of how the combination of all though, all of these initiatives are designed strong local management teams supported to make our consultants even more productive by powerful management information and profitable than they might be otherwise.
This data-focused team works very closely systems equips our business to take rapid and A. with our well-established Innovation group, informed decisions that are fundamental to The two routes to grow our business whose primary focus is on understanding the our financial performance.
organically are by adding additional capacity many new and emerging business models via headcount investment and by further in the recruitment space.
Again, where we Consultant headcount improving the productivity of our existing see a potential threat or challenge to our consultant base.
Our focus is to strike the 7,000 existing core business or indeed when a new 6,268 right balance between these two.
Many of 6,113 opportunity or route to market arises we want our markets offer significant structural growth 6,000 5,357 to ensure we fully understand that change, 5,037 opportunities, so we invest to build capacity forge relationships where we can, and also 5,000 to exploit those opportunities for the long build, test and learn from our own new tools term.
However, we also believe it is vital to 4,000 and products.
This approach is designed to deliver meaningful profits along the way and ensure we can quickly identify and mitigate any productivity improvements play a large part 3,000 risk or threat to our business and fully capitalise in achieving that.
During the year, many of our on any new opportunities that come our way.
markets were very supportive so we invested 2,000 in additional capacity and grew our headcount 1,000 We made significant progress diversifying our by 3% globally, helping to drive our net fee business by further expanding our Contractor growth around the Group.
A good example is 0 business into newer markets, using the 2013 2014 2015 2016 Germany where we ramped up investment in experience and expertise that has been at the summer of 2015, with a specific emphasis the heart of our success in Germany.
The Over the year we further improved consultant on targeting the SME client sector.
Over the 1 worldwide Contractor market is benefiting productivity by 1%.
This alone added year we increased headcount in Germany by 3 from a structural shift towards highly skilled 6 million to our operating profit.
Key to 11% to over 1,200 consultants at year-end.
freelancer roles in a number of sectors, and is achieving this was our investment in consultant As the German market improved during the set for long-term growth as we discuss in more training and the development of more tools course of the year, this investment delivered detail on page 18.
It also provides us greater that would enable our consultants to become quick returns, as we had in place the capacity earnings resilience, particularly when markets even more expert and effective in their roles.
to meet the growing demand and our fee are more uncertain.
However, it requires Over the year we delivered 4,000 days of growth accelerated accordingly.
different skills, systems and business models to training across our business, designed to the permanent recruitment market.
As a leader make our consultants expert in their jobs and and expert in both permanent and contracting to further develop our management teams to recruitment, we are well positioned to leverage run ever-larger businesses.
We also continued both opportunities, and that is a unique to invest in new and emerging technologies, positioning in todays recruitment industry designed to assist our consultants find exactly One of the as our peers tend to focus on one or other the right candidates for their clients and to do of these two sectors.
I expect Contracting to that faster than ever before.
An example of key challenges we become a more important part of many of our this is our recent partnership in Australia with SEEK, the leading job board in that region.
For example, face is the fastSuch partnerships, blending the skills, systems from a standing start just a few years ago, our and insights of other organisations with those French business now generates over one-third moving economic of our own are an important element of of its net fees from temporary and contractor our own development and I am proud of the recruitment and we are continuing to invest environment relationships we have built with enterprises to grow these businesses further.
such as Google, LinkedIn, Oracle, the Confederation of British Industry and Finally, we made good progress developing Manchester City Football Club.
I expect more the Veredus business in the US, following such collaborations to flourish over time.
All postacquisition integration plans were successfully One of the key challenges we face is the This year we made further inroads in completed including implementation of fast-moving economic environment, and understanding how we can best use the the Hays proprietary front office system how changes in the world around us can massive quantities of data our business holds OneTouch, introduction of the Hays brand very quickly and materially impact trading in order to deliver even better service to our and harmonisation of the finance and conditions in our markets.
For example, clients and candidates.
Our business has a controls systems under the Veredus this year our forward indicators in the UK relationship with literally millions of highly management.
We also expanded the core suggested a softening market in Autumn 2015. skilled individuals and organisations around the IT business as well as investing in the recently Consequently, we took quick action to reduce world.
Data science has a role to play assisting launched Construction & Property and Life costs and capacity.
This allowed us to continue our consultants make the very best match Sciences specialisms.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Operating Three-year operating 1 profit profit growth Q. Q.
Three years into your five-year plan, are How do you think about the uses of cash 181m 78m you on track?
Do you still feel confident within the business?
2015: 164m in delivering on those aspirations?
Over and above the investment we make 78 181 Three years into our five-year plan, we are into people, our business has very low capital in line with where we expected to be at this requirements and is highly cash generative.
160 4 stage, having delivered 56 million of headline This year we converted 88% of our 125 profit growth since 2013.
I am delighted with operating profits into operating cash flow, 120 that progress, not least because over the first generating over 159 million of cash in 22 three years we have faced significant currency the process.
We believe in rewarding our headwinds of 22 million, which materially 80 shareholders and have a clear distribution reduced our reported sterling profits, and policy in place, designed to be appropriate it is very encouraging that our strong for the cyclicality inherent in our industry.
40 trading has mitigated these adverse forex movements.
However, as expected in a The primary element of distribution is the 0 cyclical business such as ours, after three core dividend, which is set at a level which FY13 FX Operating FY16 impact profit years the geographic source of profit we believe to be secure under all predictable 1 growth growth has been different to that which scenarios.
Over the last few years, we have we envisaged, with Australia and Germany built the core dividend cover up towards our slightly behind track, largely as result of target of 3x EPS, and when we reach this Switzerland and Japan.
Equally we are currency headwinds, while the UK and the level of cover, the core dividend will grow benefiting from many smaller businesses rest of the world are well ahead of plan due to in line with earnings.
which are growing rapidly and are collectively strong trading and operational performances.
delivering meaningful profits, including Spain, Now we have eliminated our net debt, China, Belgium and New Zealand.
In Australia this year, we benefited from our next goal is to build a net cash position a gradual improvement in sentiment in the of around 50 million, which we expect to Our five-year plan was based on a set of clear private sector, led by the eastern states of New achieve in FY17.
Once this is achieved, it is assumptions for the market backdrop: steady South Wales and Victoria, as well as increasing our intention that any excess cash that is overall economic growth over the plan period, demand from the public sector.
The mining generated over and above this level will be with no recessions in any of our major markets sector continued to prove very challenging but distributed to shareholders, provided our and a modest acceleration in growth in the final stabilised towards the end of the year.
These market outlook is positive.
The most likely two years.
We also assumed that while there dynamics enabled us to modestly increase our form of distribution will be via a special may be the occasional minor economic fee growth rate through the year and increase dividend, supplementing the existing core shock, no major shock such as those weve consultant headcount by 5%.
We believe this combination experienced previously including the Global of secure, progressive core dividend Banking crisis or Eurozone crisis would occur.
In Germany, we grew headcount to take supplemented by regular and material Three years into the plan, these assumptions advantage of improved market conditions, special dividends in the good years is an have been proven valid.
However, the UKs as mentioned earlier.
This allowed us to effective way of distributing our cash returns decision to leave the EU at the end of our last gradually accelerate our net fee growth rate to shareholders.
Our policy also ensures financial year has undoubtedly created greater through the year, reaching an underlying the business remains securely financed 1 economic uncertainty.
It remains to be seen 17% and appropriately invested and reflects in the final quarter.
At these growth how this will impact our important economies both the cyclicality as well as the attractive levels, Germany now has the potential to and what the implications might be on our cash generation capability of our business.
deliver on the 2018 profit range we originally financial performance for the remaining two targeted, which had a mid point of 100 years of the plan period.
What I can say though million, and continues to represent a material is that our business is adaptable and managed structural growth opportunity for our Group.
by a strong and stable team around the world Q. who are experienced in managing our business The UK is worth a specific mention as we What will be the main areas of focus for to maximum effect in any market environment.
have made significantly more progress there you and your management team in the than we might have originally expected.
exceptional operating leverage the team have delivered is particularly impressive.
In fact, over the last three years, we have converted over 90% of our incremental net fees into A. operating profits, way ahead of our historical We have a clearly defined long-term strategy norms or any of our competitors.
and objectives so in the year ahead our focus and priorities will be largely unchanged as Finally, our remaining 30 countries have we seek to make further progress against collectively performed beyond our initial those established goals.
We will continue to expectations and several countries are focus on driving profitable, cash generative now reaching real scale, including France, fee growth, as well as investing to deliver on OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 15 our long-term strategic ambitions.
Day-to-day, this means continuing to invest in improving consultant productivity, adding additional capacity where demand warrants and rapidly investing in the longer-term initiatives that will become large and important aspects of our business in the future.
This single-minded focus on our core business, supplemented by a continual strive to improve and expand that core, has served us well and will continue to be our primary theme.
The success of our business is based on the quality and expertise of all of our colleagues across Hays worldwide.
Key to our growth and continuing success therefore will remain our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain the best people in our industry.
Thats why people risk is one of the key challenges we face.
Its why we are so focused on the global mobility of our people which we discuss on page 27, moving high performers from established businesses to help grow and and where current productivity has reached moves so quickly that it is impossible to develop newer ones.
We address the risk of an acceptable level to justify adding more predict the future.
Rather, our approach losing key people through industry-leading capacity.
Clearly the UK vote to leave the is to be deeply involved in its evolution, training and development programmes, EU has increased uncertainty in that market, working alongside our partners so that we succession planning and incentive schemes at least in the short term.
And although it keep abreast of developments, adapt our discussed on page 26.
Over the years, we remains too early to tell what the longer-term business where we see competitive threats have invested to build the resources and impact may be, we are, as ever, monitoring and exploit new ideas and tools where they infrastructure to manage these things well activity levels closely.
Regardless, the UK provide us with competitive advantage.
but we will continue to invest in upgrading remains a large and important skilled labour Above all, these investments are all designed this capability.
For example, we will add market, despite the current uncertainty and to enhance the expertise and capability of additional training and development we will continue to reinforce our marketall Hays employees.
Our recipe is simple: resources into the US to enable faster leading position there as the exit negotiations hire the very best people to work for Hays, growth and we will roll out new leadership and implications unfurl.
In terms of newer provide them with world-class training and development programmes, to equip our market areas, we will continue to ramp up career development opportunities, equip global management to deal with larger our Contracting business in a number of them with state-of-the-art technology and more complex businesses.
Similarly, we tools to be better at their jobs than their have already started to invest in new niche competitors and reward them based on specialisms in the technology sector, serving their performance.
All our investments are the rapidly growing market for advanced designed so that our teams can better help digital skills across the technology and our clients find the scarce talent they need marketing sectors, and this investment will and help millions of candidates we are be accelerated across key countries including connected to secure the perfect next role The success the UK, Australia, Germany, North America in their career.
Thats why I believe Hays and Asia.
Finally, the US market offers is the ultimate people business.
of our business significant opportunities for us to build a very large business over time.
Our priorities Alistair Cox is based on the there remain to grow our core IT business as Chief Executive well as launch and rapidly expand additional expertise of our specialisms.
We will accelerate investment in the recently launched Construction & colleagues Property and Life Sciences specialisms for example and will also explore opportunities to invest in other areas including Accounting & Finance.
1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations Technology impacts every industry so we Most of our markets are supportive today at constant currency.
will continue to explore how we can best so we will capitalise on this by investing 2 Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees exploit the evolving technology landscape both in additional consultant capacity in converted into operating profit before exceptional items.
to make our own business ever more our existing businesses as well as more 3 Consultant headcount at June 2015 has been productive and valuable.
As discussed rapid investment in newer areas that restated to include 144 resourcers previously earlier, we have in place the internal offer longer-term opportunities.
If current not reported as consultants in Germany resources to focus on this but will also market trends continue, I expect us to and Switzerland.
4 Cash conversion is the conversion of operating continue to build relationships with external grow headcount next year, but only in those profit into operating cash flow before partners where we see benefit.
This market markets where we see a positive outlook exceptional items and capital expenditure.
