Chairman and Chief Executives statement BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE A year of transformation We have a long history of improving lives 2016 was a year of transformation as we re-balanced by providing a reliable supply of high-quality, and strengthened our business to position ourselves affordable medicines to doctors and patients.
As a result of these actions, I am pleased to say that our business has never been in This was our founders vision and I am pleased to better shape strategically.
Despite some challenging be carrying this on today.
To achieve this in a trading conditions in 2016, we grew by 35% to reach fast-changing world, we need to be extremely revenue of around $2.0 billion.
We have a clear strategy for growth, which centres on optimising our current portfolio, developing our people, deepening our investment in product development, expanding our manufacturing capabilities and looking for new M&A opportunities.
As a well-diversified organisation, we are positioned to capture significant new opportunities and enter new markets, while continuing to grow in our traditional regions, the US and the MENA.
Strategic partnerships and M&A We started the year with the completion of the Roxane Laboratories acquisition now West-Ward Columbus, our largest and most significant acquisition to date, establishing us as a top ten US generics manufacturer.
The integration of this acquisition and the successful ANDA filing for generic Advair were two of the key achievementsof 2016.
In addition to this acquisition, we formed new strategic partnerships and expanded our relationship with some of our existing partners.
This included broadening our agreement with Basilea Pharmaceutica International Ltd to be their exclusive licensing, supply and distribution partner in the MENA for their anti-infective Cresemba.
We also strengthened our partnership with Vecturawith the signing of a US development and licence agreement for a generic long acting beta-agonist LABA for the treatment of asthma and COPD delivered using Vecturas proprietary dry powder inhalation technology and device.
In 2016, we also made investments through our venture capital arm, Hikma Ventures, in Propeller Health, the leading digital solution for respiratory medicine, and in Chrono Therapeutics for their wearable transdermal smoking cessation device.
These types of partnerships and selective investments in innovative new technologies, in addition to strategic M&A, will remain vital to the business as we move forward.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Strengthening our portfolio Creating value for shareholders Across the Group, we have continued to optimise our We remain committed to creating value for our product portfolio, prioritising products with the greatest shareholders.
Since Hikma listed on the London Stock promise and rationalising those that have become less Exchange in 2005 through to the end of 2016, we have attractive.
New product introductions have also enhanced delivered a total shareholder return of 343%.
We are our portfolio in 2016, as we launched more than delighted with this performance, which exceeds that of 200products in different dosage forms and strengths the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE Pharmaceutical index, globally, including the re-introduction of the products whose total shareholder return was 154% and 119% that came with our acquisition of Bedford Laboratories respectively over the same period.
We have been able to in 2014. achieve thisin a manner that is transparent, ethical and sustainable.
To that end, I am proud that we continue We have large and exciting pipelines for all of our to be recognised by the FTSE4Good as a leader in good businesses, with  different Environmental, Governance and Sustainability practices.
dosage forms and strengths pending regulatory approval and around 400in our development pipeline globally.
Looking ahead It is imperative that we continue to invest in pipeline replenishment to underpin sustainable long-term growth As we look to 2017 and beyond, I believe that we have and theinvestments we have been making in R&D support never been in a better position to deliver on the promise this.
The development of generic Advair, which we hope of our mission to provide high-quality, affordable medicines will be approved in 2017, is an excellent example of our to people who need them.
Weve brought some excellent strategic focus on differentiated products.
new talent into the business in 2016, and we continue to invest in the development and welfare of our people.
I would like to thank my Hikma colleagues in all the Addingcapacity parts of the world where we operate for their steadfast With strong demand for our currently marketed products commitment and continued hard work.
and a sizeable pipeline, we are investing to ensure we have the capacity to continue delivering as we grow.
In particular, we have significantly increased our sterile injectables capacity, transferring high-quality machinery and equipment from the Bedford acquisition to our various sites in Portugal, Germany and the US.
Said Darwazah This investment will enable us to quickly and efficiently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer execute our medium to long-term product launch programme and expandacross all of our markets.
Driving better collaboration and efficiencies We made good strides in 2016 to improve our operating processes and systems so we can do things better and faster.
This includes the transfer of a number of members of our management team from across our geographies to our Group headquarters in London.
This willenable greater collaboration between our businesses, as well as improving the speed and efficiency of decision making.
Across all of our markets we are focusingon efficiency.
In HR and IT this has meant the introduction of new communications and management systems designed to improve connectivity and collaboration.
At our 29 manufacturing facilities in 11 countries around the world, we are seeking todrive continuous manufacturing efficiencies while maintaining quality.
Our sales teams have been effectively improvingresource deployment and increasing productivity, enabling us to better and more cost-effectively meet the needs of doctors and patients.
