Strategic report Chief Executives review And there is still plentymoretocome.
We are positioned to deliver sustainable and significant growth in total shareholder returns.
2016 has proved to be a watershed year for the Company.
We are now OUR PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD fully benefitting from the results of our growth and cost focused strategy with a consistent record of operational excellence driving Management focused on 1 significantly improved cashflows, reduced leverage and increased shareholder returns.
Furthermore, our exploration team is working on productivityand cost controls a variety of opportunities for securing additional low cost growth in the areas surrounding our mines which we believe will allow for capacity improvements and life-of-mine extensions at our operations.
Significant brownfield potential 2 Operations identified potential to deliver A consistent delivery of annual production targets has become a additional low cost growth trademark of our Company and 2016 was no exception.
We produced a record 35.5 million attributable silver equivalent ounces, an 11% improvement on our original 32 million ounce target, with Inmaculadas output at almost 17 million ounces 229 million gold Pablo already a reality, but untapped 3 equivalent ounces.
In its first full year, the all-in sustaining cost at this world class operation was a highly competitive $8.7 per silver geological potential could be material equivalent ounce $644 per gold equivalent ounce which resulted from robust operational delivery.
We also saw a successful year at Arcata, which produced just over 8 million ounces at a cost of $13.7 per Projects in portfolio offer optionality 4 silver equivalent ounce.
At San Jose, continuing operational consistency combined with a vastly improved fiscal environment in Argentina led and long-term resources to an 18% reduction in AISC and strongly improved cashflow generation.
The renewed Pallancata mine experienced a transitional year as we prepare to move production to low cost feed from the new Commitment to CSR is a Pablo vein district during 2017.
We have maintained our focus on cost 5 control at all operations, and the resulting 13% reduction in overall responsibility but also a competitive all-in sustaining costs to $11.2 per silver equivalent ounce demonstrates advantage the effectiveness of our policies.
As a management team, we are committed to ensuring a safe working environment and we will redouble our efforts in the area of safety in light of the tragic accident at Inmaculada earlier this year.
Exploration In September, following a number of years of prospective work by our brownfield team, we announced the launch of a new long-term exploration programme with the expectation of not only replacing our production but materially improving our reserves and resources by Our exploration team is working on a variety of 2020.
We are confident that this key organic growth strategy can deliver further low cost growth through the potential to fill our opportunities for securing additional low cost growth existing spare plant capacity as well as increase our visible resource life-of-mine.
Part of the programme focuses on the Pablo vein at in the areas surrounding our mines Pallancata and, in 2016, we successfully increased the quality and quantity of resources with the discovery of the high grade Pablo Piso Ignacio Bustamante structures.
Total resources from this new vein system have now increased to 40 million silver equivalent ounces from 23 million a year ago.
In addition, in order to ensure a high future conversion of our www.
com 5 Chief Executives review continued Net debt ended the year at $187 million which translates to a leverage ratio of 0.57x, significantly below the guidance provided for the year Ignacio Bustamante resources to reserves, we have made the prudent decision to exclude We are well-positioned for the future material in our deposits that has a low probability of being mined.
This has reduced our overall operational resources by almost 15% but Investment case p8 represents a more robust approach to classification.
We have a number of attributes which we believe delivers Financial position competitive advantage throughout the cycle.
The proactive management of our balance sheet in order to fide-risk the Company has been a clear aim during the construction and Strategy p10 subsequent first 18 months of operation at Inmaculada from its Our strategy is reviewed by our Board on an ongoing basis to ensure commissioning.
The strong cashflow from the operations has ensured relevance to the Companys current and future requirements.
that in 2016 we made considerable further progress in reducing our debt position.
$127 million of shortto medium-term lines were repaid and we still ended the year with a healthy cash and cash equivalents Market p12 position of $140 million.
In 2017, our aim is to continue to strengthen Precious metals markets have been volatile in the last few years the financial position in anticipation of the Companys option to but in 2016 prices rose for the first time in four years.
redeem some or all of the remaining Senior Notes from January 2018 and thereby reduce our financing costs.
It is worth adding that KPIs p14 currently, we no longer have any hedging agreements in place.
We use our KPIs to assess performance in terms of meeting our Financial results strategic and operational objectives.
As mentioned above, our average price achieved improved in 2016, by 5% for gold and by 6% for silver and consequently when combined Operations p16 with the 25% production increase, revenue rose strongly, by 47% in We have once again delivered an increase in production at our 2016 to $688 million 2015: $469 million.
The improved cost operations combined with a further reduction in costs.
performance led to Adjusted EBITDA of $329 million 2015: $139 million, an increase of 137% versus 2015, reflecting a year of Sustainability p29 higher margin contribution from Inmaculada.
This strong cashflow generation has finally offset the finance costs arising from our 2014 We aim to manage our CSR programmes with the same rigour bond issue and adjusted earnings per share therefore rose to $0.11 per and focus as our operational and exploration programmes.
share from a loss of $ 0.14 per share.
We ended the year with net debt of $187 million 2015: $351 million which translates to a leverage 2016 has represented the consolidation of our organic growth strategy ratio of 0.57x 2015: 2.5x, significantly below guidance for the year.
and it is thanks to the efforts of not only our management team but all Outlook our employees that we have been able to execute so efficiently.
We can look forward to a fifth year of increased production in 2017, further Overall, 2017 is expected to be another record year for the Company strengthening of our balance sheet and the potential for additional with attributable production set to rise to 37 million silver equivalent upside from our enhanced brownfield exploration plan.
ounces or 500,000 gold equivalent ounces driven by another 17 million ounces from Inmaculada and a first contribution from our highly prospective new Pablo vein at Pallancata with production there Ignacio Bustamante expected to be second-half weighted.
The all-in sustaining cost per Chief Executive Officer silver equivalent ounce is forecast to be between $12.2 and $12.7 7 March 2017 which reflects a stable underlying unit cost and includes an increased investment in brownfield growth as well as a tailings dam expansion at Inmaculada and the initial infrastructure for the development of Pablo.
6 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
