Home Retail Group 8 Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives statement Proven digital store model, including small Although Argos financial performance in FY16 formats and concessions, which require was disappointing, I am pleased overall with the lower capital outlay and provide customers progress of the Argos Transformation.
From 2012, with fast access to an expanded product Argos has become a materially improved business range regardless of store stocking capacity.
with a strong complement of new strategic digital In FY16, Argos expanded its number of capabilities.
There is more work to do, but many concessions, demonstrating both the rapid of the building blocks are now in place.
scalability and the success of this model.
digital development and digital channel Homebase sale capabilities.
Although the internet is now On 27 February 2016 we completed the sale of central to most businesses, the market has Homebase to Wesfarmers Limited, for a cash both broad variation in digital standards and consideration of 340m.
This transaction realised a shortage of sufficient digital leadership good value for Home Retail Group shareholders capability.
Argos has developed teams with and enables the Retained Group to focus on the strong digital capabilities, and it has ongoing Transformation Plan at Argos.
Progress with argos transformation aggressively shifted the business from a The sale followed a review of the Homebase In October 2012, we outlined a five-year catalogue retailer to a digital specialist.
In business in 2014, initiated by the Board and Transformation Plan to reinvent Argos as a digital FY16, internet transactions accounted for myself as the then new Chief Executive.
retail leader, transforming it from a catalogue-led 49% of total Argos sales, including mobile Following the completion of the review, the business to a digitally-led business.
We have commerce which grew by 10% to represent Board introduced a three-year Productivity Plan made meaningful progress in developing new 28% of total Argos sales.
that included improving store productivity, strategic capabilities since the introduction of the more universally appealing offer, including closing approximately 25% of the store estate, Transformation Plan, including: expanded ranges and marketing strengthening customer propositions and a national hub & spoke distribution communications that are beginning to accelerating Homebases digital capabilities.
network which currently supports c. 20,000 reposition the Argos brand among Significant progress was made against the products in local hubs, making them consumers as being more dynamic, while Productivity Plan in the intervening period, available for faster fulfilment via home preserving its strong heritage.
In FY16, this including: delivery or store collection.
In FY16 Argos was supported by the introduction of eight The substantial completion of the further extended this concept to a regional new brands such as Nespresso and Bang & programme to close underperforming stores: hub trial, with the potential to hold Olufsen.
Improvements to both pricing structures and substantially more products, including a more flexible store cost base.
As at the promotional effectiveness: third-party products, for same-day end of FY16, Argos has significantly reduced A range of improvements to drive an fulfilment.
the average lease term of Argos stores such improved trading performance: introduction of Fast track delivery and that they are now below five years.
When Significant growth in digital sales: and Fast track collection.
Launched in FY16, combined with new options for store An energised new leadership.
these market-leading same-day home locations presented by small-format stores delivery and store collection propositions and concessions, Argos now has the The Board was cognisant of the value created in leverage 845 Argos store locations, the hub flexibility to add, eliminate and relocate Homebase over a short period through the & spoke model and a newly established stores to minimise costs and meet previously successful progress made in relation to the national home delivery network, offering unaddressed consumer demand.
Productivity Plan, as well as the investment, c. 20,000 products for immediate store management attention and other resources collection or same-day home delivery to required to help grow Homebase further.
The c. 95% of UK mainland households.
Argos has Productivity Plan preserved the option to sell also introduced an express two-man home Homebase in the event that circumstances delivery service offering leading large item proved appropriate.
delivery across a broad range of products.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 8 20 05 2016 17:58 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2016 9 The Board believed that the transaction was recorded an exceptional charge of around highly compelling for the following reasons: 850m in respect of an impairment of the The level of consideration was attractive and goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Argos in fairly reflected the business improvements 1998.
This charge is a non-cash item and achieved to date.
It allowed shareholders to therefore it has had no impact on the Groups realise a significant part of Homebases year-end cash balance of 623m, which was future growth potential whilst also fide-risking significantly stronger than previously the future execution of the Productivity Plan: anticipated.
It allows 200 million of cash to be available As announced as a part of the offer from for return to shareholders: and J Sainsbury plc, the FY16 final dividend will be It resulted in significant improvements to the replaced by a payment of 2.8 pence per Home Groups overall financial position by Retail Group share in lieu of the final dividend as removing gross lease liabilities valued at 1.4 part of the proposed capital returns, which also billion as at 28 February 2015 from the incorporates the 200m return to shareholders Group.
in respect of the Homebase sale.
For further information about the offer, a copy of the full As a result of the factors set out above, the Board announcement can be found on Home Retail unanimously decided that the transaction was in Groups website at www.
com the best interests of shareholders.
was duly approved by shareholders on 25 February I would like to thank Home Retail Group and it was completed on 27 February 2016. colleagues for their significant contributions during FY16.
In addition to a challenging trading Offer for the group environment, our colleagues have faced the The Board continues to believe that execution of uncertain effects of the various corporate the Argos Transformation Plan would create a activities that occurred during the year.
leading digital retailer in the UK and deliver Maintaining focus in this environment has been future shareholder value.
The Board and I further difficult, but our colleagues have demonstrated believe that the progress that has been made to both resilience and optimism, which I very much date on the plan, together with the sale of appreciate.
Homebase, led to interest from potential acquirers of the Retained Group.
Post the John Walden year-end, on 1 April 2016, the Board Chief Executive recommended an offer from J Sainsbury plc for the purchase of Home Retail Group plc.
For Home Retail Group, there will be significant business benefits in the combination with Sainsburys, including benefits of scale and opportunity to accelerate the work begun under the Transformation Plan, creating opportunities for our employees and other stakeholders.
In addition, the Sainsburys share component of the purchase will enable Home Retail Group shareholders to benefit from the value creation expected to arise through the combination, including significant synergies.
However, as a result of the recommended offer, we have MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 9 20 05 2016 17:58
