08 Chief Executives statement Since we started in 1995, Howdens has grown to become the leading supplier of kitchens in the UK.
When we began with our first fourteen depots, selling directly to the builder wasnt as obvious as it seems today.
I am pleased to report that Howdens has seen run by managers who understand their needs and another successful year, ending 2016 with 642 can make decisions on the spot.
Importantly, we depots, more than 450,000 customer accounts ensure that our depot managers have no worries and 8,900 employees.
We continue to expand and about the price, quality, or style of the kitchens we are laying down the foundations for the next phase supply to them.
of growth, providing further opportunities for our It remains crucial to me that the business should be people, their families as well as the business.
also worthwhile for all concerned for the people who work for Howdens, buy from Howdens, who OUR MODEL supply Howdens, as well as our local communities.
Since we started in 1995, Howdens has grown By doing so, I believe we can create a virtuous to become the leading supplier of kitchens in the circle, securing a long-term sustainable future UK.
When we began with our first fourteen depots, for theGroup.
selling directly to the builder wasnt as obvious as it seems today.
Local supply The key to our trade-only business model is our local From the outset, our business model has been depots, who supply small builder customers, with to make the builder the centre of what we do.
We more than fifty kitchen ranges in stock, together with supply kitchens directly to them from local depots, sinks and taps, appliances, flooring and hardware.
Our depots also have a range of joinery including internal and external doors, skirting and stair parts.
Importantly, we do not tell the depot manager how to run their depot.
Each manager is empowered to make the key decisions set discounts for individual account holders, develop new accounts, market their products, and set stock and staffing levels.
Our managers are authorised to swap items, take decisions and give advice.
Every day, they balance the needs of builders, end-users, staff and everyone in their local area who has an interest in the success of their depot.
No two geographic areas are the same and this allows managers to create a business that is tailored to the local builder.
Local incentives So that managers run their depot as if it were their own business, all the people in the depot receive a monthly bonus based on profitability measures, which can represent a significant percentage of their total compensation.
This means that they are focussed on serving their builder customers and growing their business.
And I am pleased to note that at the end of 2016, we had more than 450,000 customer accounts, up from 430,000 the previous year.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 09 Notable amongst these were three new Burford Local service for builders ranges with a textured wood grain finish, as a lower Our aim is simple.
It is to make a builders life as priced option to the Tewkesbury family.
We also easy as we can, so they can attract customers, introduced three new grey kitchens in our Greenwich secure work and run a profitable business.
and Clerkenwell families, and an ivory Greenwich When a builder comes into one of our depots for the Shaker door, following the growth of this colourway.
first time, we open a nett monthly account for them, We have seen positive developments with our range enabling the management of cash flow, so they can of granite worktops.
complete the job before paying Howdens.
The local We have also successfully tested pre-finished doors depot manager is authorised to give each builder a to make the builders life easier, which will be rolled personal, confidential discount, giving builders the out to all depots during 2017. freedom to manage their own margin.
Given the increasing demand for new kitchen Once the builder has been contacted regarding designs, during 2017, we will accelerate product installing a new kitchen, a designer will go to the introductions, bringing to market around twenty prospective customers property.
The designer new kitchen ranges, an upgraded cabinet platform, will create an expert, accurate plan, ensuring that a refreshed design for our Lamona range of everything will look good and fit properly.
This saves appliances, as well a new collection of sinks, taps, the builder time, which helps their profitability.
builder and their customer can come into the local depot and see the kitchen displayed on a large Our suppliers and supply chain screen via our bespoke computer aided display We have our own warehouses and distribution software, enabling any final changes to be made operations, and our trucks deliver our product only before signing off on the job.
During the peak autumn trading period in 2016 period 11, our supply division made Saving time for the builder 9,500 deliveries to our depots, and of the 7.4 million Once the kitchen and price have been agreed on, items received, all were correctly delivered.
This is importantly, a Howdens depot is always in stock and only possible if there is a shared understanding of is a normally a short drive away.
Theres no waiting what is expected, ensuring a smooth operation of for items to be ordered, or replaced, or swapped, our supply chain and the support functions on which or brought back.
This allows the builder to plan the depots depend.
and start the job when they are ready to do so, ensuring there are no delays.
In turn, this allows us We were able to have 100% availability of products to collect payments efficiently, as all of the builders to our depots during period 11, demonstrating the requirements can be fully supplied and signed off strength of our supply chain.
Achieving this level by our depots.
of service demonstrates to me our shared values and positive personal relationships, both within We also save time by selling pre-assembled Howdens and with our suppliers of bought-in product cabinets, increasingly with pre-fitted elements, and raw materials.
which saves builders time on site.
Our cabinets are built to high standards of consistency, are rigorously Our manufacturing tested and do not break, ensuring that the builder We have two manufacturing facilities, one does not have to go back to the depot, again saving in Howden, Yorkshire and one in Runcorn, time and ensuring that the building job does not Cheshire, which are configured to meet our exact get delayed.
Our site in Runcorn specialises in standard cabinet boxes, while the site in Howden Changing tastes and new demands also deals with shorter-run products.
It is important for the builder when they show Howdens kitchens to their customer, that our Both only serve one customer Howdens and kitchens look good.
Kitchen technology and design so their working practices and scheduling exactly do not stand still, and there should be no worries at match the requirements of our depots.
Within the depot about the suitability of our product lines.
our factories, the machinery is bespoke to us and We recognise that kitchens are an area in which work is done to our specifications.
The result is taste and fashion are moving faster than before.
an efficient system with no unnecessary waste, whether of time, space, or product.
We believe that We ensure that our range of kitchens and appliances our cabinets cost much less than we could source are regularly refreshed to meet the builders and externally, providing Howdens with a significant their customers expectations for price, look and cost advantage.
A number of new products were introduced during the year across all categories.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 10 Chief Executives statement continued Support systems OUR MARKET In order to meet current and future requirements, In Great Britain, there are around 26m households, we continue to invest in robust, stable and scalable of which approximately two-thirds are ownersystems.
These include manufacturing, warehouse occupied and one-third is rented.
Regardless of management, transport monitoring, depot stock and ownership, all of these properties are likely to need sales reporting, payment processing, cyber-security a new kitchen at some time.
and management information, as well as industryEvery home has a kitchen and this is the centre leading design tools for kitchen planning.
As our way of life and expectations change, so does the kitchen, which is becoming Depots and costs more complex and has greater functionality.
As a Howdens has chosen to serve trade-only, result, the types of kitchens demanded by todays and as such, does not have to bear the costs lifestyle means that DIY is a not a reasonable associated with kitchen retailers, such as highoption for most people.
The level of skill required street showrooms, installation services and to fit todays kitchens, due to the types of cabinets, national advertising campaigns.
A typical Howdens finishes, appliances and interior work within the depot occupies around 10,000 square feet on an cabinet, is beyond many of us, and we simply dont industrial estate and costs a fraction of highhave the time to do the work involved.
On average, a depot costs approximately 300,000 The connected home to fit out and breaks even once it has achieved One change we see impacting the kitchen, are more annual sales of 650,000.
This is typically two years and more devices connected together in the home, after we first open the depot.
In general, a depot such as heating, lighting, and security.
These are reaches maturity after approximately seven years being controlled from a mobile or tablet and as of trading.
the home gets more screen-led, this means that a kitchen will steadily become a much more complex Working capital product than before.
At Howdens, we are actively We extend a significant amount of working capital investigating how customers use their screens to to builders who have a trade account with Howdens, interact with the devices in their kitchen.
which in 2016 during period 11 peaked at around The growth in complexity of the kitchen means 220m.
At the same time, we have a highly efficient that builders want sound advice to meet increased collection operation and the total cost of credit customer expectations.
This is why we ensure that control, including bad debts, remains less than our depot staff are trained to the highest standards 1% of Group revenue.
and are increasing our focus on apprenticeships.
Market conditions And as kitchens become more complex, we are We saw a number of developments in the market also increasing our investment in people with during 2016.
In April 2016, there were changes to specific skills, such as designers, salespeople UK Stamp Duty on house purchases, which brought and managers.
forward market activity to the first half of the year.
In the second half of the year, we saw a shift in both the More for the builder foreign exchange markets and consumer confidence.
The products we sell have to meet the requirements of an increasingly demanding regulatory While we saw positive volume growth for the market environment.
Builders need to know that they in the first half of the year, we saw negative volume comply in areas such as safety, data security, growth in the second half.
In the second half, we energy use, sustainability, and waste management.
also saw a decline in the pound against the US dollar We discuss how we address regulations and and the Euro.
Howdens sells a mixture of its own expectations in the Corporate Social Responsibility manufactured product and bought-in goods, much Report beginning on page 27. from international manufacturers and the direct impact of the decline in the pound during 2016 will OUR STRATEGY result in extra costs going forward.
Our strategy has been to do things well first time.
For a builder, this means that they can open This, as well as increases in costs in areas such as an account quickly and simply with us, start doing salaries, will require Howdens to increase prices business, receive the support they need to help win at greater pace than in the previous few years.
We customers, while knowing the product they want will have already acted on this and implemented a range be in stock and of the right quality.
of price increases - earlier than our usual annual pattern at the end of 2016.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 As Howdens continues to expand, this brings both Aftercare opportunities and challenges to the business.
The key to our business is service.
In an increasingly In order to meet the potential for growth, we digital world, Howdens provides an alternative way continue to invest in areas including people, new of working, with local people providing our products depots, systems, manufacturing and distribution mostly via face-to-face communication.
It is vital, as we capabilities.
We believe that the additional move towards an increasingly complex and connected expenditure programme is crucial to provide the kitchen that we expand our aftercare service, so that platform for the continued sustainable expansion builders and their customers can call us to explain and of Howdens.
sort out any issues with their kitchen.
Depot expansion In order to do that, we continue to recruit good people We believe that there is some way to go before we who understand our values and culture, and we support have saturated the UK market and continue to see our staff with increased levels of training, targeted significant opportunities to grow our business.
We incentives, better systems and improved planning tools.
expect to open around 30 new depots during 2017.
People and service While we take account of market conditions in The home is becoming more complex and digital planning our roll-out of new depots, we continue to technology is becoming more pervasive.
In order to see untapped requirement by builders for a local reflect the changes to the market and our increasing and convenient service in much of the country.
This focus on aftercare, we have expanded our mission need is shown by the fact that when we add a new statement, which now reads: depot near to an existing one, we see overall sales increase in the area within a short time.
To supply from local stock nationwide the small builders ever-changing, routine, integrated kitchen Manufacturing investment and joinery requirements, assuring best local price, In order to deliver the potential we see in our no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms, market and ensure supply as we expand, we are and to provide the builders customer with enough undertaking significant investment in our supply choice, advice and aftersales to make a home to be chain.
This involves replacing aging machinery, proud of.
increasing production capacity where necessary I believe that including service directly into our and ensuring adequate disaster recovery capability.
mission statement will enable Howdens to continue to stand out from the crowd.
Distribution We currently have a one million square feet Worthwhile for all warehouse in Northampton which is nearly forty It is worth reiterating that the key aim of Howdens years old.
In order to migrate from this older facility is to create a business that is worthwhile for all and meet our future requirements for warehousing concerned customers, prospective customers, capacity, we are looking to expand into two new homeowners, tenants, local communities, our warehouses, both of which will be more efficient suppliers, investors, staff and their families, than Northampton due to their roof height and and our apprentices.
Since 1995, we have grown in a balanced way, This first warehouse comprises 650,000 square feet investing in sensible things and being prepared for of distribution capabilities in Raunds, Northampton, all market conditions.
Underlying our success has which is to the east of our existing national been the lowest cost and a flexible approach to our distribution centre in Northampton.
The warehouse production, a low break-even point for our depots was handed over to us in July, fit-out has been and an entrepreneurial spirit.
completed and IT systems integration is underway.
I look forward to the next phase of our growth International expansion with confidence.
We continue to investigate the opportunities for Howdens in Europe.
At the end of 2016, we had twenty four depots outside the UK: twenty in France, Matthew Ingle two in Belgium, one in the Netherlands and one in Chief Executive Officer Germany.
We have been in mainland Europe for eleven years and continue to learn.
We intend to 22 February 2017 thoroughly understand these markets before any decision is made to expand in them.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
