Group Chief Executives Review Group Chief Executives Review The strength of our network gives us an unrivalled ability to help clients navigate complexity and uncover new opportunities.
HSBC was recognised as the Worlds Best Investment Bank and Worlds Best Bank for Corporates at the Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2016.
Commercial Banking performed well, particularly in the UK and Hong Kong, growing adjusted revenue in spite of a slow-down in global trade.
Gains in Global Liquidity and Cash Management, and Credit and Lending, exceeded the reduction in trade finance revenue.
Global Trade and Receivables Finance continued to capture market share in major markets including Hong Kong and Singapore, maintaining our position as the worlds number one trade finance bank.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management performance was mixed.
Overall adjusted revenue was down, due largely to the impact of reduced client activity in Hong Kong on our Wealth Stuart Gulliver Group Chief Executive Management businesses.
At the same time, strong mortgage balance growth in the UK, Hong Kong and mainland China, and higher current account We made good progress in 2016.
The and savings balances in the UK and Hong Kong, implementation of our strategic actions is well helped increase revenue in Retail Banking.
These advanced and our global universal business model increased balances should support revenue growth performed well in challenging conditions.
reported profit before tax reflected a number of We have considered it appropriate to write off large significant items, including a write-off of all the remaining goodwill in the European private the remaining goodwill in Global Private Banking in banking business.
This goodwill relates principally Europe, an accounting loss on the sale of our Brazil to the original purchase of Safra Republic Holdings business, and investments to achieve our costin 1999.
The restructuring of Global Private saving target.
Our adjusted profits were broadly Banking is now largely complete, and although unchanged year on year following solid Global Private Banking is now much smaller performances by our global businesses.
These than it was three years ago, it is deliberately enabled us to capture market share in strategic positioned for sustainable growth with a focus product areas and build a platform for future on serving the personal wealth management growth.
We delivered positive adjusted jaws in 2016. needs of the leadership and owners of the Groups corporate clients.
Performance Our cost-reduction programmes continue to Global Banking and Markets recovered from a bring down our adjusted operating expenses.
sector-wide slow start to generate higher adjusted The traction that these programmes have gained in revenue than for 2015.
Our Markets businesses the last 18 months has enabled us to increase the performed well in challenging conditions, amount of costs that we are able to remove from particularly in Fixed Income products.
We now expect to deliver annualised transaction banking businesses also grew revenue, cost savings of around $6bn by the end of 2017, especially Global Liquidity and Cash Management.
and will invest an equivalent total of around $6bn We made market share gains in Fixed Income in over the same time-frame in order to achieve this.
Europe, and achieved our best ever league table rankings in global debt capital markets and crossHSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review S St tr ra ate tegi gic c R Re ep po or rt t Strategic Report | Group Chief Executives Review These savings should more than compensate for Delivering value for shareholders additional investment in regulatory programmes In December, we completed the $2.5bn equity and compliance.
buy-back that we commenced at the half-year.
We continue to make strong progress in We are also now in a position to retire more of implementing our strategic actions to improve the capital that previously supported the Brazil returns and gain maximum value from our business.
Having received the appropriate international network.
We are on course to regulatory clearances, we will therefore execute complete the majority of these actions by the a further share buy-back of up to $1bn in the first end of 2017 see pages 12 to 13, in line with our half of 2017.
This will bring the total value of shares targets.
Our targeted reduction of risk-weighted repurchased since last August to $3.5bn.
assets is 97% complete, and the success of our We will continue to contemplate further share cost saving programmes means that we now buy-backs as circumstances permit, and expect to exceed our cost reduction target.
we remain confident of sustaining the annual The turnaround of our Mexico business dividend at the current level for the foreseeable continues to accelerate.
Improved lending and future through the long-term earnings capacity deposit balances, interest rate rises and better of the business.
collaboration between businesses helped generate significantly higher profits compared with 2015.
A business fit for the future We also made significant market share gains, While our strategic actions are improving our particularly in consumer lending.
network, we are also anticipating and adapting We have continued to enhance our business to the social, economic and technological trends in Asia-Pacific, launching our first exclusively that are changing our operating environment and HSBC-branded credit card in mainland China, our customers needs and expectations.
growing assets under management and insurance The adoption of rapidly evolving digital new business premiums, and increasing loans technologies by our customers is arguably the in the Pearl River Delta.
We also extended our most transformative force for the financial services leadership of the offshore renminbi bond market industry.
Through our global network, we are able and achieved our best ranking for China outbound to identify and respond to digital trends across mergers and acquisitions since 2003.
70 countries and territories, applying the We are better protected from financial crime technologies that provide the greatest benefit to because of the investment we have made in our customers.
We are investing $2.1bn in digital our Global Standards programme.
Our Monitor transformation in Retail Banking and Wealth has raised certain concerns, but we have Management, Commercial Banking, and Global continued to progress and our commitment Banking and Markets between 2015 and the remains unwavering.
By the end of this year, we end of 2020, and we have already launched are on track to have our anti-money laundering innovative ways to make banking faster, easier and sanctions policy framework in place and to and safer.
HSBC is now the biggest financial have introduced major compliance IT systems services user of biometrics globally, and we across the Group.
Beyond 2017, we will continue continue to roll out voice recognition and to work to fine tune those systems and to ensure fingerprint technology across our network.
In 2016, that our improvements are fully integrated into we enhanced our internet and mobile banking our day-to-day risk management practices.
platforms in several of our key markets, including the UK and Hong Kong, and launched innovation Our strong common equity tier 1 ratio of 13.6% labs around the world dedicated to the application reinforces our ability to support the dividend, of artificial intelligence, data management and invest in the business and manage the continuing improvements in cybersecurity.
These labs, uncertain regulatory environment.
together with our fintech partnerships, will help us use technology to deliver better banking for our customers.
8 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives Review If digital technology is mankinds greatest of the worlds busiest trade routes, we are perfectly opportunity, preventing climate change is its placed to help modernise and digitise longgreatest challenge.
The Paris Agreement of standing trade finance methods, many of which December 2015 reflected a new consensus on would still be recognisable to HSBCs founders.
the need to strengthen the global response to We are already working with a broad coalition climate change.
Major injections of capital are of partners around the world to make the promise now required to finance new technologies, of blockchain technology a reality with regards infrastructure and the transition of traditional to trade finance.
HSBC has already helped develop industries from high to low carbon, and to cover a blockchain prototype for a letter of credit that the costs of climate adaptation.
As the principal confirms the possibility of sharing information intermediaries between entrepreneurs, businesses between all parties on a private distributed and investors, banks have a responsibility to help ledger.
In early 2017, we signed a memorandum direct this flow of capital.
We are already working of understanding with six other banks to make with our clients and with investors to help them domestic and cross-border commerce easier allocate capital and direct finance towards lowerfor European SMEs using blockchain technology.
carbon, carbon-resilient activities, and in 2016 We are also seeking to create ways of financing we established a Sustainable Financing Unit to the growing services trade, which we estimate coordinate this work across business lines.
will account for a quarter of global trade by 2030.
Headquartered in London, but with resources At a time when international politics threaten to in New York and Hong Kong, this new unit will increase rather than decrease the cost of trade, support colleagues tasked with creating and we will continue to invest both time and resources delivering innovative climate products, and help to find ways of making trade finance cheaper, them uncover new sources of sustainable finance.
faster, simpler and more secure for our customers.
Looking forward The changes we have made since 2011 have We anticipate new challenges in 2017 from geopolitical developments, heightened trade equipped HSBC to improve returns and gain barriers and regulatory uncertainty.
However, the maximum value from our international network changes we have made since 2011 have equipped HSBC to manage the complexity of todays global business environment.
HSBC is a strong and We are also seeking to influence client practices resilient business with a global universal business and to build the data, the tools and the model geared to find growth opportunities in a transparency necessary to embed understanding low-growth world.
If globalisation continues to of climate risk into the way that markets function.
retreat, as seems likely, we are in a strong position In 2016, HSBC Global Research expanded its to capitalise on the regional opportunities that this coverage of environment, social and corporate will present, particularly in Asia and Europe.
Most governance factors to give our clients the importantly, the strength of our network gives us information they need to inform their investment an unrivalled ability to help our clients navigate decisions.
This builds on the work of the worldthat same complexity and overcome their own leading HSBC Climate Change Centre for challenges, whether exploring new markets or Excellence, which in 2017 celebrates 10 years making the transition to a low-carbon economy.
of delivering market-leading information on climate policy to clients across the globe.
Work is also underway to expand the Groups disclosure of non-financial data to meet the needs of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Stuart Gulliver We are investing to adapt to the changing face Group Chief Executive of trade.
As the worlds largest trade finance bank 21 February 2017 with more than 150 years experience at both ends HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
