Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 08 Chief Executives Statement We therefore look forward to the future with optimism from the good foundations laid in 2016.
2016 performance UK segment Even though the year was marked by Our UK segment experienced unforeseen unpredictable market conditions, the market conditions during 2016.
Whilst the Group made good headway in 2016. new housing developer market showed 1 Revenue increased by 5% to 435 million further growth in 2016, destocking by and adjusted EBITDA increased to builders merchants held back brick sales 112million 2015: 107 million.
Despite volumes in the first half.
Furthermore, in the the uncertainty arising from events such weeks approaching the EU Referendum, as the UKs EU Referendum and the US we saw a slow down in sales across each of Presidential Election, the Group has our UK businesses.
However, within a month delivered a result ahead of the prior year.
of the EU Referendum, sales volumes for We have improved our safety record, weve all our UK businesses were comparable to made excellent progress with our major the prior year and during the remaining projects, successfully implemented new summer months, volumes continued to IT systems in the US and put alternative track in line with the prior year before pension arrangements in place in the accelerating as the year drew to a close.
UK, which will reduce the variability of We announced in March that destocking the Scheme.
was experienced within our UK brick business as merchant demand and supply rebalanced at new higher activity levels.
As brick availability returned to normal levels, as industry production recovered 1 All movements compare to the 12-month from the financial crisis, merchant stockists trading result for the year ended 31 December 2015. were able to service their customers whilst A reconciliation to statutory results is included in Note 3 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
keeping lower inventory levels and the Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 09 resultant destocking increased brick supply to the market.
Brick volumes in the Why invest in Ibstock?
first half of the year were slightly below the prior year, although they recovered in the second half to give a full year slightly Our five key strengths ahead of 2015.
Within our concrete businesses, which Market leader Growing capacity serve both the new build and Repair, Maintenance and Improvement RMI markets, we saw both volumes and Our market-leading businesses will In the UK, demand for building products margins above those of the prior year.
enable us to benefit from the expected is anticipated to increase due to Sales growth came from both the Supreme growth in demand in the UK and our Government support for new houseand Forticrete businesses with Supreme regional markets within the US.
building, increasing household formations benefiting from healthy demand for its and population growth.
We are investing products in the domestic landscaping in the latest technology to increase RMI sector, whilst Forticrete continued to capacity and to meet the growing Scale grow its sales principally into the new market demands.
n Ibstock Bricks Chesterton plant was We have 28 clay and 15 concrete plants built in 2013 to consolidate production US segment throughout the UK and US manufacturing from two previous sites and increased over 500 varieties of bricks coupled with site capacity by approximately 67% The Glen-Gery operations within the US ownership of valuable long-term per annum.
delivered another year of progress.
year began positively, as the unusually mild n The new Leicester plant, due to be n 43 manufacturing sites: 33 UK winter weather experienced in our key commissioned in the second half of sites and 10 US sites.
regions during the first quarter of 2016 2017, is expected to add capacity of enabled an early start to the building year.
n Over 150 million tonnes of As the strong first half volume growth clay reserves.
flattened off as the year progressed, we n Realisable production capacity saw a slower autumn period and, as we Highly experienced of 1.2 billion bricks per annum.
moved into the final months of the year, management team weather patterns returned to their normal seasonal trends.
The US Presidential Our management team has extensive Election also impacted demand levels Long-standing experience in the building products and we saw lower sales volumes as the customer relationships market and our Chief Executive Officer election date approached.
As a result, and Chief Financial Officer have combined the year finished in line with our prior Many of our long-standing customer experience of over 40 years at Ibstock.
Our US operations benefited relationships have lasted over 40 years.
from foreign exchange movements, which Our customer focus is based on quality, increased revenue by 10.9 million and service and consistency and our adjusted EBITDA by 1.5 million in 2016 service-led ethos is one of the key drivers compared to 2015. in the growth in our market share in bricks over the past 10 years.
Overall, 2016 was a year of strong progress for our US business with a good first half and a second half similar to that of the prior year.
As the US new home market continues to recover, the housing mix continues to favour single family dwellings, as compared to the higher volumes of multi-family homes that were built during the difficult recession years.
This switch favours brick demand.
Additionally, Glen-Gerys exposure to the non-residential construction market has served it well with good activity levels and some significant projects completed in the retail and educational sectors during the year.
We also saw the first signs of Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10 Chief Executives Statement continued rationalisation within the US brick market, Towards the end of 2016, we began a We have made excellent progress with with the announcement in August of the project to remodel our Midlands blue brick our safety record in 2016.
Whilst the only creation of Meridian Brick a North factory at Cannock in Staffordshire with the acceptable target is zero accidents, our American Bricks joint venture between two introduction of a new state of the art kiln.
employee Lost Time Accidents LTAs of our competitors, Boral and Forterra.
Delivery of this project will improve both have reduced from 21 incidents in 2015 energy consumption and quality to 16 in 2016 a 24% reduction.
However, performance, but most importantly will our satisfaction with the good improvement Strategy and investment increase our capacity in this geography is only marred by an increase in contractor I remain confident that our strategy is by c. 30%.
Additionally, the results of our accidents on our sites during the year.
appropriate and that it provides the right previous investments in walling and cast In the UK, we consulted with employees basis for the Group to navigate through stone capacity at Forticrete enabled regarding the closure of the Ibstock defined current uncertain market conditions and volumes to grow during 2016. benefit pension scheme with members achieve longer-term growth.
We continue to principally in Ibstock Brick and Forticrete.
implement our strategy of investing in our Customer service and Our employees understanding and core markets to improve productivity and Information Technology commitment was evidenced by the quality, and to increase capacity, where constructive consultation process required.
We also continue to investigate The investments, noted above, are all recognising the Groups need to move to range-expanding acquisition opportunities.
aimed at improving the service we provide more sustainable pension arrangements.
to our customers meeting their needs I am incredibly excited by the developments through increased capacity, introducing the Company is currently progressing.
In Overall summary innovative new products and enhancing particular, during the year, we made good existing product ranges.
Additionally, we progress with the two major capital projects We enter 2017 with brick industry statistics believe that Information Technology is a announced at the time of our IPO.
recording a return to volume growth after a key component to customer service and we slower first half in 2016 for the market, and We commissioned our new roof tile line at implemented a new ERP system into our US industry stock levels declining.
In the UK, Leighton Buzzard in the fourth quarter and Glen-Gery business during the year.
The our developer customers are looking to introduced the first of our new innovative transition to this system went exceedingly increase their activity in 2017 and we roof tiles to the market.
Capacity utilisation well and as it develops, we will enhance expect to see normalised demand from within the roofing market has reached very management information and offer even our merchant customers now that their high levels and our new roof tile plant adds further improved customer service.
stock levels have returned to balance.
c. 5% capacity to the UK market.
The Our KPI for customer service Net Promoter launch of the second tile format from this In the US, with the Presidential Election Score declined by 2%pt.
Analysis shows range is scheduled for early 2017.
To date, now behind us, forecasters expect our that customers marked us down due to the market reception of the new product markets to continue to grow in the year extended delivery times for roof tiles and has been excellent and its use in some ahead and we expect to see a continued soft mud bricks at certain points in 2016. early housing projects can be seen on steady improvement in our markets as As discussed earlier, we have two major page 26 as customers begin trialling the the US economy settles.
capital projects underway to improve our products with a view to making The Groups key strength lies in our performance in these key areas of our reservations for 2017 project builds.
committed and experienced employees product portfolio.
In UK brick, our new 100 million per annum and our ability to deliver strong cash flows.
capacity brick factory in Leicestershire We therefore look forward to the future Our people continues to progress well and is expected with optimism from the good foundations In order to roll-out our strategy, it is critical to be commissioned in the second half of laid in 2016. that we have appropriately skilled people 2017 as planned.
Significant interest in brick Wayne Sheppard and develop them to the best of their supplies from the new factory has already Chief Executive Officer abilities.
We continue to invest in our 7 March 2017 been received from both housebuilders people: providing over 7,500 training days: and merchants.
The scale of our new often promoting our people into new roles factory, which will become the most with 23% of recruitment from internal efficient brick factory in UK, together with candidates: and seeing our UK brick its construction progress since last year, apprenticeship scheme grow to 40 can be seen on page 15. apprentices this year as we look to the Our KPI of Return on capital employed for next generation of our workforce and the year reduced marginally as we invested the skills they will need.
in these major projects in advance of returns being delivered.
