ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 4 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Michael Spencer, Group Chief Executive Officer, The proposed sale of our global discusses the past 12 months.
voice broking business is a significant moment in the history of ICAP.
Looking forward, as a financial technology company, our ambition is to be the global leader in electronic OTC transactions and post trade services across all segments of the market.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 5 Which trends have had most impact on How is the Q Q ICAPs market landscape in the past year?
The global regulatory effort to improve the transparency, In November 2015, ICAP announced that we had entered A A risk management and resilience of participants in the i nto a Transaction which will, when completed, involve worlds financial markets continues to impact the structure of the disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information our marketplace.
The strategies and business models of ICAPs business, including our associated technology and broking traditional bank customer base have changed in response to the platforms including i-Swap and Fusion, certain of our joint requirements of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, EMIR in ventures and our associates IGBB, to Tullett Prebon.
Europe and will continue to evolve with MiFID II and other new I will be the CEO of Newco and will be supported in this role by regulations as they come into force.
Banks and other market the strong management teams in place in both divisions as well participants are turning to technology to help them manage as the current directors of ICAP plc.
The CEO of Tullett Prebon, these challenges and the additional costs associated with them.
John Phizackerley, will be CEO of the enlarged Tullett Prebon.
Electronic trading is increasingly prevalent in both interbank Newco will have a seat on its board, representing 10% of the and bank to customer markets and our customers are looking vote.
Our Global Chief Operating Officer, Ken Pigaga, will become to use technology throughout the trade life cycle.
Against this their Chief Operating Officer and will be appointed to its board.
background of structural changes within wholesale financial All of these matters are subject to competition authority and markets and increased regulatory oversight and disclosure, regulatory approvals.
our customers are seeking innovative products, greater liquidity and the best-in-class platforms and services.
This presents an enormous opportunity for our business.
At the What are the benefits of the Q same time, the issues created by over-capacity in the voice Transaction for ICAP shareholders?
broking market have been apparent for a while and were The ambition for Newco is to be the worlds leading A a key driver behind the Transaction with Tullett Prebon.
electronic platform for OTC transactions and post trade services to all parties: corporates, investment banks, universal Why is ICAP selling its banks, asset managers, hedge funds, high-frequency traders, Q gl obal voice broking business?
sovereign wealth funds and central banks.
ICAPs revenue from ICAP has a market-leading voice broking business.
The roots electronic trading and post trade services is already well diversified, A o f the Company are in voice broking which has been a driver with an increasing proportion coming from recurring business: of our success for more than 30 years.
The volume of voice broking 62% of post trade revenue came from subscriptions this year.
business across the market has, however, been shrinking for a We will continue this strategy as we expand the potential market number of years and the costs involved have escalated: it has for these services through product development and greater been obvious for some time that the voice broking industry penetration of geographic markets and customer segments.
That process began with the merger of BGC and GFI last year.
The sale of our voice broking business On completion, it is expected that Newco will cease to be subject to Tullett Prebon is a logical and a natural next step.
The voice to consolidated regulatory capital requirements.
The ICAP Group businesses have complementary strengths and the Transaction currently operates under a waiver from those requirements but, will create the largest global hybrid voice broking business by absent the Transaction, it is expected that the FCA would require revenue.
We believe this is the right move for our customers significant capital to be retained or raised over a period of years and for the future of the voice broking industry as a whole.
to eliminate the consolidated capital deficit that otherwise exists.
Based on an assessment of the information including on legal The Transaction will create a focused financial technology advice provided to the FCA by ICAP in relation to the projected business.
Electronic trading and post trade services provided balance of financial and non-financial business in Newco, the the vast majority of the Groups operating profit this year, which FCA has indicated that, following the Transaction, Newco will is indicative of how the business and the wider marketplace not be subject to prudential consolidation requirements.
Our future is as a financial technology company, focused on electronic markets and post trade services.
Our During our negotiations both ICAP and Tullett Prebon found leading portfolio of products and businesses sits at the heart of that we have much in common culturally, which will help with financial market infrastructure and will be ideally placed to meet the integration of the two businesses.
TP ICAP will have the scale customers changing requirements.
We will be better positioned required to deliver good margins while continuing to invest in its to go into new market segments with innovation and product people and technology.
It will benefit from products developed development and will benefit from the increased demand made by ICAP including i-Swap, Fusion and Scrapbook.
TP ICAP by regulators for post trade risk mitigation and electronic trading.
announced that it expected the savings from combining the For some time ICAP has been progressively diversifying from two businesses to exceed 60 million annually.
Since 2002, when we first invested in TriOptima, we have made strategic investments to develop the next generation of financial technology for the trading community.
BrokerTec was one of the earliest of these investments back in 2003 and is now the worlds leading electronic trading platform for fixed income markets.
EBS is a leading electronic FX trading business with significant market share in many currencies.
We established Euclid Opportunities specifically to nurture the growth of early-stage financial technology companies and the Euclid programme is going to be an increasingly important part of our future.
My vision is to create the worlds leading multi-product global electronic transaction network for OTC products and post trade services.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued in reduced risk appetite from bank customers.
This was partly offset by the increase in trading activity in emerging market currency pairs on EBS Market, and greater demand for risk Trading conditions mitigation products such as triReduce and triResolve.
continue to be Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, ICAP continues to make significant investment in all divisions.
During the year challenging as a result the Group invested 96 million in new business lines including of the macroeconomic forwards on EBS Direct, BrokerTec Direct and triResolve Margin.
environment but ICAP The Group reported a trading operating profit of 221 million, 12% down on the prior year.
The Groups trading operating has continued to invest in profit margin reduced to 18% 2014 15: 20%.
The decrease products and services.
in the trading operating profit includes the negative impact of the year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses of 11 million.
Excluding the FX loss, the trading operating profit reduced by 8% on the prior year.
Additionally, the synergies achieved in the year from the 2014 15 cost savings programme How has ICAP were reinvested during the year in the development of new Q performed this year?
products and technological solutions across the businesses.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group reported A revenue of 1,201 million, 6% below the prior year.
On The proportion of the Groups trading operating profit generated a constant currency basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information Information was up 5% which was offset by decreases of divisions increased to 79%, reflecting a 4 percentage point 4% in Electronic Markets and 5% in Global Broking excluding increase on the prior year.
Group trading profit before tax of 203 million and trading During the course of the year, the Groups trading performance EPS basic of 24.6p were 11% and 14% down on the prior was impacted by the ongoing combination of structural and year respectively.
Profit before tax was 89 million 2014 15: cyclical factors including historically low and negative interest 95 million.
rates, low levels of volatility and bank deleveraging resulting Strong track record of innovation Further investment in AcadiaSoft, Duco and investment in Abide Financial Acquisition of ENSO and investments in Cloud9 Remaining stake Technologies in TriOptima and Digital Investment in Investments and stake in Asset Holdings OpenGamma in ENSO AcadiaSoft Banks invest in Traiana with Remainder implied valuation of Reset in Acquisition of 185m Acquisition 3 tranches Investment of Traiana 2016 of BrokerTec in Duco Acquisition of Acquisition 2015 MyTreasury of EBS Reset 2014 30% stake in 25% stake 2013 TriOptima 2012 2011 TriOptima Launch of 2010 2009 expands BrokerTec 2008 Launch of of compression Direct 2007 2006 EBS Direct to CME and 2005 2004 2003 2002 FX forwards Launch of Traiana TriOptima Launch EBS Direct for CreditLink launches CCP Launch of of EBS FX forwards compression triResolve eFix corporates TriOptima launches bilateral compression Launch of EBS Select BrokerTec EBS growth Growth of FX Basel III SLR drives EMIR requirements for Market share gains in algorithmic trading prime brokerage increased demand portfolio reconciliation migration from voice non-bank customers underpins growth for compression underpin triResolve drives growth of EM of Traiana currencies on EBS Ranges are an approximation for the estimated start of each respective trend.
Growth Product launches Acquisitions drivers
