CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW This is my first opportunity to present full-year financial results, and I am pleased to be reporting on such a strong outcome.
Revenue was ahead by 14% at 456.3 million 2015 underlying: 400.2 million.
Performance was strong across the board, with each half-year setting a new high.
Peter Hetherington Chief Executive Officer 6 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The yearwas particularly marked by sharp market movements in STRATEGIC AND our first and third quarters, which presented short-term trading OPERATIONALPROGRESS opportunities for our clients.
However, I am particularly pleased by In my first-half statement in January, I clarified my approach to the continued strategic and operational progress we made in the taking IG forward.
We are concentrating on three key levers year, whichI will expand upon later.
for growth: Profit before tax rose by 7.6% to 207.9 million 2015 underlying: Product diversification 193.2 million, with a 6.4 million negative impact year-on-year in betting duty and net interest on client funds and a 17% increase Geographic development in operating costs.
Cost increases reflected targeted investment Maximising the current opportunity in advertising and marketing, where the payback remains Optimising marketing efficiency and client conversion compelling, increased data fees due to the growth in client Increasing client activity and retention numbers, higher employee costs due to the impact ofheadcount Maximising client value increases through the prior year and higher discretionary remuneration following the improved business performance.
Profit PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION after tax was up by 9% at 164.3 million 2015 underlying: 150.7 Having grown to be a clear market leader in certain of our more million.
Diluted earnings per share was up by 8.5%at 44.58pence mature markets, the UK and Australia in particular, we see great 2015 underlying: 41.07 pence.
value in being able to offer clients a broader suite of trading Revenue in the year was ahead in all of our geographic regions.
and investment products, which fulfil a greater portion of their The UK contributed almost 51% of the Group revenue in the year, needs throughout their life.
This also allows us to reach out with up 9% at 231.1 million, with a similar sequential half-on-half the IG brand to a broader range of potential clients through a growth rate.
The pattern was similar in Australia, where revenue product set they understand well, with some of those clients, was ahead of the prior year by 8% at 64.0 million.
Revenue in those for whom its entirely appropriate, ultimately choosing Europe was ahead by 22%, at 98.6 million, with all countries also to use a leveraged product.
In September 2014, we took in this region ahead of the prior year and a strong year-on-year our first step outside our core leveraged-product arena, with the performance in Switzerland, where the office opened part way launch of execution-only stockbroking in the UK.
We evolved through the prior year: the sequential half-on-half growth rate here our offeringearly in 2016, in response to a slightly disappointing was 16%.
The Rest of World segment was ahead of the prior year take-up, including altering our pricing structureand renamingit by 30%.
Once again all countries were ahead of the prior year, share dealing.
These changescoincided with the ISA season in with a particularly strong revenue performance in the US and an the UK, so it is difficult to understand their precise impact, but excellent start in the new Dubai office.
we have seen an upliftin the account opening rates.
At the end As our Chairman, Andy Green, mentioned, just after the end of of the year we had over 11,000 funded accounts and, perhaps our financial year, we experienced a real-world test of our systems, more importantly, we had around 2,900 active clients in May.
processes and risk management with the UKs EU Referendum.
We continue to see around 15% of new clients going on to use This sort of event brings out the best in IGs people.
We prepared the leveraged product set and initial indications suggest they meticulously, providing regular communications and adjustments are valuable clients.
We rolled out this product to Australia in for our clients to ensure they understood the potential for market early July and hope to build here on the learnings from our UK moves and stress testing our technology even more than normal.
As it turned out, the event was more dramatic than most people anticipated, with some of the most extreme movements we have seen in financial markets.
I am delighted with the way IG handled the event itself and the immediate aftermath.
WhileIG avails itself I am particularly pleased by of the passporting regime in using its UK licence to operate across the EU, the decision to leave the EU does not change the continued strategic and much in the short-term.
We will put plans in place to deal with this operational progress we made outcome, as we monitor the progress in political discussions, and be ready to act if required to ensure we can continue to operate in the year.
MiFID II is currently scheduled to come into force in January 2018.
This provides enhanced intervention rights for individual We are close to launching a portfolio-based investment product state regulators.
Ahead of this, as we announced in March, the through IG Investments, in partnership with BlackRock, the biggest French regulator, the AMF, stated its intention to restrict electronic asset manager in the world.
Initially this will be UK only but we advertising of derivative products to retail clients.
Although this expect to expand it to Australia over time.
This is the next natural intention is not yet law, it appears there is sufficient will to ensure extension of the IG brand and provides us with another route to this happens and therefore we assume this comes into force market.
Over the longer term, thisallows us to build a separate, sometime during this calendar year.
The precise extent of the more predictable revenue stream.
The model portfolios we will restriction is not yet clear but it is likely to adversely impact new offer will be built on exchange traded funds ETFs, which lend client acquisition for the French business, which accounted for 5% themselves to one of IGs core competencies, namely real-time of this years revenue and new accounts.
ETFs are low-fee products, which will enable us to offer a low-cost service to clients, based on market-leading technology and transparency.
We plan to add a customisation ability for clients, which we anticipate will appeal to more sophisticated clients.
7 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT MAXIMISING THE CURRENT OPPORTUNITY We will adjust our approach to suit the opportunity.
Over time we In the short to medium term, there is a realopportunityfor IG believe there will be opportunities to expand our business into to improve at all the things we already do.
As the business grew fresh geographies.
Recent examples of this are Switzerland and rapidly through the past 10-15 years, inefficiencies crept in to Dubai.
These two offices are performing ahead of plan, with a some of our processes, particularly around the way we market, particularly strong finish to this year in Dubai.
Unlike other offices, onboard and engage clients through their life with IG.
We the revenue in these countries is coming from fewer, larger-value are making progress in extracting increasing valuefrom every clients, particularly in Dubai, which leads us to expect growth to client opportunity.
be strong but unpredictable from month to month.
Both of these Optimising marketing efficiency and clientconversion countries required a lengthy licensing process, a relatively material Over the last couple of years, we have overhauled our online infrastructure and local regulatory capital.
marketing, recognising its growing importance, through personnel We will seek to address certain adjacent or proximate markets and process change.
We have centralised our marketing without the overhead of a local presence.
These markets will be spend in regional hubs and now use a data-based algorithmic targeted by the most relevant sales office, with the assistance methodology.
In the last financial year we opened just over of our improved online marketing capabilities, a new affiliates 100,000 accounts, 42% ahead of the prior year, and the second programme, slim local language websites and the required local half of this year was 35% ahead of the first half.
So, we are making language skills.
This approach is central to our recent decision great progress at targeting new clients.
These figures do however to pursue a hub strategy in Europe, where we are centralising belie the fact that there is still considerable friction, and therefore our capabilities in specific strategic countries.
As part of this, we opportunity, in the application process.
We have put in place closed our offices in Norway and the Netherlands and will now many changes this year, accompanied by a strict testing regime serve our current clients and build these businesses from Sweden, and feedback loop where possible, to improve the conversion rate Germany and the UK.
for prospective clients who begin the application process.
Many There remains significant opportunity within our current of these are almost imperceptible, but incremental.
As global leader in our market, there are more significant ones include: taking advantage of electronic ID many countries where our market share does not reflect this.
verification databases in countries where these were previously Wesee this as an opportunity, rather than a disappointment.
unavailable, particularly in Europe: enabling ID document upload through the mobile app: redesigning our mobile application form: establishing a dynamic verification routine within the application which shows clients clearly what documentation they require at In the UK and Australia in each stage of the account opening process and much improved client communications.
particular, we see great value Our conversion rate from opened accounts to trading accounts has dropped a little in the year.
In absolute terms, it is still a strong in being able to offer clients a picture, withfirst trades ahead of the prior year by 29%, and the second half of this year 24% ahead of the first half.
Part of the broader suite of trading and decline in the conversion rate is due to the increasing proportion investment products, which of applications commencing on mobile devices for the last few months of the year, this has been running at around 50% of all fulfil a greater portion of their applications: currently these do not convert as well as those that come through the web-based platform, either into valid open needs throughout their life.
accounts or into trading accounts.
It is also due in part to the magnitude of the uplift in applications a good problem to have and the reassurance we require before allowing someone to trade: this often includes a direct conversation and we are employing We may seek to extend our product set where there are specific more client-facing staffto assist clients to get through to trading.
local circumstances which support that, but generally, in countries Less successful at this stage has been our acquisition of generic where our market share is not reflective of our aspirations, we will top-level domains gTLDs, where we have decided to write-off the focus on the core leveraged product and progressing towards a investment this year.
We have launched some websites using our market-leading position.
markets, and licensed many domains to This year, we launched an affiliates programmeto market third parties, but this is moving slower than we initially anticipated.
ourproduct through arange of partners.
This is still early stage, We continue to believe that our ownership of certain gTLD strings but the progress to date has been encouraging in some countries.
positions us well asthe internet structure evolves, but we have This provides us with anentrepreneurial route to market, with a trimmed our short-term ambitions and we are focusingon using very transparent cost per account.
We will continue to progress thesmall number of sites we have at this stage to broaden IGs this positively, whileremaining protective of our record of presence and attract clients.
8 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The business starts this year in good shape, and we are delivering a number of initiatives which should continue to support future growth.
Increasing client activity and retention OUTLOOK Our desire is to delight our clients with our technology and our We made good progress in 2016, strategically, operationally serviceand to retain them for as long as possible.
There is an and financially.
The business starts this year in good shape, and overlap in this growth lever with our product diversification, a we are delivering a number of initiatives which should continue mechanism for deepening our relationships with clients.
However, to support future growth.
The launch of limited risk accounts there are a number of other initiatives which will differentiate is a key step in providing current and prospective clients with IG.
This year, we rolled out our market movement notifications increased choice and will allow us to broaden our reach.
We aim service, primarily via push alert to a mobile device.
This allows to improve retention of existing clients and to appeal to new a client to move seamlessly from a timely trading idea to the clients by releasing our investments product in the UK in the first dealing platform andis individually targeted to each clients half of this financial year: this will be an important achievement in interests.
During July 2016, we willlaunchour limited risk trading the evolution of IG and continues our repositioning in our more account, an important step in helping some clients to manage mature markets.
We are also approaching the end of the testing better the risk reward balance in their trading.
Thisguarantees a phase for our new web trading platform, and expect to release it client cannot incur debt, and may enable us to attract additional before the end of this calendar year.
clients, previously concernedby the nature of the tradingrisks.
Demand for our products and application numbers remain strong.
We are in the middle of the testingour new web trading platform, Given this demand, and the improvements we have made to the mainstay of IG and our industry.
Our current platform could be our online targeting capability, we intend to increase marketing described as visually a little tired, but it remains technologically investment again significantly this year, as long as the payback cutting-edge.
It is also very familiar to many of our clients and remains compelling.
Including the impact of the remuneration therefore we will approach the changeover carefullyand includea changes at the end of the financial year, and modest increases in long period of dual-running.
As long as the testing feedback is other operating costs, we currently expect the overall absolute positive, we continue to expect to roll out the initial version in rise in operating costs in the 2017 financial year to be in line with 2016.
We will then iterate thisto ensure all current functionality is the increase last year, on an underlying basis.
However, given the available, along with the suite of new features we are planning.
nature of this cost growth, it will be increasingly discretionary and more closely aligned with revenue.
Maximising client value In summary, 2016 was a successful year for IG, and the business is We continue to optimise our risk managementwithin in robust health.
I am delighted to be leading such an energised ourtechnology suiteand with strong governance as we approach team, and we remain confident that we can deliver further specific events.
This year we increased our absolute risk limits and attractive growth going forward.
made them dynamic, where they rise and fall as markets open and close to take advantage of liquidity and client volume.
Although we intend to retain our low-variability revenue stream IG has only had three negative revenue days in the past five years we continue to run back-testing simulations of various scenariosto get increasingly close to the optimal position, while remaining neutral on market direction.
We overlay this technological risk management with manual oversight.
This was extremely successful at the time of the EU Referendum, Peter Hetherington where we prioritised long-term value over short-term gain, raising Chief Executive Officer client margin rates significantly and encouraging our clients to 19 July 2016 consider carefully the merits of holding a position through such uncertainty.
This approach protected both clients and IG.
We continue to optimise our risk managementwithin ourtechnology suiteand with strong governance as we approach specific events.
9 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
