6 IMI plc Chief Executives review Building competitive advantage 2016 was another year of important progress for IMI.
As well as continuing to improve both our operational performance and our customer offering, we have acted decisively to ensure our cost-base continues to support our growth ambitions while also protecting near-term performance.
Improvement despite headwinds 2016 was a year of significant progress for the Group with results in-line with market expectations despite continuing headwinds in a number of our key markets.
Our various initiatives have further improved operational performance, and on-going investment in great new products and customer solutions has enhanced our market competitiveness.
Trading conditions in many of our geographies and markets remained difficult throughout 2016.
The cautious industrial investment environment continued to impact new order opportunities as customers tightened spending in the face of economic and political uncertainty.
The Oil & Gas market, which represents almost a third of Critical Engineerings revenues, continued to be impacted by falling investment, including a significant reduction in liquid natural gas LNG projects.
The Power generation sector was impacted by lower operational spending reflecting delays, particularly in North America, Mark Selway where power providers have extended the time between planned outages.
Chief Executive While European and Asia Pacific truck markets remained resilient, the US heavy truck market declined significantly which impacted revenues in Precision Engineering.
Industrial Automation markets globally were broadly flat with some signs of recovery in Europe and North America in the final quarter of the year.
In Hydronic Engineering, European construction markets remained subdued with warmer weather impacting the heating season.
In addition, North America and China experienced some project delays.
In response to the protracted deterioration in several of our most important markets, the Group has undertaken a number of restructuring activities that will continue into 2017.
These actions include the sale or closure of eight lower growth, higher cost Critical Engineering sites and the reduction of operating costs across the entire Group.
In Precision Engineering, in-line with our strategy to simplify the business and ensure that we have the most efficient platform for future growth, the division undertook an extensive review of its operational footprint.
The review named Project Janus is now being split into two phases.
The implementation of Phase 1 has already begun and involves those projects that can be executed quickly and with the least disruption to our business.
This includes a structured programme of cost reductions, insourcing to Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 0: Year 1: Year 2: Year 3: Year 4: Ambition: The hard work Increased Benefits starting Nearly firing on Up to full Double begins investment to show all cylinders speed operating profits Supported by value enhancing acquisitions Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Reported profit before tax Segmental operating margin 208.0m Down 5% 13.8% Down 160bps 300 20 15 200 10 100 5 218.7m 208.0m 15.4% 13.8% 2015 2016 2015 2016 increase machining capacity utilisation, simplification of the Good strategic progress organisational structure and further leverage of our low cost It is particularly rewarding to report a further year of successful European manufacturing operations.
A second phase is execution of our strategy.
Key achievements, including contingent on market conditions and anticipates potentially a significant and positive cultural shift with a passion for substantial and more complex changes, particularly in areas continuous improvement, improved operational performance such as Commercial Vehicle, where significant new project and success in our endeavours to add high quality products quotation activity exists.
All of these actions will help to protect across all three divisions, have all contributed to our results operating margins and improve our competitive position in in 2016.
We move forward with confidence that we will achieve what remains an uncertain market environment.
world-class performance by 2019, as envisaged in our original In Hydronic Engineering, the subdued environment in key 2014 plan.
Our objective to double operating profit by that point European markets, combined with greater efficiencies resulting also remains our goal, although achieving that will clearly rely from the IT and operational improvements, have provided the upon a more favourable market environment, and will almost basis to reduce operating costs, which will be evident in the certainly be reached beyond the original 2019 timescale.
Improving our operational performance Results overview Improving operational performance is fundamental to our Reported Group revenues were 6% higher at 1,649m 2015: objective of creating competitive advantage and remains 1,557m.
Excluding favourable exchange rate movements and a key part of our strategic growth plan.
During the year the disposals, Group revenues on an organic basis were 5% lower efficiency of our operations improved significantly.
due to continuing difficult end markets.
Reported segmental Our operational improvements are assessed twice yearly operating profit was 5% lower at 228m 2015: 239m.
using an industry recognised lean benchmarking methodology.
Excluding the impact of favourable exchange rate movements During 2016, the Groups average lean score has continued to and disposals, segmental operating profit was 17% lower improve, and ended the year at 66% against 59% at the same on an organic basis reflecting lower volumes and continued point in 2015.
As a result of more efficient operations, scrap investments, partially offset by the benefits of restructuring.
rates continued to improve, on-time-delivery and inventory The Groups operating margin was 13.8% 2015: 15.4% and management both made good progress and the benefits were reported earnings per share were 4% lower at 59.8p 2015: evident in the Groups working capital in the year.
Operating cash flow of 246m 2015: 232m reflected productivity and operational performance provides an important the benefits of the Groups lean initiatives which underpinned foundation to underpin our increased competitiveness and working capital improvements in the year.
Net Debt of 283m 2015: 237m was impacted by adverse currency of 97m and resulted in a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0x against 0.9x at the end of 2015.
IMI Critical Engineering has world-class cryogenic The IMI Executive team discover Hydronic Engineerings Mark Selway with Oliver Wehking, Managing Director of testing facilities, for all classes of valves.
Here butterfly new Zeparo G-Force turnable dirt separators at the plant IMI Buschjost, on a visit to Precision Engineerings site valves are being lowered into the liquid nitrogen in Switzerland in Germany 8 IMI plc IMI plc In addition to much needed IT investment, our focus also Readying our businesses for growth extends to embedding disciplined and efficient processes, In the past two years, we have invested heavily in new systems including New Product Development, competitor product and processes which are essential to the Groups sustainable tear-downs and the application of Value Engineering.
During 2016 new integrated IT systems, These processes underpin the sustainability of continuous that make day-to-day operations more cost and time efficient, improvement and ensure that investment ultimately delivers were successfully installed on-time and on-budget in Critical an earlier and greater return.
Much has been achieved to Engineerings plants in Sweden, Japan, India and Korea, two simplify the way our businesses operate.
of Precision Engineerings US operations, Hydronic Engineerings Polish plant and at its headquarters in Switzerland.
In 2017, New product portfolios Critical Engineering will roll out an additional six sites in the US and Asia, Precision Engineering will complete their remaining Our focus on New Product Development gained significant sites in the US, and Hydronic Engineering will largely complete momentum during the year and as a result we have expanded the vast majority of their factories and sales offices.
our portfolio of great new products which enhance the competitiveness of the Group.
The Groups advanced product Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 quality planning process APQP and competitor product Business development tear-downs have resulted in the development of an industryAlongside our organic growth initiatives, targeted acquisitions leading range of platform products in Precision Engineering that meet our clearly defined and disciplined criteria remain which represent the first significant investment for more than a core part of our strategy.
While market conditions have 10 years.
During the year Hydronic Engineering maintained reduced the pipeline of opportunities, we continue to refine its development pipeline and launched 13 new products our targets, enhance our integration processes and make while Critical Engineering introduced a significant number our underlying businesses stronger, all of which will facilitate of enhanced products.
All three divisions have ambitious the success of any future developments.
plans to continue their product development strategies in 2017 and beyond.
Our people Compelling customer solutions As the Chairman highlights in his statement, the progress that we continued to make in the year is due to our employees During the year, Critical Engineering developed an aggressive around the world.
I would like to thank them for their hard Value Engineering programme to enhance its competitiveness.
work and on-going drive and passion to deliver our strategic Despite challenging market conditions, Value Engineering ambitions.
I am pleased to report the significant cultural helped to deliver new orders totalling 80m at historic margin progress which has been achieved across the whole of IMI.
levels while providing, on average, a 15% cost reduction for The business today has a passion for continuous improvement customers.
In addition, Value Engineering has opened up and the ambition to improve competitiveness and deliver a number of new product markets where we are now able better customer outcomes is firmly embedded throughout to offer our world-class valve technologies, providing an the organisation.
I remain convinced that these core ambitions additional basis for profitable growth.
underpin the future success of IMI.
Revised go-to-market strategies Outlook In our Precision Engineering division, following the work Based on current market conditions, we expect organic undertaken in 2015 to identify the markets that offer the revenues in the first half of 2017 to reflect a similar percentage greatest growth potential, the divisions US and European reduction to the first half of 2016, with margins slightly lower operations have been reorganised around key industry verticals than the first half of last year.
Results for the full year are of Industrial Automation, Commercial Vehicle, Life Sciences expected to include a second half bias reflecting the timing and Energy.
This new structure delivers sector marketing of restructuring benefits and normal trading seasonality.
strategies that address distinct customer requirements, target specific market opportunities and build stronger customer relationships.
In November, Precision Engineering launched an innovative IMI Norgren Express App which enables customers, using their smartphones, to identify, locate and purchase replacement parts quickly and easily.
Executive Committee Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Massimo Grassi Peter Spencer Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John OShea Chief Executive Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Group Legal Director Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Precision Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director and Company Engineering Engineering Engineering Secretary
