CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT In simplifying our portfolio we are reducing complexity and cost, which reflects our approach to developing new ways of working: everything needs to be simpler and more effective than before.
This is providing greater clarity on roles and responsibilities, enabling our people to prioritise and focus on work that really matters to our success.
Opportunities to enhance the way we work are identified through the continual refinement of our operating model, which involves looking at how we can change systems, processes and structures to improve performance.
Alison Cooper In 2016 we focused on improving sales and Chief Executive marketing processes across 58 markets and we launched a new Customer Relationship Management solution in 19 markets.
We also This was another year of strong value creation and Id like transitioned to a single global HR platform to thank our people across the business for all their hard and introduced shared services in Finance in a number of markets.
Their focus on driving quality growth, embracing new ways of working and effectively managing Strengthening our Portfolio cost and cash has been integral to our success.
Our drive to improve our quality of growth was reflected in the excellent results we Consistently delivering against our strategy has been a hallmark of our performance in recent achieved with our Growth Brands.
years and is enabling us to build a stronger, higher quality business with even greater capacity Growth Brands outperformed the market, for generating sustainable shareholder returns.
with strong growth in volumes, share and net revenue.
Highlights in the year included further enhancing the contribution from our Growth and Specialist Brands, which now account for 60.1 per cent of the Groups tobacco net revenue.
Growth Brands continue to benefit We also made excellent progress in the USA, with ITG Brands performing strongly in from migrations, with multiple markets line with our plans.
successfully migrating Portfolio Brands Elsewhere, we maintained good momentum across our market footprint, with results in to JPS, West and Parker & Simpson.
Growth Markets also benefiting from revenue growth from Fontem Ventures.
We further We also further invested in building brand emphasised our focus on quality revenue by prioritising investment in brands and markets equity with marketing campaigns for JPS, that offer the best returns.
West, Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes.
Our strong financials were characterised by another year of adjusted earnings per share and The excellent progress we are making dividend growth.
On a constant currency basis adjusted operating profit was up by 10.4 per with our Growth Brands was supported cent and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 12.0 per cent.
Return on invested capital by strong results from our Specialist Brands, improved to 13.9 per cent and we increased the dividend by 10 per cent for the eighth which account for almost 15 per cent of consecutive year.
Net revenue increased by 44 per cent, benefiting from Delivering Sustainable Quality Growth the contribution of the Kool and blu brands Our strategic transition has created a stronger business that is generating a higher quality which we acquired last year.
Like many businesses, we operate in a challenging, volatile environment and the companies that are successful in these conditions are the ones that adapt and change.
In Fontem Ventures recent years weve taken decisive action to improve our results and our ways of working, blu is a high quality e-vapour brand that is and our focus on optimising our brand portfolio has been at the heart of our change agenda.
proving to be a tremendous addition to our Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands.
Growth Brands have strong portfolio.
blu is managed by our non-tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures, which is focused equity and broad consumer appeal: Specialist Brands also enjoy strong equity but typically appeal to more specific consumer groups.
Our priority is to build the contribution these brands on developing new consumer experiences and opportunities for sustainable revenue make to our results.
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings.
Those with strong equity support our volume and revenue progression, while weaker brands are delisted growth.
Fontems current priority is to capitalise on the growth in the e-vapour sector or migrated into higher quality Growth Brands.
by building sales of blu and licensing a range We have a very high success rate when it comes to these migrations, with over 95 per cent of patented technologies.
of consumers completing the transition from one brand to another.
During the year we blu sales are currently concentrated in the completed 17 additional brand migrations across multiple markets.
A total of 49 migrations USA, UK, France and Italy, the four core have now been completed and another 15 are in progress.
e-vapour markets that together account for We have identified significant opportunities to further simplify our brands and products and around 70 per cent of global e-vapour sales.
we will start driving this next phase of portfolio optimisation in 2017.
10 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Cost Optimisation and Capital Discipline Outlook blu is the established number two brand in Our current cost optimisation programme We have a track record of consistently the UK and USA and has a growing presence remains on track to save 300 million per delivering against our strategy, which has in France and Italy.
A range of generated significant returns to shareholders We are investing to support growth, funding initiatives have been successfully deployed and created a strong platform for future brand equity building with a new marketing to optimise our cost base, realising 65 value creation.
campaign in the USA and UK, and allocating million in the year, and bringing the total To further drive delivery of our strategic additional funds for technological research annualised savings to 240 million.
priorities and underpin revenue growth and development to continue to improve Our commitment to capital discipline over the medium term, we will invest an the blu vaping experience.
During the year underpins our focus on cash generation additional 300 million, which, net of Fontem further enhanced revenues by and the effective management of our investment returns, will have a 200 million licensing its first generation technology working capital.
This will be partly offset by to a number of other e-vapour companies.
90 million of cost optimisation savings Cash conversion remained strong at resulting in a 4 per cent net impact on 2017 Developing our Footprint 95 per cent compared to 97 per cent last year, constant currency earnings.
However, Our excellent Growth and Specialist Brand which benefited from one-off working capital foreign exchange translation is expected to performances were complemented by good benefits associated with the US acquisition.
benefit earnings by around 14 per cent based results across our geographic footprint.
We reduced adjusted net debt by 1.0 billion, on current rates, and supports the continued excluding the adverse impact of currency We delivered a positive revenue and profit delivery of our financial targets in 2017. translation, taking the total reduction over performance in Growth Markets, with the the last two years to 2.1 billion.
The phasing of the increased investment will benefit of additional revenue from blu and be biased to the early part of 2017, resulting in royalties from the licensing of Fontems For the eighth consecutive year we delivered lower revenue and profit in the first half, technology and good results in Italy, Russia, strong dividend growth of 10 per cent and we offset by a stronger second half performance.
Japan and Taiwan more than offsetting remain committed to continuing to grow the declines caused by Iraq and Syria.
dividend by at least 10 per cent a year over We intend to sustain an increased level of the medium term.
investment in subsequent years and we The integration of our US operations was expect a return to constant currency completed as planned during the year and The Next Decade of Growth earnings growth in line with our mediumITG Brands continued to perform strongly.
term guidance of 4-8 per cent from the 2018 During the year, I spent time with the Board We are investing to support growth, funded and my senior leadership team reviewing financial year.
by the acquisition synergies, to drive our strategy for creating shareholder value long-term sustainable value.
These We continue to prioritise capital discipline over the next 10 years.
prioritised investments have driven steady and strong cash conversion to underpin our improvements in the market shares of commitment to deliver dividend growth of This reinforced the strength of our strategy Winston and Kool.
Towards the end of the at least 10 per cent next year and over the and highlighted opportunities to drive even year we also launched a new pack design medium term.
greater focus on our strategic priorities: for Winston, coupled with a new advertising strengthening our portfolio, developing We have a strong track record of delivering campaign, to further build brand equity.
We our footprint, optimising our cost base sustainable shareholder returns over many also significantly improved the performance and embedding capital discipline.
years and we are well-placed to build on this of our mass market cigar business as we To support the delivery of further quality in 2017 and over the next decade.
changed our route to market to a retail revenue growth in 2017 and subsequent focused business model, aligning it with years we will invest an additional our cigarette business.
300 million in our Growth and Specialist In Returns Markets we focused on improving Brands in the key markets that offer the our quality of growth by making investment best opportunities for quality growth.
choices to underpin long-term sustainable Alison Cooper Investments will be prioritised and focused profit growth.
We have actively directed Chief Executive on areas where we have a proven track investment into markets where we see the record of generating quality revenue best returns and avoided low quality or growth, including brand building, customer unprofitable volume.
We achieved good engagement and sales execution.
results in Germany, Australia and Algeria, and continued to invest in the UK to defend This increased investment will be supported our position in an extremely competitive by a new phase of cost optimisation, which environment.
will deliver additional savings of 300 million Good Results from Logista per annum by 2020, at a cost of 750 million.
Our European distribution business Logista These savings will be generated by has a history of delivering good results and implementing further initiatives to reduce 2016 was no exception.
Distribution fees and complexity and drive operational efficiencies.
adjusted operating profit both increased and the Logista team continues to focus on cost management and new growth opportunities to further drive the profitable development of the business.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 www.
