Chief Executives review Creating the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer View video online at www.
com developing our M&A proposition with a distribution I am delighted to be writing to acquisition in South America and expansion you once again following intoThailand.
Ignite is enabling us to take an even stronger another successful year of leadership role in our industry, not just in terms of progress for Inchcape.
scale, but also ambition, vision and quality of service.
This is particularly important at a time when the Over the years, our unique business model has global automotive industry is developing at pace, enabled our global organisation to consistently drive with customer purchasing behaviour and service our earnings and cash generation performance.
We remain highly year has been no exception and pleasingly, despite focused on differentiating our proposition through some challenges, we have delivered double digit customer service excellence.
This is a constantly adjusted earnings growth and continued our track evolving field and we continue to innovate in our record of driving sustainable shareholder returns.
Our position as the only global, independent, You can read more about progress made on Ignite multi-brand automotive Distributor and Retailer with on page 10 and on how our strategy is helping us to five revenue streams had an important stabilising position the Company to lead in an operating effect and enabled our strong revenue and earnings environment in which successful, sustainable growth in 2016.
A supporting element for our results businesses will adapt and thrive.
was the benefit from Sterlings weakness in the year, with over three-quarters of profits denominated in Moving on, you can read about our regional other currencies.
performance on pages 22 to 29 in the Operating Review section of this report, where we also outline in Besides the financial results, 2016 was a year in detail the disclosure changes we are making to which we made significant progress on the Ignite provide greater clarity on our reporting.
To give you a strategy, developing programmes designed to quick overview of progress, however, I will briefly position Inchcape for long-term growth, and crucially, outline the major regional trends here.
6 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS customers in Australia and New Zealand.
Profitability Our performance across the world in Australasia was impacted during 2016 by an Asia unfavourable exchange rate between the Japanese In Asia, we saw the continuation of a challenging Yen and the Australian Dollar.
Australasia has trading environment in Hong Kong where the market pioneered across a number of areas in 2016: was down 21%.
This was largely due to a prolonged creating a mobile servicing offer for customers in the period of subdued consumer and corporate activity Sydney area for Subaru, a new shopping mall brand that only stabilised later in the year.
A number of experience store, a digital purchase offer for the new factors, including the highly publicised political Impreza and working on greater automation for uncertainties of 2016 and stock market volatility, Aftersales service reminders to capture more caused weakness across the market, within high-margin work from this revenue stream.
which Inchcapes performance was as robust as Innovation is very important within our evolving conditions allowed.
industry and these steps demonstrate the skills and energy in the Group to drive future success.
Indeed, our continued underlying strength in Hong Kong is illustrated by the fact that our Crown Motors UK and Europe subsidiary won prestigious awards during the year, Our delivery of strong revenue growth in the UK was including the Asia Pacific Excellence award and achieved with good growth across all of our revenue Toyotas Outstanding Customer Service award for streams: we saw pleasing improvements in Used the ninth year in a row.
We also maintained our Vehicle and Aftersales thanks to the sharper focus market leadership in Hong Kong.
Elsewhere in Asia, on these areas.
we enjoyed a strong year in our key market of Singapore, where the Certificates of Entitlement Overall, a resilient profit performance in the UK was COE cycle remained favourable.
This helped to achieved despite higher overheads caused by drive 41% growth in the New Vehicles market, with investments in our sites and operational processes to the greatest increase taking place in the first half of strengthen the long-term positioning of the business the year.
The moderation during the second half of as well as a lower New Vehicle margin due to the 2016 and our understanding of the cycle lead us competitive market environment.
The business to anticipate a decline in 2017 of around 14%, remains highly focused on outperforming our which would still see sales significantly above the competitors and crystallising the significant organic 10-year average.
opportunities of our Ignite strategy.
Staying with Asia, I would like to mention two projects Elsewhere in the segment, we saw encouraging that illustrate how we are seeking to deliver against results from Finland, Belgium and Greece where several of the key objectives under our Ignite strategy, sales are continuing to recover from a low base.
Our namely, investing to accelerate growth, aiming to performance was largely strong throughout Eastern lead in customer experience and becoming the Europe, benefiting from both cyclical and structural OEMs partner of choice.
These include the Balkan and Baltic regions, where our operations achieved good growth First, we have been appointed as the exclusive and the more mature Polish market.
importer and distributor of vehicles and parts for Jaguar Land Rover JLR in Thailand, extending our Emerging Markets successful partnership with the company and its We delivered a strong performance in our Emerging brands to 46 years.
And second, the continuing Markets segment in 2016, with increased profitability development of our state-of-the-art, eight-storey across Africa, South America and Russia.
Pandan facility in Singapore, where we are consolidating a range of activities with the aim of Despite facing a challenging environment in Russia increasing capacity and productivity and delivering due to the countrys well-publicised economic an even better experience for customers.
difficulties, our presence in the cities of Moscow and St Petersburg enabled us to make a profit.
Australasia As one of the worlds fastest-growing economies, Turning to Australasia, our Subaru business pleasingly Ethiopia has been an excellent market for us for gained market share, taking our position to 4.0% and many years.
Performance was strong in the first half represents a new full year record.
Subaru has a of 2016, but our business was inevitably disrupted by strong line-up of premium SUV models, centred on serious political unrest that started in August.
We are four wheel drive, with high safety ratings and optimistic that the situation will be resolved in 2017. targeted at active lifestyles.
All of these elements have enabled us to create a strong proposition for inchcape.
com 7 Chief Executives review continued Our South American Distribution operations for BMW Shareholder returns in Chile and Peru both recorded an improving The strength of our business model continues performance through the second half of 2016, with to underpin the returns we can deliver to our particular success in growing our Aftersales revenues.
During the year, for example, we were able to continue the share buy-back programme In this global round-up, I would also like to highlight we launched in 2013.
This enabled us to return our purchase, completed right at the year end on 109.8 million in 2016 in addition to the 90.2 million 22 December, of the Subaru and Hino Distribution issued through dividends, and the board has businesses from the major South American approved continuation of the second tranche company, Empresas Indumotora.
Covering Colombia and Argentina as well as our Over the past 12 months, we have taken a great established markets of Chile and Peru, the business deal of action to create an operational and cultural is recognised as a high-quality operator with a environment in which the business model can culture of excellence in customer service that be an even stronger driver of improving business complements our own.
This is where the Ignite strategy fits in.
standing and strong existing partnerships with I have already referred to this, our strategy to become Subaru and Hino, other Distribution relationships the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and included in the deal are Suzuki in Argentina and Retailer, which I outlined in last years Annual Report.
DFSK in Chile, Peru and Argentina.
Above all, this acquisition is a compelling Outlook for 2017 demonstration of Ignite in action.
It gives us a scale I believe that Inchcape has progressed substantially operation and a strong, balanced line-up of brand during 2016 on its journey to become the worlds partners in South America, positioning us well to most trusted automotive Retailer and Distributor.
grasp the opportunities presented by predicted Looking forward, we are well positioned to continue increases in vehicle-ownership across all four to leverage our global scale, drive growth from the countries.
In short, it perfectly exemplifies Ignites expanding Car Parc and benefit from our positions overriding goal of driving long-term value creation.
across a strong spread of markets.
More specifically for 2017, although we anticipate a continuation of the transactional currency headwind for our Australasia region and a slower New Vehicle trend in some markets, we expect to deliver a resilient constant currency performance.
Our overall 2017 performance will benefit from our recent South Acquisition in South America American acquisition and, if Sterling remains around current levels, from the currency translation benefit arising from the substantial proportion of our profits Investing to being generated in other regions.
accelerate growth As an innovative business in a fast changing industry, I know that our Ignite strategy, which is centred around Biggest Distribution Creates a scale Distribution trust, our strong balance sheet and our discipline in acquisition in presence in South America controlling cost and capital allocation are all integral with excellent structural 20 years parts of our overall approach that will continue to drive growth potential long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Add to these vital properties the commitment, Focused on long term passion and engagement of our winning teams Colombia brand partners across the world, and I believe we have an overall Peru value proposition that is unmatched in our industry.
Chile Argentina STEFAN BOMHARD Read more about progress on our strategy on pages 10 15 Group Chief Executive 8 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our global leadership team Group Executive Committee Our Group Executive Committee is a global Sadly, Louis Fallenstein decided to retire from leadership team of experts that brings together a Inchcape as UK CEO at the end of 2016.
His wealth of experience from a range of industries as contribution over 10 years in the business was well as deep local market knowledge with a focus significant and he has created great momentum in on operational excellence.
The Executive team drives the UK which will now be continued and built upon the vision and direction of the Company on behalf by his replacement, James Brearley.
several months working with us on the Ignite strategy in 2016, specifically on our objective to deliver full I would like to highlight here some changes that potential on all our revenue streams.
With extensive have been made to the team in 2016. experience at executive level in a career spanning The new Asia region, which replaces North Asia and 30 years in the UK automotive market, he was a South Asia, is led by George Ashford who took up this natural choice to be Louis successor.
strategically important regional CEO post in October I would also like to welcome Dima Ivanov, our final 2016.
Prior to this, George was CEO of our Australasia new addition to the Group Executive Committee region and he in turn has been replaced by Nick since the last Annual Report.
Dima joined the Senior, who was previously Managing Director of Company from Bacardi as Chief Marketing and Subaru Australia.
These appointments are examples Communications Officer in August 2016 following the of strong internal succession planning, leveraging departure of Ken Lee: he brings with him a wealth of our global scale and talent pool, as well as our expertise in digital, social and brand marketing determination to promote from within the which will be brought to bear on Inchcapes organisation wherever possible.
developing customer experience proposition and corporate communications function.
From left: George Ashford: Patrick Lee: Bertrand Mallet: Louis Fallenstein: Ruslan Kinebas: Richard Howes: Stphane Chatal: Stefan Bomhard: Nick Senior: Aris Aravanis: Alison Clarke: Dimitry Ivanov: Koh Ching Hong.
View full biographies online at www.
