STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A YEAR OF INVESTMENT, DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE Stephen A. Carter, Group Chief Executive s a growing company, Informa is seeking to build strength and scale in international markets in the Knowledge and Information Economy.
A Through the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan GAP, we continue to pursue our ambition of returning every part of the business to growth and building the capability and platforms for future scale and consistent performance.
The first three years of GAP brought new focus and dedicated investment in people, products and platforms across the business.
It has also seen us make deliberate choices about where to expand the Group: Extend our US presence.
Build and buy a leading position in Exhibitions.
Create balance and breadth across the Group.
Minimise dependence on retail markets and one-off conferences.
At the same time, there was a conscious focus on retaining and building on the many strong characteristics that make Informa unique: our passion for specialist markets and information: our ability to connect people with knowledge: our commitment to helping customers solve problems, make better decisions and transact: the strength of our brands: and our dynamic and agile approach to seizing new opportunities.
INVESTMENT AND DELIVERY IN 2016 In 2016, this combination of focus, change, discipline and differentiation, combined with an acceleration of our GAP plans through the acquisition of Penton Information Services, has delivered another year of improved operational progress and financial performance.
Despite continued volatility at a macro level, stemming from political uncertainty in the US and Europe, currency movements and shifts in commodity prices, and specific weakness in individual markets like Brazilian events and US books, our focus onoperational fitness and delivery enabled each of our four Operating Divisions to move forward, with: www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Clear and strong growth in Global Exhibitions: further international expansion and continued investment in digital anddata capabilities: A return to positive revenue growth in Business Intelligence, with increased focus on subscriptions and customer management, refreshment and investment in products and platforms: Consistent performance in Academic Publishing reflecting itsupper level focus and specialist content, combined with continued investment in content, data and digital discovery: Further operational performance and repositioning in Knowledge & Networking to increase concentration onBranded events in our three core Verticals and communitycontent.
Investment has been a consistent theme throughout the year.
Total capital expenditure was over 50m, including in more than30 GAP initiatives spanning all four Operating Divisions.
Westarted to see the early benefits of some of these projects and the pace of delivery will pick up through 2017 and into 2018.
Continued investment externally has seen us build further international scale in key Vertical markets, including Sustainability and Waste The Water & Wastewater Equipment, Treatment & Transport Show, WWETT, TMT Light Reading, Life Sciences Boston Biotech, Finance ETF.
com, and towards the end of theyear in verticals including Agriculture and Health & Nutrition through the addition of Penton.
This gives the Group greater balance and breadth, in terms of geographies, markets, customers and capabilities, and creates a more resilient and diverse business overall, better placed to manage individual market challenges and achieve sustainable long-term growth.
CONSISTENT AND IMPROVING GROUP PERFORMANCE The Group recorded a third consecutive year of growth in revenue, profit, earnings, cashflow and dividends in 2016.
Group revenues were 1,345m, an increase of 11% over the previous year and adjusted operating profit grew at a similar rate.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share also continued to improve, up nearly 7% to 42.1p.
At a Divisional level, Global Exhibitions had another excellent year, delivering organic revenue growth of 8.7% and reported growth of 16.9%.
Under Charlie McCurdys first full year of leadership, we remained proactive in building further scale and expanding the business internationally.
The size and fragmented nature of the US exhibitions market, and the resilience of its underlying economy, make it particularly attractive and so this remains a key focus.
We now own 16 of the TSNN Top 200 Exhibitions in the US, with around half of pro-forma divisional 7 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 1,345.7m Group revenues in 2016 Year 3 Of four year Growth Acceleration Plan 55% Group revenue is recurring and predictable revenue here.
More broadly, our growth and expansion means announced its next stage with a strategic review of our five we are now the third-largest organiser of Trade Shows in the remaining domestic conference businesses in Germany, world and a true, dynamic challenger in this attractive market.
Switzerland, Australia, Singapore and Brazil.
Domestic spot conferences were a key drag on performance in 2016, and the Business Intelligence returned to positive revenue growth for Division posted an organic revenue decline of -4.1% during the theyear, amilestone moment for the Division and testament to year.
Many of our large branded events in our key three Verticals itsefforts to refocus and renovate the business over the last three TMT, Life Sciences and Finance performed well, particlularly in years.
Asimplified operating model, focused on its verticals and our major hubs in the US, UK and Middle East.
Increased focus, customers, combined with focus on subscription renewals and operational excellence and continued investment in developing sales management has led to a measured turnaround, with organic digital communities and specialist content remain the blueprint growth improving from -8.5% in 2014 to 1.1% in 2016.
We look forreturning the business to growth.
tobuild on this in 2017 as we start toreap the benefits of GAP investments in our products and platforms, and combine our INCREASED BREADTH AND BALANCE strengths with those of the recently acquired Penton business.
Our consistent operating performance in 2016 was complemented by continued international expansion, including the addition of In Academic Publishing, we reported another year of organic Penton Information Services in November.
This was our largest revenue growth at 0.3%, reflecting deep strength in journals and acquisition to date and we are grateful for the strong support returns from acquisitions.
The books market remained subdued, ofour Shareholders in pursuing and funding it.
particularly in lower level segments, and this impacted the revenue performance of our books business.
The move to This strategy has allowed us to build scale in the key US market consolidate operations into a single global books business has, and ensures Informa goes into 2017 with a portfolio that is however, improved operational efficiency, underpinning profits.
broader and more balanced, providing increased stability, predictability and potential for growth.
Divisional CEO Roger Horton will retire in 2017 after more thanadecade leading the business.
Roger has overseen DIVISIONAL BREADTH AND BALANCE Academic Publishings development into one of the worlds We now have three Operating Divisions of similar size, with less topacademic publishers andthe Group owes him much thanks reliance on Academic Publishing, a stronger position in our and appreciation for hisdedication, contribution and success.
highest growth business Global Exhibitions, increased scale atBusiness Intelligence and an appropriate level of focus We continued to implement our restructuring and rationalisation atKnowledge & Networking, which now generates less than programme at Knowledge & Networking in 2016 and 10% of Groupprofit.
8 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Bringing Penton Information Services into the Informa Group Vertical breadth and balance The addition of Penton enhances our position in key verticals Our programme of scale and expansion over the last including Agriculture, Health & Nutrition and TMT and three years has particularly focused on the US.
nichesub-sectors, while giving us positions in adjacent and Alongside Virgo Publishing, Hanley Wood Exhibitions, newmarkets, including Transportation and Infrastructure.
FIME, Orlando MegaCon, Maney, WWETT, Light Thisfocused scale across a wider number of verticals reduces Reading and others, we identified Penton as having dependency on more cyclical industries, most notably Real an attractive and complementary profile to Informa.
Its combination of portfolio mix, with strength in Geographic breadth and balance exhibitions and business intelligence, and vertical mix Our international expansion strategy has also reduced our in Agriculture, Natural Products and TMT led us to dependence on the Middle East as a region and seen us build initiate a series of exclusive discussions and, in valuable scale in the United States.
This remains the largest and September 2016, Informa announced its intention to most important region in all of the markets where we operate.
acquire Penton for 1.2bn, funded through debt and The relatively stable and resilient US economy provides us with equity including a 715m rights issue attractive opportunities for growth.
The Groups journey to a moreinternational portfolio with strength in the US is outlined Rationale and benefits onpages 16 and 17.
The combination has compelling operational, commercial and financial attractions.
It strengthens Revenue breadth and balance Informas position in key verticals such as Health & The Groups increased breadth and balance also extends to Nutrition, Agriculture and TMT, and our US revenue mix, with our targeted investments increasing the level of presence.
It significantly enhances Global recurring and predictable revenue from subscriptions to journals, Exhibitions, adding 30 leading brands, and intelligence and data products and the pre-booking of stands strengthens Business Intelligence, adding 20 and event space.
In aggregate, our subscriptions and exhibitions subscription data and intelligence Brands and over revenue will account for more than 55% of Group revenue, 100 digital and print insight products.
It brings new providing a high level of forward visibility and cash generation.
capabilities in digital marketing services, events The addition of Penton broadens the Groups capabilities, services and specialist community content.
bringing significant expertise in complementary areas such The transaction met our financial benchmarks for asMarketing Solutions and Exhibitions Services that access acquisitions with strong operating and financial andallow us to tap into newareas of customer budgets.
It is immediately earnings enhancing and THE FINAL YEAR OF GAP AND BEYOND is expected to deliver a post-tax return on investment 2017 is shaping up to be another busy year, with two clear ahead of our cost of capital within the first full year priorities: of ownership on a cash basis and within two years on a non-cash basis.
To successfully deliver the final year of GAP, further improving the overall level of operational fitness, and demonstrating Discover Deliver Combine thebenefits of our investments, to put the Group in a strong The integration programme is led by the now USposition to deliver on our growth ambitions going into 2018 based Business Intelligence CEO Patrick Martell, and andbeyond: will be a phased and measured programme over two years to effect a smooth and effective transition.
The Discovery phase commenced at the end of November, post completion of full ownership, with Informa teams The combination of taking time to better understand Pentons operations and ensure maximum value from the combination.
change, discipline and The Delivery phase also launched soon after completion to ensure continued focus through the end of 2016 and differentiation in the first quarter of 2017, key trading periods for both groups.
The final phase, where the Groups more formally delivered improved Combine, bringing teams, verticals, divisions, operating systems and ways of working fully together, will complete operational progress over the course of 2017 and 2018 growth years.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Informa goes into 2017 with a portfolio that is broader and more balanced, providing increased stability, predictability and potential for growth To ensure a smooth and effective combination of Penton COLLEAGUE COMMITMENT AND CONTRIBUTION Information Services with Informa, delivering our synergy The combination of investment and growth should put Informa targets and starting to operate as one broader and more ina strong position to continue creating value for shareholders balanced Group.
well beyond the end of GAP.
The Knowledge and Information Economy remains vibrant and growing, and our many unique It will therefore be a year of accelerated change, as we look brands in niches and communities position us well within it.
tocreate further value and opportunities for our customers In 2017 and beyond, it will be key for the Group to stay relevant andreapthe benefits of our increased scale.
and valuable to how our customers work, adapting our GAP has been a valuable framework and an effective delivery technology and talent to remain responsive, dynamic and mechanism for moving us towards the sustainable Group-wide creative and bring our best ideas and full capabilities to market.
growth we believed was both possible and vital.
Many elements of the GAP programme will remain part of how Informa operates None of the results and achievements detailed in this report, in 2018 and beyond.
Financial and operating discipline, effective including the continued delivery of the Growth Acceleration Plan, portfolio management and targeted acquisitions will all remain would be possible without the full commitment and contribution hallmarks of Informa.
of the 7,500 colleagues working at Informa.
This is also true of investment.
The last three years have seen As I travel around the Group, I am continuously impressed by usinvest up to 90m in a range of organic initiatives across theknowledge and expertise amongst colleagues, the levels of theGroup.
Some of this was to catch-up after a period of interest and passion for the vertical markets we specialise in, and underinvestment that left many of our products and platforms the common drive to be creative, to innovate, and for many, the lacking the digital qualities and flexibility expected by customers.
willingness to develop and take on additional responsibilities Consistent investment is essential to retain competitive within the Group.
advantage and differentiate ourselves in the knowledge The success of Informa comes directly from the ideas, energy andinformation markets.
and participation of every colleague, and the role they play in Each of our Divisions will transition to a business-as-usual developing and delivering our content, and creating connections approach to investment through 2017, retaining the principles for customers and the specialist communities in which we operate.
ofgovernance and reporting established under GAP.
A good We will seek to retain this spirit and approach as we grow and example is the project to upgrade our group-wide enterprise internationalise, and provide the freedom and opportunities to resource platform in Global Support, which is outlined in more ourcolleagues that makes the experience of working at Informa detail on page 55. enjoyable and rewarding.
Beyond GAP, the focus will remain firmly on growth, with each Thanks to them, to our Shareholders, our customers and those business measured against the underlying growth they deliver as inthe communities we serve, and we look forward to continuing well as the returns achieved from any acquisitions.
Following the this work in 2017. addition of Penton, the like-for-like growth delivered by acquired businesses will also be included in this assessment from the day STEPHEN A. CARTER we own them, ensuring management is immediately focused on Group Chief Executive driving the underlying business forward.
We intend to report underlying growth on this basis externally from 2017.
10 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS THE 2014-2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN Strategy: to progressively return every part of Informa to growth, and simultaneously build the capabilities and platforms needed for future scale and consistent performance Delivery & implementation: the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan is a four-year roadmap for delivering this strategy, covering six disciplines 1 2 3 Operating Structure Management Model Portfolio Management Simplify and align Refresh and enhance, Adopt a more proactive with customers and establishing clear lines approach, continuously end markets of authority and scrutinising the accountability potential for returns 4 5 6 Acquisition Strategy Investment Funding Develop a more targeted Invest 70m90m Improve financial and disciplined approach: in a range of organic discipline, maximise focus investment in growth initiatives cash generation, priority markets create a robust and flexible framework 11 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
