06 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW STRONG CORE BUSINESS EXCITING FUTURE 2016 has been a year where we have continued to lay the foundations for future growth.
I look forward to 2017 being a year of transformation.
We have continued to build upon the roll-out of our Global Xpress services and put in place building blocks for the expansion of future services across all our business sectors.
These actions will support our strategy to become a digital services enabler over the coming years.
OVERVIEW A slow finish to the end of 2015 meant a lack of momentum entering 2016 and consequently a disappointing first quarter in terms of financial performance.
By the second quarter, we were performing better and finished the year well.
This was overall an encouraging performance in a market environment that continues to be attritional, with negligible sector growth and downwards pressure on service pricing.
We have started to generate revenues from our Rupert Pearce Global Xpress broadband services and have made Chief Executive Officer continued progress in the positioning of our L-band services for complementary revenue growth, and alongside this we are continuing to invest in our support for innovative solutions and products.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Our diversified business model continues to be one of our strengths, allowing us to benefit from Chaired by Rupert Pearce, the Executive Management Board focuses on managing Inmarsats opportunities in one area if another is affected business affairs as a whole, which includes the delivery of a competitive strategy, developing our by a business downturn and to stay the course financial structure and operational planning, driving financial performance and successful business through business downcycles in our core sectors.
outcomes as well as harnessing the talent of our global workforce.
The anticipation of additional satellite capacity in adjacent markets may affect our own global mobility markets.
We therefore regularly review how we Rupert Pearce respond to this new market dynamic and make Chief Executive Officer our services relevant to our partners and customers as they consider their buying patterns and needs.
The geo-political environment also provides Philip Balaam Tony Bates Natasha Dillon uncertainty as to the performance of global Chief Strategy and Chief Financial Officer Chief People Officer Marketing Officer markets.
We are globally dispersed and the majority of our revenues are denominated in USD which provided us with some financial benefit Paul Gudonis Michele Franci Peter Hadinger in 2016: this protected us from some of the issues Chief Technology Officer President, President, other UK companies had following the Brexit Enterprise Business Unit US Government Business Unit decision.
We are watchful as to how we may be affected as geo-political activities occur.
Alison Horrocks Leo Mondale Jason Smith 2016 saw several changes in our executive Chief Corporate Affairs Officer President, Chief Operations Officer management board, with Debbie Jones, Ruy Pinto, and Company Secretary Aviation Business Unit Pat McDougal and Chris McLaughlin after long and illustrious careers at Inmarsat all retiring or moving on at the year end or shortly afterwards.
Ronald Spithout Andy Start We thank them for their contributions and for President, President, the foundations for growth that each has helped Maritime Business Unit Global Government Business Unit Inmarsat establish.
We are also delighted to welcome Natasha Dillon Chief People Officer, Jason Smith Chief Operations Officer and Phil Balaam Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer Governance as their replacements.
We intend shortly to add See page 67 a Chief Digital Officer to lead our digital strategy.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 07 Scan the image below using the Inmarsat App to watch our 2016 highlights.
I was delighted with the successful capital raising last year we raised over $1bn through convertible bond and high-yield bond offerings as new and replacement capital.
We repaid some more expensive debt and the new funding allows us to continue to invest for growth.
Our access to capital remains strong and our current financial position is well structured.
BUSINESS ACTIVITY During the first quarter we took the difficult decision to delay the launch of Fleet Xpress FX, which is our maritime GX variant, to the maritime industry, because we felt that certain aspects of the service needed further time to bed down which is not uncommon for the launch of a new service.
We also experienced a slowdown in our maritime XpressLink XL service which had been offered as a bridge-to-GX during the year, as customers opted to wait for FX instead of installing XL, which caused a loss of momentum in our maritime business in Q2 and Q3.
Despite ongoing pricing pressures and recession in the global shipping industry, with the launch of FX in April, we had recovered a lot of that momentum by the end of the year.
We remain confident in the growth prospects of FX, especially as we signed three tenders and progress them into contract, we with Ligado benefiting from significant deferred major FX strategic partnerships in the year, with believe we are competing well for new business and payments and Inmarsat benefiting from enhanced Marlink, Speedcast and Navarino.
We are also we were thrilled to win several new Deutsche spectrum usage and a delayed transition timetable.
excited about the long-term prospects of Fleet Lufthansa DLH group airlines, as well as We remain very busy delivering our future One, which stimulates the reorientation of our Norwegian Air Shuttle and Air New Zealand in 2016. networks.
In 2016 we continued to advance our L-band business towards smaller vessels.
As we move into 2017 DLH is now active in installing European Aviation Network which is a groundtheir planes with GX for Aviation, the aviation Unaffected by the delay in the launch of FX breaking hybrid satellite air-to-ground network variant of our Ka-band GX service.
commercial services, our Government business serving the European short haul IFC market.
units delivered a strong performance in the year, Our core L-band aviation business, covering We have completed our fourth Inmarsat-5 and demonstrating a welcome return to year-on-year business aviation and safety and operations are building the first two Inmarsat-6 satellites growth, with a particularly strong performance services performed very creditably and both which we plan to launch in 2020 and beyond.
in the fourth quarter as a result of a short-term segments have growth potential in the years It was disappointing that neither our S-band one-off bandwidth contract.
satellite which will support the EAN nor budget constraints globally, our strategy to Inmarsat-5 F4 were launched in the year, but Our Enterprise business did not show revenue internationalise, diversify and innovate continues delays are endemic in the satellite launch industry growth in 2016, as some of our longer-serving to bear fruit.
We believe we are well placed to and we are advised that each are on schedule for products became less competitive and pricing benefit from the likely desire of governments launch in the first half of 2017.
I was proud of the pressures grew in some of our key markets.
around the world to enlarge their relationship with agility with which my team moved to another We responded by restructuring our business commercial providers to deliver next generation launch provider, Arianespace at the end of the unit to focus on emerging market verticals, satellite communications services.
year, to protect the launch timetable for our accelerating our innovation and business S-band satellite.
2016 was a year in which we made significant development activities, and looking to extend investment in in-flight connectivity or IFC, a rapidly our international footprint by moving into new At the same time, we continue to progress emerging new market adjacent to our legacy geographies.
We believe those initiatives will the creation of our digital services platform, aviation markets.
Recognising the fact that we are start to bear fruit in 2017.
We are also looking which is designed to augment our L-band and in an intense market capture period of potentially at opportunities in the transportation market, broadband communication services with an short duration, we have been building our own particularly as regards the connected car.
array of value-added solutions, applications downstream sales, marketing and service delivery and other digital products targeted at our end Elsewhere, we restructured our commercial capability to ensure that we cover the emerging user communities.
We hope these will open up the relationship with Ligado, putting this long-enduring global marketplace alongside those of our legacy prospect of enabling innovative big data analytics and important partnership onto a sound footing in channel partners whose capabilities can extend and services creating enhanced value for users.
support of Ligados emergence from bankruptcy from our legacy aviation businesses to IFC.
While We remain on track to introduce this platform in protection.
We have a cooperation agreement this has impacted EBITDA in the short term, we late 2017 and some first generation services are with Ligado for them to use some of our satellite believe it will deliver sustained enhanced revenue already beginning to be brought to market.
We believe the and EBITDA growth in the years to come.
Although restructuring will be beneficial to both parties, it is complex and time-consuming to win IFC 08 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED In this fast changing ultra-connected world STRATEGY of smart machines, connectivity is becoming a INMARSAT Five years ago we articulated a clear strategy crucial enabler and not just a cost.
Mobile satellite 2016 AWARDS based on our need to: services are becoming more and more relevant as a connectivity medium for this emerging gigabit drive into broadband services with GX by society.
The global coverage, high levels of reliability transitioning core customers, adding new and security, mobility, precision navigation and DECEMBER ones in our core markets and diversifying broadcast services that Inmarsat can offer our end into new broadband markets USG wins 2016 Homeland Security Award customers, especially in a form readily integrable for Best Satellite Based Broadband reorient the use of our L-band capacity to target with terrestrial technologies, means that we are Communications Solution for Global Xpress new growth opportunities by leveraging off the well-placed to play a powerful and important role differentiated strengths of our L-band networks in supporting and empowering this emerging and digital society.
NOVEMBER fuel both of the above with the introduction The roadmap for supporting our strategy of a new solutions platform and ecosystem focuses on four complementary pillars: Maritime shortlisted for SMART4SEA Excellence Award for Fleet Xpress with We have now added three elements: BEST NETWORKS confirmation of winning the award received A vision that explains what were doing on TO HAVE THE HIGHEST QUALITY, in January 2017 strategy in its wider societal setting.
The CUTTING-EDGE INTEGRATED Vladimir Maksimov wins posthumous H. E. R. O. emerging digital world the gigabit society GLOBAL NETWORKS.
Lifetime Achievement Award for maritime is important as we see our current and future safety at the inaugural International services are of increasing relevance to the BEST SOLUTIONS Maritime Rescue Federation IMRF H. E. R. O. world and we can play an important role in TO HAVE THE HIGHEST QUALITY Honouring Excellence in Rescue Operations the foundations and functioning of a new UNIQUE SOLUTIONS PLATFORM.
Awards 2016 digital world BEST DISTRIBUTION Greater expansion on the areas of strategic TO HAVE GLOBAL REACH TO DELIVER relevance to us in deploying our strategic vision VALUE-ADDED CUSTOMER OUTCOMES SEPTEMBER and plan under the headings of Best Networks, VIA MARKET INTIMACY.
Best Solutions, Best Distribution and Best Inmarsat is named Global Satellite Operator of Workplace.
These elements enable us to the Year at Euroconsults 13th Annual Awards BEST WORKPLACE create a more developed roadmap for the for Excellence in Satellite Communications TO BE PASSIONATE, OPEN, ENTERPRISING implementation of the strategy AND EASY TO DO BUSINESS WITH.
An evolution of our strategy since 2012 because we now position the journey as one from having JULY been a mobile satellite operator to becoming The next sections reflect what each of these The Inmarsat team that worked on the search a digital services enabler.
We recognise that means, and how they support our ambitions.
for the missing Malaysian airliner MH370 was steps along the strategic roadmap have awarded the prestigious Michael Richey Medal changed our business and they have created by the Royal Institute of Navigation new opportunities, some of which are already in focus such as GX and EAN The emerging digital society is a global society MARCH founded on ultra-connectivity.
The extraordinary proliferation of smart mobile devices is expected to Joseph Teixeira, Inmarsats Vice President grow materially over the next few years from more of Aviation Safety and Cybersecurity, was than 5 billion globally today to more than 20 billion awarded one of the highest accolades in in only a few years.
aviation safety at the National Air Traffic Controllers Association NATCA s This growth is substantially fuelled by smart Communicating for Safety conference machines or sensors, driving the emerging the James L. Oberstar Sentinel of Internet of Things or IoT, in which machines Safety Award communicate autonomously with each other to run our world.
This generates enormous quantities Global Xpress wins Government Mobility of data which is captured, analysed and turned into Satcom Innovation award at the Mobile Satellite actionable intelligence and then acted upon, Users Association MSUA Mobility Satellite delivering the so-called big data revolution.
Innovation Awards at SATELLITE 2016 Awards inmarsat.
com awards STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 09 BEST NETWORKS BEST SOLUTIONS WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
Deliver on the promise of the first version of Global Xpress We want to deliver a high-quality, reliable, value added through our first four Ka-band satellites.
We are already Inmarsat Gateway platform delivering multiples of cuttingplanning through the Inmarsat-6 satellite programme what edge solutions and services in a very tailored way to all of the can be provided which will allow us to serve our customers communities we serve well.
We want to future-proof our GX services We also want to develop a powerful, diverse, global, Reinvigorate our L-band network.
We want to see in use innovative and relevant Inmarsat solutions ecosystem.
very small, highly resilient, cheap devices, passing small We will support certified application partners, digital service amounts of data at reasonable data speeds.
We are going providers, original equipment manufacturers OEMs who to re-invigorate and re-orientate our Lband networks want to invest in solutions development, services enablement through Inmarsat-6 and other programmes and other digital tools and capabilities Deliver the European Aviation Network which uses We may develop our own value added digital services and the S-band satellite for the satellite component of this solutions if the market is not served and where we cannot service, and working with Deutsche Telekom to deliver the find the partners to work with us to do so complementary ground network.
We are already looking at We are going to digitise Inmarsats core business and extending the European Aviation Network inside the greater operations as well which will improve the interface with European landmass so that countries on the edges of the our partners and broader ecosystem European Community can benefit from this new service Enhance the openness of our networks through network architecture and provide rich capabilities in edge devices which provide an entry point into our networks.
We have done that already with the BGAN Radio Module and also the Network Service Device for the Global Xpress service and its successor which is the software version of that device BEST DISTRIBUTION BEST WORKPLACE WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
We want to deliver core capabilities in rich value added ways We need to hire talented individuals for our customers and to offer something more than the We must train, inspire and empower our global workforce provision of airtime and do this by having appropriate learning and development We want to be proactive to solve customer problems, working opportunities with partners and customers to understand issues and how We need to deliver first-class systems, processes and working we can provide a way to work together practices to support our employees which in turn will improve We will focus on indirect distribution to market for all of efficiencies for our partners.
Our Streamline Programme, with our target markets.
We want to reinvigorate our channel a simplified legal agreement, the creation of a product and ecosystem for new growth.
We may have additional partners price master file and improved customer portals, will make it such as application partners or OEMs easier for our partners to do business with us We want to drive enhanced value to our channel which We are also investing in modern, agile and collaborative means we are focusing in the years to come on strategic working environments.
In 2016 we successfully transformed relationships.
We are keen to encourage partners to several of our offices located in key hubs.
Some key create and accelerate new ideas which can be worked on offices will undergo the same treatment in 2017 and we collaboratively leading to success for them and Inmarsat are also investing in our London HQ building in what will be a multi-year programme to create a modern working environment befitting all who work in or visit the building 10 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2017 OUTLOOK FOR 2017 With a diversified business, we have multiple I believe Inmarsat has multiple opportunities to priorities which run across all aspects of our further develop its business in 2017 and we remain business activities and Ive highlighted a few below.
confident about the medium to long-term outlook Some relate to how we target our markets and for our business.
revenue opportunities: others are about how we We see there is long-term growth in the demand can improve our business activities to the benefit for satellite communications services which can of multiple stakeholders and also recognise the be met through our multiple service offerings.
investment in our staff and their contribution.
The market-leading global broadband capabilities GX ramp up: demonstrate strong revenue of GX, our unique position within Aviation, the growth across all markets with particular resilience and differentiation of our L-band focus on success in our Maritime markets franchise, the power of our global distribution channels and our full-service global mobile offer In-flight connectivity: demonstrate we can be together strongly position Inmarsat in our a leading player by winning new orders, moving chosen markets.
current orders into installation and delivering the EAN into commercial service We have identified our priorities, we are making improvements in how we deliver our services Digital transformation: put in place the key and upgrading our processes and systems.
building blocks to deliver our digital strategy Our employees are talented and are committed China: accelerate our activities in this key to supporting our future ambitions.
We work with market: particularly the emerging in-flight an innovative and creative ecosystem and look connectivity opportunity forward to developing these relationships.
Connected car: look at how we can participate I would like to thank our staff and partners for in this market to serve the transport industry their support, engagement and enthusiasm during 2016.
We are committed to delivering value to our Enterprise Business Unit: re-energised with the MARITIME CASE STUDY: shareholders and all stakeholders.
critical identified market sub-sectors starting FISHING IN FUJIAN to deliver profitable growth RUPERT PEARCE PROVINCE Operational systems: with a significant project Chief Executive Officer Fishing in Fujian Province, on Chinas called OneIT moving into its second year, 8 March 2017 southeastern coast, accounts for around we need to continue to deliver on the multiple 30% of the provinces agricultural GDP, while projects to improve our operational activities more than 420,000 fishermen and their within OneIT to benefit our partners, customers families depend on fishing and aquaculture and staff for a living.
Over the years, extreme weather Process excellence: we need to improve the and competition with nearby countries for quality and visibility of our core business fish has led to substantial falls in viable stocks.
processes to simplify the way we work and As such, the Chinese Government has make it easier for our customers to work with us sought to significantly improve the fisheries Workplace improvement: our focus will be on management of the region.
It turned to new offices in important hubs and the start of Inmarsat and its Chinese manufacturing the re-development of our global HQ in London partner Chengdu Spaceon to develop a satellite terminal that not only can track Our people: are integral to the success of our and monitor the fishing vessels to prevent strategy and during 2017 we will be redefining overfishing but provides a constant line of and updating our employee value proposition communication so that any boat in distress can seek help.
Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to view Maritime content STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 11 ENTERPRISE CASE STUDY: AVIATION CASE STUDY: GOVERNMENT CASE STUDY: DELIVERING HEALTHCARE A NEW GENERATION OF ELECTIONS IN BRAZIL TO THE REMOTEST AVIATION SAFETY SERVICES Brazil has been a pioneer in electronic voting COMMUNITIES systems since the 1990s as it sought to Hawaiian Airlines is the first commercial address the huge problems facing its electoral airline to install Inmarsats next generation The charity SOS Children launched a process, including endemic fraud in the paper  system.
The service community health project to identify chronic ballot, electoral inaccessibility and a lengthy provides always on high-speed broadband diseases amongst isolated villagers in Benin, counting process.
connectivity directly to the cockpit.
Inmarsats BGAN Link service was means the plane and air traffic control are in used to transmit medical data for immediate In recent elections, the country worked with constant contact leading to vastly improved diagnosis by urban hospital doctors, meaning Inmarsat to make sure that voters in even its aircraft position reporting and tracking.
patients could begin treatment straightaway.
most remote regions were able to cast their vote.
Inmarsat BGAN terminals were set up in  connectivity In the first three months alone, the over 1,000 polling stations in some of the most also gives pilots access to real-time weather telemedicine initiative saw more than inaccessible parts of the country so that the updates, so they can better avoid storms and 850 men, women and children visit the ballot results could be rapidly transmitted to turbulence, as well as receive the latest data two temporary clinics.
Doctors were able the Brazilian Superior Electoral Court via a on the aircrafts performance, helping them to remotely diagnose instances of diabetes, secure private network.
plot more efficient routes and save fuel.
hypoglycemia, hypertension and other conditions, with 70 individuals receiving It meant the time to count all the votes was immediate treatment due to the serious cut by two-thirds, enabling the result to be nature of their condition.
Due to its success, announced on the same day for the first time.
the project is still in operation today.
Scan the image above Scan the image above Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to using the Inmarsat App to using the Inmarsat App to view Enterprise content view Aviation content view Government content.
