ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS AN INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE This has been another year of considerable During the year we had closes for our larger, achievement with total assets under well established European funds European 1 management exceeding 20bn for the Mezzanine and Senior Debt Partners GROW ASSETS first time, and record Fund Management at their 3.0bn maximum size, raising UNDER Company FMC profits.
Although a fair 2.7bn in the year.
The remaining 2.5bn MANAGEMENT value loss on derivatives has resulted in of fundraising was across ten strategies, Group profits of 158.8m down from including final closes for our North 178.5m in the prior year.
American and Japanese mezzanine funds.
Whilst conditions for fundraising in Asia The Group has made substantial progress Pacific and for CLOs were more challenging, 3 2 in its transformation into a diversified the 20% increase in total AUM demonstrates Manage invest alternative asset manager.
Our business the growing diversity of our offering and portfolios to selectively model is to continue to increase the scale, maximise value the successful development of our fund profitability and sustainability of our fund management platform.
management business and to optimise the use of our capital to support that of third We have previously indicated that the party investors.
We are confident that the lead time for marketing new strategies is success of our business model and the significantly longer than for established strategic direction of the Group will be funds where we have built a long standing further demonstrated in the coming year.
This was demonstrated by the contrasting experiences we encountered STRONG FUNDRAISING YEAR this year in raising our successful North American Debt Fund and European Fundraising momentum has, as expected, Mezzanine Fund.
For our European remained strong throughout the financial Mezzanine Fund, four initial meetings were year with 5.2bn of new money raised sufficient to generate one investor, with in a favourable fundraising environment.
three months separating first and final The appeal of alternative asset classes to closes.
In contrast, we held 12 initial meetings investors remains unabated and attracts for every investor in our first North American a number of new hopeful entrants to the Fund, resulting in 18 months between first market.
Within this market, a track record built and final closes.
Whilst we are proud of the upon fund and investment performance and result, having raised a first fund ahead of our a diverse offering are immense competitive initial target, we are even more encouraged advantages which appeal to all investors by the prospects for successor funds.
and allow them to concentrate on a smaller number of relationships.
In this context, our Going forward we would underline that the long established reputation for consistency current focus of our fundraising is on our and performance has enabled us to raise newer strategies and, while we are pleased a total of 11.6bn of new money in the last with progress to date, we expect that total two years.
new money raised in financial year 2017 will likely be below the amount raised in each of the last two years.
NAVIGATING OUR STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS CHRISTOPHE EVAIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 3 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS A key focus remains developing our OUTLOOK current strategies to profitable maturity: After two years that have benefitted from however, we will continue to seek new fundraising for our larger European funds, strategies to add to our portfolio.
The most we are confident momentum will continue efficient add-ons will be developing as we target final closes on Longbow new funds around existing teams but we Fund IV, Asia Pacific Fund III and Strategic will constantly review opportunities to Secondaries.
In addition, we have a strong bring new teams in.
New strategies lay pipeline of new funds to raise.
However, as the foundations to increase the diversity these funds are smaller and strategies newer and long term profitability of our fund than those of funds raised in the last two management business.
years, we expect the total new money raised to be lower.
CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT ON TRACK Our fundraising success generates In this competitive investment market, substantial capital to deploy across our we are delighted to have identified investment strategies and we continue to attractive opportunities to sustain an see attractive investment opportunities appropriate investment pace across across our strategies and regions.
We size all our direct investment funds, whilst our funds to the market opportunity and aim maintaining investment discipline.
Of our to deploy the capital in line with the required funds currently in investment mode, 77% investment run rate.
We are therefore highly of AUM charge fees on an invested confident that we will maintain our current capital basis.
The successful deployment deployment pace and find investment of this capital directly contributes to opportunities with the appropriate risk the growth in profitability of our fund return balance, without compromising management business.
on our investment discipline in this highly competitive market.
ROBUST FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE In addition, we do not expect any negative Creating value for our shareholders requires change in the performance of our assets that we continue growing and broadening and funds.
We will continue to manage these the product range of our business.
To that investment portfolios actively, working with end, we are committed to selectively hiring management and sponsors on the delivery new teams, launching new products and of their business plans.
This is critical to strategies and allocating capital to these new maximising the exit value of our portfolio strategies.
To do this we need to maintain assets.
We will maximise returns in older broad access to financing sources and funds by realising assets to crystallise value debt markets, and ensure the Group can for our fund investors and our shareholders.
withstand periods of market stress.
Whilst the timing is not always in the Groups In order to have consistent and stable control and therefore remains uncertain, we access to financing, we have diversified our foresee the pace of realisations that we have sources of financing with an appropriate seen in the last 18 months continuing in the mix of maturities.
We raised 845m during current year.
the year, of which 270m was in US private Overall, we are very confident in our ability placements, 421m extending facilities with to deliver on our strategic objectives and to existing relationship banks and 154m in increase long term shareholder value.
bank facilities with three new relationship banks, continuing our approach of diversifying our funding sources.
