Chief Executive Officers review We have seen an unprecedented level of regulatory change which has impacted the provision of finance to the customers we serve.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer Responding to a changing environment Unfortunately we have seen new regulations, both We are an international consumer For operational proposed and enacted, that have not been thought review finance business that provides small through properly and that already do, or ultimately could see pages 24-31 in the future, undermine the provision of consumer sum loans to underbanked and finance in a fair and transparent manner.
In December underserved consumers and micro- 2015, we saw the introduction of legislation in Slovakia business owners.
Whilst our business that required the charges for our optional agent service to be included in a single loan agreement and therefore has changed significantly in the subject to the existing price cap.
This resulted in many last four years, our ethos remains responsible providers, including our business in Slovakia, withdrawing from the marketplace.
consistent: to provide finance in an ethical and transparent way and to In December 2016, we saw a proposal from the Ministry of Justice in Poland that would significantly constrain the work with our customers to help them provision of finance to underbanked and underserved to repay their loans in a manageable customers in Poland.
This proposal was published without prior consultation with consumers or interested parties and timely fashion.
and followed significant changes introduced by the Ministry of Finance earlier in the year to the way The regulatory landscape consumer finance could be provided.
At the time of During the past two years we have seen an writing this report, it is unclear what form these proposed unprecedented level of regulatory change which has regulations in Poland will take but the current draft could impacted the provision of finance to the customers we change the way we do business and, in turn, limit our serve.
Without doubt, our markets need and benefit from ability to invest in the other areas of our Group.
We are well thought through regulation which enables the engaging with Polish Government ministries and provision of loans to consumers on lower incomes who interested parties to try to achieve a more positive are underserved by mainstream financial providers.
Our solution that is good both for consumers and businesses.
challenge today is to ensure regulators deliver good regulation in a way that ensures that the customer has choice, is provided with unambiguous documentation and is helped if they find it difficult to make repayments due to changed circumstances.
16 Strategic Report Notwithstanding the nature of the regulatory landscape Our businesses in Southern in Europe, we continued to execute our Group strategy, focusing on ensuring that our European home credit Europe and IPF Digital closed businesses become more efficient and diverse and using the year delivering continued the returns generated by these operations to invest in our growth businesses Mexico home credit and IPF Digital.
Details of our strategy can be found on pages 10 and 11. competitors depart at this time, but clearly the proposed new regulations published by the Ministry of Justice in A look back at 2016 trading Poland could change this situation.
Following the In summary, Group profit before tax was 92.6 million clarification of debt-to-income ratios in Lithuania at the in 2016, 23.5 million lower than 2015 reflecting a start of 2016, we took the decision to move to a fully combination of lower home credit profit and higher digital business in this market operated by IPF Digital.
The investment in IPF Digital offset partially by strengthening lower cost of distribution of our digital channel means it is FX rates.
Our businesses in Southern Europe and IPF more capable of adapting to these requirements.
Digital closed the year delivering continued strong growth.
I am pleased to report that the actions taken to Also in Poland at the turn of 2017, we received adverse address performance issues in Mexico in the first half of decisions from the Polish tax authority in respect of the the year have delivered faster growth and our business in 2008 and 2009 financial years on two matters that had Poland coped well with adapting to the new total cost of been accepted as correct during audits of previous credit regulations introduced in the first quarter.
In order to lodge an appeal against the decisions we were required to pay the assessments totalling As part of my review of the year, it is also important to c. 38 million and we plan to robustly defend our position note that our portfolio quality remains robust.
Further detail on this matter can be found in the our cost of bad debt by looking at impairment as a financial review on page 35. percentage of revenue and we aim to stay within a range of 25% to 30%.
For 2016, we recorded impairment as a Our business in the Czech Republic continued to percentage of revenue of 26.8%, marginally higher than contract, driven by intense competition and a 2015 but still at the lower end of our range.
We continue significantly improved macroeconomic situation that has to fund our balance sheet in a conservative fashion and meant a reduction in the number of consumers in our our main source of debt finance remains bonds, the bulk sector who wish to or need to borrow.
We are, however, of which do not need to be refinanced until 2020 or 2021. adapting our product offering and brand to appeal to a wider pool of potential customers.
Our exit from Slovakia is progressing well and is currently ahead of our original European home credit estimates in terms of the effectiveness of our collections In Europe, whilst our home credit businesses had to cope process as we wind down our home credit infrastructure with well-documented regulatory challenges, the in that country.
consumer finance markets as a whole were in growth mode.
In Southern Europe, credit issued growth of 17%, a Mexico home credit good collections performance and tight management of costs supported the delivery of strong profit growth.
We In the second half of 2016 we were successful in delivering also had to meet new employment regulations in higher levels of growth and improved collections in our Romania where 2,800 previously self-employed agents Mexican business following a first half performance which were made employees during the year.
was below our original expectations.
The causes for our underperformance were, in the main, a combination of Changes in regulation have had a dramatic effect on internal operational issues.
In response, we slowed the our business in Poland and Lithuania.
In Poland, the new pace of business change and geographic expansion, cap on non-interest costs on consumer loans came into redirected experienced leaders to our established regions effect on 11 March 2016 and our leadership team and implemented a back to basics programme in our implemented a new product structure to ensure that we operations.
As a result of these corrective actions we saw were compliant with the new regulations.
We had earlier a return to faster levels of growth and improved indicated to shareholders that we expected the collections.
Credit issued grew by 13% in the second half unmitigated impact on our profitability could be of the of the year, giving us 8% growth for the year as a whole.
order of 30 million but that we expected to be able to We also delivered a significant improvement in our mitigate up to half of this.
I am pleased to say that the collections effectiveness which should translate into a step customer response to these new regulations was broadly down in impairment in the first quarter of 2017.
I am in line with our expectations and we continue to expect confident we can maintain this momentum and continue that our Polish business will be able to meet these to take advantage of the growth potential in this market.
The market has not seen any major International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Chief Executive Officers review continued These efficiencies are being driven by a well-structured IPF Digital technology investment programme that will not only take IPF Digital continues to go from strength to strength and structural cost out of the business but will also enhance delivered strong growth in the value of loans issued of our customer-facing capabilities, putting mobile 41% on a proforma basis.
Our product and pricing technology in the hands of our agents for the first time.
strategy combined with excellent customer service is The initial live test of our MyProvi mobile collections resonating well with our customers and we experienced technology began in Hungary, Poland and the Czech Strategic growth in all of our markets.
In September, we launched Republic during the second half of the year and we plan priorities 2016 performance 2017 focus KPIs Risks our digital offering in Mexico to appeal to the growing to roll out the app to all agents in the Czech Republic number of consumers looking for digital loans and where and Hungary in the first half of 2017.
A second phase roll Regulatory smartphone, internet and social media penetration is Established markets Drive profit growth in out of the app in Poland and Romania is planned later in 194,000 30.1% growing at a rapid pace.
We will draw on all of our digital more than doubled established markets the year.
experience across IPF Digital to help us get this business Customers Impairment % profit growth to Continue to deliver Change established and see the early momentum achieved in revenue We are building on the technology platform we acquired 12.4 million management growth and Spain as a positive indicator.
through our digital business to enable us to offer loans New markets progressive credit 41% to prospective customers who apply but do not growing strongly quality improvements 79.0% Credit issued growth People Competitive forces subsequently qualify for one of our digital loans to in new markets Cost-income ratio get a second opportunity through our agent model.
Five years ago, payday lending was virtually unheard Position the business of in our markets: today it is widespread.
With the Competition As we look out to the next three years, we aim to have a 51% for profitability in 2018 introduction of payday lending came offers of first and product group that has a significantly larger portion of customers 9.3M Revenue growth loan for free and significantly shorter credit decisioning proposition sourced through digital channels while at the same time Proforma Loss before tax times before customers could access credit.
As the year the major part of the business will continue to be based progressed, we saw the proliferation of payday lenders on the provision of home credit through an agent Business in virtually all of our markets.
In addition, having repaired workforce.
The funding of the investments required for this Slower than Maintain growth continuity their balance sheets, we saw the risk appetite of banks in transformation will come from our European home credit 841,000 36.5% expected growth momentum and information Europe grow and their advertising start to target the most businesses whilst we leverage the technology from our Customers Impairment % security in the first half of creditworthy segment of our customers with offers of Further improve digital business to drive the Group forward faster and revenue the year instalment and consolidation loans.
Whilst remote lending more efficiently.
collections has certainly taken market share, it is clear that over the Improved performance to drive Reputation 8% Undoubtedly this strategy is predicated on our ability to longer term, digital lending will comfortably co-exist with performance in the down impairment 39.6% Credit issued growth work with any new regulatory changes that arrive in our home credit.
The simple reason for this is that through the second half of 2016 Cost-income ratio markets during this period and we remain committed to Invest further in World Economic participation of an agent, it is possible for a home credit and building growth ensuring good regulation prevails.
Our focus in Poland at environment geographical business to gain a greater understanding of a customers 10% momentum the moment is on achieving such an outcome: regulatory circumstances and can therefore lend responsibility to expansion and 11.7M Revenue growth changes that provide protection to consumers whilst, at that individual where a remote lending business cannot.
Impairment elevated micro-business loan Safety Profit before tax the same time, encouraging a transparent and robust I believe that having the expertise to provide both home product Investment in consumer lending sector.
credit and digital products will offer significant advantage geographical Focus on cost over our direct competitors.
Taxation Finally, when I visit our markets I see a hugely experienced expansion leverage in and resilient team who are motivated to serve our established regions Introduced microThinking ahead customers in the most efficient and responsible way.
We Credit business loans expect the competitive and regulatory landscape to Our strategy, which we announced early in 2016, set out remain challenging but we will continue to work with all a clear vision of a group that would use the uniqueness Funding, our stakeholders in order to shape the business to operate of having both home credit and digital business models market Strong profit growth Respond to successfully within a changing market environment.
within the one family to drive growth.
It is clear today that 1.5M 22.9% and in Southern Europe any changes in this combination is more important than ever and that it counterparty Customers Impairment % regulatory landscape will allow us to adapt to changing circumstances.
Our Poland-Lithuania revenue European home credit businesses are producing very in Poland impacted by good returns which are being used to fund the growth of regulation and Optimise lending 3% our IPF Digital and Mexico home credit businesses.
38.1% Gerard Ryan competition and seek alternative Credit issued growth Cost-income ratio Chief Executive Officer We have a major cost reduction programme underway income streams Continued in our European home credit businesses which delivered contraction in the Focus on costs cost savings of around 11 million annualised 6% Czech Republic 106.7M Grow Providentc.
14 million in 2016 and we will continue to target Revenue growth Profit before tax Good credit quality branded digital further savings in 2017. and collections offering in Poland and launch in the Good progress Czech Republic in Slovakia collections ahead Embed changes of expectations required by new regulations in the Czech Republic and Romania 18 Strategic Report Progress on our strategy Our success in delivering our strategy depends on the effective execution of our business plans and being able to respond to changing market conditions, opportunities and threats.
Strategic priorities 2016 performance 2017 focus KPIs Risks Regulatory Established markets Drive profit growth in 194,000 30.1% more than doubled established markets Customers Impairment % profit growth to Continue to deliver Change revenue 12.4 million management growth and New markets progressive credit 41% growing strongly quality improvements 79.0% Credit issued growth People in new markets Cost-income ratio Position the business Competition 51% for profitability in 2018 and product 9.3M Revenue growth proposition Proforma Loss before tax Business Slower than Maintain growth continuity 841,000 36.5% expected growth momentum and information Customers Impairment % security in the first half of Further improve revenue the year collections Improved performance to drive Reputation 8% performance in the down impairment 39.6% Credit issued growth second half of 2016 Cost-income ratio Invest further in World Economic and building growth environment geographical 10% momentum expansion and 11.7M Revenue growth Impairment elevated micro-business loan Safety Profit before tax product Investment in geographical Focus on cost Taxation expansion leverage in established regions Introduced microCredit business loans Funding, market Strong profit growth Respond to 1.5M 22.9% and in Southern Europe any changes in counterparty Customers Impairment % regulatory landscape Poland-Lithuania revenue in Poland impacted by regulation and Optimise lending 3% 38.1% competition and seek alternative Credit issued growth Cost-income ratio income streams Continued contraction in the Focus on costs 6% Czech Republic 106.7M Grow ProvidentRevenue growth Profit before tax Good credit quality branded digital and collections offering in Poland and launch in the Good progress Czech Republic in Slovakia collections ahead Embed changes For our KPIs For our principal see pages 20-21 risks and of expectations required by new uncertainties regulations in the see pages Czech Republic 36-43 and Romania International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 19 European home credit IPF Digital Mexico home credit Returns focus Growth focus Growth focus
