DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW In 2016, we delivered strong revenue, earnings and cash performance and continued to make progress with the implementation of our 5x5 strategy for growth.
The Group has delivered a strong revenue, earnings and cash To contextualise the growth opportunities ahead, lets start by performance, reflecting the Groups performance management setting out the historical and continuing development of global discipline focused on margin-accretive revenue growth with trade.
This explains why it was so important to our customers strong cash conversion and accretive disciplined capital allocation.
that Intertek took the step more than a year ago of evolving its We have announced a full year dividend of 62.4p, an increase of scope by adding Assurance 'A' to the established Testing, 19.3%, in line with our progressive dividend policy and Inspection and Certification 'TIC' service offering.
With our underpinned by our excellent cash generation.
differentiated Total Quality Assurance 'TQA' value proposition, Intertek is well positioned to seize these exciting opportunities The Products and Trade related divisions, which represent over and has the action plans in place to accelerate growth.
90% of the Groups earnings, delivered an excellent performance with organic growth of 4.1% at constant rates while, as expected, This is what we call our good to great journey.
trading conditions continued to be challenging in the ResourcesQUALITY ASSURANCE NEEDS ARE EVOLVING related division.
The recent acquisitions delivered an excellent Intertek Group plc was born over 20 years ago in 1996, when performance contributing 242m of additional revenue.
it was acquired as part of a management buy-out from the Moving forward, the growth opportunities are very attractive Inchcape Group and subsequently floated on the London Stock and Intertek is very well positioned to seize these as we execute Exchange.
Its roots go back much further than this, to the 1880s, our differentiated 5x5 strategy for growth.
We will leverage our when the founding fathers of the companies that ultimately position as a global market leader in the developing Assurance, formed Intertek included one Thomas Edison and gave birth to a Testing, Inspection and Certification 'ATIC' industry, and we see rich entrepreneurial heritage that thrives in our company today.
tremendous opportunities ahead as we leverage our high-quality, This history is important, because it has been across this cash-generative earnings model.
time-frame that global trade has developed to the level it is at today.
Even as comparatively recently as 50 years ago, the great majority of companies sourced, produced and supplied locally, essentially for domestic customers.
Clearly, major trading nations were already transacting with one another, but it is estimated that international trade represented just 25% of global GDP at the time.
Levels of trade grew during the 1970s and 80s, but even then these were largely focused on supplies of raw materials.
It was really in the 1990s, as companies increasingly strove to reduce their costs and Asia started its phenomenal growth as a manufacturing hub that consumers started to benefit from greatly increased choice.
Today, we operate in a truly global market in which international trade accounts for nearly 60% of total global GDP.
The ever-more complex operations that result from a global supplier base have created tremendous growth opportunities for Intertek over the years.
To describe what we mean about this complexity, the automotive industry provides us with an excellent example of the impact of cost-driven, decentralised sourcing from a variety of locations.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer 16 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION In this industry, a manufacturer will source its gearboxes from a INTERTEK INNOVATIONS Tier-1 supplier.
This supplier, in turn, will have sourced components from a network of Tier-2 suppliers, and these will have sourced their raw materials from a number of Tier-3 suppliers.
Figures OUR BRAND REINVENTION from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders 'SMMT' demonstrate how much things have changed from the 1970s, Were unveiling a bold new brand identity across the world when 90% of the parts in a typical UK-built car were sourced of Intertek to reflect our commitment to superior customer domestically.
Today, that figure stands at just over 40%.
service with Total Quality Assurance.
Cost reduction through global sourcing is only one side of Intertek has always been a pioneer, anticipating the needs the coin.
The more demanding consumer is an almost equally of its clients with bold innovations.
True to the innovative powerful driver of increased complexity.
As consumers seek spirit of our founders, were redefining the industry with greater variety, better quality and shorter response times, choice our Total Quality Assurance value proposition going has proliferated in the shape of increased numbers of products, beyond physical quality control through our Testing, a massively expanded universe of brands and rapid growth in Inspection and Certification services to offering Total routes to market.
Peace of Mind, as we additionally provide Assurance It is extraordinary to consider, for example, that there were services, ensuring our customers operating procedures just eight craft breweries in the US in 1980.
By 2015, there and systems are functioning properly.
We sum this up were more than 4,000.
In the 1980s, if you had a headache in our new brand USP, Total Quality.
you needed to go to the pharmacy to buy painkillers.
Today, As part of our brand reinvention, were rolling out a bold you can go to a pharmacy, to a supermarket, to a convenience new brand identity, inspired by a key moment in our store, a department store, a fuel station or online.
company history our founder Thomas Edisons invention Alongside these domestic changes we are also seeing a huge of the first practical incandescent light bulb.
Our new rise in consumer demand from developing countries, with the identity is much more than just a new logo.
Behind it lies rapid growth of new, aspirational middle classes.
our Customer Promise Intertek Total Quality Assurance expertise, delivered consistently with precision, pace and So opportunities for corporations have grown significantly over passion, enabling our customers to power ahead safely the last 30 or 40 years.
But, equally, so have the complexities as we firmly position Intertek as the trusted partner involved in managing their supply-chain operations.
These are for end-to-end Total Quality.
Regulators are demanding increased transparency and social media presents very significant threats to organisations reputations.
We regularly see product safety recalls following failures in supply-chain management.
Powerful structural growth factors are underway including global trade, evolving regulation, increasing quality standards, heightened consumer demands, technology, proliferating brands and corporations tighter focus on managing supply-chain risks.
Given the increased risk of operating a global supply chain and distribution network, there is a growing realisation among Boards and executive management teams that their businesses need to take a systemic, end-to-end approach to Quality Assurance.
INNOVATING TO STAY AHEAD Intertek has a proven track record of innovating and anticipating the growing needs of its clients.
We have been the pioneers of our industry across the world for 130 years and we continue to be its chief innovator, constantly evolving and improving our offer to customers to meet their changing needs.
Importantly, this entrepreneurial spirit among our people is a fundamental aspect of our differentiated 5x5 strategy for growth.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 17 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CEOS REVIEW continued In identifying that our customers now need systemic and INTERTEK TOTAL QUALITY.
in-depth Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification Our value proposition is now based on Total Quality Assurance services, we added last year a new dimension to our traditional underpinned by our TQA Customer Promise every day, everywhere: Quality Control offering by placing Assurance as the cutting edge Intertek Total Quality Assurance expertise delivered consistently of our product offering.
The intensifying focus by corporations on with precision, pace and passion, enabling our customers to power managing risk in the supply chain has substantially increased the ahead safely.
role of Assurance in their day-to-day risk-mitigation activities.
As first outlined in 2015, we are shifting our centre of gravity Today, the truly systemic Total Quality Assurance solutions towards the business sectors and geographies with the most we can deliver go beyond assuring the quality and safety of a attractive growth and margin prospects.
We believe we already corporations physical components, products and assets to also have a number of important advantages as we move forward look at the reliability of their operating processes and quality on this journey.
Our TQA approach is fundamental to First, there is our sheer scale.
Today, we have more than 1,000 enabling our clients to operate safely and with complete laboratories based in over 100 countries worldwide.
We are where peace of mind.
our clients and prospects are, offering global solutions in local Our differentiated TQA value proposition is set to lead our languages, with local branding and with an understanding growth trajectory in the years ahead.
We have evolved our service of local priorities and culture.
offerings to meet the needs of our customers, positioning Intertek Scale only counts when it is allied with quality and our people strongly to leverage these truly exciting opportunities with our in all our locations across the world are focused on consistently differentiated TQA value proposition.
delivering against our demanding service standards.
By achieving this, on time every time, and providing straightforward access to market-leading expertise and flexible solutions, they build and develop the long-term relationships that we and our customers are looking for.
INTERTEK TQA VALUE PROPOSITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONSUMER RAW MATERIALS MANAGEMENT SOURCING INTERTEK TOTAL QUALITY ASSURANCE: ASSURANCE TESTING INSPECTION CERTIFICATION DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT AND RETAIL SUPPLIERS CHANNELS MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION 18 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION Second, we have been steadily growing our Assurance capability over the years, and now operate a workforce of some 3,000 highly PRODUCTS trained and experienced auditors who conduct an annual average of 100,000 audits across the Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe.
Read more on page 24 Third, and most important of all, we have broadened our Assurance offering over the years.
Our global Business Assurance team offers a broad range of solutions that go far beyond simply helping customers meet their ISO TRADE certification needs.
They also offer customised audit solutions and this ability Read more on page 28 lies directly at the heart of the Intertek advantage.
Today, we are a global market leader in offering and providing customers with genuinely bespoke Assurance solutions.
A concrete example of what we can do for our clients is to help RESOURCES them mitigate the risks inherent in their entire global supplier base.
We have designed an end-to-end Supplier Qualification Read more on page 30 Operating System known as GSM, which enables our customers to track the compliance of all their suppliers with the organisations code of conduct in the areas of human rights and labour practices, worker health and safety, environmental management and Read more about the sectors we work in on page 6 business integrity.
Clearly, being able to develop such a solution for a customer already provide to each individual organisation and by crosswith a global supply chain underlines the advantage that the selling between the various components of our integrated breadth and depth of our capability in this area provides.
the strength of our diversified global network and our ability to Second, we will continue to leverage our global portfolio of adapt our operations demonstrates that we can meet the needs industry leading solutions to win new customer relationships of our customers, wherever in the world that may be.
with new and fast growing local, regional and global companies.
This enables us to present a complete value proposition Third, as companies see the value in our Total Quality Assurance based around Total Quality Assurance.
We can satisfy all approach, there will also be tremendous growth potential in of our customers existing and emerging Quality Assurance convincing corporations that currently conduct this work in-house requirements in operational areas including R&D, sourcing raw to outsource their quality assurance requirements to us.
materials, component supply, manufacturing, transport distribution, retail channels and consumer management.
Fourth, our industry is highly fragmented and we will look at seizing the right M&A opportunities to enable us to expand our That advantage also extends beyond a market opportunity geographic coverage where needed, providing access to a new alone because the Assurance business has some highly attractive kind of offering or strengthening our existing operations.
financial characteristics it is capital light and delivers margins that are above the Group average.
Our highly cash-generative earnings model and strong balance sheet provide the flexibility to accelerate organic growth with ATTRACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH value-enhancing acquisitions.
The total value of the global ATIC market is, we estimate, $250 billion of which only $50 billion is currently outsourced.
That OUR HIGH QUALITY EARNINGS MODEL means there is a total $200 billion in-house opportunity.
The Intertek earnings model is to provide ATIC solutions with superior customer service levels to businesses in the three Companies are certainly doing far more today to improve quality economic sectors of Products, Trade and Resources across and safety than they were even five years ago, but there is much more than 100 countries.
These sectors provide the framework that needs to be done to establish a robust, reliable, end-to-end of our high-quality earnings model, and each benefits from its Total Quality Assurance approach that reduces risk.
That is what own set of structural growth drivers.
we offer and will continue to bring our clients, leveraging our broad service portfolio, our technical expertise and our global The Products sector, which currently delivers over 70% of laboratory network to allow corporations to concentrate on our profit, comprises consumer goods: electrical and wireless: their core value-generating activities.
building and construction: chemicals and pharmaceuticals: softlines and hardlines: transportation technologies: food: and We see four growth opportunities.
We see the sector as continuing to benefit First, we will be looking to leverage the growth opportunities from corporations growing investments in quality and innovation presented by our existing customers.
We aim to increase and anticipate continuing growth in response to rising consumer customer account penetration, both within the services we demand and a higher regulatory burden.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 19 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CEOS REVIEW continued Specifically, we see two key growth drivers for Intertek In Resources, our third business sector, which contributed less in this sector: than 10% of our profit, we anticipate long-term growth driven by increasing demand for global energy to support GDP and Growth in stock-keeping units SKUs or brands, driven by population growth, but we recognise this is a cyclical business increasing numbers of products worldwide, shorter product that is currently in the challenging part of the cycle.
life-cycles and the rise of e-commerce.
Just consider the speed of product development over the last 30 years in the mobile We offer both capex and opex services we can help companies phone sector, as companies have competed for consumer investing in new capacity and operating existing facilities.
attention through investments in technology, innovation, We will also see continued expansion in the different types variety and brand development: and of energy consumed, with an increasing role for renewables in Growth in the number of tests that need to be taken for driving sustainability, carbon reduction and cleanliness of supply.
each SKU or brand, driven by rising regulatory standards, At the Group level, in the mediumto long-term we expect to concerns for safety, demand for higher quality and deliver GDP plus organic revenue growth that is margin accretive continuous innovation.
This will enable us to allocate our We expect our Products sector to continue growing faster resources in a disciplined fashion, to create further value via than GDP as our ATIC services support customers in their carefully selected capital expenditure and M&A investments that determination to: in turn feed further accelerated margin-accretive revenue growth.
Innovate ahead of their competitors: OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our earnings model supports our 5x5 differentiated strategy for Maintain or improve quality while expanding their growth, which aims to move the centre of gravity of the company supply chains: towards high-growth, high-margin areas in our industry.
The Meet more demanding regulatory standards: strategy comprises five strategic priorities and five strategic enablers, targeted at the achievement of five corporate goals Raise the sustainability standards of their products that help us measure progress.
and processes: Our five mediumto long-term corporate goals are: Sharpen their risk-management focus: and Fully engaged employees working in a safe environment Protect their reputations.
Superior customer service in Assurance, Testing, Inspection Our second key business sector is Trade, which comprises cargo: and Certification agriculture: and government and trade services and accounts for around 20% of our profit.
By drawing on our services, Margin-accretive revenue growth based on GDP particularly in the Inspection area, companies have the organic growth assurance of knowing that their cargoes comply with all Strong cash conversion from operations relevant regulations and quality standards.
Accretive, disciplined capital-allocation policy Our Trade business will continue to benefit from ongoing growth in global trade and the development of stronger regional trade Read more about our 5x5 strategy on page 12 in Asia, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean and the Americas.
Our five strategic priorities are: We expect this growth to be at a rate similar to global GDP through the cycle, driven by the increases in global population A strong brand proposition that positions Intertek as the and demand from emerging markets that are causing cargo market-leading provider of Quality Assurance services tonnage, shipping numbers and trading routes to grow.
Delivering superior service with our Total Quality Assurance value proposition, building customer loyalty and attracting I am confident about the long-term future of new customers the ATIC industry.
An increased focus on risk An effective sales strategy that develops our business by management, continuing growth in global attracting new clients and growing account penetration with trade, demand for energy and innovation existing customers, through increasing the focus on the and growing demand for quality and systematic cross-selling of our ATIC solutions sustainability will all play key roles in Operating a growthand margin-accretive portfolio strategy, its future development.
that delivers focused growth among the business lines, countries and services with good growth and margin prospects Together, these forces represent a compelling opportunity.
Just Delivering operational excellence in every operation to to take soya exports as an illustrative example, the total quantity drive productivity exported grew at a CAGR of 6.2% per annum between 2001 and 2015 a similar growth rate to those of many other globally traded agriculture and resource products.
20 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION The five enablers that will support the execution of our The second priority is to deliver sustainable returns for our strategy are: shareholders through the payment of progressive dividends with a dividend payout ratio of circa 40% of earnings.
Our entrepreneurial spirit and decentralised organisation that underpins our customer-centric culture The third priority for capital is M&A activity to strengthen our portfolio in the right growth areas, provided we can deliver good Disciplined performance management, driving margin-accretive returns.
This means focusing on those existing business lines revenue growth with strong cash conversion and strong or countries with good growth and margin prospects, where we returns on capital have leading market positions, or entering new exciting growth Superior technology, increasing productivity and adding value areas, be that geography or services.
to our customers The fourth priority is to maintain an efficient balance sheet that Engaging our people through the appropriate reward gives us the flexibility to invest in growth with a net debt to strategy and investing in the right capabilities to support EBITDA ratio of 1.5 to 2 times.
our growth agenda LOOKING AHEAD Achieving sustainable growth for customers, We believe that the strength of our results in 2016 employees, shareholders, suppliers and communities and demonstrate the attractive nature of our industry, Intertek's ensuring we have the right balance between performance high-quality earnings model and the effectiveness of our 5x5 and sustainability differentiated strategy for growth.
FOCUSED PORTFOLIO STRATEGY We are confident about the growth prospects of the global Pursuing a growthand margin-accretive portfolio is one of Quality Assurance market.
When managing our day-to-day We are uniquely positioned to seize these attractive growth performance and allocating our capital and people resources, opportunities, underpinned by the increased complexities we will pursue a three-tier portfolio strategy: of corporate supply chains and the associated challenges First, we will focus on our large businesses with good growth of maintaining a high level of quality assurance end to end.
These areas of focus are: Leveraging our industry-leading expertise and innovative and at the Business Line level: Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical entrepreneurial culture, we service a diversity of industries, & Wireless, Cargo AA and GTS geographies and customers with multiple Total Quality Assurance solutions with our global network enabling at the Geographic level: North America and Greater China us to follow the supply chains of our customers wherever Second, we will invest in the fast-growing businesses with they are in the world.
good margin prospects where the focus areas are: We have a strong track record of creating sustainable growth at the Business Line level: Business Assurance, Agriculture, and shareholder value, leveraging our high-margin and highly Building & Construction, Transportation Technologies cash generative earnings model.
We are moving the Companys and Food centre of gravity towards our industrys most attractive growth and margin areas with a disciplined approach to performance at the Geographic level: South Asia, South East Asia, management and capital allocation.
South America, Middle East and Africa The strength of Intertek is first and foremost the excellence Third, we will focus on improving the performance: of our 42,000  professionals, who at the Business Line level: Industry Services and Minerals take immense pride in delivering customer service standards that exceed expectations.
I would like to thank all my colleagues at the Geographic level: Europe and Australasia around the world for their passion and expertise every day that ACCRETIVE DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION makes Intertek a trusted partner for its clients.
In our view, to deliver shareholder returns on a consistent basis, I am tremendously excited about Interteks future as we the right formula is sustainable earnings growth with accretive continue on our good to great journey to deliver our unique disciplined allocation of capital.
Intertek Customer Promise of Total Quality.
We pursue a disciplined approach to capital allocation that enables us to reinvest our growing earnings and create long-term value and sustainable shareholder returns.
The first priority when it comes to capital allocation is investment to support organic growth.
In the mediumto long-term, we will invest circa 5% of revenue in capital expenditure.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 21
