Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review In more uncertain markets, ITV has delivered a good performance in 2016 as we continue to rebalance and strengthen the business creatively, commercially and financially.
ITV delivered a good performance in As we continue to execute our strategy we 2016 as we continue to rebalance and remain focused on delivering against our strengthen the business creatively, three strategic priorities: commercially and financially.
External The continued revenues grew 3% and adjusted earnings maximising per share EPS increased 3% despite a 3% growth in revenue maximise audience and revenue decline in net advertising revenues NAR, share from free-to-air which was clearly impacted by the wider and adjusted profit broadcast and VOD business political and economic uncertainty.
See page 20 for more despite a decline We measure performance through a range of metrics, most particularly through our in the advertising alternative performance measures and KPIs, growing as well as our statutory results, all of which grow an international market is clear are set out in more detail later in the report.
content business See page 24 for more evidence that our Our good performance in 2016 is a result of ITV continuing to deliver on our strategy to strategy is working diversify the business and grow new revenue building streams, thereby reducing our reliance on UK build a global pay and spot advertising and making ITV a stronger distribution business and more resilient business.
Total revenues See page 28 for more from sources other than traditional spot advertising non-NAR were up 11% in the year and 53% of total revenues came from sources other than traditional spot advertising.
We will continue to strengthen the business and grow new revenue streams both Our global production business, ITV organically and through acquisitions, and we Studios, continues to grow in the UK and see further investment opportunities across internationally, delivering around 7,800 hours ITV.
There will be an increasing emphasis on of content in 2016.
ITV is now a global player building our digital assets throughout the of scale, with 50% of total revenues coming business as we seek opportunities to drive from outside the UK.
We have a strong further value from the content we own by creative pipeline and continue to perform exploiting and managing it online.
well across the key genres that return and travel.
Rebalanced ITV delivers continued revenue and profit growth Our Broadcast & Online business is robust.
In 2016 we grew external revenues by 3% to We performed strongly on-screen with share 3,064 million 2015: 2,972 million driven of viewing SOV up 3% on our main channel by 191 million growth in non-NAR to 1,855 and again delivered unrivalled audience reach million 2015: 1,664 million including the for advertisers.
Online, Pay & Interactive benefit of acquisitions, while ITV Family NAR revenues grew significantly up 23% as we was down 3%.
With our continued focus on continued to grow our audiences and cash and costs we delivered 2% growth in our demand from advertisers online.
adjusted EBITA to 885 million 2015: 865 million, which corresponded to a 29% margin, We remain committed to our original vision in line with 2015.
Adjusted EPS grew 3% to of ITV as an owner and producer of world- 17.0p 2015: 16.5p.
Reported profit before tax class content that travels.
Our strategy of declined by 14% to 553 million 2015: 641 maximising our value as an integrated million and reported EPS declined 10% to producer broadcaster, making our content 11.2p 2015: 12.4p primarily due to higher famous on multiple platforms, both free and operational exceptional items and pay and distributing it globally, is clearly the amortisation of acquired intangibles which right one for ITV.
is explained in more detail in the Financial and Performance Review.
Adam Crozier Chief Executive 16 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured right: The 13th series of Saturday Night Takeaway launched with its biggest audience in over a decade.
The series averaged 7.7 million viewers, with a quarter of the audience being 16-34s.
Group external revenue growth m Looking ahead, the Board is committed to manages more content, our channels 3,064m a long term sustainable dividend policy.
The and digital services provide a platform ordinary dividend will grow broadly in line to showcase our programmes before with earnings, targeting dividend cover of distributing them across multiple platforms around 2x adjusted earnings per share over in the UK and internationally.
3% YoY Global demand for high-quality content Maximise audience and revenue share from both broadcasters and platform owners from free-to-air business remains strong.
Capitalising on this demand, The media environment in which we operate we continue to strengthen our position as the 63% is constantly changing but our Broadcast & UKs largest commercial production company, Increase on 2009 Online business remains strong and is as well as creating an increasingly 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 evolving to take advantage of the significant international business with production bases opportunities for growth.
in America, the Netherlands, France, Germany, the Nordics and Australia.
Half of our revenues Adjusted EPS p While the current economic uncertainty is are generated outside the UK and we have 17.0p impacting the demand for advertising, the become a top independent producer in the traditional broadcast market is robust with US and Europe.
overall commercial viewing up in the year and with television advertising continuing to be in Overall, ITV Studios performed strongly, 3% high demand.
ITV has maintained its strong although ITV America was impacted by the YoY position within this market with its unique phasing of deliveries.
We continue to build reach and scale.
ITVs SOV was up 3% on the a large portfolio of successful series and main channel, up 1% across the ITV family.
formats across the key genres that return We delivered 99% of all audiences over five and travel internationally, namely drama, 844% Increase million, which enabled ITV to again grow its entertainment and factual entertainment.
on 2009 share of broadcast SOB which is our share ITV delivered around 7,800 hours of content 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 of television advertising spend to 47.4%.
in 2016 including many new and returning We have a strong balance sheet and scripted programmes, such as Victoria, the business continues to be highly cash We are also performing strongly online Poldark, Vera and The Good Witch selling to generative.
Profit to cash conversion as through the ITV Hub, the digital home for over 100 countries.
ITV also had 80 formats reconciled in the Finance and Performance all our channels and services, which helps ITV sold internationally including The Voice, Hells Review was 97% and we ended the year with reach younger audiences.
Online consumption Kitchen and The Chase.
We are also making a net debt of 637 million after acquisitions viewing, which measures how long viewers number of selective investments in digital of 97 million, dividend payments of 663 are spending online, was up 42% and longcontent creation as we look to develop our million and pension deficit contributions of form video requests were up 24% driving a expertise in digital first content.
We also delivered significant growth in our pay ITV Studios delivered 13% growth in total In 2014, the Board made a commitment to revenues as we increase the reach of revenues to 1,395 million 2015: 1,237 grow the full year ordinary dividend by at our broadcast content digitally.
million and 18% growth in adjusted EBITA least 20% per annum to 2016 to achieve a to 243 million 2015: 206 million driven more normal dividend cover of between 2.0 In 2016, Broadcast & Online revenues were by acquisitions.
Organic revenues excluding and 2.5x adjusted earnings per share.
In line down 1% at 2,132 million 2015: 2,146 prior year acquisitions and foreign exchange with this policy and reflecting ITVs good million with adjusted EBITA down 3% at 642 movements were down 7% driven performance in 2016, the Board is proposing million 2015: 659 million which reflects 3% predominantly by ITV America which was a final dividend of 4.8p which equates to a full decline in highly geared NAR and 23% growth impacted by the lumpy nature of programme year dividend of 7.2p.
This is a dividend cover in Online, Pay & Interactive.
However, we have a strong creative of 2.4x and delivers on the commitment the pipeline of new and returning programmes Board made three years ago.
Grow an international content business with 228 new commissions and 188 Growing a scaled international content recommissions, which will help drive a return Reflecting ITVs strong cash generation and business in the key genres that travel is central to good organic revenue growth in 2017. the Boards confidence in the business, the to our strategy as an integrated producer Board is proposing a special dividend of 5.0p broadcaster.
As ITV creates, owns and per share, worth just over 200 million.
17 1.8 1,879 6.4 2,064 7.9 2,140 9.1 2,196 11.2 2,389 13.8 2,590 16.5 2,972 17.0 3,064 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review continued Building a global pay and Global Entertainment, the distribution arm distribution business of ITV Studios, delivered 14% revenue growth As a creator, owner and distributor of to 179 million 2015: 157 million as we high-value sought after programmes, ITV is continue to drive value from the investment well positioned to exploit the opportunities we have made in creating and owning the that arise from the changes in digital media rights to quality content with international and consumer behaviour.
We are building a strong and balanced hours of content, ITV is continually exploring portfolio of scripted and unscripted and experimenting with new ways to programmes and formats in the key genres distribute our content to broadcasters and that travel internationally and we are using platform owners, both free and pay, while our strong cash flows not only to create and also seeking new opportunities to extend the fund new content but also to acquire reach of our content directly to the consumer.
We have recently announced the creation of Outlook for 2017 and beyond a joint venture with the BBC to create BritBox While the economic outlook remains US, an ad-free subscription service offering uncertain, ITV is now a much more balanced the very best content from both broadcasters.
and resilient business and we expect to see 5 Gold Rings is a new entertainment BritBox US will launch in the first half of 2017 good growth in non-NAR in 2017 with our programme produced by Talpa Media.
The and will feature recent series and classics.
Online, Pay & Interactive and ITV Studios format is selling well internationally and will BritBox gives ITV access to the fast growing businesses performing well.
ITV Family NAR be broadcast on ITV in 2017.
Subscription Video on Demand SVOD is expected to be down 6% in the four months market in the US.
In time we will look to to the end of April, impacted by the ongoing roll it out further internationally.
economic uncertainty, however over the full year we expect to outperform our estimate sporting event, the network programme We are also increasingly distributing of the television advertising market.
budget NPB will be 25 million lower in 2017 near-to-broadcast or first broadcast rights whilst maintaining the strength and depth of to over-the-top OTT platforms across We continue our tight control on costs to our schedule.
territories and currently have around 200 ensure we are operating as efficiently as programme supply agreements with Netflix, possible and maximising investment in our We remain committed to our strategy Amazon and Hulu.
We are on track to of rebalancing and strengthening ITV and deliver 25 million of overhead cost savings in building a global content business of scale 2017, and due to the absence of any major and we see clear opportunities to invest for further growth across the business both organically and through acquisitions.
We will continue to invest behind our core Broadcast & Online business, further developing the ITV Hub, and the launch of Britbox US will be a significant step forward in growing our digital distribution assets.
We will increase our investment in ITV Studios, particularly our US scripted business, to strengthen further and grow our creative capabilities.
Our robust balance sheet and strong underlying cash flows allows us to do so while at the same time delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders.
Pictured: Behind-the-scenes on returning drama Cold Feet, produced by ITV Studios UK.
18 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: The Jeremy Kyle Show is a daily talk show and has been on ITV for over ten years, it reaches 5.5 million viewers a week: Coronation Street is in its 57th year on ITV and is Britains longest running soap driving huge audiences weekly.
Our responsibility Building a responsible business that benefits all stakeholders The success of our strategy depends not just on our operational Our responsibility priorities efficiency, but also on the way we interact with our stakeholders, Our responsibility strategy focuses on three priorities: people, the environment and the wider community.
ITVs social purpose is planet and partnerships.
Each of our priorities highlights the risks to grow our business in a responsible way, using the reach of our and opportunities that are most relevant to us, and we have made channels to create change for good.
As well as complying with our four commitments under each, that incorporate our main assets legislative and regulatory requirements we recognise that our and business operations.
actions can have an impact and our reach can positively influence society.
We therefore work to identify issues that are material to ITV and matter to our stakeholders.
Priority Leveraging Leveraging Responsible business How we work our reach our people day-to-day with others People Inclusive programming Inclusive workforce Inclusive culture Inclusive access to To ensure our programmes To ensure our workforce To build awareness and programmes and services portray the diversity of reflects the diverse make-up capacity and create a culture To work with our supply chain modern society by the people of modern society.
that attracts, develops and to encourage inclusivity on-screen and the editorial retains the best talent standards and to make sure content.
possible and enables our services are accessible.
everyone to be their best.
Planet Greener programming Greener workforce Greener footprint Greener partners To ensure our programmes To build the awareness and To minimise our direct To work with our value chain communicate responsible capacity of our workforce to environmental footprint to encourage environmental messaging have a positive impact on the of energy, water and waste environmentally responsible through the editorial content, environment.
Partnerships Empowering charities Empowering our workforce Empowering our viewers Empowering communities and causes To empower our workforce to To use our programmes at To inspire and engage our To use our mass audience give back, through time and the heart of popular culture local communities to make reach and influence to raise skills, to support local to raise awareness of pressing a positive difference.
awareness or donations for communities and causes.
social topics and inspire national and international change.
People Planet Reflecting the diversity of modern society is the right thing to do, We have a responsibility to understand and minimise our own it helps give our programmes mass appeal by attracting the largest impact on the environment and an opportunity to influence possible audiences which is essential to our success as an integrated positively our industry and audiences.
Through our reach and value producer broadcaster.
We strive to ensure diversity in our on-screen chain, we have the chance to create long-term change by bringing programming and in our workforce, ensuring that were relevant environmental awareness and sustainable behaviour into the heart and accessible to all.
See page 101 for our greenhouse gas disclosures.
Gender split Partnerships Board of Directors We believe partnerships mean collaborating with others to make a positive contribution to society.
Through a combination of our 6 2 on-air appeals and campaigns, along with local community 75% 25% engagement, were committed to inspiring, engaging and 1 Senior management empowering our stakeholders to make a difference.
83 63 Further information 56.8% 43.2% We aim for continuous improvement in our Responsibility strategy, 2 All employees actions and performance.
More information on our responsibility initiatives can be found online.
An employee who is a director of a subsidiary of the Company or who has responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the entity or a strategically significant part of it.
Employee gender split is based on total headcount at 31 December 2016.
