Strategic Report Our values underpin all that we do We have won a significant number of customer service awards this year, testament to the fact that our colleagues really do make a difference MIKE COUPE SAINSBURYS CEO Our vision To be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop 587m Underlying profit before tax Down 13.8% Volume and transaction growth 6 Strategic Report Chief Executives Letter We have made good progress this year, demonstrating that the strategy we outlined to you 18 months ago is delivering results.
We outperformed our main supermarket peers and maintained our market share in a competitive environment.
Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer This year we have simplified many of our Strategic progress where people love to work and shop and it is ranges, to focus on selling the products we Our vision and the five pillars of our our goal to make our customers lives easier.
know are loved most by customers.
We will strategy are designed to address a changing We have made good progress this year, continue to make targeted investment to marketplace and the continuing shifts in the demonstrating that the strategy we outlined remain competitive on price.
The quality and way people shop.
They are embedded across to you 18 months ago is delivering results.
variety of the products we offer is a point the business and delivering tangible results.
We outperformed our main supermarket of difference for us and we will continue to peers and maintained our market share in a make sure customers have choice across all We know our customers better competitive environment.
Our clothing, general merchandise than anyone else and financial services businesses are now Our continued focus on making Sainsburys a Customers are at the heart of our business firmly established and performing well, place where customers love to shop is making and our success and future growth is based andhave significant opportunities for a difference.
Investment in lower regular on being able to anticipate and then deliver furthergrowth.
prices and a commitment to delivering great to their needs.
Customer insight informs the quality products and services are driving decisions we make: for example, customers There for our customers an increase in customer transactions at told us they wanted pricing to be simpler We are making our customers lives easier Sainsburys, with people buying more of our and clearer, so we have replaced many of our by offering them choice and convenience.
Our core food offering has promotions, multi-buys and Brand Match Our multi-channel strategy means that performed well and non-food is showing real with lower regular prices on the products customers can shop with us whenever and strength, with clothing, general merchandise that really matter to them.
This has been wherever they want.
For example, people and financial services delivering significant well received and has helped drive significant often choose to go to our convenience growth over the past 12 months.
In addition, increases in the number of transactions stores to top up on a few items and then the investment we have made in our through our tills and the volume of products order their bulk shopping online for later shopping channels means that people have we sell.
Groceries Online continues to be even more choice now about where and a growing channel, with sales this year up when they choose to shop with us.
Great products and services at nearly nine per cent and orders up nearly 15 fairprices per cent.
Click & Collect is also popular with We have a robust balance sheet and we customers, and we will expand the service Our commitment to deliver great quality continue to manage carefully our costs and to double our 101 current locations next products and services at fair prices for capital expenditure.
Convenience now generates sales of our customers across food, non-food and cost savings of 225million this year, we are over 2.3 billion.
We opened 69 convenience financial services is a business priority.
We on track to deliver 500 million over three stores during the year and delivered over are continuing at pace with our programme years by the end of 2017 18.
Ongoing pricing nine per cent convenience sales growth.
to improve the quality of 3,000 of our most pressures and food price deflation continue to popular own-brand food lines and we are impact our sales and our operating margins.
a market leader in delivering nutritious, As a result, underlying profit and earnings per healthy food for our customers.
share are down this year versuslast year.
7 Strategic Report Colleagues making the difference Service & Availability leader We want Sainsburys to be a place where Grocer 33 Service & Availability wins colleagues love to work.
We have always put Sainsburys 19 our colleagues at the centre of our business and Morrisons 8 we have built a culture of inspiring leadership The staff at Sainsburys and committed colleagues.
I am proud of Waitrose 6 the strong loyalty within our workforce, with are great, our local store 5 Tesco nearly 28,000 colleagues having worked at has brilliant colleagues, Asda 4 Sainsburys for 15 years or more.
you can always rely on 1 Aldi We have won a significant number of awards them for help this year, including the industry-leading Source: The Grocer 33 Service & SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER Grocer Gold Customer Service and Availability wins year-to-date 2015 16 EAST MIDLANDS Availability Awards for the third year running.
We were named Grocer 33 Store ofthe Week 19 times in the year, the Our values make us different highest of any grocer.
Our values are our guiding principles, from where we source our products and how we In August, we announced a four per cent work in our local communities to reducing pay increase for 137,000 colleagues who our carbon footprint across our estate.
This work in our stores across the country.
Our year we have evolved our Sustainability new standard hourly rate is well above the Plan to focus on the most material issues.
Governments National Living Wage and For example, waste, and in particular food will also apply to around 40,000 colleagues waste, is one of the most important issues under the age of 25. facing us all today.
We are committed to Outlook helping our customers with this issue and to making a radical difference across UK The market is competitive and it will remain households.
This year we launched our so for the foreseeable future.
We believe ambitious Waste less, Save more initiative, we are following the right strategy and are to invest 10 million over the next five years taking the right decisions to achieve our to help households reduce their food waste.
vision to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop.
Customers enjoy shopping at Sainsburys for our great Accelerating our strategy quality products, service and our fair prices.
As shopping patterns continue to change, Our general merchandise and clothing and consumers increasingly expect more businesses offer growth opportunities and from retailers, we are committed to building Sainsburys Bank offers innovative, good on our strengths and have an opportunity to value products and services from a brand accelerate our strategy.
Groceries Our proposal to acquire Home Retail Group plc, owners of the Argos retail chain, will enable us to accelerate our strategy.
Online Theacquisition presents an opportunity to bringtogether two of the UKs leading is growing and retail businesses, with complementary sales increased Mike Coupe product offers, focused on delivering quality CEO nearly 9% products and services at fair prices.
It also allows us to create a multi-product, multichannel proposition with fast delivery networks and will additionally deliver compelling revenue and cost synergies.
We believe that the combination of Home Retail Group and Sainsburys is a powerful one that will create long-term value for the shareholders of both companies.
