OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW JLT had a number of successes in the year, demonstrating the fundamental strength and resilience of our global franchise.
Dominic Burke Our underlying trading profit increased rates continue their downward trend KEY FINANCIAL by 3% to 193.7 million: however at CRE across all Specialty lines.
The business HIGHLIGHTS it decreased by 9%.
Underlying profit had to contend in particular with the before tax increased by 1% to 172.6 reduced economic activity in the energy JLT has delivered a good set of financial million.
The trading profit margin reduced and marine sectors.
Trading profit in results in 2016, particularly when set from 16.2% to 15.4%.
JLT Specialty increased by 7% to 73.1 against the continued challenging trading million, with the trading margin of 22% environment, which persisted all year.
The reduction in the Groups underlying maintained at the same level as 2015.
This included the sustained softness in trading profit at CRE largely reflects both the insurance and reinsurance rating our continued investment in building We also delivered strong growth in our environment, depressed commodity out our US Specialty operation and the international Specialty businesses, which prices and lacklustre global GDP growth.
together accounted for 437.8 million of revenues, an increase of 15% or 4% The weakness of sterling from June Excluding the US net investment of 27 at CRE, with organic growth of 3%.
2016 was a positive factor in the Groups million, the Groups underlying profit results: the estimated impact of 22.2 before tax would have increased by 5% JLT Australia & New Zealand delivered million, at the underlying profit before to 199.6 million and the Groups trading trading profit of 34.1 million, compared tax level, provided a helpful offset to the profit margin would have been broadly with 32.7 million in 2015, but saw a challenging trading environment.
maintained at 18.1%, compared decrease at constant rates of exchange to 18.4% for 2015. to 30.6 million.
The trading environment The Group entered 2017 with momentum has been particularly competitive in the intact and confident that JLT is well region and this, coupled with continued positioned to deliver organic revenue RISK & INSURANCE significant pressure on rates in the growth across the Groups businesses.
region, has masked a good underlying Our global Risk & Insurance businesses, JLT achieved total revenues of 1,261.3 performance by the business.
which represent 76% of the Groups million in 2016, an increase of 9% revenue, grew revenues to 960.9 million, Our Latin American operations achieved over 2015, or 3% at constant rates of an increase of 11%, with organic revenue good revenue growth of 13%, with exchange CRE.
This included organic growth of 3%.
Trading revenue growth of 2%, consistent with profit, however, reduced slightly year-onJLT Specialty generated a 5% increase that of 2015, once again impacted year, from 21.3 million to 21.1 million, in headline revenues to 327.5 million by the decline in revenues in the reflecting the planned investment in UK and Ireland Employee Benefits in the year, or a 3% increase both at building specialty capabilities across CRE and on an organic revenue basis, UK Employee Benefits business.
the region, the benefits of which we a strong performance in challenging expect to start to see in 2017. trading conditions which saw insurance Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 15 STRATEGIC REPORT This business is successfully collaborating with our other offices exceeded those of the same period in 2015 of 82.4 million, around the world to win market share.
The Groups operations which was an encouraging indication of the stabilisation in in Brazil performed strongly despite the difficult economic the revenue run rate.
At the time of our interim results we indicated that the business Our US Specialty business has continued to make progress would deliver the majority of its profits in the second half and in its second full year of operation, achieving organic revenue this has been the case.
Trading profit for the year was 12.3 growth in excess of 50%, higher than the rate in 2015.
We million, compared to breakeven at the half year.
continued with our programme of recruitment, with headcount The business has successfully completed its restructuring reaching 223 employees at the year end.
Revenues for the year programme, which has resulted in a flatter, more client-centric were $56 million, up from $36 million in 2015, while continued structure and a headcount reduction of over 300 employees.
investment in the business resulted in losses of $37 million.
Our The programme will deliver 14 million of annualised savings net investment spend in 2016 in this business was 27 million.
in 2017, 9 million of which was delivered in 2016 7 million The recently announced investment in, and partnership with, of that in the second half.
Construction Risk Partners, will establish a market-leading The focus in 2016 was, and will continue to be into 2017, Construction practice as part of the US Specialty business.
very much on transitioning and rebalancing the business so that The acquisition also completes our global Construction trading profit margins can grow.
The emphasis of the business capability and enables us to serve international contractors continues to be on investing to strengthen and enhance wherever they operate around the world.
platforms and to build out the sales function.
JLT Re, our global reinsurance broking business, delivered While the profitability of the business in 2016 was weighted a strong performance in 2016, with reported revenues towards the second half of the year, UK Employee Benefits increasing by 13% to 195.6 million, representing marketis anticipating organic revenue growth for 2017 and this, leading organic revenue growth of 4%, twice the rate of 2015. taken with the 5 million residual benefit of the restructuring This performance was delivered despite the well documented, programme, means we are confident that this business is multi-year decline in pricing across most lines of reinsurance making steady progress towards delivering a 15% trading and in most geographies and the continued consolidation in profit margin for 2018. capital providers.
Our Employee Benefits businesses in other parts of the world JLT Res trading profits increased to 40.5 million and this is performed well.
reflected in an improved trading margin of 21%, delivering upon management's guidance that profitability would be improved In Asia, PCS, our high net worth life insurance broking business, in this business.
This margin improvement was achieved while saw some slowdown in first half revenues due to regional the business continues to invest significantly for future growth, economic uncertainty in South Asia: however, steps were taken not only in recruiting leading talent to further strengthen its in the second half to broaden the range of products offered by General Property, Casualty and Specialty lines and its analytics the business.
This succeeded in pulling revenues back up from capabilities, but also in its infrastructure and systems.
the half year position, which had been negative year-on-year.
Our Australian Employee Benefits business achieved 36% EMPLOYEE BENEFITS revenue growth, following the acquisitions made in 2015 and 2016 in rehabilitation services provided in relation to Workers Within our global Employee Benefits operations, which Compensation insurance.
With a represent 24% of the Groups revenue, revenues increased series of major client wins as a result of the expanded capability by 4% overall, but declined by 3% on an organic basis.
These of the business, accelerated revenue growth and improved results were impacted by the decline in first half revenues in margins are projected in 2017.
The trading margin of the the UK and Ireland business.
business improved from 16% in 2015 to 20% in 2016.
Reported revenues for the year for JLTs UK and Ireland JLTs Latin American Employee Benefits operations Employee Benefits business UK Employee Benefits were delivered organic revenue growth of 10%.
Performance was 160 million, compared to 167.4 million in 2015, a decline of particularly notable in Colombia - on the back of the Workers 4%, or 8% on an organic basis.
This reflects the final impact Compensation offering - and in Brazil, despite the challenging of the cessation of commission revenue from life assurers local economic backdrop.
Investment has continued to be - which amounted to 5 million earned in 2015.
Putting the made in building out capabilities and expanding the offering performance of UK Employee Benefits into context is best done in the region: this is the underlying reason for a smaller increase by looking at second half performance, given the restructure in trading profit and a 200 bps reduction in trading margin.
Second half revenues of 85.1 million 16 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Details of the performance of each individual business are JLTs operations in Europe, outside of the UK, primarily set out in the Review of Operations on pages 28 to 36. comprise our subsidiary companies in Ireland and Northern Europe and our associate companies in Southern, Central and Eastern Europe.
JLT provides advice in relation to complex A YEAR OF FURTHER PROGRESS risks and access to the London Market for clients across the Continent but we do not have JLT-owned operations of a 2016 saw some of the most challenging trading and economic significant size in France or Germany.
The services we provide conditions that Ive experienced in my 11 years as Chief to Continental European clients cover only the most specialist Executive.
Despite the headwinds, JLT had a number of portion of their risk management requirements.
The Group's successes in the year, demonstrating the fundamental strength aggregate revenues received from EU countries into the UK and resilience of our global franchise.
in 2016 was modest no more than 4%.
2016 was also a year of significant change for JLT.
The Group In light of the priority given in the recent UK Government continued to evolve and grow, building momentum in ways White Paper to protecting the UKs strength in financial services not always apparent in revenues or profits.
There were steady and to agreeing appropriate transitional arrangements, we improvements in barometers such as client advocacy scores, are confident that, after the UK leaves the EU, Continental new business win rates, staff retention and client renewal rates, European insureds will still be able to secure continuing access which underpin my strong belief that we are well equipped for to the London Market insurance expertise that is essential accelerating progress.
for them to meet their business requirements.
Examples of the changes the Group is going through include: The disposal of two businesses during the year.
One of LOOKING FORWARD these was Thistle, in the UK, a business which no longer At many times in recent years the word resilient has perfectly fitted the Groups strategy: described JLTs performance.
We have grown, evolved and The recently announced investment in and partnership with flourished despite setbacks and headwinds.
And that is exactly CRP followed 7 new acquisitions made during 2016 to add what we have done once again in 2016.
Not only have we further specialty capabilities to our business: as a result, continued to address external headwinds in the economies in today we have global construction capabilities totalling which we operate, in the industries in which we specialise and some 400 colleagues across the Group: in the insurance market: we are also addressing the challenges The improving performance of UK Employee Benefits and that have been specific to JLT the challenge of an organic the re-establishment of its revenue momentum and profit start-up from scratch in our US Specialty business: and the growth: and challenges posed by legal and regulatory change in our UK The success of JLT Re, now firmly established as a Employee Benefits business.
We now have clear sight of the principal component of the Group following the substantial benefits that will flow from all the effort we have put in acquisition made 3 years ago.
JLT Res success has been to address those challenges and opportunities.
achieved despite reinsurance premium rate reductions JLT has entered 2017 with good momentum across all of its of 30% and more since the acquisition was made.
We are therefore confident that we will deliver combination of its strong market position with regional organic revenue growth more in line with historical rates, insurers in the US, and the strength of JLT Groups generating sustained year-on-year financial progress.
relationships with global insurers has provided a powerful platform from which to grow.
JLTs entrance into the US market as a reinsurance broker in 2013 and then as a specialty player in 2014 marked a pivotal change in the development of the Group.
Our capability to serve clients in the industries in which we specialise wherever they Dominic Burke operate around the world now defines us as a global broker.
Group Chief Executive We are, however, a global broker with our own distinctive 28 February 2017 model, able to operate flexibly and collaboratively in the interests of our clients, which positions us to outperform our larger competitors.
This standing is beginning to generate substantial benefits throughout the Groups operations, and particularly in our powerhouse Specialty operations in both reinsurance and specialty broking as their performance in 2016 demonstrates.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 17
