08 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2016 WAS OUR FIRST FULL YEAR SINCE OUR IPO IN FEBRUARY 2015 AND I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT THAT WE CONTINUED TO DELIVER STRONG RESULTS.
The highlights included: Outlook for our markets 14.3% increase in NAV, from 889.6 million at As I have said before, we operate in an international market 31 December 2015 to 1,016.8 million: for new infrastructure primarily driven by population growth, urbanisation and climate change.
Population growth and NAV per share at 31 December 2016 of 277p urbanisation create the need for new infrastructure, particularly 31 December 2015 242p : in transport and in social infrastructure such as healthcare.
Equally, climate change is the catalyst behind new infrastructure New investment commitments of 181.9 million in six different countries: in the renewable energy, waste management and water sectors.
In addition, there are strong drivers for public sector Realisations of 146.6 million from the sale authorities to involve the private sector in the procurement of assets: of new infrastructure, including risk transfer, funding and Profit before tax of 192.1 million compared access to the best international contractors and investors.
to 106.6 million in 2015: As a recognised international greenfield infrastructure expert, we target all the above sectors and therefore benefit from 30% increase in external Assets under the overall growth in public-private infrastructure.
Management AuM to 1,472 million: In Primary Investment, we continue to see a robust and diverse Cash yield from investment portfolio of pipeline of future opportunities in each of the three regions 34.8 million 2015 38.9 million : and where we currently operate: Asia Pacific Australia and New Sale of UK activities of Project Management Zealand : North America Canada and the US : and Europe.
We entered 2017 with an increased level of activity and strong positions in eight short-listed PPP consortia and with a number of exclusive renewable energy opportunities.
Asia Pacific: we remain very active in the PPP markets in both Australia and New Zealand.
In Australia, the renewable energy sector continues to grow and gain momentum following resolution of the Federal Renewable Energy Target in 2015 and our team is taking advantage of this.
Europe: even if the overall PPP market remains subdued, we focus our attention on those countries which are bringing projects to market, such as the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland, Germany, Norway, the Czech Republic and potentially the UK where we believe the current government will announce new PPP projects.
Many of the opportunities are in the transport sector, which fits well with our credentials.
In renewable energy, the level of activity remains high, with attractive risk-return profiles.
We concentrate on selected countries with governmental support mechanisms in order to reduce energy price exposure.
North America: four of our eight shortlisted PPP positions are for potential investments in North America.
In Canada, we see a strong commitment to PPP from federal and local authorities, especially in Ontario and British Columbia, mainly in the transport sector.
In the US, we concentrate on those states where we see a growing pipeline of PPP opportunities particularly in the transport sector and potentially the water sector.
During the year, we made our first investment in renewable energy, a wind farm project in New Mexico.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09 During the year, we demonstrated again why we believe it is essential for us to be an active investor.
Overall, our reputation in North America is growing, leading this is strongly refuted by the project company and the to more opportunities to join consortia for new projects.
matter is being addressed through an independent third This bodes well for the future, especially when considering party under the procedures in the project agreement with a the obvious needs in the US for new infrastructure.
decision due at the end of March 2017.
The project company believes there will be a resolution with the GMWDA.
If, as Beyond the PPP and renewable energy markets, we continue part of this, the GMWDA were to seek to take the project to research other asset classes that look as if they could fit into public ownership, this would only be acceptable to the our business model in order to feed future growth.
The due project company if it resulted in appropriate compensation diligence we carry out before investing in new markets follows for all stakeholders.
The project company is working with a rigorous process that eventually rules out many opportunities.
its shareholders, John Laing and Viridor, to protect the Currently, we are reviewing: broadband, driven in Europe by the value of the equity in the project and also to minimise any EU directive to see 100% high speed coverage by 2025: water impact on Manchester Waste TPS Co which is contractually resource management, driven by climate change: and energy linked to Manchester Waste VL Co. storage, driven by the changing way in which electricity is generated across transmission and distribution networks.
For both investments, we have taken account of current We expect these sectors to offer a number of investment developments in our portfolio valuation at 31 December 2016. opportunities in the future.
Taken together, the investments in New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste VL Co which are not linked, make up Active management approximately 8% of our investment portfolio of 1,176 million.
During the year, we demonstrated again why we believe it is Wherever we operate, we believe our investing, contracting essential for us to be an active investor.
For us, it means not and banking partners appreciate and value the investment only participating actively in consortia at the bidding stage, experience and active management we provide.
We continue but also being actively involved in project companies during to make good use of this expertise to monitor and guide the construction phase in order to protect our investment our investments through construction while protecting the and help when delays occur or problems arise: investment base cases and where appropriate seeking to find additional value.
In South Australia, our team has been particularly active in helping the New Royal Adelaide Hospital project company Business model to resolve the sometimes competing priorities of the Government of South Australia, the bank lending consortium Our business model has three key areas of activity: and the construction contractor.
This situation has arisen Primary Investment: we source, originate, bid for and win principally because technical completion of the hospital greenfield infrastructure projects, typically as part of a has been delayed, having been scheduled for April 2016. consortium in the case of PPP projects.
Our Primary Following mediation discussions in late 2016 and early Investment portfolio comprises interests in infrastructure 2017, the parties are now working towards technical projects which are in the construction phase.
completion later this month March 2017 followed by commercial acceptance three months later: it is intended Secondary Investment: we own a substantial portfolio that remaining disputes will be dealt with through a process of investments in operational infrastructure projects, of arbitration.
The Government of South Australia is making almost all of which were previously part of our Primary the necessary preparations for the hospital to be ready to Investment portfolio.
open for patients before the peak of the winter flu season.
Asset Management: we actively manage our own Primary At Manchester Waste VL Co, the projects operational and Secondary Investment portfolios and provide investment performance is good: it has been achieving diversion of advice and asset management services to two external waste from landfill ahead of contractual requirements.
The funds, John Laing Infrastructure Fund JLIF and John Laing Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority GMWDA has Environmental Assets Group JLEN, through John Laing indicated it wants to achieve cost savings and efficiencies.
Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is regulated by While the project company had proposed that such savings the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, as well as in respect could be achieved within the existing contractual structure, of a small number of PPP assets held by John Laing this has not been accepted by the GMWDA.
Separately, the Pension Fund JLPF.
GMWDA has challenged aspects of the operational service levels provided by the project company and the operator: Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Our business model is based on our specialist infrastructure Growth in primary investment volumes over the medium term investment and asset management capabilities and the We operate in a broad market for new infrastructure with increasing recognition of operational infrastructure assets a strong pipeline of future opportunities.
as an attractive investment class.
Throughout the year, we maintained a disciplined approach to We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects making new investments.
Using detailed financial analysis and which, post-construction, produce long-term predictable cash investment appraisal processes, we assess the specific risk flows that meet our rate of return targets.
The projects we profiles for each prospective investment with the aim of invest in are held within special purpose vehicles SPVs which optimising risk-adjusted returns and securing only those new we often in conjunction with other investors fund with equity, investments which are likely to meet the investment appetites and which are structured so that providers of third party debt of secondary market investors when the underlying assets finance have no contractual recourse to equity investors beyond become operational.
Our resources are concentrated on countries or geographical When investments become part of our Primary Investment regions carefully selected against five key criteria: portfolio, their value should grow progressively with a relatively a stable political and legal framework: high degree of predictability as the underlying assets move through the construction phase and their risk correspondingly a commitment to the development of privately-financed reduces.
Once the projects reach the operational stage, infrastructure: investments move from our Primary to our Secondary Investment the ability to form relationships with strong supply chain portfolio where they can be held to maturity or sold to secondary partners: market investors, who are targeting a lower rate of return consistent with the reduction in risk.
the likelihood of target financial returns, on a risk-adjusted basis, being realised: and Our asset management activities focus on management and reduction of project risks, especially during the construction the existence of a market for operational investments phase, and enhancement of project cash flows.
The latter or a strong expectation that such a market will develop.
involves identifying and implementing value enhancement Our total commitment to new investments in 2016 was initiatives that can increase future cash flows to investors compared to those originally forecast at the start of the 181.9 million, made up of 134.8 million in renewable energy and 47.1 million in PPP assets, at a similar level to investment project.
We look at a wide range of such value enhancements.
Opportunities may arise at any time during a projects life commitments of 180.5 million in 2015.
Our international growth continued with investment commitments in six and may vary significantly from one investment to another.
different countries, including the following projects: Objectives and outcomes A6 Parkway Netherlands 9.0 million Our overall strategy is to create value for shareholders Kiata wind farm Australia 20.4 million by originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets internationally.
In that respect, we see NAV growth and Nordergrnde offshore wind farm Germany 36.7 million dividends as key measures of our success.
In 2016, our NAV Sommette wind farm France 11.7 million grew by 14.3% from 889.6 million at 31 December 2015 to 1,016.8 million at 31 December 2016.
We are proposing Sterling wind farm US 15.7 million.
dividends of 8.15p per share in total for 2016 compared to dividends of 6.9p per share for 2015.
This represents growth Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income of 7% over 2015, once the 2015 base dividend is adjusted Our strategy to grow the value of our external AuM is linked to reflect the timing of our IPO in February 2015. to our activities as an investment adviser to JLIF and JLEN.
To deliver our strategy, we have set ourselves the core The Group not only advises and provides management services objectives below, while maintaining the discipline and to the portfolios of JLIF and JLEN, but also sources new analysis required to mitigate against the delivery, revenue investments on their behalf.
During the year, both JLIF and and operational risks associated with infrastructure projects: JLEN successfully undertook secondary equity issues and made acquisitions both from John Laing and from third parties.
growth in primary investment volumes new investment Both funds have the benefit of a right of first offer over certain capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects investments should they be offered for sale by the Group.
over the medium term: We made good progress during the year, with the value growth in the value of external Assets under Management of external AuM growing from 1,136 million to 1,472 million, AuM and related fee income: and an increase of 30%.
Fee income from external AuM was management and enhancement of our investment 15.8 million for 2016, up from 12.0 million in 2015. portfolio, with a clear focus on active management during Investment portfolio and realisations construction, accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined with our corporate banking facilities and At 31 December 2016, our portfolio comprised investments in operational cash flows, enable us to finance new 42 infrastructure projects and our shareholding in JLEN investment commitments.
Our year end portfolio value, including the shareholding in JLEN, was 1,175.9 million 31 December 2015 841.4 million.
The increase was primarily due to cash injections into projects, favourable foreign exchange movements and growth in the retained portfolio, offset by investment realisations.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 The portfolio valuation represents our assessment of the fair Organisation and staff value of investments in projects on the basis that each asset In June 2016, we announced the sale of the business and assets is held to maturity, other than shares in JLEN which are held of our PMS activities in the UK to HCP Management Services at market value.
The 2016 year end valuation reflected underlying Limited HCP.
The reason for the sale was to concentrate our growth of 22.3% after adjusting for acquisitions, realisations, resources and attention on our greenfield activities where we cash invested and cash yield.
This growth is analysed further create most value.
As part of the sale, 81 staff roles and 52 in the Portfolio Valuation section.
Management Services Agreements MSAs transferred to HCP.
The sale completed on 30 November 2016 for total proceeds of The cash yield in 2016 was 34.8 million 2015 38.9 million, 4.0 million, 1.9 million of which was received on completion a yield of 7.6% 2015 9.8% on the average Secondary and 2.1 million of which was received in January 2017 once Investment portfolio, in line with our guidance of a 6.5% all consents were obtained.
Principally as a result of the sale, to 8.5% yield.
Cash yield represents cash receipts in the form our staff numbers fell from 252 at 31 December 2015 to 160 of dividends, interest and shareholder loan repayments from at the end of 2016. project companies and listed investments.
We now have 36% of staff located outside the UK 2015 22%.
During the year, we agreed a number of realisations: This growing internationalisation is consistent with where our sale of our investments in the British Transport Police future opportunities lie.
and Oldham Housing PPP projects to JLIF for 19.5 million Reflecting Derek Potts retirement in early 2017, we have which, as previously explained, counted towards our 2015 re-organised our Primary Investment management teams so year end guidance and special dividend: that the heads in each of our three geographical regions now proceeds from a further four completed transactions report directly to me.
We will miss Dereks enthusiasm and of 127.1 million, which form the basis for our special experience but I am very pleased that he has agreed to continue dividend calculation for 2016: to assist our Investment Committee on a consultancy basis.
agreed sale of our 29.69% shareholding in the A1 motorway, I visited our offices around the world several times during 2016.
Proceeds of 137.3 million adjusted for We have strong individuals and great teams in each region distributions received in late 2016 were received on and I want to extend my heartfelt thanks to all staff for their 2 March 2017: and contribution during the year.
As I have said before, the success of our business depends on them.
agreed sale of our 30% shareholding in the M6 road project in Hungary for 26.6 million which is expected to complete Current trading and guidance in the second quarter of 2017.
Our total investment pipeline at 31 December 2016 was We were particularly pleased to achieve prices in line with 1,859 million and includes 1,408 million of PPP opportunities portfolio valuation for our investments in the A1 motorway in looking out three years or so as well as nearer term renewable Poland and the M6 road project in Hungary, both in jurisdictions energy opportunities of 451 million.
The current pipeline where there is a less developed secondary market.
does not include potential opportunities that may come from additional public-private infrastructure in the UK post Brexit Profit before tax or in the US under the new administration.
We will aim to Our total profit before tax was 192.1 million in 2016, compared maintain a majority of availability-based cash flows in our to 106.6 million in 2015.
Profit before tax is primarily driven portfolio.
At 31 December 2016, the balance was 73% by the fair value movement in our investment portfolio, which availability-based versus 27% volume-based.
in 2016 benefited significantly from favourable foreign As our investment pipeline continues to grow, our aim is to exchange movements.
increase our investment commitments for 2017 by approximately 10% compared to 2016.
We expect realisations to be at a broadly Funding similar level to our investment commitments, consistent with In February 2015, we entered into a five-year 350.0 million our self-funding model.
committed corporate banking facility and associated ancillary We have a proven business model and we believe we are facilities, all of which expire in March 2020.
These revolving facilities enable us to issue letters of credit and or put up cash in a good position to take advantage of opportunities for investment in greenfield infrastructure in a growing market.
collateral to back investment commitments.
We finance new investments through a combination of cash flow from existing In the two years since we have been listed, we have delivered steady growth despite changing governmental policies and assets, the above corporate banking facilities and realisations of investments in operational projects.
Against this background, we have confidence in the future.
In June 2016, the above facilities were increased to 400.0 million.
In addition, in November 2016, we entered into additional 50.0 million liquidity facilities, which together with surety financing entered into earlier in the year, had the effect of increasing our committed facilities to 450.0 million until Olivier Brousse March 2018.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
