8 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE ROBERT MACLEOD SUMMARY GIVES AN OVERVIEW OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE IN 2015 16 AND OUTLINES Robust performance overall in challenging THE PROGRESS MADE IN DELIVERING THE markets, supported by strong growth in 3C STRATEGY.
Ongoing investment in R&D and capex to position the group for future growth How would you describe the groups progress in 2015 16?
I am pleased with the overall performance this year Good progress in embedding our culture given the tough macroeconomic environment we and values.
On a continuing basis, our sales were up 3% before tax and our underlying profit before Continued focus on making health and tax was flat, which is testament to the great effort by everyone in the company.
We benefited from safety our priority.
our continued focus on sustainable technologies, Overall, Johnson Matthey remains in great particularly in Emission Control Technologies, which had another strong year boosted by the introduction shape to deliver long term growth through of tighter legislation in Europe.
We also made good the creation of value adding sustainable progress in New Businesses and recent investments technologies.
in our Battery Technologies business have started to generate good early momentum.
On the other hand, trading conditions in some of our markets were particularly challenging this year due to external headwinds, most notably the low oil and platinum group metal pgm prices, plus the slowdown in China.
These all had an adverse impact on the groups performance, especially in Process Technologies and Precious Metal Products.
We have therefore had to make some difficult decisions which Robert MacLeod Chief Executive unfortunately resulted in a number of job losses.
This was a particularly unsettling time for our staff and we made every effort to minimise the negative impact on them wherever possible.
The positive way the business and our people responded is a reflection of what I think is a unique workplace culture.
This right sizing of our business was necessary to ensure we remain in good shape and our results in 2016 17 will benefit from the actions we have taken.
We continued to focus on health and safety throughout the year and the figures are moving in the right direction as demonstrated by the 43% reduction in our lost time injury and illness rate over the last two years.
But it is not just about the numbers: its about changing peoples day to day behaviours which, of course, is a more difficult challenge to address.
Whilst we have made some positive steps, our progress this year was tragically overshadowed by the fatality at our Riverside site in the US, which shocked and saddened all of us.
9 What progress has been made in All of these developments are There are many ways in which we delivering the strategy?
underpinned by further achievements in do this: for example through reducing operational excellence and sustainability their capital and operating expenditure, The focus of our 3C Strategy, which is which we estimate have delivered helping them achieve a faster time to to build our 3rd century through value around an additional 27 million of market or enabling them to comply with adding sustainable technologies, savings this year, taking the total saved legislation.
So the value is created in our remains strong and we have driven this to around 117 million since the launch customers applications, not in Johnson forward in 2015 16.
Despite the external of Sustainability 2017 in 2007.
Matthey itself, and doesnt come from headwinds Ive mentioned, we have the product itself, it comes when the continued to invest across the business product is actually used.
this year to position the group for medium How close is the group to meeting its This year, weve continued to partner term growth.
We have increased our Sustainability 2017 Vision and targets?
with our customers to understand their R&D spend again in 2015 16 to almost Our Sustainability 2017 programme changing requirements and deliver new 190 million.
This investment is key in will come to a close at the end of products which create value for them ensuring we can deliver the sustainable March 2017 and as you will see on in their operations.
This has supported technologies of the future.
Our capital page 25, we are getting very close top line growth and you can read more expenditure has also increased, by 21% to achieving our targets.
However, about some examples in the Strategy in to 257 million, as we have expanded more important is the way weve really Action section at the front of this report.
our manufacturing facilities to meet embedded and embraced a culture of Johnson Matthey has a number future demand and continued our sustainability throughout the company of commercial assets customer programme of investment to upgrade over the past nine years.
Internally we relationships, our market insight, our our core business systems.
have made huge strides in improving the commercial skills and processes and Work in our New Businesses environmental footprint of our operations our brand.
Like other assets in our Division, where we are focusing on which has helped support our business business, they are hard to acquire, developing opportunities for medium to during several market downturns valuable and, if used effectively, are a long term growth, is going well and we experienced since 2007.
Furthermore, real source of competitive advantage.
remain on track to break even in this I am proud to say that today, some 92% So there is an opportunity for us to division in 2017 18.
We have continued of our sales are generated by products optimise these assets and we have a to make a number of smaller scale that enhance peoples quality of life, number of projects we are starting over acquisitions to provide us with the conserve the worlds natural resources the coming year to target particular technology and or market access we and protect the environment.
areas and leverage the strengths of need to grow our positions, particularly But Sustainability 2017 is just the the whole of Johnson Matthey to drive in the areas of atmosphere control and beginning.
We are now working on the further commercial success and top water purification.
next phase of our strategy which will line growth over the longer term.
To ensure we continue to focus extend our sustainable business activities on our core strengths in chemistry and more widely throughout our value its applications, we have adjusted our Last year you told us that the chain to include strong collaborative portfolio through the divestment of our best of big and small company partnerships with a broader range of Research Chemicals Alfa Aesar transition was a key area for you.
This was sold in September Is that still the case?
2015 for 255 million and its proceeds, Absolutely.
Our transition from a together with those from the sale in big small company to a small big You highlight customer focus as one March 2015 of our Gold and Silver company is an important step for area of your 3C Strategy.
Can you Refining business, were returned to Johnson Matthey as it approaches and update us on what you are doing in shareholders by way of a special dividend moves into its 3rd century of operation.
in February of 150 pence per share.
As with any transition, it will take time I am pleased to say that even with Johnson Mattheys future profit will and involves a number of aspects but this, our balance sheet remains strong, come from our customers, not from our success will come from engaging with giving us the capacity we need to invest offices, labs or factories.
So customer our people to embed different ways of in future growth.
focus is all about driving profitable working across the organisation.
growth by looking at ways in which we can create more value for our customers.
BUILDING OUR 3RD CENTURY THROUGH OUR PEOPLE, OUR CULTURE AND OUR TECHNOLOGIES Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 10 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The work we are doing on health and Second is to continue to drive Outlook safety is one example of this.
In addition, growth across all areas of the business, The structural drivers for the groups we have also made good progress this supplemented with targeted acquisitions technologies remain robust despite year in helping employees understand that will accelerate our progress.
the challenging macroeconomic their responsibilities to conduct Johnson 2015 16 was a challenging year but we conditions which are expected to Mattheys business legally, ethically and continued to invest across the group continue in 2016 17. responsibly.
In September we launched and took action where necessary to Increased investment in R&D and our code of ethics, called Doing the reduce our costs.
So, as you will see capital expenditure, together with the right thing, which was accompanied from our Outlook statement to the right, restructuring actions taken in 2015 16, by training for all employees, and work 2016 17 is very much about building on provide strong foundations for future continues to embed this across the this and moving forward.
At current exchange rates, the organisation.
Doing the right thing is Thirdly, to continue to drive efforts outlook for our five divisions is as follows: all about doing good business, not in operational excellence, optimising our business at any cost.
It is essential investments and increasing our focus Emission Control Technologies ECT that everyone takes responsibility for on adding value for our customers to upholding the highest ethical standards underpin future growth.
ECTs performance in 2016 17 is to ensure we protect Johnson Mattheys expected to be slightly ahead of strong and hard earned reputation.
The division should benefit And finally, what are your longer term We have also continued to introduce from continued growth in vehicle expectations for Johnson Matthey?
and develop a global human resources production in Asia and Europe, and Johnson Matthey is a great company strategy to provide us with the right robust demand for trucks in Western with great people.
It is important to me talent management frameworks to Europe.
However, this will be partially that our unique culture, with strong support our growing organisation.
These offset by significantly lower demand values at our core, continues to be our are vital in giving employees the skills for heavy duty diesel catalysts for large foundation.
It is my ambition to make and career development they demand Class 8 trucks in North America Johnson Matthey THE place to work and that we need to grow our business, which will result in a weaker first half through being an inclusive and highly and to make us an attractive proposition performance for the division.
ECT attractive company that encourages to high calibre recruits.
remains well positioned to benefit anyone from anywhere to excel.
In addition, we are making good from the strong growth opportunities All of this means that Johnson progress on several other projects that provided by continued tightening of Matthey continues to be well placed underpin efficiencies, such as the legislation around the world, including for the future.
We will continue to be a upgrades to our core business systems.
the introduction of Euro 6c and real company that uses its strong expertise The work on customer focus, which I world driving standards in Europe, which in chemistry and its applications with described above, will complement these should positively impact the business high efficiency to benefit our customers other projects well, by driving further top from 2018. and the planet.
So overall, I am pleased to say that Inevitably, the transition to a small Process Technologies the group remains well positioned in big company is creating some different markets with strong growth drivers.
We expect challenging trading conditions ways of working for us all.
However, Our strong cash generation and balance to continue and that many of Process these are vital in ensuring that the sheet provide a platform for investment, Technologies markets will remain organisation operates such that the and we continue to increase R&D and subdued.
However, the divisions performance of the group as a whole is capital expenditure to support future performance is expected to be ahead greater than the sum of its parts.
As youll see in this report, in 2016 17 as a result of recent actions how we will unlock further opportunities we have a clear purpose and strategy, taken to reduce costs.
The order book for growth and create more value as a and I am confident that Johnson for catalysts indicates stable demand group in the future.
Matthey is in great shape to deliver but income from licensing is likely to long term growth for our shareholders remain at current low levels and the low What are your priorities in 2016 17?
through the creation of value adding oil price will continue to negatively My first priority is embedding the sustainable technologies.
impact the Diagnostic Services business.
aspects of our small to big company transition that we have initiated over the past couple of years.
This includes the work to date on health and safety, talent management and on building a culture of doing the right thing so that we make these an intrinsic part of the way we do business.
11 Precious Metal Products Overall Although pgm prices have stabilised In 2016 17 the group will benefit from since our year end, they remain low, good progress in Fine Chemicals and relative to the same time last year.
ECTs performance for Consequently, we expect the the year as a whole is expected to be performance of our Pgm Refining and stable, albeit with a weaker performance Recycling business in 2016 17 will be in the first half, and whilst market lower than in 2015 16, if prices remain conditions in Process Technologies at current levels.
Our Manufacturing remain challenging, its performance businesses, which represent around should improve as a result of the three quarters of the divisions sales, reduced cost base.
At current pgm should see good demand and we prices, performance in Precious Metal expect performance will be slightly Products is expected to be slightly ahead of last year.
Overall, at current exchange rates, at current pgm prices, we expect we expect the groups performance in performance in Precious Metal Products 2016 17 to be ahead of 2015 16, in line will be slightly lower than in 2015 16. with current market expectations.
Fine Chemicals Fine Chemicals is expected to make progress in 2016 17 on a continuing basis.
We anticipate growth in the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Robert MacLeod Manufacturing business in North Chief Executive America and our business in Europe will benefit from increased capacity once the refurbishment of the Annan facility in Scotland is completed in late 2016.
Catalysis and Chiral Read more about Sustainability 2017 Technologies is expected to maintain and our future plans on pages 24 to 27. its good performance.
New Businesses In 2016 17 New Businesses will continue Read more about the performance of the to reduce its underlying operating loss group and its divisions on pages 40 to 62. supported by a profitable contribution from our Battery Technologies and Atmosphere Control Technologies businesses and benefiting from lower Read more about health and safety costs in Fuel Cells following its on pages 72 to 75. restructure.
The division remains on track to reach breakeven in 2017 18.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
