Strategic report Chief Executive review 2016 Group performance Total Revenue 15.7% $4,934m 2015: $5,852m 1 EBITA 22.8% $363m 2015: $470m EBITA Margin 0.6% 7.4% 2015: 8.0% Operating Profit During 2016 the Group focused on the before exceptional items short term challenges of cost efficiency and 28.4% utilisation and positioning for a prolonged period $244m 2015: $341m of lower oil prices.
We made significant progress against my initial objectives: to ensure our business 2 Adjusted diluted EPS was appropriately structured to improve delivery 23.7% to customers: to continue to generate sustainable 64.1c 2015: 84.0c cost savings: to develop our best talent: to continue to invest both organically and through acquisition: and to create value for shareholders.
The repositioning increases our effectiveness by enabling easier customer engagement, generates efficiency gains as a simpler business with less internal complexity, and better positions the Group to develop smart solutions.
Note: The following commentary on trading performance is presented based on proportionally consolidated numbers, which is the basis used by management to run the business.
Total Revenue and Total EBITA include the contribution from joint ventures.
A reconciliation to statutory numbers is provided in note 1 to the accounts.
Robin Watson, Chief Executive For further detailed footnotes: See page 19 08 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial performance in 2016 reflected The change increases our effectiveness Outlook lower volumes and pricing pressure.
by enabling easier customer engagement, Financial performance in 2016 reflected lower The Group delivered EBITA of $363m in line generates efficiency gains as a simpler business volumes and pricing pressure.
This was partly with expectations, down 22.8% on 2015. with less internal complexity, and better offset by the robust management of utilisation Adjusted EPS of 64.1c was down 23.7%.
positions the Group to develop smart solutions.
and decisive action on costs, significant one EBITA margins fell 0.6%.
The impact off benefits and the contribution from bolt on Asset Life Cycle Solutions accounts for on EBITA was partly offset by robust acquisitions completed in 2015. c. 90% of revenue and has a Western and management of utilisation and decisive Eastern region management structure.
action on cost, with headcount down 18% We are cautious on the near term outlook for Specialist Technical Solutions is a smaller and overheads down a further $96m.
the Group, although customer support for discrete business unit BU that pulls together our services remains strong.
In a competitive specialist and niche offerings to ensure they EBITA also benefitted from the impact of pricing environment, we secured a number of receive appropriate executive attention, commercial contract close outs on significant renewals and new awards with some of our investment and strategic direction.
and legacy projects of around $15m in Asset largest customers.
This gives us confidence Life Cycle Solutions Eastern region and $14m The organisational change has been welcomed that our reorganised business is well in Specialist Technical Solutions.
Due to the by customers and the benefits are already positioned to support customers in a lower nature of the contracts that completed and being seen in a number of live bids and contract for longer environment.
the current outlook we do not anticipate that awards.
Our combined experience in pipelines this will repeat in 2017.
Overall, the oil and gas market continues to and facility operations and maintenance was present challenges in 2017.
We anticipate key in securing the operatorship scopes for Safety remains our top priority.
In 2016, modest recovery only in markets such the CATS and SAGE systems.
More generally, whilst there were some areas where we had as US onshore and greenfield offshore renewals and awards from some of our largest excellent safety delivery, the overall picture projects.
2017 performance will reflect the customers owed much to the improved across the business was one where safety current pricing environment for work which visibility of our broad offering, including our performance remained broadly static but we remains competitive, although we believe our growing automation service line, and One saw an increase in high potential incidents.
cumulative overhead cost savings since 2015 Wood Group delivery model.
Looking ahead, we have immediate plans will be sustainable in 2017. to draw together safety initiatives and ideas Following a sustainable overhead cost generated across the business to improve Our market position remains strong.
I am reduction of $148m in 2015, we reduced our programmes.
In the Gulf of Mexico, we confident that our focus on delivering value overhead costs by a further $96m in 2016. have reached plea agreements in respect of This has meant further tough decisions through our Asset Life Cycle Solutions and investigations into certain events in previous which directly impact our people.
Underlying Specialist Technical Solutions together with years.
The plea agreements, which were headcount, excluding acquisitions, is down our customer relationships, global footprint, approved by the court, provide for the 36% over a two year period.
As expected, the and strong financial footing position us well payment of fines and penalties, as well as a pace of saving has slowed, although we believe over the longer term.
compliance plan which is still to be finalised.
the savings achieved are sustainable into 2017.
We have taken significant steps to protect We recognised exceptional costs of $140m against any recurrence.
Costs associated with net of tax in 2016.
This included $89m in the potential outcome were provided in 2015. respect of the restructuring of, and a further In February 2016, I set out my vision for Wood impairment in, the carrying value of our Group: to be recognised as the best technical investment in EthosEnergy.
We are actively services company to work with, work for and pursuing our longer term strategic options invest in, with a relentless focus on excellence.
for EthosEnergy, which include a possible The Group focused on the short term disposal of our interest.
We recognised challenges of cost efficiency and utilisation and a charge of $51m net of tax relating to positioning for a prolonged period of lower oil reorganisation, delayering and back office prices.
We made significant progress against rationalisation in our core business as we took my initial objectives: to ensure our business actions in response to the tough market.
was appropriately structured to improve There is no change to our appetite or focus delivery to customers: to continue to generate on M&A.
Opportunities have been less than sustainable cost savings: to develop our best anticipated in 2016 and we have remained talent: to continue to invest both organically disciplined as regard to potential targets.
in innovation and through acquisition: and to We continue to focus on opportunities that may create value for shareholders.
better consolidate our offering or accelerate We reorganised and repositioned as One delivery against our strategic objectives, Wood Group, refining our operating structure including broadening our end market exposure.
We moved to The Group continues to benefit from a strong an organisation defined by service provision, balance sheet and we are comfortable with the intention of ensuring that customers with the flexibility, diversity and maturity of understand the breadth of our offering For further detailed footnotes: our funding.
Ongoing dividends, organic across Asset Life Cycle Solutions and See page 19 investment and M&A remain our preferred Specialist Technical Solutions.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 09
