STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our net inflows of 1.0bn were a good result in a year when many active managers suffered net outflows.
Our international distribution, largely built up in the last four years, accounted for half of gross inflows and 100% of net inflows, compensating for a tough year in the UK and demonstrating the success of our diversification approach.
Despite the headwinds in the UK, Jupiter has a very loyal client base.
As we grow internationally and through more institutionally oriented channels, the volatility of our asset base is slowly increasing.
This is because, in these relationships, we typically provide a high-alpha seeking component in a third-party client solution.
This helps to illustrate that the face of Jupiters typical client is evolving.
During the year we continued to expand our product range, launching the Jupiter Asian Income Fund in the UK and internationally, the UKs most successful fund launch of 2016.
The third anniversary of our Absolute Return fund relaunch coincided with a rapid increase in flows of assets for this strategy.
We launched a SICAV version of the fund in 2016, with almost immediate success.
Other new products that were positive in 2016 include Global Value equities and Global Emerging Markets equities, for which we have medium-term asset gathering expectations.
Our Dynamic Bond strategy continued to dominate in our international distribution channels.
As part of our targeted international expansion, our new offices in Madrid and Milan opened midway through 2016 to serve existing I am pleased with Jupiters client bases and build out new opportunities.
Given the size of these performance in what was markets and the suitability of our products, these offices should contribute meaningfully by 2018.
New countries typically generate a challenging year, with meaningful revenue within three years, while new products normally take at least three years to do so.
investor sentiment affected New regulations continue to have a tangible effect on our operating by a number of macro events platform and related costs.
Jupiter has prepared well and invested in systems, software and people to meet compliance deadlines but outside Jupiters control.
this has limited our bandwidth for other initiatives this year as well as contributing to our costs.
We continue to invest in our operations, risk and compliance, bringing in high-calibre people to help with our change programme.
We have invested in expertise for MiFID II and Senior Managers Regime compliance and will further enhance our investment platform in 2017.
This will result in a modest short-term uptick in costs.
Since early 2016, we have been reviewing our approach to unit trust pricing.
Following this, we have taken the proactive decision to move to single pricing for buying and selling fund units, which will Maarten Slendebroek remove box profits from our 2018 income.
Chief Executive Officer We will also take a consistent approach to the costs of research we use, by taking it all through Jupiters accounts from 2018 with no change in the management fee, adding around 5m of costs from 2018.
During 2017, we will work with our service and research Positive net inflows of 1.0bn during 2016 were encouraging providers to implement these changes.
These are important steps in given the challenging market environment.
Against a backdrop simplifying our unit trust pricing structure as we diversify and grow.
of variable markets and dampened investor sentiment, flows were strongest in the first and third quarters.
These market In November 2016, the FCA published its interim report into conditions, which benefited our market neutral and total return competition in the UK fund management industry, with the final strategies, alongside favourable exchange rate movements, report due later in 2017.
It was a thoughtful study and we welcome contributed to a 13% increase in AUM.
the push towards transparency in fees and focus on client value.
We must await the final report to determine how to respond further Our headline investment metric is the percentage of AUM delivering to the transparency objective and whether this is in the form of a above-median performance, after all fees, over three years.
This combined fee, as outlined in the interim report.
remained steady at 66% 2015: 68%, although the investment trends of recent years reversed, most notably value style equity strategies 2017 will be a year of operational heavy lifting but I am excited outperforming growth.
Further investment in our platform will simplify and standardise the onboarding of investment talent, Jupiters net revenue increased by 6.6% to 351m, while operating enhance our investment risk oversight and further improve client costs rose by 11.2% to 182m, including total staff costs up 4.5% to service.
Our first objective, to beat the benchmark and competition 115m.
While the actual increase in revenue exceeded the actual after all fees, is unchanged.
This resonates with clients and with increase in total costs, our adjusted EBITDA margin declined slightly, extraordinary investment talent.
Our investment in 2017 will ensure from 51% to 49%.
This was partly due to the full-year effect of the we can continue to grow in the UK and internationally for years SICAV pricing change, which reduced the margin but contributed to come.
