Chief Executive Officers review 2016 was a great year forJust Eat andour Restaurant Partners Orderpad technology also brings increased Just Eat processed orders Read more about functionality to our Restaurant Partners, and our strategy on worth over 2.5 billion for is rapidly becoming the operating system page 18 forindependent delivery restaurants.
In June, ourRestaurant Partners we launched our restaurant partnership overthe year.
programme in the UK, using our scale to provide great products and services to our This generated revenues of 375.7 million estate.
Launching with Booker, the UKs largest 2015: 247.6 million, up 52 per cent, and food wholesaler, we have also added offers Underlying EBITDA of 115.3 million 2015: covering soft drinks, card processing, wifi, 59.7 million, up 93 per cent.
Profit before broadband, motorbike insurance, business tax was up 164 per cent to 91.3 million rates advice and financing opportunities.
Altogether, an Todeliver this, we have developed strong excellentperformance.
relationships with brands such as Coca-Cola, Sky, Global Payments and Funding Circle.
Strategic progress Wewill continue to develop these offers In the UK, we continued to drive strong growth throughout 2017.
These initiatives benefit in orders, revenues and EBITDA, and saw the ourRestaurant Partners directly and help market for delivered takeaway food expand to ustowards our vision to build the worlds 1 6.1 billion 2015: 5.5 billion, ensuring plenty greatest food community.
of room for further growth.
Our international businesses passed a key milestone in becoming Bringing greater choice profitable for the first time generating In 2016, we increased the number of 7.2million of Underlying EBITDA in aggregate.
restaurants on our network by a net 7,000 The Danish business recorded its 15th to 68,500 31 December 2015: 61,500 successive year of order growth, reflecting andgained 4.2 million new active users, long-term category expansion and operational highlighting the positive network effects improvement in the business.
The average number reflected in our headline numbers, it was oforders we processed per restaurant great to see iFood, our Latin America increased by 19 per cent.
associate, continue to grow strongly and achieve profitability this year.
Improving the consumer experience This year we have seen considerable progress in our product and service offering for both sides of our network.
For the consumer we have enhanced the restaurant discovery process and introduced more ways to engage with Just Eat, including digital media players and into the gaming experience, as well as harnessing voice technology, chatbots and augmented reality.
With the rollout of Orderpad to more than 10,000 restaurants globally, the number of consumers receiving order on its way notifications continues to increase.
Source: Management estimate based on research performed.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10 Strategic report Just Eat will always favour a two sidedmarketplace, with restaurants managing last-mile delivery to ensure customer service standards and to gainoperational efficiencies.
To bring greater choice to the consumer, we willcontinue to bring delivery to restaurants without that capability.
David Buttress Chief Executive Officer Driving channel shift Our people Read more about Our industry is in good health and continues Without exception, every member of our our markets on to grow as the consumer chooses greater team is critical to our success as a business page 16 1 convenience.
Over 51 per cent of takeaway and key to driving a high performance, food in the UK continues to be ordered by entrepreneurial culture.
During 2016 we telephone, and online penetration remains further strengthened our leadership team ata significantly lower level across the and welcomed Fernando Fanton as our remainder of our portfolio, representing ChiefProduct and Technology Officer, and great potential for future growth.
Paul Harrison as Chief Financial Officer.
In February 2017, I informed the Board of my During 2016, we relaunched the Just Eat brand, intention to step down as CEO from the end starting in the UK, to better reflect both the of the first quarter, accepting their offer to two-sided nature of our marketplace and become a Non-executive Director.
It has thechoice available across our network.
been a great privilege to work alongside, and In a year in which we consolidated Spain then lead the exceptional team at Just Eat, andItaly, two key European markets, we helping to build from the very first restaurant further strengthened the iFood business in the UK to the Company it is today.
I know with two acquisitions in Brazil and Mexico, it will continue to be in the best possible hands.
bolstered our Canadian business and, subject to Competition and Markets I would like to thank the entire Just Eat team Authority approval, agreed the acquisition for working tirelessly to grow this business ofhungryhouse in the UK.
Following the and deliver an industry-leading performance.
disposal of our Benelux business, we are nowthe leader in each of our 12 markets.
Outlook Just Eat is in a very strong position, operationally and financially.
We have the right business model to continue capturing further share of the 23.1 billion of delivered food ordered in our markets.
In 2017, despiteanother year of planned investment, we expect material growth in both  EBITDA of between 480.0495.0 million and 157.0163.0million respectively.
I would like to thank the entire Just Eat team Pages 4 to 39 of the Annual Report form for working tirelessly to theStrategic Report grow this business and On behalf of the Board deliver anindustryleading performance.
David Buttress Chief Executive Officer 6 March 2017 www.
com 11 Razor Sharp Being razor sharp is about continuously striving to be the best we can be.
However, our ambition is far greater.
We want to keep pushing technology boundaries to ensure we provide Industry-leading our customers with the best possible service, while atthe same time supporting our restaurant estate technology togrow their business.
We are proud of the progress that our 360-strong We believe in continuous innovation technology team has made in the past year.
We as well as getting the basics right so unveiled our investment in machine learning, with theestablishment of a dedicated data pipeline that ourservice remains the most successfully driving artificial intelligence into convenient, relevant and reliable.
Just Eat is a high-tech company, and we are always We have teamed up with the likes of Amazon, Facebook looking for ways to innovate, giving our customers and Microsoft to integrate these innovations into anamazing experience.
Customers increasingly thetechnology that informs our customers everyday expectservices like Just Eat to be faster, smarter lives, and we showcased most of this along with andmore intuitive.
Everything we do to make the industry-first virtual reality at our future now event process convenient, relevant and reliable helps inNovember 2016.
We also delivered our first order usriseto that expectation.
viarobot through our ground-breaking partnership with Starship Robots.
Previously that could be satisfied by simply meeting the consumer where they are and we have achieved We launched our inaugural accelerator programme this by extending access to our platform to digital toassist early stage start-ups in the food tech space media players and into the gaming experience.
through investment, mentoring and business guidance, sothat they can benefit from our own experience ofwhat it takes to get a successful food tech businessup and running and to bring it to scale.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12 An area where we are using technology toenhance the customer experience is restaurant discovery.
Just Eat customers have access to 68,500 Restaurant Partners, so we have an exciting challenge in helping them discover and choose the most relevant restaurant and meal for themselves.
We have worked hard to make it as easy as possible for our customers to find what they want, and we will have new tools to help them tomorrow.
We are now making advanced use of natural language processing NLP technologies on our websites and apps.
This technology analyses the content of multiple data sources in real time such as customer reviews and We want to keep pushing technology restaurant information to make our search boundaries to ensure we provide our engine even more effective.
customers with the best possible For 2017, we will continue to support the rollout of Orderpad to more restaurants and service, while atthe same time into more markets, and further develop the supporting our restaurant estate platform to bring greater functionality to ourRestaurant Partners and make it easier togrow their business.
for them to communicate with customers to enhance their experience.
Fernando Fanton Chief Product and Technology Officer Fernando Fanton Chief Product and Technology Officer www.
