Keller remains at the forefront Chief Executive of the geotechnical industry, offering industry-leading Officers review capability in ground improvement and a full range of foundations solutions.
In 2016 we managed some 6,000 projects around the world, far in excess of any competitor.
This demonstration of our customers ongoing trust in us is something we are proud of, but something we never take for granted.
We have continued to make good progress in strengthening the group and ensuring a successful future for all our stakeholders.
Since then, we have launched a Strategic progress number of strategic initiatives Kellers vision is to be the world across all the five levers, many leader in geotechnical solutions.
of which are beginning to deliver We will achieve this through five real benefits.
Based on our strategic levers: assessment of the opportunities and progress to date, the group Growing our product range is confident that these initiatives and entering new markets, will realise gross benefits of 50m organically and by acquisition by 2020, around half of which is Building strong, customerexpected to be reflected as focused businesses improved profitability.
Leveraging the scale and expertise of the group Enhancing our engineering Growth and operational capabilities The long term drivers of market Investing in our people growth remain robust.
Our order book is at an all-time high and Towards the end of 2015, the weve had some major contract group adopted a revised wins including work in the organisational model to enhance Caspian Region, Zayed City in and accelerate efforts to progress Abu Dhabis Capital District, the all the strategic levers.
The model East Port Said Development was designed to make the group Complex and Clairwood better connected, to improve Logistics Park in South Africa.
functional capability and to We remain well placed to take facilitate both the leveraging advantage of any acceleration of the groups scale and the of public infrastructure spending sharing of knowledge and in the developed world, a subject best practice.
of much discussion in recent months.
We made good progress on technology transfer, particularly in expanding our diaphragm wall capability following the T he group continues to implement our strategic acquisition of Bencor in 2015.
While a relatively quiet year on initiatives which we are confident will realise gross the acquisitions front, we remain benefits of 50m by 2020, around half of which is an active consolidator in a expected to be reflected as improved profitability.
Alain Michaelis Chief Executive Officer 6 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Building a smarter business Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strong business units All our business units continue to strengthen capability.
We have consolidated sub scale units, expanded product offerings in a number of areas, and continue to invest in leadership, inter-company benchmarking and sharing of knowledge across the group.
We revamped our organisational framework in late 2015, and 2016 has been a good year of implementing the changes.
We have made significant cost reductions in business units in struggling markets, but have been careful to maintain base capabilities so that we are well positioned for market recovery.
Leverage of group and divisional scale Our group and divisional scale provide a broad landscape of opportunity for Keller and are a lever for significant competitive advantage.
We have reinforced our capabilities through stronger functional leadership in domains such as strategy, communication, procurement and quality.
Some of the highlights were evolving our corporate identity to present a common customer look and feel for the Company brands, executing some valuable divisional procurement contracts and launching our group intranet.
We are a much better connected company than a year ago.
Keller Group plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 However, we still have too Chief Executive many serious and preventable incidents, and sadly saw two Officers review fatalities in 2016, so this will continued remain a constant focus for the years ahead.
Engineering and Operations is at our core: Dr Venu Raju replaced Dr Wolfgang Sondermann as Engineering and Operations Director on 1 January 2017, following Wolfgangs retirement from the Board and the Executive Committee.
Id like to take this opportunity to thank Wolfgang for his huge contribution to both Keller and the wider geotechnical industry.
Engineering and operations Summary Designing and executing Keller has had a mixed year, with projects remain at the core of disappointing financial results in Keller.
The design of solutions our most challenging markets, that optimise all the relevant notably Asia and Australia, project parameters account for overshadowing continued good more than 50% of our revenue progress in the US and Europe.
We have a fleet of over a However, we have continued to thousand rigs around the world strengthen our industry position which is part of our industry in terms of geographic reach, leading capability and we product range, and project scale.
continue to invest in our in-house manufacture of rigs and tooling Despite the ongoing challenges where this gives us competitive in APAC, cost reduction advantage in specific product measures already implemented ranges.
Our newly formed global and the group record order book product teams are having a of more than 1bn gives us positive impact and we have We are a much better connected company than a year ago.
We also continued our quality journey remain ideally placed to help with the introduction of new respond to any increase in lean tools 5S and Total infrastructure spending in Productive Maintenance.
People Our proven track record of Alain Michaelis successful projects would not Chief Executive Officer be possible without the passion, commitment and enthusiasm 27 February 2017 of the 10,000 people who work for Keller worldwide.
I would also like to thank them for their continued efforts.
We launched a broader and more comprehensive Code of Business Conduct and intensified our commitment to sustainable development.
We continued to make progress on safety with another year of declining rates of incident.
With our lost time injury rate of 0.34 per 100,000 hours worked, Keller is significantly better than both the UK Construction sector at 0.86 and the US Bureau of Labor at 0.75.
8 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Keller Group plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
