CEOs interview By putting the customer first, we will create a business that will better address their needs.
We have the scale, the expertise and the passion, and by directing it with a unied focus we can truly make a dierence.
6 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Interview with Vronique Laury Q Q You have been CEO of Kingsher for just What can Kingsher do to help people create over a year now.
What progress do you a good home?
feel the business has made in that time?
A It is clear that when it comes to home improvement, A I feel weve made a lot of progress.
Following an something has to change.
People need ideas and in-depth review of Kingshers business last year inspiration.
They need help planning projects correctly.
alongside in-depth studies of our customers home They need help purchasing the right materials and tools.
improvement needs, the leadership team announced They need help building and installing.
And nally, the ONE Kingsher plan.
This plan will leverage the scale they need help maintaining their homes.
By putting of the business by becoming a single, unied company the customer first, we can create a business to better where those customer needs always come first.
We have the scale, the expertise and the passion, and by directing it with a unied In January 2016 we revealed the detail of our focus we can truly make a dierence.
new strategy and our focus over the next five years based on the three key pillars of creating a unied, unique and leading home improvement oer, driving our digital capability, and optimising our operational eciency.
With a clear road map now in place alongside Everyone deserves a home they long-term targets, the size of the five year opportunity is significant.
Of course we acknowledge the challenges can feel good about, and we all ahead.
However, having already made good progress play a part in making that happen.
since March last year with our first sharp decisions, and with 74,000 committed colleagues, we feel confident about our plan and look forward to moving on to the first year of our transformation.
Q So how will your customer oer change?
Q How do you view the potential of the home A Were creating a complete unied and unique oer improvement market?
based on deep customer insights.
This oer will be unied across Europe and ultimately delivered by A I think the potential is huge.
The home is an everan integrated supply chain from the supplier to the changing, always evolving space that demands love customers home for quality at lowest cost.
But all across our markets, people are unied core essentials ranges are starting to arrive nding the task of starting, completing and keeping in stores, covering areas such as light bulbs, batteries up with home improvement projects more dicult and kitchen sinks.
What should be an enjoyable and rewarding process is often far too challenging, We have also started working on developing unique with many unforeseen hurdles along the way.
ranges, where the design and quality will be owned and specified by Kingsher.
This will ensure we meet But despite all these challenges, people remain customer needs, whether they be functional, design determined, because a good home is a vital part or aordability, as well as dierentiating our oer.
It can be hard work, but ask We have started with the bathroom and outdoor anyone who has ever swung a hammer, tiled a oor, categories.
This is brand new and exciting!
or painted a room, and theyll tell you that once its done its all worth it.
As our new oer arrives in stores, it will not only be the same oer everywhere but will also be presented in the same way across Europe.
We have said that our unied oer will roll out over the next five years.
By the end of 2018 over half of our oer will be new so customers will notice a real change by then.
com 7 CEOs interview continued Q strategy, customer and digital roles.
We have also And the digital strategy, how will that work decided to create a new role of Chief Sales and and benefit both customers and sta?
Jean-Paul Constant will Were going to start being where people need us to A join us in this role in late summer 2016.
He spent be, giving them what they need when they need it, from 30 years at Decathlon in senior roles.
And we have inspiration to realisation.
Well do this by creating digital 74,000 committed colleagues within Kingsher who tools that will help customers to nd great ideas, plan do a great job helping our customers.
their projects, connect with helpers from their community, Can Kingsher deliver all this change and search for the right tools and products instantly Q without impacting the day-to-day running and seamlessly from the comfort of their own home of the business?
We have set up a transformation programme Well support this innovative approach in our stores, A management function to monitor the progress of where well have access to the same digital tools our key initiatives against our external and internal Key our customers do, allowing us to know their projects Performance Indicators.
For example, one of the reasons and their homes inside and out.
Well provide new we are rolling out our unied oer over five years and in-store technology that will help us spend less time not less is to manage the execution risk and to protect on administration and more time with customers as business as usual.
we share our expertise with them.
We will continue to optimise our ways of working, our store formats Q Kingsher has talked about changing the way and our market presence, making us uniquely placed it does things before.
Why will it be dierent to oer the best customer experience possible.
Are you confident you have the right team Q I think its dierent for three reasons.
First, we are putting A to deliver this strategy?
customers first in everything we do.
This was not the case before.
Second, we have a fresh view of our eld Yes, absolutely.
We have a highly competent, highly A of action which we refer to as our home improvement committed leadership team with a great range of skills ecosystem see pages 10 to 13, an ecosystem that really and experience.
And when we need new competence reects the reality of home improvement projects.
For example, we recently appointed And third, we are radically reorganising for the first time Pierre Woreczek to the new role of Chief Customer to operate as ONE company to truly leverage the scale Ocer.
Pierre spent 17 years at McDonalds in senior of the business.
This is a transformation plan and Kingsher in five years time will be very dierent from what it is today.
8 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Q Q What do you see as the biggest risk What should a home improvement company to your plans?
A I would say the biggest risk to our plans is the cultural A Everyone deserves a home they can feel good about, change and we are very aware of it.
This is a transformation and we all play a part in making that happen.
Together plan and Kingsher in five years time will be very dierent we will become ambassadors for home improvement, from what it is today, so our people will be an important full of knowledge, passion and ambition to support part of that journey.
Our new Chief People Ocer, Emily those with a desire to improve their home.
Lawson, who joined us in October 2015, has the right As the leading home improvement company we will experience of big transformational change.
She will be stand for helping as many people as we can to have key, alongside me, in ensuring that we bring our existing the good home that they want.
And together we will people along with us in the right way, as well as ensuring improve peoples lives thats something we can all we recruit the right people to support this transformation feel good about.
where we need new competences and capability.
Q How is sustainability relevant to Kingshers transformation?
Vronique Laury Chief Executive Ocer A We believe that a good home is a more sustainable home one that is green outside and in, resource and energy smart, healthy and comfortable, durable and ecient to run.
As we transform our oer we are further integrating sustainability into our ranges, to make it easier for our customers to create a good and sustainable home.
Within our business we aim to be a truly sustainable company too, and we are looking at our supply chain, our buildings, our infrastructure and processes.
We are lucky in this regard because we have a very strong heritage and a track record of leadership in sustainability.
We are building on strong foundations and are very ambitious about what we want to achieve next.
