Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review A clear vision for our business 1 Haydn Mursell Revenue Combined Construction Chief Executive and Services order book 4.2bn 8.7bn 2015: 3.4bn 2015: 9.3bn 2 Underlying operating profit 150m 2015: 104m Wehave a 600m mixed tenure pipeline, which we see as Q&A with Haydn Mursell agrowing market for us to service and an important market toaddress the UK housing shortage.
How would you summarise the past year?
The year has been one of consolidation and evolution for The Construction division has enjoyed significant growth yeartheGroup.
on-year, and has traded well, underpinned by our presence in the regional UK building market.
In our Infrastructure business, We have made good progress on the goals I set out in last years wehave a high-quality medium-term pipeline and it is a very report.
We are focusing on the businesses within the Group that important sector for us in both capital works and maintenance will drive growth while improving the quality of our earnings by work.
The UK needs better infrastructure road, rail and utilities streamlining and simplifying the portfolio.
We are also investing networks as well asa balanced energy generation strategy intechnology and systems to provide the platform that will allow as coal fired stations gradually go offline.
We welcome the UK the Group to grow through better management information.
Government approval of Hinkley Point C where we are undertaking enabling works.
We are one of six contractors appointed to the Our core businesses provide an integrated offer for our clients, major works Lot of the new highways framework in the East of and in each of these businesses we aim to be top three in England.
We are also in a pre-qualification position on High ourmarkets.
Can you explain the results and the divisional performance?
Internationally, we have a strong business in the Middle East, 2 A.
We saw underlying profits from operations of 150m with principally in Dubai which is preparing for Expo 2020 and is exceptional charges being incurred in the year relating to the consequently investing in its infrastructure.
The total Construction acquisition and integration of Mouchel and the portfolio simplification.
division order book is 3.4bn and covers more than 90% of our targeted revenue for the 2017 financial year.
We achieved areturn on capital employed ROCE ahead of an increased target we set ourselves.
The Services division has grown markedly year-on-year, more Thedivision received strong support from joint venture funding recently reflecting the integration of Mouchel.
We are now the partners, and its regional coverage and sector breadth provided UKs leading provider of highways management and maintenance.
Property has more than 1bn worth of We have a maturing utilities business: the facilities management projects already in the pipeline.
business has shown double-digit growth: and the housing maintenance business has remained stable in the face of the In Residential, we completed over 2,100 units, in line with our 2015 Budget rent reductions.
More than 90% of the Services estimates.
We continue to trade through our historical land bank, division targeted revenue for the 2017 financial year is covered by and reinvest capital in mixed tenure affordable housing.
Having the current order book.
We have good visibility of earnings as launched the New Communities Partnership, which aims to create far off as 2020 due to the long-term nature of our contracts.
approximately 10,000 new affordable homes across the UK over the next five years, we are seeing a significant level of interest, with meetings taking place with our local authority clients.
6 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 The Group has a strong long-term order book of 8.7bn.
In the Residential division, we are trading through our historical This hasreduced slightly reflecting the unwinding of the land bank and new, cheaper land isan increasing proportion longer term contracts as is typical of the Services sector.
of our trading activities together with our growing mixed tenure activities, all of which will improve the Groups overall margin.
However, we are pleased that in the Construction division, the current order book of 3.4bn for secured and probable work, Q.
What makes Kiers business model so strong?
excluding framework wins, provides for more than 90% of forecast A.
With our breadth of capabilities, we are able to help our clients revenue for the 2017 financial year, on increasing volumes.
In our look at the whole-life cost of their assets.
We can invest our own Services division more than 90% of the targeted revenue for 2017 capital or take an equity share in a project, then construct the is secured, excluding potential extensions to the value of 2.7bn.
asset and look after it for the client.
We call this proposition: Invest, Build and Maintain.
Following the integration of two sizeable acquisitions over the last two years, on 4 July 2016 we announced a simplification Having such a balanced set ofbusinesses offers the Group of the Groups portfolio.
This, combined with challenging trading two advantages: complementary opportunities providing conditions in the Caribbean and the effect of the collapse of the corresponding capital flows, and anatural resilience through oil price on the recyclates market, has resulted in a number diversification across different business cycles.
For example, of exceptionals which affect the statutory reported numbers.
our Construction and Services divisions generate cash that we As the Group evolves, this focus on our core businesses and can invest into the Property division.
In addition, while some of simplification ofour portfolio will position us well for future growth.
our infrastructure clients have capital projects requiring our civil engineering skills, others want maintenance services.
Moving on to the financial results, what do the figures say it is to those that require both that we can provide an end-to-end about where the business is?
Many of our clients, such as local authorities, continue A.
Our revenue and underlying profit indicate that Kier has tobe under financial pressure and need greater control over performed well in many of its market sectors during the year.
budgets, or to derive income from their assets, all of which we The order books show that our core businesses are in good can help them with.
I do not believe any of our competitors have shape, and we can see the workload ahead of us for a number such a broad range of services which they can cross-sell.
So the integrated offer approach is a competitive advantage?
The balance sheet, which will be the engine of our growth, A.
The challenge is communicating this USP, internally has been strengthened by our excellent cash performance, to our teams and from there on to our client base.
Weknow from and the additional support we have received from our funding experience that where we provide a breadth ofcapabilities to partners.
For example, we completed the raising of 81m of existing clients, we find our service delivery isoften much more additional finance through the German Schuldschein market efficient for them and us based on a clear, well-understood post the EU Referendum vote which confirms support for the relationship.
Cross-selling requires the versatility and agility to Group.
In summary, the figures show growth, resilience and establish deeper client relationships.
This is the single biggest afocus on our core businesses.
Weremain committed to opportunity for Kier.
We already have examples of where we are maintaining a progressive dividend, which will broadly follow doing just this for our clients: Highways England, Kent County the Group earnings profile.
Council, North Tyneside Council and Northamptonshire County Council to name just a few.
What about the Groups net debt position?
Our goal was to achieve a net debt to EBITDA ratio of Q.
What does the recently announced streamlining of the 1 times by 30June 2017.
We are pleased to have achieved portfolio entail?
this on an underlying profit basis a year aheadof schedule.
We have strict financial criteria that all our businesses must Following an improved cash performance, ournet debt position meet.
We also want to ensure that each business provides a of 99m at 30 June 2016 is well ahead ofthe forecast range long-term strategic fit in the Group.
Debt will always form part of our balanced capital structure as we choose to invest theGroups free cash flow in our asset-based businesses such asproperty development.
You mentioned improving the quality of earnings.
We are focused on improving our margins.
In the Construction division, margins will improve as infrastructure and international projects increase as a proportion of our total construction work.
In Services, the acquisition of Mouchel has lifted the average margin and, as the Group generates cash, we will reinvest it into the Property division, which generates higher margins.
Group and share of joint ventures.
See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
7 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review continued Our vision in action Update on the Mouchel acquisition In June 2015, Kier acquired Mouchel, creating a sector leader in the growing UK highways management and maintenance market.
Covering over 43,000km of roads to keep more than 5mpeople on the move, we are one of the leading providers of highways management and maintenance services for both strategic and local authority roads acrossthe UK.
The Group provides a range of capital works and maintenance services to Highways England.
Our highways footprint covers approximately one-fifth of the UK landmass.
We provide a full range of planned and reactive building andmaintenance services, from major road schemes andsurface dressing togully emptying, gritting and snow clearing.
Our breadth of experience across a variety of delivery models is gained and shared through our highly collaborative approach, enabling us to benchmark performance, optimise best practice and share knowledge, assets and skills.
Where possible, we will redeploy employees to other Kier For example, clients in the UK market generally prefer their geographies.
All these developments will ensure our focus consulting partner to be a separate body from their contracting iswhere it needs to be on the core businesses.
As a consequence, we have undertaken a strategic review ofMouchel Consulting, which accounted for c15% of the acquired revenue of the Mouchel acquisition, with the possibility of a sale of Q.
How do you see the Groups international ambitions developing?
that business with an anticipated profit on the completion of any A.
While our international business is currently fairly modest, sale should that arise.
ithas grown recently by adding Mouchels Australian highways operations.
I believe it would be advantageous for the Group to In addition, in the Services division, despite stable operations, have a larger proportion of revenue from international operations, our Environmental Services business continues to be affected as it would provide a natural hedge to our UK businesses.
bythe low oil price, as recyclate prices correlate closely to this.
However, I am also aware of the increased risk of doing business Asaresult, we have taken a provision, which provides for all internationally, and we do need to ensure that we generate an future cash outflows on the two environmental contracts affected.
adequate return and manage associated risks.
Finally, following challenging trading conditions, we are winding down our Caribbean operations after 50 years of trading.
8 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Therefore, if we grow our overseas operations, wewill do so in Q.
So people are generally responding well to the change a select number of developed locations where there is a well withinKier?
understood contractual environment, with clients we know A.
There has been considerable change across the Group well and where we understand the nature of the marketplace.
with an overall 4% headcount reduction during the year.
The latest employee engagement survey scores are encouraging, showing Itisalso important to plan resourcing of overseas projects, and improved engagement and enablement scores.
In general terms, to have a pipeline of work in any particular region, rather than I believe these scores show we are investing in our people, giving one-off projects.
British construction and engineering are well them the righttools and that they feel good about working respected abroad and there are further opportunities available forKier.
I am proudof their contribution and thank them for with greater political impetus and support.
How has the integration of Mouchel gone?
One challenge is to improve the diversity of our employee base, A.
It has gone well and is now complete.
We used the same particularly increasing the ratio of female to male employees.
in-house integration team we had for the May Gurney acquisition Theindustries in which we operate are making moves in the right which enabled us to share our learnings from that process.
direction, and we are a big advocate of this.
We have to accept this will be a long-term challenge, but we are playing our part.
The510 year nature of highways contracts provides good Weare also focused on promoting Kier to those starting out in long-term visibility of earnings.
We are now the largest highways their careers, making sure that we help students understand the maintenance provider in the UK.
We have integrated Mouchels opportunities that exist in our sectors.
business processing operations with Kiers facilities management operations, creating Kier Workplace Services.
What feedback do you get from customers?
integration has saved 4m in the 2016 financial year and A.
All the clients I speak to and I try speak to as many as we expect it to save 15m in the 2017 financial year, in excess possible are very positive about Kier, and are willing to give their of our original expectations.
As a result, the integration costs views and also to listen to what we have to say.
I find our clients increased in light of the increased scope undertaken.
are happy to have candid and informal conversations, which is atestament to our teams of people who have established these The acquisition remains on track to deliver ROCE in excess of our relationships.
Our customer satisfaction scores continue to be target of 15% so although we spent more money on integrating very good.
Mouchel, we have also created more savings, so the return has justified the increased expenditure.
The major news at the end of your financial year was the EU Referendum result.
How will this affect the growth you anticipate?
How does a major acquisition such as this affect A.
Given our healthy order books, we are in a strong position and companyculture?
have seen no material impact to the Groups trading to date.
We A. Kier has a strong culture emanating from its management have solid pipelines and our largely non-speculative approach to buy-out back in the 1990s and many of our employees property development positions us well.
The Services division, are shareholders.
This creates great interest in the success of representing 50% ofthe Groups profits and providing essential the Company and a sense of belonging, which has stayed with every-day services, is relatively unaffected by Brexit.
Overall, the Kier over the years and is one ofour strengths.
However, Group iscontinuing to pursue growth in 2017. culturalintegration takes time to truly embed.
At Kier, we have acan-do culture supported by our values of being collaborative, Q.
What is the outlook for the Group?
We also need to ensure we A.
Our focus remains on improving our operational efficiency and retain the best from those companies that we have acquired.
We believe the strength of Thisis something thatis important to me personally.
our business model gives us the versatility and agility to deliver on our integrated offer which provides Kier with a competitive Q.
What about safety, which is also ingrained in a company advantage in the marketplace.
We remain confident of achieving culture and is one of your non-financial KPIs?
our goal of double-digit profit growth on average each year to A.
We have new, strong leadership within our Safety, Health, 2020.
I look forward to the future with confidence.
We continue to see improvements in how people think about safety as well as health and environment.
However, it is important to keep the focus not just on processes but very importantly, on peoples behaviour as well.
In the UK, ouraccident incidence rate AIR is below 200 for the first time ever, showing a marked decline in reported accidents, and we are working hard to maintain that downward trend.
A number of our businesses are achieving a zero AIR, a great accomplishment.
Haydn Mursell Wehave focused on visible leadership programmes, run a number Chief Executive of well-received internal campaigns about health, safety and wellbeing, and have been evolving our behavioural change 21 September 2016 programme, ensuring people do the right thing for the right reasons.
Internationally, the incident rate has also dropped markedly, reflecting the focused work we are undertaking in thoseregions.
9 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
