Strategic report Chief Executives review The full year results reflect a strong financial performance with proforma Group operating profit 22% ahead of last yeardriven by strong growth in Digital and European Retail.
As well as completing the merger and beginning to integrate the two businesses, both the Ladbrokes and Coral businesses delivered on their individual 2016 priorities.
Overview The Ladbrokes business successfully delivered positive customer metrics helping build a more sustainable and profitable business.
The Coral business continued its impressive multi-channel and online growth in both the UK and Italy.
The operational focus and strategies being implemented by both businesses enabled us to enter the merger on 1 November from a position of strength.
The first few months as Ladbrokes Coral saw afocus on integrating the businesses, seeking to secure the right talent in the right jobs and minimising disruption to day-to-day operations.
We ended the year with our businesses performing well across all sectors despite very poor sporting results in December.
On a proforma basis in UK Retail, a 12% increase in football stakes, driven by the Euros and the rollout of Self Service Betting Terminals SSBTs, helped to partially offset the continued decline in the popularity of horse and greyhound racing.
Machines net revenue grew 4% year-on-year driven by lower staking slots and new B3 content.
Sports margins at 17.3% were ahead of last year, and in-line with expectations, while operating costs were 3% higher than last year, resulting in operating profit 7% behind.
Multichannel, which is at the core of our UK Retail offering, delivered impressive growth in sign-ups.
The European Retail businesses posted a very strong performance with proforma operating profit over 200% ahead of last year and net revenue 12% ahead on a constant currency basis.
In Italy, Eurobet Retail net revenue was 20% ahead of last year on a constant currency basis, while Ladbrokes Ireland showed the benefit of the examinership process, with like-for-like stakes up 7%.
Positive staking trends were also evident in Belgium and Spain.
The Digital business continued to grow with net revenue 33% ahead of last year.
Sportsbook net revenue was 51% ahead and gaming net revenue was 21% ahead.
The Ladbrokes, Coral, Gala, Ladbrokes Australia and Eurobet brands made significant contributions to theperformance, growing customer numbers and net revenue.
Overall Digital operating profit was 125% ahead of last year.
Note: Growth on a constant currency basis is calculated by translating both current and prior year performance at the average 2016 exchange rates.
com 20 The statutory results include a full 12 months of Ladbrokes PLC 2016 activity combined with the final two months of the CoralGroups 2016 results.
The increase in operating profit in Ladbrokesreflects the progress made during the year.
An increased marketing presence, a drive for growth in football and investment in the Digital business helped deliver improved profitability in theEuropean Retail and Digital businesses.
While the merger completion brought the strength of the Coral Group in for the final two months of the year, the impact on overall Group operating profit was partially offset by the well-publicised tougher than expected sporting results in December.
After charging non-trading 1 items of 323.6 million, which included a 194.9 million non-cash Proforma impairment charge and 128.7 million relating primarily to other Group net merger and integration related costs, the Group reported an revenue 2,351.9m 11% operating loss of202.4 million.
Integration progress The integration programme is progressing well.
The senior The year ended with a sharp reminder that nervous times are management team was in place and operational from Day 1. neverfar away.
With only six Premier League draws in the Thishelped maintain focus on both delivering the 2016 plans calendarmonth, the customer was well ahead and only a home andforging ahead with the 2017 business plan, whilst ensuring defeat for Newcastle to Sheffield Wednesday in the late kick-off theintegration and resultant efficiencies started to be delivered.
onBoxing Day saved the sector from a black swan day with Accountability for integration delivery sits with the selected leaders manyaccumulators and multiple bets falling at the last hurdle.
of each business area, with oversight and support provided by theexecutive team under a separate governance structure led Areas of focus byExecutive Deputy Chairman, Carl Leaver.
This structure The merger has created a new business with significant scale hasenabled rigorous scrutiny to be applied to all areas of the withstrong businesses in established and regulated markets.
integration and ensure that sufficiently stretching targets are set.
Inuniting our businesses and cultures, we will take the best With cost synergies now expected to deliver 90.0 million by 2018 ofbothand create a business well placed to exploit the and100.0 million per annum by 2019, one of the key reasons for opportunities we see ahead.
We have five areas of focus on themerger continues to be demonstrated.
whichour competitive edge will be built: Technology: Product: Marketing: Multi-channel: and International.
Immediate integration priorities include the transition to one unified IT system, completing the integration of functions and Technology moving of teams out of the Rayners Lane office in Harrow: and, Ladbrokes Coral is, at heart, a bookmaking business with a inthe longer term, implementing a new electronic point of sale commitment to excel in gaming.
While technology is vital to all EPOS system in the retail estate.
aspects of our business, we will operate under the principle of owning and controlling what we want to control and utilising third Sporting headlines parties where they offer best-in-class for the right price.
While the rise and fall of Leicester City will always mark 2016 as Technological development will be led by customer preference anexceptional year of sporting surprises, in reality the year can rather than by just what technology allows.
An immediate priority generally be viewed as a game of two halves.
is the roll out of a significantly enhanced electronic point-of-sale Football, through the exploits of Leicester City in winning the EPOS system in our retail estate.
This will drive greater efficiency Premier League, Portugal in winning the European Championships forretail colleagues as well as in our retail back office operations, and stuttering runs of forms at different times of the year for the improved compliance and responsible gambling capability, and likesof Manchester United, Manchester City, Chelsea, Arsenal, willenable the application of CRM processes in retail more akin Liverpool and Barcelona, was as unpredictable for the pundits as toour Digital businesses, throughout the retail estate.
On the other hand, racing and the popular festivals were a year toforget as the worst Cheltenham Festival in living memory combined with very poor results at the Royal Ascot, Goodwood andYork Ebor meetings.
August was particularly painful as horse racing took on a very customer-friendly tone.
1 The use of proforma information is explained on page 24 of the Annual Report.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategic report Chief Executives reviewcontinued Product Multi-channel Our sportsbook products benchmark well in what is rapidly Both brands had identified multi-channel as a key growth driver, becoming an increasingly homogenous market.
Our products are launching market leading multi-channel offerings that built on the quick and easy to use, and lead to a good customer experience.
strength of their retail estates, and helped accelerate digital market However, merger integration and technological harmonisation share growth.
havemeant that we have not advanced our products in some core Our experience has demonstrated that multi-channel customers sportsbook markets at the pace we would have liked.
Therefore, are worth significantly more than a single-channel customer, wewill be making sportsbook product development a major arecheaper to acquire and demonstrate greater brand loyalty.
feature of our plans going forward.
The imminent move to a Theextension of a single wallet facility to the Grid Card will singledigital platform will give us the ability to trial and launch bringthe offer in-line with the existing Coral Connect offering, newproduct much faster.
As we build a pipeline of improvements whilethe Ladbrokes bet tracking app will be rolled out to the we will produce once and deploy multiple times across our main Coralestate.
This will give customers the ability to deposit, play brands and geographies.
andwithdraw across all channels in the combined estate.
With We have a leading gaming product offering, and the recent good more exclusive in-house games appearing online and in shop, performance of both Ladbrokes and Coral has highlighted the there will be numerous opportunities to engage the customer importance of a strong pipeline of exclusive and differentiated withnew and exciting reasons to make Ladbrokes and Coral their gaming product.
Our offer is built around internally developed provider ofchoice.
games mixed with the best third-party content, enabling us to Multi-channel also helps to underpin the attraction of our retail maintain a fresh and relevant offering.
As well as the cash-generative nature of retail, the multiMarketing channel opportunity gives us a recruitment channel for more loyal The marketing strategies of both businesses reflected the and valuable customers.
With pressure on retail profit margins likely circumstances of their time.
Coral had invested heavily and was to continue, we believe that multi-channel, allied to our operational ahead of the game in recognising the multi-channel opportunity scale, will allow Ladbrokes Coral to weather the potential impact on and the need for effective cross sell from sports into games, as the high street of any further cost increases and changes in wellas utilising data and predictive modelling to enable effective regulation better than the competition.
deployment of its marketing spend, achieving market leading International customer acquisition costs.
A key focus for the business going forward will be to diversify Ladbrokes had recently begun to invest more heavily in marketing further into more international markets.
Our experience in a and sponsorship to maximise brand awareness and, combined number of countries means we are prepared to take full advantage withimprovements in the Ladbrokes digital product, helped deliver of relevant expansion opportunities as they arise while avoiding significant revenue growth.
expensive forays into unproven markets or models.
Going forward the merged business will adopt a more data-driven Our existing international footprint, across a range of differing approach across all brands.
This will mean more use of predictive operating models, gives us the skills and experience to move into modelling and a rigorous approach to measuring return on new markets.
In Ladbrokes Australia and Eurobet in Italy we have investment in making marketing and sponsorship decisions.
two businesses that have delivered market-leading growth in 2016.
Whileboth brands will operate individual marketing strategies In Australia, we deliberately acquired a business determined to take andcontinue to offer points of difference to the customer, on established players through product innovation and leading thecapability driving the marketing output will be thesame.
In Italy, Eurobets multi-channel operation utilises a franchise model that leverages local expertise and avoids a high fixed cost.
Belgium operates a similar model, mixing franchise and owned shops, while Spain demonstrates that we can enter a regulating market via a joint venture with locally based business expertise.
Over 1m Multi-channel customers signed-up since launch ladbrokescoralplc.
com 22 Internationally, we expect the Italian retail licence renewal tostart A responsible way of doing business in late 2017 or early 2018.
In Australia, a Point of Consumption Underpinning the drive in these areas is a commitment to Taxis legislated to be introduced in South Australia inJuly 2017. responsible gambling and health and safety.
The ban on greyhound racing announced by New South Wales We are proud of the role both Ladbrokes and Coral have played in2016 has subsequently been withdrawn.
inthe industrys response to the growing demand for greater Trading update and outlook customer protection.
We were both founding partners of the Senet Group, helping to drive greater standards in responsible gambling.
Sports results have been mixed in the year to date.
January Both have employed player awareness systems to help identify wasgenerally a positive month with the likes of Roger Federer, customers who may be displaying signs of potential problem Lincoln City, Sutton United and Wolves all upsetting the form book.
gambling and both continue to support the industry drive for February and March more than turned the tide towards customers appropriate spending on research, education and treatment.
with the Premier League seeing more winning favourites and fewer Webelieve we have a duty to offer our products responsibly draws than normal, before a very positive Cheltenham Festival andtake this responsibility seriously.
where 23 of the 28 races went the bookmakers way.
Overall, thishas resulted in both UK Retail Over the Counter OTC margins Health and safety is also a key commitment and there has and UK Digital sportsbook margins around 1pp ahead of last year.
beenmuch work since we completed our merger ensuring that In Italy, a runofexceptionally customer friendly football results welearn from each others operations, implementing the best resulted inEurobet Retail margins 14pp behind last year and processes from each business, alongside processes and systems Eurobet.
that reflect the changing nature of high street operations.
Shouldnecessary changes be identified, these will be implemented Digital net revenue was 20% ahead of last year, with sportsbook even if they bring additional costs.
This includes the difficult issue net revenue 34% ahead and gaming net revenue 8% ahead of single scheduling in our shops where, in late 2016, the significant gamingnet revenue 12% ahead in the sportsbook-led brands.
step was taken to move the Ladbrokes estate to a self-opting After adjusting for the impact of the leap-year extra day in 2016, policyrequiring approval after 7pm in the evening, in-line with UK Retail net revenue was 1% behind last year with like-for-like theexisting Coral policy.
OTCstakes c. 5%-6% behind, broadly in-line with trends reported inthe second half of 2016 and in the trading statement of Regulatory development 18January 2017.
The sector continues to face significant regulatory hurdles.
European Retail net revenue was 26% behind last year driven by The triennial review commenced in Q4 2016.
Ladbrokes Coral Eurobet Retail, where net revenue was 44% behind due to the played a significant role in helping the industry develop its case customer friendly football results offsetting a 20% increase in aspart of the call for evidence, helping the Association of British sports stakes.
Bookmakers to construct an industry response as well as making Total Group net revenue was 1% ahead of last year 2% after ourown evidence based submission.
We await to hear from the adjusting UK Retail for the leap-year extra day in 2016.
While the Department of Culture, Media and Sport DCMS as to when vagaries of sporting results will always be volatile in the short-term, exactly they will publish their initial conclusions.
However, we we remain in-line with our expectations for the year.
expect some form of update to be given in late spring and remain encouraged by the statements that accompanied the call for evidence that have emphasised that all decisions will indeed be based on evidence.
The Government have indicated that they will be pursuing a Jim Mullen mandatory horse racing levy payment of 10% on all channels from Chief Executive Officer April 2017.
While 10% is a rate that was a surprise, we had already 27 March 2017 offered to pay for off shore business, so the principle is not one we object to.
While we find it hard to justify 10% on the grounds of common interest which the levy is meant to cover, we accept that we should pay any legally set rate.
The Competition and Markets Authority have launched a wide ranging review of customer terms and conditions applied in the betting and gaming sector.
The review is ongoing and we expect that the conclusions will have consequences for all operators regardless of whether they have been part of the review or not.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23
