STRATEGIC REPORT | GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A Nigel Wilson on creating possibilities capital position mean that were again able to recommend an increased dividend for shareholders.
Has Brexit already affected your business and what is likely to happen in the future?
Our Board saw Brexit as a distinct possibility and were ready for any fallout.
No business can isolate itself from geo-political events of this scale.
However, we believe that our exposure to risks from the EU market is limited.
The UK remains a fantastic place to operate and there are excellent opportunities to increase investment and build economic growth.
I believe the UK is crying out for more productive jobs, better housing and modern WATCH THE VIDEO infrastructure.
In addition, opportunities Nigel Wilson discusses still exist to expand our footprint our 2016 results and the Nigel Wilson has been Group Chief internationally, especially in US and groups strategy Executive Officer since June 2012 Asian markets.
and believes that the company is about economic risks and political com investors video nigel extremely well placed to benefit uncertainty right across the world, wilson fyr2016.
asp from opportunities in UK and global but believe that the UK can perform markets.
He talks about the need to strongly if we adopt a positive attitude boost investment in infrastructure to seizing business opportunities.
and find solutions to some So are you changing challenging pension issues, your strategy?
delivering real financial security for everyone.
The Board reviews our business strategy with me regularly and remains Nigel, how should shareholders convinced that were on the right be feeling about your 2016 results?
Our strategy is based upon six global growth drivers which are Weve delivered a terrific financial long term in nature and we see as performance with profit before tax being resistant to short-term economic increasing by 17% to 1.6 billion, and changes.
These growth drivers IFRS profit after tax by 7% to 1.3 billion help generate business growth and with a return on equity of 19%.
Good examples are remain the UKs biggest investment our global demographics growth driver, manager for UK pension schemes, are which inspires us in our pensions risk No 1 in retail protection, bulk annuities transfer business and the technical and liability driven investments LDI.
innovation growth driver which means And were steaming ahead in newer were implementing low cost operating businesses such as lifetime mortgages models in our back offices including and auto-enrolled pensions.
successful results and our strong 4 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How important are is that the DB model is broken, so international markets to you we also help companies set up more Weve committed compared to the UK?
affordable DC schemes, where were a market leader in auto-enrolment, ourselves to a 15 billion Our skills in managing risks and with over two million members in all looking after assets have been programme of direct our DC schemes.
developed in the UK, but I believe investments in housing, they can be replicated internationally.
What have you achieved in There are approximately $70 trillion rebuilding Britain?
infrastructure and SME of investment assets across the financing and weve Were totally committed to rebuilding globe.
Our aim is to double our share Britain and creating new jobs, homes already invested over from around 1.5% $1.1 trillion.
Because we need to US has many of the UKs market 10 billion... match our long-term pensions liabilities characteristics, such as increasingly with better yielding returns, weve Nigel Wilson unaffordable defined benefit DB CEO, Legal & General committed ourselves to a 15 billion pensions and a need to build assets programme of direct investments in in defined contribution DC schemes.
housing, infrastructure and SME Asia represents around one third financing.
Weve already put over of global wealth and has massive 10 billion into direct investments.
potential to expand DC pension Some key schemes Im really proud assets and sovereign wealth funds.
of in 2016 are our urban regeneration Do you think that pensions projects in Salford, Cardiff and Bracknell, are still in crisis?
with future projects being set up in Walthamstow and Bristol.
Some DB pension schemes both in the particularly exciting developments are private sector and the public sector the new science park in Newcastle and are struggling to meet the expensive our plans to develop modular homes.
promises that theyve made to employees and pensioners.
The total Are you doing enough to keep UK DB private sector pension deficit your customers happy?
is estimated by PwC to be 560 billion Our commitment through the at 31 December 2016.
We are able to technological innovation growth offer a full range of derisking solutions driver is designed to make sure that from better matching assets to we deliver exceptional service to liabilities, to LDI, to buying out liabilities customers.
This not only involves using bulk annuities.
The harsh reality building slick digital application processes but making sure that all REGENERATION our back office systems are fast OUR 400 MILLION and efficient and are designed with CARDIFF SCHEME customers needs in mind.
We were voted by consumers as best life insurance provider and best home insurance provider at the January 2017 Moneyfacts Consumer Awards.
INFRASTRUCTURE We aim to have regeneration projects in 10 major cities by 2021.
See pages 17 to 19 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 5
