Strategic report Group Chief Executive's review We have delivered strong financialperformance in 2016 aswecontinue to make good progress against our strategic priorities.
We are well positioned forfuture success.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive We have delivered strong financial performance in 2016 as we Our balance sheet remains strong with a pro forma CET1 ratio of continue to make good progress against our strategic priorities.
13.8 per cent, a total capital ratio of 21.4 per cent and a pro forma Underlying profit was 7.9 billion and statutory profit has more than leverage ratio of 5.0 per cent.
In line with our progressive and doubled to 4.2 billion.
We continue to improve our customers sustainable ordinary dividend policy, the Board has recommended experience, simplifying the business whilst growing in targeted afinal ordinary dividend of 1.7 pence per share, taking the total areas and in December announced the acquisition of MBNAs prime ordinary dividend for the year to 2.55pence per share, an increase UK credit card business.
Strong capital generation, which is a of 13per cent on 2015.
The Group has held back c. 80 basis points of consequence of our business model, has enabled us to fully cover CET1 capital to cover the estimated capital impact of the MBNA the expected capital impact of the MBNA acquisition, increase our acquisition: however, given our strong capital generation in the year, the Board has also recommended a special dividend of 0.5 pence ordinary dividend by 13 per cent and pay a special dividend.
As asimple, low risk, UK focused bank we are committed and well per share.
positioned to help Britain prosper and become the best bank for Strategic progress customers and shareholders.
We have continued to make good progress on our strategic Operating environment priorities in 2016.
Given our UK focus, our performance is inextricably linked to the Creating the best customer experience health of the UK economy which has been more resilient than the We are committed to meeting our customers evolving needs and market expected post referendum, with GDP growth of 2per cent preferences through our multi-brand and multi-channel approach.
The UKs decision to leave the European Union means the We operate the UKs largest branch network and the largest digital exact nature of our relationship with Europe going forward remains bank with over 12.5 million active online users.
We have more than unclear and the economic outlook is uncertain.
However, the 8million mobile banking users and for the second consecutive year, recovery in recent years with low unemployment, reduced levels the Lloyds Bank app has been rated the best banking app of all the ofhousehold and corporate indebtedness and increased house UK major banks for functionality.
prices means the UK is well positioned.
Customer migration to digital channels continues at pace with more The regulatory environment also continues to evolve and there are than 60 per cent of our simple customer needs now met online and anumber of areas on which we await further clarity but, given the digital is now the number one channel for new loans and credit strength of our balance sheet and the capital generative nature of cards.
Wecontinue to invest in our customer propositions to our business model, we are well placed to meet these regulatory improve processes and the way our customers interact with us.
requirements and the economic uncertainty.
Following the InCommercial Banking we have continued to improve the online fide-risking of the balance sheet in recent years our PRA Buffer has banking platform and in Retail Business Banking we are now able been reduced but, in light of expected future regulatory capital toopen new customer accounts in 5-6 days, down from 21 days developments, the Group will continue to target a CET1 ratio of previously, with a best-in-class automated digital ID and verification around 13per cent.
In Consumer Finance, Black Horse has reduced processing times for new loans, while increasing security and protection for Financial performance customers.
In Insurance we have introduced online tools which will The Group has delivered strong financial performance in the year.
allow customers to consolidate their workplace pension assets and Underlying profit was 7.9 billion with an underlying return on employers to process employee monthly pension contributions on required equity of 13.2 per cent return on tangible equity of the same day, down from 22days in 2014.
Income was slightly lower which was more than offset by lower operating costs, resulting in an improved cost:income This progress has been reflected in further reductions in the level of ratioof 48.7per cent.
Impairment increased, primarily due to lower customer complaints and our net promoter score, which continued releases and write-backs, but asset quality remains strong with no to improve in 2016 and is now nearly 50per cent higher than at signs of deterioration in the portfolio.
The difference between the end of 2011.
Our latest Building the Best Team survey results underlying profit and statutory profit reduced significantly in 2016, show that colleague engagement is at an all-time high and in line as statutory profit before tax more than doubled to 4.2billion, with top performing UK corporates.
Our strong performance in largely due to lower PPI provisions, and this enabled the Group to 2016 reflects the hard work undertaken by colleagues across the generate approximately 190 basis points of CET1 capital during Group and I would like to thank everyone for their significant efforts theyear.
08 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Becoming simpler and more efficient Our cost leadership is a significant source of competitive advantage KEY EVENTS IN THE YEAR and cost management remains a strategic priority.
In response to There have been a number of notable events and the lower rate environment we have accelerated the delivery of achievements for the Group in 2016, both within the Group ourcost initiatives, and announced at the half year an increase to andmore widely across the UK.
Read our timeline for some theSimplification run-rate savings target and a reduction in our keyevents of the past 12 months.
We remain on track to deliver both, having already achieved 0.9 billion of the increased 1.4billion Simplification run-rate target.
As a result of the continued focus oncosts, our market-leading cost:income ratio has improved and JANUARY wecontinue to target further reductions.
Ambassador Delivering sustainable growth programme launch The Group aims to deliver sustainable growth in line with its low Our senior leaders represent FEBRUARY the Group, build strategic riskbusiness model.
We have continued to make good progress Full year 2015 results relationships and promote ingrowing market share in areas where we are underrepresented, Total ordinary dividend our ambition to help and have grown lending to SME and Mid Markets clients by around declared for 2015 of 2.25 pence Britain prosper across 2billion in the year.
In Consumer Finance we have continued to per ordinary share as well as a theregions grow our motor finance and credit card portfolios organically and special dividend of 0.5 pence the agreement to acquire MBNAs prime UK credit card business per share willgive us the opportunity to create a best-in-class credit card operation.
In Insurance, we will continue to invest in developing thebrand and the business, including our financial planning and APRIL retirement capabilities, and have also completed four bulk annuity MAY Top 50 employer deals.
In addition, we are committed to supporting first-time home The Group was named in Help to Grow scheme buyers and remain the largest lender to this customer group.
The Times 2016 Top 50 We were the first bank Employers for Women for Helping Britain prosper to take part in a scheme the fifth consecutive year designed to boost lending We remain committed to supporting the people, businesses and to fast growing businesses, communities in the UK through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
committing 30million Notably, we have provided 1.2 billion of new funding to of growth loans manufacturing businesses, supported 121,000 start-ups and helped 10,000 clients to start exporting in 2016.
Our economic contribution JUNE to Britain extends beyond the products and services we offer and EU referendum the funding we provide to our customers and clients.
Since we The UK voted to leave launched our Apprenticeship Scheme we have created more than the European Union 4,000 roles, including 1,000 in 2016 and we have committed to JULY creating 8,000 by 2020.
We have also exceeded our target to create Euromoney awards 20,000 digital champions, a year earlier than expected.
Furthermore, We won Best Bank in the we are the highest payer of UK tax in the most recent PwC Total Tax UK for the fourth year Contribution Survey for the 100 Group, having paid 1.8 billion in running and Worlds Best 2015.
Our tax payment in 2016 was 2.3 billion.
Bank for Adapting to the The combination of the progress we have made towards our Regulatory Environment strategic priorities and our strong financial performance has Cost guidance updated enabled the UK government to further reduce its stake in the Group inhalf year results to less than 5 per cent, at a profit, returning over 18.5billion to the announcement UK taxpayer since 2009.
Run-rate savings target AUGUST increased from 1 billion Interest rate cut Outlook to1.4 billion per annum The Bank of England's Our financial targets reflect our confidence in the future prospects Monetary Policy of the Group.
In 2017 we expect the net interest margin to be Committee cut UK greater than 2.70 per cent and the asset quality ratio to increase interest rates to a toaround 25 basis points before MBNA.
We continue to target a SEPTEMBER record low of 0.25 per cent cost:income ratio of around 45per cent exiting 2019, with reductions Commitment to every year.
We now expect a return on required equity of between helping Britain prosper 12.0 and 13.5per cent and a return on tangible equity of between We announced our aim 13.5 and 15.0per cent in 2019.
Going forward, the Group expects to provide over 60 billion togenerate between 170 and 200 basis points of CET1 capital of lending in the next perannum, pre dividend.
12months OCTOBER Top 10 employer Summary The Group was named Following the simplification and transformation of our business DECEMBER as one of the UKs inrecent years, the Group is now focused on delivering the best Top 10 Employers MBNA acquisition customer experience and on continuing to develop our digital for Working Families The Group announced capabilities.
Our cost leadership and lower risk positioning provide it is to buy the credit card competitive advantage which enables us to deliver superior returns business, MBNA, from to shareholders.
We continue to believe that our simple, low risk Bank of America, subject business model is the right one, and our strategic progress and tocompetition and strong financial performance position us well for future success.
regulatory approval Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive 09
