London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Chief Executives statement The Group is truly diversified by business activity, by geography and by currency, providing resiliency across market cycles and opportunity for continued growth.
Xavier R Rolet KBE Group Chief Executive Overview Global capital 2016 has been another notable year of achievement for London Stock Exchange LSEG remains firmly committed to promoting a financial ecosystem that helps Group as we build on our position as a leading global markets infrastructure businesses raise capital to grow.
Long-term, patient, risk capital is the only way to company.
We have achieved a strong financial and operational performance with drive growth and job creation not just in the UK but across Europe.
We continue to growth and investment across all of our core businesses, delivering on a number promote initiatives such as our flagship ELITE programme supporting high growth of new initiatives and developing our customer partnership approach.
The Group SMEs, which now has more than 700 companies, advisers and investors across is truly diversified by business activity, by geography and by currency, providing 25 countries within its community.
As well as announcing ELITE partnerships resiliency across market cycles and opportunity for continued growth.
We operate in Israel, Morocco and Hungary, we also launched ELITE Club Deal, a new online a full range of Open Access market infrastructure services, at scale, around the private placement platform to help bridge the funding gap by bringing together world including in the UK, Europe, Asia and the US.
This makes the Group well professional investors and high growth companies.
Despite a volatile market, positioned to navigate political and macroeconomic changes in the coming the Group welcomed 134 companies to our markets in the UK and Italy raising years, adapting as needed to continue to serve our global customer base.
a combined total of 25.6 billion in new and further issues.
AIM, now in its 22nd year, again demonstrated why it is recognised as the worlds leading growth Partnership market with companies joining in 2016 seeing their average price performance Our customer partnership approach and Open Access operating model, which rise by 41%.
Since launch, AIM has enabled companies from across the UK and provides true customer choice, are distinctive and differentiating features of our around the world to raise over 100 billion, underlying the markets ability to act business model which continue to deliver clear benefits.
An example is Turquoise as a vital source of growth capital.
Plato, a new partnership which formally brings together, for the first time, buy-side, sell-side and trading venue to deliver increased efficiencies in In fixed income, Londons position as a leading international financial centre is anonymous European equity block trading.
The rebranded Turquoise Plato Block reflected in its ability to offer investors a wide range of innovative products and we Discovery and Turquoise Plato Uncross platforms have demonstrated strong have deepened our footprint in two of the worlds high-growth economies, China growth throughout the year with record trading volumes, reflecting investor and India.
London Stock Exchange is the only international exchange outside demand for trading services that will meet the requirements of the impending Greater China that has bond listings from all four major Chinese banks as well as MiFID II regulation.
CurveGlobal, a new interest rate derivatives venture, is another the China Development Bank and, in June 2016, we were honoured to be chosen good example of partnership and a business that will also benefit from MiFID II as the venue for the listing of the first Chinese sovereign RMB bond to be issued regulation.
Its innovative structure, bringing together LSEG with seven major outside of mainland China.
In India, London Stock Exchange has the most dealer banks and another exchange, CBOE, makes it uniquely equipped to address comprehensive masala bonds offering of any major international exchange the need for capital-efficient interest rates products.
It has made a positive start with the 33 masala bonds having raised the equivalent of around US$4.2 billion.
since launching in September, offering genuine new competition for the market and making portfolio margining available to a greater number of market Sustainability participants.
The Groups technology companies, including MillenniumIT and LSEG has supported investors and issuers in the transition to a low carbon and GATElab have also continued to develop partnerships with exchange operators sustainable economy for over a decade, developing products and services in close around the world including an ultra low-latency access gateway to the National collaboration with the market.
FTSE Russell, in particular, has long been a pioneer Stock Exchange of India.
in the development of ESG benchmarking tools.
In June, FTSE Russell launched an advanced new data model that tracks companies generating green revenues, a critical component missing from investors current sustainability models.
The Low Carbon Economy LCE data model and accompanying Green Revenue Index Series complements FTSE Russells existing benchmarks in this space, capturing managed exposure to companies engaged in the green transition on a country, regional or global basis.
London Stock Exchange has been a leading innovator in the space of green bond issuance and was the first exchange to join the climate bonds initiative.
There are currently 40 green bonds listed in London which have raised a combined US$10.5 billion across seven currencies and a diverse set of issuers.
LSEG intends to continue broadening its offering and has launched a new Global Sustainable Investment Centre portal to bring together the Groups activities in this space.
6 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement Investment in growth and innovation Proposed merger We continue to focus on investing for growth and on achieving the benefits of our The Group has worked hard on our proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, integration projects from previous acquisitions through delivering the stated cost which received formal approval from both sets of shareholders.
This would be and revenue synergies from recent transactions.
an industry-defining combination, expanding our presence as a global markets infrastructure group, anchored in Europe and we firmly believe that it would FTSE Russell has continued to perform strongly in 2016 and we are already deliver significant customer and shareholder benefits through the acceleration seeing positive results, ahead of schedule, from the integration of the two index of our complementary growth strategies, products, services and geographic businesses with new mandates, integrated sales systems and a growing global footprint.
The next milestone is expected to be the outcome of European business.
FTSE Russell indexes are used throughout the investment and trading Commission Phase II process on or before 3 April 2017. value cycle and they are well positioned to capitalise, for example, on the rapid expansion of the ETF market.
The global ETF market currently represents around Outlook US$3.5 trillion in assets under management and FTSE Russells indexes are One of the key events in 2016 was undoubtedly the vote by the citizens of the UK extensively being chosen as the benchmark for ETF issuers around the world.
to leave the European Union.
For LSEG, the immediate challenge presented by the In November, we also announced the acquisition of Mergent Inc. a leading vote was to ensure we maintained secure and stable markets for our customers, provider of business and financial information on public and private companies.
We met this challenge admirably across all of The acquisition will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering, our markets and clearing houses and I would like to offer my congratulations supplying underlying data and analytics for the creation of a wide range to everyone across the Group who was involved in delivering such seamless of indexes.
Of course, the more profound consequences of the UK Referendum will take much longer to work themselves out.
However, as a well diversified Group In post trade, LCH launched its new portfolio margining service, LCH Spider, using with a global footprint, we are well positioned to adapt as needed and, most the worlds largest interest rate derivatives liquidity pool from SwapClear.
LCH importantly, to follow and continue to serve our customers as they make Spider allows users, on an Open Access basis, to maximise their margin offsets decisions about their business.
between OTC and listed derivatives and we have been pleased with member interest to date.
In 2016, SwapClear saw a 25 per cent increase in clearing volumes, We remain focused on delivering innovation, partnership and Open Access to clearing a total US$666 trillion for its members and their clients.
In addition, our customers and value for our shareholders.
The Group is strongly positioned SwapClear compressed a record US$384 trillion in notional in 2016 as capital and and our commitment to partnering with customers and our Open Access balance sheet management continues to be a top priority for banks impacted by philosophy means that the Group will be able to take full advantage of the regulatory capital requirements.
We have also seen members ramping up their MiFID II implementation from January next year.
The new rules will deliver clearing activity in LCHs broader OTC services with significant volume growth at greater choice and competition to European financial markets and we are working its CDSClear and ForexClear services.
The launch of LCH SwapAgent, due to go live closely with market participants to ensure a smooth transition.
We continue to see later this year will deliver the improved standardisation, efficiency and simplicity opportunities for growth across all of our market-leading businesses and the that the non-cleared derivatives market has long been seeking.
Group will execute against its strategic objectives, driving both short and longer term growth through organic investment and selective inorganic opportunities.
Following the successful conclusion of the joint feasibility study between LSEG and the Shanghai Stock Exchange, it was confirmed, during the UK Governments Economic and Financial Dialogue EFD with the Government of China in November, that we would move to the next phase of researching and preparing implementation arrangements for the London-Shanghai Stock Connect.
This is a long term project which will help domestic and international investors access markets and is a key part of the strategic partnership between our two exchanges.
Xavier R Rolet Group Chief Executive 3 March 2017 7
