Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers Review The market environment was very unforgiving for the first three quarters andManfound it difficult to generate performance for clients and performance fees.
This led to disappointing profits.
But we are pleased toreport a 3% increase in funds under management as we see continued confidence in our strategies, particularly our quant strategies, and I believe the actions we have taken during 2016 stand us in good stead for the year ahead.
Overview $80.9 billion, with positive investment movement weighted outperformance versus benchmark 2 Performance across our business lines was for the year broadly offset by negative FX and net of fees of 1.4% for the year.
Numerics 1 mixed, both on an absolute and relative basis.
The Group had a statutory Emerging Markets strategies were the top AHLs momentum strategies had a strong start loss before tax of $272 million, driven by the outperformers, with strong outperformance to the year with the downturn in equity markets impairment of GLG and FRMs goodwill and ofbetween 6.8% and 8.5%.
in February, but this was more than reversed in intangibles of $379 million.
Adjusted Discretionary the second half of the year with the market management fee profit before tax was down 8% 2016 was a challenging environment for turbulence across many asset classes.
AHLs as a result of lower management fee revenue, discretionary investment management, and a strategies rebounded in December, ending the particularly for GLG.
Total adjusted profit before difficult year for GLG.
This is evident with the year with good relative performance across the tax was lower compared to 2015, primarily as a $281 million impairment of GLGs goodwill and main programmes.
result of lower performance fee revenue.
intangibles, which reflects the lower FUM and Quant management and performance fee revenue.
GLGs alternative and long only strategies As AHL is a diversified platform, there were GLGs performance has been variable in recent hadadifficult first half of the year, particularly differing returns across its main programmes.
years and this resulted in continued outflows inthedays post the Brexit vote in late June, AHL Evolution, AHLs trend following strategy in during 2016, although these did moderate in the butperformance improved in the second half non-traditional markets, continued to perform fourth quarter as performance improved.
Alternatives ended the yearslightly strongly as one of the best performing large up on an absolute basis, and GLGs credit GLGs alternative strategies ended the CTAs, ending the year 6.2%.
AHLs multistrategies had strong performance but overall yearslightly up overall, but underperformed the strategy programme, AHL Dimension, which alternatives underperformed the HFRX.
GLGs HFRX, with the credit strategies the strongest accounted for 28% of AHLs assets at long only strategies outperformed their performers, with several double digit returns.
31 December 2016, had reasonable benchmarks on an asset weighted basis.
GLGs flagship Equity Long Short strategy had a performance on a relative basis, ending the year Weakperformance in the first half for both weak first half, but a better second half, ending -1.5%.
AHLs traditional trend following strategies, GLGs alternative and long only strategies led the year at -1.4%.
The weak performance in the which account for around 40% of AHLs funds tonet outflows of $3.0 billion during the year.
first half led to net outflows for this strategy under management, had a good start to the during theyear.
Numeric ended the year with solid year, particularly in the first quarter, but the gains outperformance versus benchmark, with were more than reversed in the second half with GLGs long only strategies broadly stronggains made in the second half of the year, long fixed income positions causing the majority outperformedrelative indices with 2.1% particularly the fourth quarter, which was one of of the losses.
AHL Diversified ended the year ofoutperformance on an asset weighted basis.
Numerics strongest quarters on record.
The Japan CoreAlpha strategy had a difficult first performance was weak on an absolute and half, but performance came back strongly in Numeric had a challenging first half of the year relative basis.
thesecond half, ending the year up 5.7% and as a result of weaker alpha generation in US outperforming the TOPIX by 5.4%.
The weak Net inflows were $1.9 billion in the year, and stocks, but performance significantly improved performance in the first half led to netoutflows funds under management increased by 3% to in the second half with overall net asset of $1.6 billion during the year for thisstrategy.
1 Performance figures shown net of representative management and performance fees.
Past performance is not indicative of future performance.
2 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the periods stated is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest rate of management fees charged and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements We have already taken steps to improve the team during the first half of 2016 and continuing to ensure we remain disciplined on theconsistency of GLGs performance.
We launched three new strategies during the price, structure and cultural fit.
appointed Pierre-Henri Flamand as the GLG CIO second quarter of the year.
Since launch, the in September and we restructured the risk team strategies have performed well, despite the post We continue to focus on growing our business to bring best practices in risk management and Trump EM market sell-off, and have generated and expanding our client relationships in the US, technology to bear from across the Group.
GLG inflows of more than $1 billion, and we are which was a strong area of growth during the has also been part of our cost restructuring seeing ongoing interest from clients.
In 2016, 29% of gross sales came from the effort, where we have closed a number of Americas, up from 22% in 2015.
Strong client relationships underperforming strategies to improve returns We have made good progress in developing Efficient and effective operations and reduce costs.
options for growth, both organically and by We remain focused on operating our business 2016 was a disappointing year for GLG, and this acquisition, across our different investment asefficiently as possible, particularly in times is reflected in the impairment charge but the engines during the year, to ensure that when the market environment is challenging.
actions we have taken should lead to wemaximise and strengthen our client Wecontinually assess the level of our cost base improvements in 2017. relationships and meet client needs.
Grosssales across the firm in comparison to our revenue were $21.7 billion during the year, with strong earning capabilities and our options for growth, Fund of funds AHL, FRM and Numeric salesbeing partially to ensure management fee profits remain as FRM products had weak performance for offset by lower sales forGLG.
Ourflows continue stable as possible.
During 2016, we began to theyear, with FRM Diversified II down -3.8%, to be uneven in natureas ourbusiness becomes implement a Board approved restructuring underperforming the HFRI Fund of Funds increasingly institutional, with institutional sales in planto make some significant changes to Conservative Index by 5.7%.
Weak performance the year constituting 72%oftotal sales, and the thestructure of the business.
We have altered led to net outflows across the range of traditional top ten single inflowsaccounting for 22% of total our senior management structure, shut down fund of fund strategies.
Redemptions during the year were $19.8 underperforming strategies in our investment offering, a multi-strategy portfolio that leverages billion, a 12% reduction compared to 2015. management business, and changed the the combined expertise of FRM, AHL and structure of our sales function and the extent Numeric, had strong performance, returning We had strong net inflows of $4.3 billion for our ofour regional footprint.
The impairment of FRMs quant alternative and long only strategies during initiatives will cost approximately $21 million of goodwilland intangibles reflects reduced the year, with quant FUM increasing by 17%.
which $17 million was recognised in 2016 as a prospects forrevenues from the traditional Since becoming part of Man in 2014, Numeric compensation related restructuring charge.
has continued to grow its assets, with over 50% Thetotal fixed cost savings are expected tobe of the total inflows since the acquisition coming around $20 million per year, which will be realised Progress against strategic priorities from Man client relationships rather than in 2017.
Research and innovation pre-existing Numeric relationships, which is a Research and innovation are a priority across all testament to the quality of the relationships Capital management of our investment engines as we seek to generate weve built with clients.
Our balance sheet remains strong and liquid, superior risk adjusted returns for our clients and and our surplus capital stands at around $325 develop innovative new strategies over time.
At FRM, we continued to see strong client million after the impact of the Aalto acquisition, interest in our managed accounts offering which completed in January 2017.
In 2016, AHL continued to diversify its offering, andwere awarded three additional mandates with net inflows of $3.7 billion across its range during the year of $1.5 billion, $700 million, People ofstrategies.
AHLs traditional momentum and$300 million respectively.
These mandates I would like to thank my senior management strategies, Diversified and Alpha, now only accompany the $2.7 billion mandate from a teamand everyone at Man for their diligence and account for 41% of AHLs FUM, compared to large US-based State Pension Plan awarded teamwork in what has been a difficult year for the 66% three years ago.
AHL launched its new in2015 and the $1 billion mandate awarded firm.
Your commitment means we are now well Short Term Trading programme, which whilst it in2014.
Across these mandates, $2.0 billion positioned to grow the business as we work was capacity limited at $200 million, and only funded in 2015, $2.3 billion funded in 2016 together to deliver better solutions for our clients.
offered to a handful of potential clients, it and$1.9 billion is expected to fund from reached capacity within a week, all at full fees.
The growth of FRMs managed AHL also launched its Institutional Solutions We continue to operate in an unpredictable accounts offering more than offset the decline in offering, which provides bespoke portfolios for market environment, which remains FRMs traditional fund of fund assets, which had institutional clients with flexible combinations challengingand uncertain.
However, ifwe net outflows of $1.0 billion during the year.
ofAHLs different strategies, with $1 billion of seean environment of lower market correlation assets at the end of the year.
AHL continued to We also continued to see the trend of clients and high stock dispersion, back tohistorical focus on research through the Oxford-Man investing into products across our different normalised levels, these should befavourable Institute, which expanded its focus on machine investment engines, with 64% of FUM at conditions for a number of ourstrategies.
and deep learning during the year.
This will 31 December 2016 relating to clients invested We came into 2017 with a good pipeline of support the ongoing evolution of quantitative into products across more than one of our interest from clients, but the timing of this strategies and the value we deliver to clients.
In October, we announced the launch of Numeric continued to leverage Mans resources Our focus for 2017 will be on the long-term ManGlobal Private Markets Man GPM with and expertise, and launched a new Emerging drivers of success: superior riskadjusted theacquisition of Aalto, a real asset focused Markets Core strategy, which raised $300 performance, long-term client relationships, investment manager, with around $1.7 billion million during the year.
Numeric also has a investing in talent, technology and research, and offunds under management.
The acquisition of number of innovative strategies indevelopment remaining disciplined on costs.
Although 2016 Aalto, and the launch of Man GPM, create an and incubation.
was a difficult year, I believe the actions weve exciting opportunity for the Group as we believe taken stand us in good stead for the year ahead.
At GLG we believe we have a sustainable there is strong client demand for strategies that advantage inidentifying teams and deliver solid, long-term returns.
Luke Ellis commercialising newstrategies but we need to Chief Executive Officer In line with our overall strategy, we continue to improve the consistency of GLGs performance.
look at other possible acquisitions, including in In 2015, we announced the launch of our the private markets space to complement Aalto, Emerging Markets Debt strategy.
We built out Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 11
