06 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC UPDATE We are at our best when we are completely focused on our customers.
My plan is to keep things simple by putting them at the heart of M&S every decision starts with them.
STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW announced in January, I immediately decision starts with them.
Our actions are set about gaining a deeper understanding driven by listening to what customers tell I am really proud and privileged to be your of why parts of the business have been us, not by what we think is right for them.
I asked myself and the thing Ive learnt in my 25 years at M&S is that We know who our customers are and we team a series of exam questions about M&S.
we are at our best when we are completely value every one of them.
M&S serves 32.2 How can we understand our customers focused on our customers.
My plan is to million shoppers a year, equivalent to over better?
Is our current structure right for keep things simple by putting our half the UK population and two-thirds of the companys future?
What are the growth customers at the heart of this business.
20.1 million of those customers opportunities in Food?
How do we recover buy our Food, which means we have an Ive worked in every part of M&S, from the and grow our Clothing business?
What do opportunity with the over 12 million who shop oor to leading Retail and M&S.
com, we need to do to respond to the rapidly dont.
58% of our customers are female, from Menswear merchandising to running changing consumer environment, both in and around half are over the age of 50. our Food division and my most recent the UK and internationally?
Our most loyal customers account for position as Executive Director of Clothing Answering some of these questions and around 11% of spend.
I care passionately about the tackling the issues will take time.
But others customers are and how they shop with company and its success.
We have set M&S is crucial to our future.
We need to Before I talk about the future, let me out the first phase of our plan: we make more of M&S more relevant to our address our immediate past.
Our addressed how we can better understand customers more often.
There remain great performance over the last year was mixed.
our customers and what M&S means to opportunities for growth.
Whilst we continued our great performance them: we outlined our immediate plans to Read more on p08 in Food, the performance of our Clothing address recovery and growth in Clothing & Home business continued to be & Home: we talked about our Food growth CLOTHING & HOME unsatisfactory.
Our International business opportunity: and we launched a review of Our Clothing & Home division has many also had a challenging year and was our cost base.
Details of these are below aff ected by numerous issues, both internal strengths: we have leading market shares in and well report back in the autumn on many categories, perceptions of our quality and external.
Overall Group pro t was the other key areas we are still reviewing.
are high, and customers like many of our impacted by a number of non-underlying If I was asked to sum up what M&S means innovations.
But as the UK clothing market items, which this year include impairments to me in one word, Id say special.
M&S is in our International business, our UK store has grown and changed in recent years, a fantastic brand that has a history of we have consistently underperformed.
portfolio and a review of our Clothing & serving our nation with fantastic products.
Home buying and merchandising system.
Clothing & Home has been my focus That is why we believe in making every There are further details on these in the since I took over running the division in moment special for our customers.
September 2015 and turning around its performance is my number one priority.
I want M&S to play a leading role in the OUR CUSTOMERS future of UK and international retailing, We took immediate action in some key Our customers are now at the heart of and I want it to have a clear and sustainable everything we do.
This means that every areas.
We improved availability, sharpened path.
When my appointment was Our values underpin everything we do... INSPIRATION INNOVATION We aim to excite and inspire our customers We are restless in our aim to improve things for the better 07 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 PRIORITIES TO ADDRESS FOCUS ON PUTTING CUSTOMERS AT THE HEART OF M&S AND DRIVING SALES GROWTH Implementing actions to recover and grow Clothing & Home: Re-establish style authority: focus on product, quality and t: CUSTOMER AND BRAND Restore price position: lowering prices and reduced promotional stance: Enhanced customer experience: sharper ranges, better availability and investment in store staffi ng.
RECOVER AND GROW CONTINUE TO GROW Continuing to grow Food business: CLOTHING & HOME FOOD Build on strengths: focus on quality, innovation and choice: Commitment to value credentials: competitive pricing while maintaining margin: UK STORE Improved convenience: extended Simply Food store INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION COST REVIEW opening programme.
ESTATE Driving pro tability for shareholders: Continued tight control of costs and cash: Focus on shareholder returns.
FINANCIAL PLAN Additional strategic questions, including International, UK store estate and organisation to be answered in the autumn.
our price points and reshaped the structure But I would say that the equation We will use any cost savings to invest in of our Womenswear team to better re ect customers use when assessing value is more store colleagues.
After all, they are the the way our customers shop.
This new satisfaction minus price.
Did they enjoy people who are closest to our customers.
structure means that garments are now their experience?
bought by product category such as Does it t well or taste good?
How was OUR PEOPLE skirts, shirts, or trousers rather than by the service?
These are the building blocks Fairness and consistency are important M&S Collection and the sub-brands, such of satisfaction.
Once the customer has to me.
I believe in rewarding people for as Autograph and Limited Edition.
This way assessed these, she can subtract the success, wherever they work in the we reduce needless proliferation.
We have price and determine whether shes company.
We have reviewed how we also dropped General Merchandise as received value.
reward our employees and have proposed the catch-all name for the non-Food half a new approach to pay and pensions.
of our business: we should be using the FOOD The proposed pay changes, which would same language as our customers to In our Food division we have an engine make us one of the best payers in UK describe our business.
for sustained, pro table growth.
The retail, would reward our people in a fair and opportunity remains for us to grow our consistent way and include proposals for We have a lot more to do.
We have been Simply Food store network in the UK and a signi cant base rate increase for our giving customers too many reasons not internationally as we strive to make every Customer Assistants.
The proposed new to shop with us.
They tell us that we have food moment special for our customers approach to pensions would ensure we not got the balance between fashion and around the world.
We will continue to off er all employees the same fide ned style right and that we dont off er enough innovate, with an emphasis on health, Contribution Scheme: a competitive choice.
They say that we are sometimes too convenience, special occasions and gifting.
pension scheme that is sustainable for expensive and that our stores are diffi cult We will off er customers real choice by the future.
Members of the fide ned Bene t to shop.
In addition, we know that our carefully tailoring our ranges to the Pension scheme would not lose any internal structure has meant that we have location of the store and the mission of the bene ts they have previously earned not pursued areas of high growth quickly shopper.
Whether they want a pork pie or a and would be auto-enrolled into the fide ned enough.
Our plan this year is to address the superfood salad, a pint of milk or a chicken Contribution Scheme.
We have started root causes of these issues.
We will continue tikka prepared meal, we will strive to give a period of consultation with National to lower prices across the board and reduce them the best there is.
In addition to the Business Involvement Group, the the number of promotions.
We will put 250 Simply Food stores we have already appropriate representatives within increased emphasis on contemporary committed to, we will open a further 200 by M&Ss network of elected employee styling rather than slavishly following the end of 2018 19 to make our great food representatives, on both of these catwalk trends, and we will focus on off er accessible to even more customers.
proposals and will listen carefully to their innovations that are genuinely useful to feedback.
I believe that these changes our customers.
COSTS would mean we can off er one of the best We know that our customers want to feel pay and bene t packages in UK retail, We will continue to be prudent on costs.
that theyre getting great value every time so we can keep retaining and attracting In some cases, our processes have become they shop with us.
It is for the customer the best people to our business.
too complicated and we continue to review not us to decide what constitutes value.
the way we work with a view to simplifying it.
INTEGRITY IN TOUCH We always strive to do the right thing We listen actively and act thoughtfully FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC UPDATE CONTINUED LOOKING AHEAD UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS There are many areas of our business that Analysing our customers reveals that we growth.
We have been in listen mode and we are still reviewing.
In the autumn we have three clear groups, fide ned by how we have heard some common reasons for will report back on future growth channels.
frequently they shop with us and how much why customers are not always choosing We will also give an update on the plans they spend, and we believe that tapping M&S, and now understand how to use these for our UK store portfolio, and the shape into these behaviours and reconnecting to reignite their aff ection and become of our International business.
with our customers will help us to deliver more relevant more often.
I wrote at the start of this section that I am proud to be your CEO.
Id like to BY UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS... tell you why.
CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER CHARACTERISTICS Ever since I started working for this great SHOP A WOMEN BOTH FOOD & company over a quarter of a century ago Total CLOTHING SHOPPING SINGLE MISSION as a Saturday boy in the Croydon store, customers I have seen how it has improved the quality 58% 30% 90% of peoples lives through innovation and OVER 50 MEN UNDER 35 giving customers what they want.
M&S is 32m responsible for hundreds of high street rsts that are now part of everyday life, 54% 42% 22% from fresh pasta and avocados to machine washable bras and Lycra.
M&S has brought... AND THEIR SHOPPING HABITS... a better quality of life to the nation.
CUSTOMER by type CLOTHING FOOD I have had a wonderful M&S career to date VISITS SPEND VISITS SPEND and am privileged to have worked in almost Occasional per year per visit per year per visit every department of the business.
Ive never had a job I didnt enjoy.
And Ive seen 22m 2 14 first-hand how M&S can be a force for good: 4 9 we have led the way in sustainability and, through Plan A, this will continue.
Core The only time we have stumbled as a company is when weve become 7m 8 28 11 19 introverted, lost sight of the customer or failed to keep pace with modern living.
Top People who know me will tell you that I believe in simplicity, honesty, 3m 26 25 75 14 effi ciency and teamwork.
More than anything, I believe in our people throughout the company.... WE WILL DELIVER WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS WANT... M&S is a special company.
Our people IN CLOTHING: IN FOOD: are special.
I am proud A focus on style rather than fashion Further ahead on trends of the role that M&S has played in peoples lives.
I want to be equally proud of the Be tter t that atters Inspire with recipe ideas role it plays in the future.
Better availability More adventurous mid-week Clearer pricing and value fide nition More personal Inspiring and eff ortless experience Inspiring and eff ortless experience STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE... INCREASING OUR CUSTOMER VISITS AND SPEND.
09 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 LEADERSHIP TEAM We are committed to putting our 32 million directly into me.
We look forward to We know that every decision we make must customers at the heart of everything welcoming Laura Wade-Gery back from be for the bene t of our customers, our we do.
Simplicity and teamwork are key her maternity leave in September 2016 employees and our shareholders.
Our first to us achieving this.
and we will update on her responsibilities priorities are to turn around our Clothing on her return.
& Home business and grow our Food We recently implemented a streamlined off er.
We will do this by using customer management structure that allows us We are establishing a tighter Operating intelligence and data to drive our decisionto work as one team, in a simpler and Committee of eleven to replace the former making.
By listening to what our customers more effi cient way at pace and with vigour.
This team will tell us, we can give them more products This new structure, coupled with a new be accountable for the day-to-day running that excite them and we can help to make emphasis on fact-based decision-making, of M&S and for the development and every moment special.
I believe that at means that we are better able to focus execution of our strategy.
M&S we know more about our customers on our customers requirements.
Joining the Executive Directors on the than weve ever known before: by As part of the changes, we reorganised Operating Committee are: Andy Adcock, harnessing this information, we can make the responsibilities of our executive Food Director: Jo Jenkins, Womenswear, the right decisions and act with clarity on directors.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne has Lingerie & Beauty Director: Sacha Berendji, behalf of everyone who shops with us.
become Executive Director, Customer, Retail Director: Paul Friston, International There is a new ethos of collective Marketing & M&S.
com and assumed new Director: Dominic Fry, Communications & responsibility among the senior leadership responsibilities for M&S.
Investor Relations Director: Simmone team: from our unstinting attention to our Helen Weir, Chief Finance Offi cer, has Haywood, Acting HR Director: and customers needs to the importance of assumed responsibility for Strategy Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary and acting as a team.
We are totally aligned in Implementation.
Consequently, our Head of Corporate Governance.
our approach: to do everything in the International business will now report best interests of our customers.
OPERATING COMMITTEE Steve Rowe Helen Weir Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Laura Wade-Gery Chief Executive Chief Finance Offi cer Executive Director, Customer, Executive Director, Marketing & M&S.
com Multi-channel Andy Adcock Jo Jenkins Sacha Berendji Paul Friston Food Director Womenswear, Lingerie & Retail Director International Director Beauty Director Dominic Fry Simmone Haywood Amanda Mellor Communications & Investor Acting HR Director Group Secretary and Head Relations Director of Corporate Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
