Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief Executives Statement and Strategy Update We have a high quality pub and beer business which is displaying positive momentum and is consistently outperforming the market.
We believe that, despite some continuing market headwinds, our expansion plans further enhance our ability to deliver attractive returns.
Ralph Findlay Chief Executive Officer Group performance Financial overview We are pleased to report that we have again achieved profit growth across Total underlying revenue increased by 7.1% from 2015 reflecting like-forall of our trading segments, with solid underlying earnings growth, like growth in our pubs, the positive impact of new openings, growth in demonstrating further good progress in implementing our strategy.
our beer brands and the acquisition of Thwaites beer business.
Underlying profit before tax was up 7.1% to 98.0 million Strategy overview 2015: 91.5 million principally reflecting the contribution from new pubOur strategy remains consistent, focusing on operating and expanding restaurants and a strong performance from Brewing.
Basic underlying a high quality pub estate through investment in new pubs and bars as earnings per share for the period increased by 8.5% to 14.0 pence per well as increasing our investment in accommodation.
In addition, our share 2015: 12.9 pence per share.
beer business focuses on increasing market share in the growth areas of premium beers and bottled ale where we are the market leader.
On a statutory basis profit before tax was 80.8 million 2015: 31.3 million and earnings per share were 12.7 pence The new-build programme remains our key growth driver.
when the current investment plan started, we have opened over 150 new pub-restaurants generating consistently high levels of profitability Net debt at the period end was 1,269 million 2015: 1,245 million.
and strong returns, thereby creating significant shareholder value.
Net debt includes 1,074 million of long-term, structured finance with a Where possible, accommodation is added alongside a new pubstable repayment profile and no exposure to increases in interest rates, restaurant to generate additional income and enhance returns.
underpinned by an estate which is 97% freehold.
We opened six new lodges under the Marstons Inns brand in 2016.
We also see expansion opportunities in premium bars, having opened More detail can be found in the Group Operating and Financial Review on pages 24 to 30. three new bars in 2016 on a leasehold basis.
We identified several years ago that, in locations where Marstons has direct control over the retail offer, we are better able to deliver a stronger consumer proposition with more consistent standards across the estate.
We therefore pioneered an innovative franchise-style agreement in 2009 and, as at the end of 2016, approximately 80% of profits from our pubs are generated by managed or franchise-style pubs.
In Brewing, our focus remains on the growth market of premium beers underpinned by local provenance, our strong brewing heritage and state-of-the-art logistics capability.
Our core brewing business grew strongly, in terms of revenue and earnings in the year, supplemented by the successful integration of the Thwaites beer business acquired in April 2015.
9 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Chief Executives Statement and Strategy Update continued Our purpose and values Our strategy In March 2016 Marstons launched its new ambition, purpose and values Our purpose is supported by our strategic pillars, which we increased Our Ways of Working across the business, helping employees to connect to six during the year.
Our strategic pillars are listed below and more to the Group strategy and future goals, as well as express the uniqueness detailed information on each pillar is set out on the following pages.
of our culture and ways of working.
Since that launch, employees have positively embraced all three Operating a high quality pub estate elements, proactively bringing them to life in their daily tasks and demonstrating their alignment and support.
Our Ways of Working are now present in all aspects of the Marstons experience, from the Targeting pub growth: investing in pub-restaurants and employee magazine and divisional newsletters, to our pub noticeboards Premiumpubs, further developing Franchise and team meetings.
Plans are now afoot to update many of our business processes to Increased investment in rooms ensure alignment and integration of our ambition, purpose and values, deepening our culture and helping our people to collectively focus on our ambition to make Marstons 'The Place to Be'.
Offering the best consumer experience: quality, service, valueand innovation By encouraging our people to work as one team, demonstrate that they care, celebrate our successes and dream big, we know both they and ourcustomers will feel the benefit.
Leadership in the UK beer market Ensuring people are at the heart of our business OUR PURPOSE Helping our people and customers feel good by keeping people at the heart of all we do.
OUR WAYS OF WORKING WE ARE WE WE WE DREAM ONE TEAM CARE CELEBRATE BIG We are one Marstons, one We care we take time We celebrate when we We dream big together we team trusted to make the to listen, understand and do something really well, strive to make Marstons right decisions and play do theright things for we shout about it and have The Place to Be and ourpart.
