6 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chief Executives review aftermarket supply and demand.
seenat some of our more advanced Ourreal-time insight into surplus part sites, such as Fareham UK, where MPS availability has enabled us to price has contributed to a gross margin moreeffectively and to purchase our improvement of 5% since the early stages ownsurplus parts for resale.
We believe of MPS, and Meggitt Sensing Systems in CSSsupplied approximately 10% of the Orange County, California where a pilot addressable market of Meggitt surplus programme on inventory management parts in 2016 and we plan to capture has enabled a 22% reduction in inventory amuch greater share as our during 2016. capabilitymatures.
In 2016, we announced the closure of CSS will also target a greater share of the foursites.
We plan to reduce our market for repair and overhaul of Meggitt manufacturing footprint by a further 20% components, which account for over 20% by 2021 as part of a continuous effort to of our aftermarket as a whole.
workprovides an opportunity for growth, In addition to MPS and factory greater understanding of the market for consolidation, we continue to focus on piece parts and significant insight into building a robust and high performing Strategy in-service performance.
This is key to meeting Meggitt is a leading provider of smart intelligence will help our engineers to customers demands in an era in which engineering for extreme environments.
We design better products for new aircraft our customers expect us to perform, invest in technologies and capabilities for platforms, as well as modify and upgrade without fail, on quality and delivery whilst complex and highly regulated markets and existing products to refresh our existing accepting a greater share of risk than we in industry-leading levels of operational product pipelines and improve our did five to ten years ago.
At the same time, excellence and customer service.
reducing fragmentation provides an Over the past five years, this investment opportunity to reduce cost, share risk and Operations Excellence hasenabled us to significantly increase the increase the pace of strategy deployment.
Defined by quality, cost, efficiency and number of Meggitt parts on engine and on-time delivery, we are determined to We have continued to work closely aircraft platforms.
At the same time, we make operations excellence a core withsuppliers to drive performance have focused our operations on delivering competitive strength.
This is key to improvements.
Their on-time delivery for our customers, on-time and to the meeting our commitments to customers hasincreased by a further 6% and quality required specification.
We continue to and delivering growing returns for by 64% since January 2015.
We reduced leverage our scale, integrating our shareholders.
the number of suppliers that make up businesses and creating the infrastructure 80% of spend from 601 to 570 and have needed to grow a world-class organisation.
The Meggitt Production System MPS consolidated more of our purchasing with our global approach to continuous We will achieve superior financial preferred suppliers who work on the improvement is far more than a roll-out performance and returns for shareholders same terms we have committed to with of lean manufacturing tools.
It is a over the medium and longer term by our customers.
We have much more to comprehensive operating system built on delivering cash sustainably, from mostly dohere, including reducing the long tail work, people and improvement systems.
sole-source original equipment business ofsmall suppliers.
Work is undertaken to a set of standards, which we have won across a broad spread proven to deliver results.
We will protect and extend Technology defines how we acquire, develop, coach, thevalue of our intellectual property Our technology strategy is designed to place and motivate talent.
In essence, it is throughout the in-service lives of drive long term organic growth through a major culture change programme.
MPS platforms: and continue to increase the investments in core products and provides a framework in which our sophistication, efficiency and pace of manufacturing capabilities in line with employees are equipped to identify, deliver theGroup as we focus on our strategic our customers technology roadmaps.
and sustain the thousands of incremental fundamentals of: customer focus, improvements which, in aggregate, drive Strong success in winning new aircraft operations excellence, technology and significant results at Group level.
contracts has meant that we have strengthening our portfolio of businesses.
invested significantly in research and MPS has achieved good results in customer development.
We have now passed the Customer Focus service, with on-time delivery up 15% and peak of investment in technology for Airlines are taking an increasingly quality, measured in defective parts per platforms entering service this decade.
sophisticated approach to maintaining and million, improved by 87% since 2012.
At the Several major new development operating their aircraft.
To serve these end of 2016, we saw our first factory programmes entered service in the customers better, we launched our successfully complete the Bronze fourth year, notably the Bombardier CSeries Customer Services & Support CSS phase of the system.
As a critical mass of incorporating Meggitts pioneering organisation in 2015 to protect and grow our business enters this phase over the e-Brake technology and the Airbus our share of Meggitt spares and repairs, next few years, we expect to see cash A320neo.
Within Meggitt Aircraft and to realise the full value of our conversion and margin improvement as BrakingSystems MABS, we have significant and growing installed base.
sites focus increasingly on inventory passed a number of critical programme management and productivity gains.
In its first full year, CSS has significantly milestones, with an unprecedented six Examples of this improvement can be improved our understanding of what drives first flights for aircraft equipped with STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 7 Meggitt braking systems.
These included new aircraft, signals that we will outgrow Performance the Boeing TX trainer, Gulfstreams new the market for civil spares in the medium Revenue increased by 21%, driven by G500 and G600 business jets: and the term.
In 2017, we will continue to be currency and the composites acquisitions.
Global 7000, Bombardiers large affected by the availability of surplus Organic revenue growth of 1% was in line widebody business jet.
Our R&D spend in parts and lack of demand from younger with expectations, including 4% growth in 2016 amounted to 7.9% of revenue, down fleets under warranty.
This is expected to civil aerospace.
Underlying earnings per from 9.6% in 2015 and back within our limit organic aftermarket growth in 2017 share increased by 3.2p to 34.8p, while normal range of 6-8%.
net debt to EBITDA at the end of the year investment to reduce further, but to do so was 2.1x 2015: 2.3x.
In military markets, the long-term budget gradually as a series of further outlook is positive with organic orders up programmes, including the Boeing Within civil aerospace, original 6% and a book-to-bill ratio of 1.06 in 2016.
737MAX and 777X, Embraer E2 and equipmentrevenue grew organically Our strong technology offering and broad Dassault Falcon 5X, enter service.
by3%, with increased shipset content platform exposure should enable us to onlarge jetsoffsetting a decline in For several years now, we have set aside outgrow the market overall.
Aftermarket revenue ring-fenced funds for applied research weremain cautious for 2017, reflecting increased organically by 5%, with strong and technology investment.
This money delays to budget approvals as the new performance in large and regional jets issupplemented by partner and EU administration takes over in the US.
offsetting lower demand for business Government contributions and funds our Wetherefore anticipate organic growth jetspares.
development of next generation product in2017 of1 to 3%.
Military revenues recovered well in the and manufacturing technologies.
This will Our energy businesses continue to second half of the year.
Broad demand for enable Meggitt to increase its content on operate in a difficult market original equipment and spares increased the next generation aircraft that are likely characterised by a lack of investment in steadily across the majority of equipment to be bid in the mid to late 2020s.
This is particularly so for types, with the exception of helicopters.
Heatric, which depends on large capital The Continuing Resolution passed in Acquisitions and Disposals projects in the oil and gas sector where late2016, ahead of the 2017 budget arecovery is unlikely in the near term.
In late 2015, the acquisition of the agreement, continues to challenge the Continued decline in oil and gas will be advanced composites businesses of release of funds from the growing US only partially offset by power generation EDACand those previously owned by Department of Defense budget, but we where we expect modest recovery with Cobham, enhanced our position in remain confident that this will benefit us slow growth anticipated in demand for complex composite structures and in future years.
Revenue for the year gas turbines in the US, Middle East and enginecomposites, one of the fastest increased by 1% but was up 7% in the China.
As a result, we expect further growing areas of the aerospace market.
second half after a challenging first half.
organic revenue decline of 5 to 10% in the Integrated into our Meggitt Polymers As anticipated, energy revenues energy market overall in 2017, although &Composites MPC division, the new continued to decline, with the Heatric multiple cost reduction activities in 2015 businesses have performed in line with business having another challenging year and 2016 will help mitigate the financial expectations, despite some delays to as oil price weakness continued to impact of this decline.
Medium term, newengine programmes where the severely suppress customers appetites Heatrics strong technology franchise and EDACacquisition, in particular, has good for investment.
The power generation growthopportunities in energy condition content.
We have made good progress in part of our energy business also saw monitoring give us confidence that our realising initial synergies, for example by reduced investment, primarily from the energy revenues will resume their avoiding the costly expansion of one of the utility companies, with slow demand for growthtrajectory.
acquired sites and leveraging existing gas turbines contributing to a particularly operations to halve the time required to On the basis of the above, the Group weak first half.
Overall energy revenues manufacture a composite radome by expects overall 2 to 4% organic revenue declined by 17% during the year.
moving the product line to an established growth in 2017 and that growth will MPC facility.
The integration of these accelerate into the medium term.
Also, Outlook businesses has made good progress and onthe basis of these growth rates and our we have increased our synergy target by The outlook for our civil markets is key strategic initiatives, we are targeting 30% to $12.7m of savings by the end of encouraging despite recent delays to some 2017 operating margin between 19.1% and 2018, with the one-off costs to achieve civil aircraft programmes.
In the medium 19.4%, and we are targeting a 200-250 these higher synergies increasing to $14m.
term, production of large jets is expected basis point margin improvement by 2021. to continue to grow and our increased In December 2016, we completed the shipset content on the latest generation of disposal of Meggitt Target Systems MTS aircraft supports a positive outlook for to QinetiQ Group plc for 58.6m.
MTS was civil OE revenues.
In 2017, we expect civil built from acquisitions completed in 1989 OE to grow organically by 6 to 8%.
and 2004 and developed a range of targets Available seat kilometres, an important used by military customers for training driver of our large and regional jet and weapons evaluation.
MTS had limited aftermarket, continue to grow above the synergies with the broader Group and Stephen Young Chief Executive long-term trend of 5% per annum.
This, would have diluted our ability to sustain combined with the effect of our new CSS our targeted growth rates over the organisation and expanded content on longterm.
