Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report NICK VARNEY Chief Executive Officer 16 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended Constant 31 December 24 December 26 December currency 1 1 2016 2016 2015 Growth growth Visitors m 65.1 63.8 62.9 1.3% Revenue m 1,457 1,428 1,278 11.7% 3.6% EBITDA m 451 433 402 7.7% 1.8 % Operating profit m 320 302 291 3.6% 6.2 % Like for like revenue growth 1.4% Like for like EBITDA growth 3.6 % 1 This y ear we are reporting on the 53 weeks to 31 December 2016.
Profit metrics are provided on a 53 week statutory basis in the financial statements.
To provide a more direct comparison with last years 52 week period, the operating performance commentary in this section is stated on a 52 week basis, unless otherwise noted.
REVENUE GROWTH DESPITE CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS GOOD PROGRESS TOWARDS 2020 MILESTONES CONFIDENT IN STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK Merlin Entertainments has made good progress in 2016 in Short term macro developments the context of a challenging external environment.
Following the European Union referendum in the UK, the weakening of Sterling from its previously high level benefited From a trading perspective the Groups longstanding the 2016 results in the translation of the over 70% of profits we diversification strategy meant that we delivered revenue and derive from other countries: notably the USA and Continental EBITDA growth at reported foreign exchange rates of 11.7% Europe.
In the medium term, we expect a more competitive and 7.7% respectively, despite headwinds in many markets, in pound to help inbound tourism to London recover and drive particular from international terrorism.
more staycations from UK residents, in the same way that some of our Continental European attractions enjoyed a period of This was reflective of an encouraging recovery in Resort Theme Euro weakness.
We are encouraged by recent visitation trends Parks, ongoing growth in LEGOLAND Parks and some Midway in our London attractions, although it is premature to declare Attractions divisions, offset by more difficult conditions in London a recovery, and we continue to plan accordingly.
and a number of other Midway markets.
There was also a strong impact from New Business Development as we opened more Nonetheless we continue to believe that the UK tax system puts attractions and benefited from a meaningful contribution from the countrys tourism industry at a disadvantage, with the UK our accommodation expansion.
VAT rate of 20% in many cases being twice that charged in other European Union countries.
The industry therefore continues to lobby the Government for a reduction in VAT on tourism services attractions and accommodation.
This would have the effect of locking in the value benefit of a weaker pound and create a level playing field for UK tourism with competing countries such as France and Spain.
Merlin Entertainments has made good progress in 2016 17 HIGHLIGHTS Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Our customers At the heart of what we do is our desire to give our customers safe, memorable experiences.
Since the accident at Alton Towers in 2015 we have reinforced our health and safety protocols and We speak of 2017 as the resources and introduced a new Group engineering function see the Health, Safety and Security Committee Report on beginning of the Next Chapter in pages 70 to 75. the remarkable Merlin Story In terms of the guest experience we have delivered against our high 90% KPI on customer satisfaction, but our aspiration is to continually do better.
All businesses in the Group are now focused on delivering Top Box satisfaction, Trip Advisor or local equivalent and Net Promoter scores.
Long term vision and strategy Our team The events of 2016 reinforce our view that a diversified portfolio Merlin has one of the most engaged teams in any industry based on strong brands with natural synergies is the best way of anywhere, achieving a remarkable 89% in the 2016 staff survey.
Consequently we continue It is this which drives the high productivity of the Group to pursue a long term vision by which the Groups revenues are and delivers memorable experiences to over 63 million broadly spread one third each across The Americas, Europe guests worldwide.
It is worth noting that compared to 2005, when Merlin was much smaller and only operating in Europe, the 2016 With pressures on our cost line from external factors such revenue of 1.4 billion was already derived 27% and 14% from as legislation-driven wage pressures around the world and North America and Asia Pacific respectively.
With the focus of increased business tax rates in the UK, as well as above our Midway and LEGOLAND park new openings being in inflationary wage growth in Asia, we will continue to seek to these two regions, we remain confident of achieving this goal.
drive greater productivity through resource efficiencies and more motivated, better rewarded employees as a means Despite the escalation in terrorist activity and its consequent of retaining this extraordinary energy.
This extends to impact on tourism flows we continue to be excited about the share ownership via the popular Merlin Sharesave Scheme.
long term opportunities for Merlin.
In particular, we believe that We will also continue our already progressive policies in visitation to international gateway cities will grow steadily driven shaping a management team which reflects the gender by the increased propensity of resident populations to short and cultural diversity of our customers.
break and the desire of emerging market consumers, notably from China, to travel.
This will create further opportunity for Internally we speak of 2017 as the beginning of the Next our Midway brand clusters and support the extension of our Chapter in the remarkable Merlin Story.
It is one where the strategy to exploit growing city centre tourism.
Company is moving forward with confidence to achieve our ambitious growth strategy.
The short break market is also set for further expansion reinforcing our aspiration to position all our theme parks as resort We have the brands, the people and an exciting pipeline of destinations.
In this respect we envisage that, in the fullness of time, projects to deliver against our objectives.
Our overarching most of our resorts can support over 1,000 accommodation purpose remains to create truly memorable experiences rooms, ranging from four star hotels to themed glamping.
for our millions of visitors and value for our stakeholders.
Currently our top resorts LEGOLAND California, Gardaland and Alton Towers have 250, 347 and 516 rooms respectively.
Nick Varney Our confidence in the long term prospects of our market Chief Executive Officer led us in February 2016 to announce some significant New 1 March 2017 Business Development milestones: by 2020 to open 40 new Midway attractions mainly in cluster city locations, four new LEGOLAND parks and over 2,000 new accommodation rooms.
By the end of 2016, 19 of these additional Midways were open or under development.
LEGOLAND Dubai opened in October and LEGOLAND Japan is set to open in April 2017.
In addition, over 1,000 new rooms are already open or approved for development.
We are well advanced with other new projects, including exciting new brands, which will see us deliver against this strong structural growth story.
18 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 At the heart of what we do is our desire to give our customers safe, memorable experiences 19
