ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT growing the revolution 2016 has been a fantastic year.
From Listing on the London Stock Exchange, to growing our customer account base to over 900,000 FANS: to creating another 500 jobs and going into profitability.
Metro Bank continues to go from strength to strength.
Introduction We are delighted to present our first Annual Report as a listed company.
This has been another great year for Metro Bank.
We have expanded our network to 48 stores and created 500 jobs serving 915,000 customer accounts, with substantial growth across lending, deposits and customer accounts, as well as delivering two quarters of underlying profit and our first quarterly statutory profit.
We continue to show strong deposit growth even as the cost of our deposits falls.
This demonstrates that our offering of relevant, convenient high-impact stores, UK-based contact centres and easy-to-use online and mobile Craig Donaldson Chief Executive Officer services is persuasive for retail, business and private customers.
Our customer-focused model and culture and commitment to providing a superior Our model is about creating FANS.
banking experience remain at the forefront of our offering.
We remain committed We focus on creating FANS, and to long-term, sustainable growth and in those FANS are telling their friends, 2016 invested over 100 million on stores, technology and on training our colleagues.
families and colleagues that they should bank with us.
And Im very, Results overview Metro Bank has had an excellent year, very proud of that.
generating substantial growth in deposits and lending and achieving the month-onmonth profitability we promised in the fourth quarter of 2016.
Revenue is up 62% year-on-year and underlying loss before tax is down 75% to 11.7 million, compared to 46.6 million in2015.
06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Metro Bank is a growth company investing for growth in stores, people and technology.
During 2016, we continued to be fully Our model funded by customer deposits, with deposit A superior retail-focused customer growth per store of 5.7 million per month.
service proposition emphasising simple, As of 31 December 2016, total customer straightforward banking turns our deposits were 7,951 million, up from customers into FANS.
Our focus on 5,108 million at 31 December 2015. making life easier for customers resulted in rapid growth in 2016.
Our success Our strong growth during the year was speaks volumes about our dedication achieved while maintaining a high-quality to providing uncomplicated services balance sheet.
At the end of the year, our and products that people need.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 18.1%, strengthened by our 400 million We pride ourselves on our high street capital raise, and our leverage ratio was presence, with each of our stores firmly 6.5%.
During the year, we continued to rooted in the local community that it manage our balance sheet carefully with a serves.
Each of our stores hosts a range view to maintaining quality and efficiency.
of initiatives throughout the year to support residents and businesses, from Both the momentum and quality of free financial education programmes for our lending have been strong, with a schoolchildren to SME networking events.
Strong growth across both residential Our highly motivated and engaged mortgages and commercial lending team of colleagues are committed to has resulted in our loan to deposit providing dedicated service to FANS.
ratio further improving to 74%, as we This customer-centric culture pervades have enabled more people to buy their our recruitment and training policies, houses and more businesses to grow.
and we are committed to hiring colleagues with the right attitude as Our business has not changed as a a priority and then training for skill.
result of the UK publics decision to exit the European Union in June 2016.
The Building the bank from the ground up Bank of Englands subsequent decision has given us strong advantages: we have to reduce the UK base rate has been connected with local communities and passed on to lending customers and attracted customers and deposits by deposit holders.
However, our savings placing attractive, relevant stores in the promise holds true: we reward loyalty: right locations.
We have created a bank we wont cut your rate while offering with sound values, superior service levels a better rate to new customers.
07 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED Our FANS The Private Bank specialist teams continue Throughout 2016, we continued to invest Through our Voice of the Customer to thrive and make a material contribution in back office infrastructure: enhancing programme we analyse customer feedback to our rapid growth.
They provide a operational performance and resilience, across all channels store, telephone, relationship-driven service through simple including implementing more straightsocial media, online and app and use banking and lending services, and focus through processing and single customer it to constantly improve our offering.
on Sports and Entertainment, Boards view functionalities: leading cyber security andPartners, and Entrepreneurs and controls, such as web application firewalls In 2016, our Net Promoter Score the Commercial Private Clients for those to protect our external websites: malware recognised marketing benchmark gauging with combined personal and commercial detection tools to protect data: and a 24 7 customer loyalty was 78%.
managed security service to monitor our remains in line with prior years, IT infrastructure.
demonstrating that our customer focus Finally, partnerships: weve continued continues as our network expands.
Our to partner with complementary wealth We have also made significant digital brand recognition in February 2017 has management firms and pension investment, with the launch of a new risen to 84% across the London market.
providers to provide products and public website with a geo-user interface in And all through word of mouth by our services that our and their customers August: our game-changing commercial FANS: thats what we call marketing.
value, such as our inter-generational banking platform, launched in November, mortgage with St Jamess Place and our providing a single customer view Over the year, we have bolstered our Money Management Accounts.
These dashboard to organisations with offering to commercial customers.
partnerships are an important part of subsidiaries, helping businesses to quickly Our sector-specialist teams now work Metro Bank and our ability to create FANS.
and easily view all companies they operate: with local authorities, social housing and our new mobile app for Business and organisations, hotels and leisure Integrated service delivery Personal customers, which provides a new companies, franchises, property Through our integrated store, mobile, platform onto which much more will be companies, not-for-profit organisations online and telephone banking services, we built during 2017.
We also became the first and healthcare companies to name but provide an unparalleled level of tangible UK retail bank to join the Faster Payments a few, whilst our Local Directors and convenience for customers.
By providing Scheme since the service was launched in Regional Commercial teams support our customers with increasingly seamless 2008, and we have now rolled out Apple businesses in their local areas.
Each team access to their banking services across Pay and Android Pay for our customers.
offers a wide range of commercial and channels, we put control with the mortgage lending products, and each has customer to use the channel of their grown significantly in the last 12 months.
choice at a time of their convenience, Invoice and Asset financing has also at any point in the customer journey.
continued to deepen the relationship and Our award-winning, legacy-free IT breadth of our service offering to our platform enables us to deliver a faster, customers.
more informed and more secure service to customers without friction across multiple During 2016, our Mortgage team channels and systems.
continued to grow, and we launched an industry-leading retention proposition focused on customer convenience.
This enables intermediary brokers and customers to renew Metro Bank mortgages in less than 30 minutes.
2016 awards GOLD RIBBON FOR BEST BRANCH STRATEGY AWARD GAME-CHANGING CUSTOMER SERVICE PARTNERSHIP WITH ZOPA 08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC London Stock Exchange 10 March 2016 Our 2016 awards Successful Listing on the London Stock Plans for the future Most excitingly of all, this is just the Were proud to be Moneywises Most Exchange Trusted Financial Provider 2016, where The revolution in British banking entered a beginning.
From a 2010 vision of a new era on 10 March 2016 with the Listing revolutionary new bank creating FANS we were also awarded another four Moneywise Customer Service Awards for of Metro Bank MTRO shares on the Main to six years later, 2,500 colleagues Market of the London Stock Exchange.
serving 915,000 customer accounts and a range of our products and services.
We were also announced as Bank of the Year The successful flotation of Metro Bank with the best yet to come as we grow followed a private capital raising that saw towards our 2020 targets and beyond.
at the 2016 City AM Awards and included as one of the London Stock Exchanges investors commit 400 million of new funding in support of the Companys To Metro Banks FANS, to the colleagues 1000 Companies to Inspire Britain in 2016.
On top of this, we won several growth plans.
We will use the funds we who serve them and to all our supportive have raised to power the next phase in shareholders thank you.
technology awards, as well as a number of individual awards for colleagues.
Metro Banks growth across our integrated service offering.
Craig Donaldson Chief Executive Officer 2 March 2017 MOST TRUSTED CURRENT ACCOUNT PROVIDER MOST TRUSTED SAVINGS MOST TRUSTED AND CASH ISA PROVIDER FINANCIAL PROVIDER BEST CURRENT ACCOUNT P ROVIDER TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION FOR BRANCH S ERVICE ENTERPRISE AWARD BEST PROVIDER OF C HILDRENS SAVINGS ACCOUNT 09 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
