Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio The SUSE Product Portfolio comprises: Introduction The SUSE Product Portfolio represented 20.4% of SUSE Linux Enterprise Server and Extensions thetotal Group revenue in FY16 2015: pro-forma SUSE Linux Enterprise Server SLES is the industrys original CCYrevenue 16.9%.
Following the acquisition of TAG enterprise Linux distribution.
Optimized for mission-critical byMicro Focus the SUSE Product Portfolio was given workloads, certified on all major hardware platforms and available for on demand use from the worlds leading public amandate to deliver accelerated, sustainable and cloud providers.
The SLES product family also includes specialized profitable revenue growth and was provided with the extensions and services for High Availability clustering, Real-time support and initial investments to support this vision.
precision computing needs and Live Kernel Patching for FY16 was a successful year for SUSE with growth in maximizing system uptime.
revenue, Annual Contract Value ACV, Total Contract SUSE OpenStack Cloud Value TCV and Adjusted Operating Profit.
SUSE OpenStack Cloud is an enterprise-grade solution for building and managing highly scalable infrastructure as service To create additional capacity to grow we expanded the SUSE private clouds.
The support for all major hardware platforms headcount across different business functions and geographies andhypervisors, automated installation, non-disruptive upgrades andaligned the critical supporting organizations of customer care, and true high-availability configuration capabilities makes SUSE renewals and sales operations much more tightly with the SUSE OpenStack Cloud the ideal solution for creating business-critical business.
This will continue in FY17 as SUSE assumes the execution private clouds that are ready for todays software-defined responsibility for sales and marketing in APAC and fortheSUSE compute, storage and networking needs.
In FY16 we broadened and deepened ourAlliance, OEM, Business Partner and cloud service provider relationships and see SUSE Enterprise Storage on-going strong contribution from these routesto market to our Built on Ceph technology, SUSE Enterprise Storage is a resilient overall success.
and scalable software-defined storage solution.
Support for industry standard hardware combined with intelligent selfWe also extended SUSEs presence and contribution in key Open management and self-healing capabilities provides customers Source projects and relevant industry groups both in support of afeature-rich yet economically scalable solution for growing strengthening our contribution to Open Source innovation and data needs.
development efforts as well as in support of our partner and enterprise customer relationships.
SUSE Manager SUSE Manager provides integrated management capabilities SUSE across the entire range of SUSE products and solutions SUSE provides and supports enterprise-grade Linux and Open whetherthey are deployed on premise or in the cloud.
From Source solutions with exceptional service, value and flexibility.
serverprovisioning to application deployment, from automated Forover 20 years, SUSE has collaborated with partners and Open patching to configuration management, SUSE Manager Source communities to innovate, adapt and secure Open Source  and enables the secure, compliant technologies and create solutions for the worlds most compute systems management practices todays enterprises require.
intensive and data intensive IT environments across physical, virtual, containerized and cloud platforms.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop and Workstation Extension High quality Linux workstation solution designed for Thousands of customers around the world rely on SUSE for interoperability with other operating systems and theirOpen Source, software-defined infrastructure needs ranging  Windows, Mac and UNIX.
fromenterprise Linux to OpenStack private cloud to software defined, distributed storage all combined with comprehensive management capabilities.
By harnessing the power, reliability and flexibility of SUSE solutions, our customers and partners are able to operate more efficiently, create new products and services faster and ultimately to compete better and win.
In a world of rapid and continuous technology change, SUSE customers can confidently embrace new development and operational models such as Dev Ops, containers, Infrastructure asaService IaaS and Platform as a Service PaaS solutions whilesimultaneously leveraging the benefits of well-established missioncritical paradigms and platforms.
23 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued OpenStack Private Cloud SUSE Product Portfolio OpenStack has become the industrys clear Open Source standard Open Source Software for IaaS cloud with active engagement from dozens of leading SUSE products and solutions are developed from Open Source ITcompanies and enterprises.
This technology provides a highly technologies and brought to market with an Open Source business flexible alternative to proprietary solutions which both commercial model.
Open Source software source code is made available in companies and end-customer enterprises can directly engage with thepublic domain under a number of different licensing models through the OpenStack project in addition to utilizing distributions such as GPL which fosters collaboration and rapid innovation by such as SUSE OpenStack Cloud.
developers around the world working both as private individuals and from within many of the industrys largest IT companies such SUSE was a founding platinum member of the OpenStack asIntel, IBM, Microsoft, SAP and many others.
Foundation and has held the Foundations board Chair position since its creation.
SUSE OpenStack Clouds streamlined installation SUSE actively utilizes and engages in a wide range of Open Source capabilities, unattended upgrades, high availability features and projects and related industry initiatives where we work together support for all leading hyper-visors makes it an ideal choice for with communities and partners to drive the new innovation and enterprise private cloud.
These projects include the Linux Foundation, OpenStack, Ceph, CloudFoundry, openHPC, Some of the key drivers creating demand for OpenStack private OPNFV, Open Mainframe Project, Open Container Initiative cloud solutions such as SUSE OpenStack Cloud include: andmany more, Additional detail can be found at: https: www.
com company open-source Data center evolution to SDI the next step beyond data center consolidation and virtualization is to embrace the flexibility and Enterprise Linux agility of cloud capabilities such as self-service, direct integration Linux is one of the first and most successful Open Source software with software-defined storage and networking.
projects in the industry and has now become a well-established choice in the enterprise operating system market but also in On demand services and business agility in a world that numerous other use cases including mobile devices, Internet of expects instant access to everything, the ability to rapidly stand Things IoT, cloud computing, big data analytics and more.
All up new products and services for both internal and external ofthe industrys major software-defined infrastructure innovations customers is essential to competing effectively.
are being developed on and for the Linux operating system.
Cost and value traditional solutions lag in innovation and SUSE was the industrys first provider of an enterprise distribution dontbring the economic scalability in both CAPEX and ofthe Linux operating system and are the preferred choice on OPEXcosts needed to support modern business models platforms such as IBM z Systems and for workloads such as SAP thewayOpen Source solutions can.
Software-defined Storage Some of the key drivers behind the continued demand for enterprise Enterprises across all industry segments and sizes are struggling Linux solutions such as the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server include: tocontrol and manage the impact of explosive data growth atthevery time that effectively using information is rapidly UNIX to Linux migrations the movement of workloads from becomingthekey to competitive differentiation.
With more proprietary UNIX operating systems on specialized hardware datatostore in increasingly large and complex formats for toLinux on industry standard hardware platforms but also longerperiodsof time, traditional storage solutions are not IBMzSystems and Power.
abletoadequately address allthe use cases and needs.
Data Center consolidation and virtualization maximizing SUSE Storage, built on Ceph technology, is a unique solution hardware investments by running multiple operating system withresilient self-managing and self-healing capabilities instances on the same physical server.
combinedwith flexibility to dynamically utilize both existing hardware as well as todays latest industry standard Cloud computing infrastructure the most prevalent OS for hardwarecomponents.
thecloud infrastructure and also widely used as the OS for theworkloads running on the private and public clouds.
Some of the key drivers creating demand for Open Source software-defined storage solutions like SUSE Storage include: High performance computing the worlds top  and the growing use of high Massive data growth more data volume, complex, large performance computing systems leverage the flexibility dataformats and requirements to keep data for longer andperformance of Linux operating systems.
periodsof time for analytics and regulatory compliance.
Software-defined innovations Linux has become the fideNeed for flexibility and elasticity replacing traditional static factostandard OS for the industrys infrastructure software storage appliances when more capacity is needed is simply innovations from IoT, Big Data analytics and software-defined nottenable in many cases.
Enterprises require the ability to storage, IaaS and private cloud, Containers and orchestration, dynamically add capacity using industry standard hardware.
PaaS, NFV and software-defined networking.
24 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Cost and value traditional storage solutions are often Revenue noteconomically scalable when faced with the massive The table below provides a breakdown of the revenue for the year datagrowth, larger complex data formats and need for and a comparison to FY15 on a pro-forma CCY basis and as reported.
Systems Management SUSE Product Portfolio revenue For mid-sized or larger computing environments, comprehensive Year ended systems management is a critical factor that many enterprises Year Year ended 30 April stillstruggle to address.
Considering the complexity of multiple ended 30 April 2016 Year ended hardware platforms, a wide variety of infrastructure technologies 30 April 2015 Pro-forma 30 April and the increasing use of combinations of on premise, hosted 2016 Pro-forma CCY 2015 1 Actual CCY Growth Actual andpublic cloud resources, the business challenges are $m $m % $m significantas are the potential benefits.
Subscription 248.9 210.5 18.2% 98.2 SUSE Manager is designed with a deep understanding of Consultancy 4.9 4.2 16.7% 2.9 todaysLinux-based, Open Source enterprise infrastructure 253.8 214.7 18.2% 101.1 technologies whetherthose are used on premise, virtualized orinacloud deployment.
SUSE Manager is a powerful tool 1 unaudited.
forintegrated management and orchestrations of system provisioning, monitoring, configuration management, automatedpatching all designed to support the most The SUSE Product Portfolio revenue increased by 18.2% to complexenterprise and supercomputing scale deployments.
$253.8m compared with the pro-forma CCY revenues for FY15 of$214.7m, with the Subscription revenue increasing by18.2% The key drivers behind the demand for systems management to$248.9m 2015: pro-forma CCY $210.5m.
The Subscription solutions like SUSE Manager include: revenue is net of the fair value deferred revenue haircutof $6.4m 2015: $5.1m.
Prior to this adjustment Subscription Managing complexity growth in systems physical, revenuegrew by18.4%.
virtualandcloud and new infrastructure technologies like IaaS, Containers, PaaS creates needs for new management methodologies Dev Ops and new tooling to manage Regional revenue performance effectively.
Year ended 30 April Maintaining security, SLAs and uptime to be most Year Year ended 2016 effective, systems and servers, wherever they are deployed, ended 30 April Pro-forma mustbe secure and able to meet stringent SLAs with 30 April 2015 CCY maximumuptime.
2016 Pro-forma Decline 1 Actual CCY Growth $m $m % Reducing OPEX costs the days of manual systems North America 108.6 87.4 24.3% managementprocesses are past for any enterprise that needstoalso innovate and compete.
Automation is International 115.6 98.4 17.5%  and control OPEX systems Asia Pacific & Japan 29.6 28.9 2.4% management costs.
Total 253.8 214.7 18.2% Meeting regulatory compliance requirements to stay 1 unaudited.
compliant, enterprises must have comprehensive monitoring, configuration management controls and remediation capabilitiesin place.
North America and International have had successful years in terms of subscription revenue, growing at 24.3% and 17.5% respectively SUSE key financial metrics compared with the pro-forma CCY revenues for FY15.
SUSE provides technical support together with rights to updates, patches andsecurity fixes for its Open Source solutions Asia Pacific & Japan, whilst showing a small increase of 2.4% ona subscription basis with revenues being recognized rateably compared with the pro-forma CCY revenues for FY15, has a solid over theperiod of thecontract.
The key metrics are Revenue, foundation to grow from in the coming years.
SUSE, now with a TCV, andACV of the TCV.
The ACVrepresents the value of dedicated GTM sales organization in this region, is already starting thefirst12months of each contract reported as TCV.
to show promise evidenced by strong TCV and ACV performance asreferenced on page 26.
25 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued North America had very strong performance in TCV and ACV TCV and ACV forthe year, growing by 32.9% and 29.9% respectively.
TCV represents the gross billings for the year of $301.3m, an increase of 14.3% from the pro-forma CCY for FY15.
The weighted average International, whilst showing a 2.7% decline in TCV, has shown contract duration decreased from 33 months to 28 months.
This has 6.4% growth in ACV and as referenced above has grown revenues resulted in the in fiscal year yield from TCV to revenue to increase by 19.4% compared with the pro-forma CCY FY15 revenues.
In fiscal year yield represents International TCV and ACV performance was lower as a strong the proportion of TCV generated in the fiscal year that can be performance in the prior year gave a tough compare.
recognized as SFR in the same fiscal year.
As the weighted average contract duration reduces, we would expect to get a higher in fiscal Asia Pacific & Japan had very strong performance in TCV and year yield.
Net new subscription TCV increased by 9.6% year-onACV, growing by 26.7% and 17.1% respectively.
We continue year and renewal subscriptions TCV grewby 22.7% year-on-year.
tohave strong performance in China and Japan, and are also Net new subscription contracts are derived from the sale of subscriptions winning new accounts in some of the other key markets in to new logo customers and existingcustomers expanding footprint theregion.
Theregion is also starting to get good traction by of existing product portfolioor subscribing to new product solutions.
leveragingtheglobal agreements we have in place with key independent hardware vendors and cloud service providers.
ACV measures the first 12 months duration equivalent of TCV.
ACV grew to $174.8m, anincrease of 17.9% from the pro-forma CCY forFY15.
ACV removes the impact ofmulti-year TCV andis a cleaner ACV contribution to route by market KPIon the performance of the business.
Where subscription term is less than 12 months, all of thesubscription TCV billingis included in Year ended the ACV measure.
30 April Year ended 2016 Year ended 30 April Pro-forma Regional TCV performance 30 April 2015 CCY 2016 Pro-forma Growth 1 Actual CCY Decline Year ended $m $m % 30 April Year ended 2015 Direct 37.2 32.8 13.4% Year ended 30 April Pro-forma Indirect 61.8 47.1 31.2% 30 April 2015 CCY 2016 Pro-forma Decline Global Service Partners 63.8 54.2 17.7% 1 Actual CCY Growth $m $m % OEM Embedded Systems 12.0 14.1 14.9% North America 137.3 103.3 32.9% Total 174.8 148.2 17.9% International 128.9 132.5 2.7% 1 unaudited.
Asia Pacific & Japan 35.1 27.7 26.7% Total 301.3 263.5 14.3% Direct represents customers that have a master licence agreement 1 unaudited.
with SUSE and subscribe directly with SUSE or via authorized fulfilment partners.
Indirect represents customers that subscribe via the SUSE Value Regional ACV performance Added Reseller network and predominantly through a two tier distribution model.
Year ended Year Year ended 30 April Global Service Partners represents primarily Independent ended 30 April 2015 30 April 2015 Pro-forma Hardware Vendors who sell SUSE subscriptions alongside the 2016 Pro-forma CCY saleoftheir respective hardware and subscriptions generated 1 Actual CCY Growth fromcloud service providers.
$m $m % North America 81.7 62.9 29.9% OEM Embedded Systems represents entities that embed International 67.8 63.7 6.4% SUSEsubscriptions within the sale of their respective specialized appliance offerings.
26 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Percentage share of ACV bookings by different routes to market FY16 FY15 unaudited Direct 7% 9% Indirect Value Added Reseller 21% 22% Global Service Partners OEM Embedded Systems 37% 37% 32% 35% We continue to see significant growth in Direct, Indirect and GlobalService Partners routes to market, growing by 13.4%, Adjusted Operating Profit 31.2%and 17.7% respectively.
Year ended Year ended 30 April We also see a trend of customers, who purchased subscriptions 30 April 2015 direct, subsequently subscribing through Global Service Partners.
2016 Pro-forma 1 Actual CCY This partially contributes to ACV from Global Service Partners $m $m growing more significantly relative to Direct and Indirect.
We Revenue 253.8 214.7 continue to see strength in the Value Added Reseller network, where we have seen significant growth in ACV during the fiscal Directly managed costs 145.1 123.9 year.
OEM Embedded Systems transactions tend to be large, Allocation of centrally managed costs custom, specialized and binary in nature, and thus year-onfrom Micro Focus 28.9 32.1 yearfluctuations in ACV generated are to be expected.
Total Adjusted Operating Costs 174.0 156.0 The chart above shows the percentage share of ACV Adjusted Operating Profit 79.8 58.7 bythedifferent routes to market in FY16 compared to Margin 31.4% 27.3% FY15 unaudited.
In aggregate the ACV mix by route to market remains stable inFY16compared to FY15 as we saw homogenous contribution toSUSEs growth from the various routes to market.
SUSE Adjusted Operating Profit for the year was $79.8m at aprofit margin of 31.4%.
Compared to the pro-forma CCY FY15, this is an SUSE Adjusted Operating Profit and increase of $21.1m 35.9% and a profit margin improvement of 4.1%.
AdjustedEBITDA We have seen a significant increase in directly managed costs in The table opposite shows the Adjusted Operating Profit for the SUSE that is consistent with the investment being made to deliver SUSE Product Portfolio and compares it against the pro-forma the SUSE growth charter.
We are also seeing the benefit of a CCYnumbers for FY15.
reduced allocation of centrally managed costs which is being delivered from the efficiencies in the Micro Focus Product Portfolio.
27 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued The table below shows the reconciliation between Adjusted Organizational changes Operating Profit and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA for SUSE: Our focus has been on developing the SUSE leadership team to beable to deliver on the mission of growing the business ahead ofthe market.
Micro Focus announced in December 2015 with Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA effect from 1February 2016 my appointment as CEO of SUSE andtothe board of Micro Focus International plc.
This represents Year ended asignificant endorsement of the SUSE business by MicroFocus Year ended 30 April 30 April 2015 andatremendous opportunity for increased visibility, greater 2016 Pro-forma awarenessand understanding of the SUSE business model, 1 Actual CCY opportunities andrequirements.
This will enable the board $m $m tobettersupport theSUSEcharter for continued growth.
Adjusted Operating Profit 79.8 58.7 Depreciation of property, plant In February 2016 SUSE announced the creation of several new, andequipment 1.7 2.0 criticalleadership positions in the business to evolve the structure andexpand leadership capacity.
This will position SUSE for Amortization of software intangibles 0.2 0.4 sustainable growth and enables the business to better support the Adjusted EBITDA 81.7 61.1 growing momentum in both its core Linux operating system business Foreign exchange credit 0.3 0.9 and its more recent cloud infrastructure and storage solutions.
Net capitalization of development costs To this end we have created a global sales function, re-aligned Underlying Adjusted EBITDA 81.4 60.2 responsibilities to ensure increased focus on the critical areas of 1 Alliances, OEM and Public Cloud and also created a CTO function.
On 1 April 2016 SUSE announced that Dr. Thomas Di Giacomo has joined the Company in the role of chief technology officer CTO as Deferred revenue the latest addition to SUSEs executive leadership team and reporting We continue to have year-on-year steady growth in the deferred directly to the SUSE CEO.
This new executive role further bolsters the revenue balance.
At 30 April 2016 total deferred revenue balance rapid innovation, growth and momentum of SUSEs business and was $326.8m 2015: $265.0m, an increase of $61.8m year-on-year.
Our CTO will engage in active, strategic 60.8% of this increase in deferred revenue balance isrecognizable dialogue with our customers, our partners and our many important revenue in the next 12 months and 88.7% recognizable in Open Source communities as we continuously adapt to help our 24months.
In this function his industry and community engagement will extend well beyond Linux to include NFV, PaaS, Headcount IaaS, containers and orchestration, where the Open Source At the end of April 2015, direct headcount in SUSE was 522 development model is driving continuous and rapid innovation.
increasing to 641 by30 April 2016, a net increase of 119 inthe fiscalyear.
The increased investment in directheadcount is primarily These senior executive roles are critical to the global expansion of in Engineering, Product Management, Sales, Marketing, Product our business as we continue to grow both our organization and our Marketing and Alliances to address the opportunity we seein solution portfolio to meet the increasing demand from customers themarket for SUSEs existing offerings together with new around the world: we also need to increase the depth and breadth opportunities in OpenStack IaaS, Software Defined Distributed of our executive leadership team.
Storage based on Ceph technology and withpublic cloud serviceproviders.
Recruitment and on-boarding The successful execution of the growth charter and investment In addition to the direct headcount, the SUSE Product Portfolio planfor SUSE depends on the ability to fill the new, incremental received inFY16 support from SUSE dedicated employees, who positions in a timely fashion and thus ramping up our capacity areorganizationally aligned in the shared service functions of the inkey areas of the business.
Group, most prominently in APJ Sales, Renewal Sales, Consulting, Customer Care, Sales Operations and other corporate operations To build on the momentum of this year we need to improve our functions.
These add up to approximately 224 full-time equivalents ability to grow our team.
To this end changes have been initiated FTEs, which brings the totalSUSE dedicated headcount that will have a positive impact on the recruitment and on-boarding supporting the SUSE business and customers to approximately ofnew employees to the SUSE business as well as on-going, quality 865FTEs at the end of April 2016.
HR management of the enlarged team that shall benefit from thosechanges.
This includes closer alignment of shared HR service functions with the SUSE business and organization as well as deploying additional HR management and recruitment employees paired with an increase of third party recruitment spending.
28 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 SUSECON Strategy for accelerated growth SUSECON is an annual global event for SUSE customers, partners At a high level SUSEs strategy for accelerated growth and Open Source enthusiasts.
In 2015, SUSECON was held in andexpansion consists of the following key elements: Amsterdam, Netherlands with nearly 1,000 attendees.
SUSECON creates an interactive forum for our community of technically Protect and nurture existing strategic revenue streams knowledgeable participants from around the world who come EnterpriseLinux, SUSE Manager : together each year to share their passion for SUSE technology andthe latest Open Source innovations.
Succeed with new solution revenue growth drivers OpenStackIaaS, Software Defined Storage : In addition to nearly 100 SUSE led sessions, the event includes active participation from partners and customers who join in Effectively capture and embrace new technology engaging keynotes and deliver deeply technical sessions on topics andmarkettrends in relevant areas: including Enterprise Linux, Mission Critical Computing, Private, Public and Hybrid Cloud Computing, Dev Ops and Enterprise Potentially further expansion into closely adjacent Systems Management, Platform as a Service, Containers and solutions markets: Orchestration, Software-defined Storage, NFV and Softwaredefined Networking and much more.
For hands-on technical Evolve the organization to better align with growth attendees, the event also provides a wide range of industry andinnovation: and certification exams that can be taken on site.
Explore alternatives complements to our current There is a highly regarded and well attended Partner Summit approachoforganic growth.
aswellas extensive, dedicated sessions for both industry analystsandpress attendees with direct engagement from More specifically for FY17 this is broken down to: SUSEexecutives and technical experts.
New subscription net new customer growth: Each year, together with customers and partners, SUSE makes anumber of key announcements at the SUSECON event ranging Optimized renewal business: fromnew product innovations to new Open Source projects andinitiatives to strategic partnerships and alliances.
Routes-to-market growth public cloud : Growth from underleveraged geographies: Outlook sustainable, profitable revenue growth For FY17 SUSE will focus on the successful execution of SUSEs Timely execution on headcount growth plans: and mandate for sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
The objective isto grow revenue ahead of growth rates for relevant markets.
Global, unified sales organization strategy and execution.
The SUSE business enters FY17 with the tailwind of good businessmomentum from FY16.
The deferred revenue balance, which will berecognized in FY17, grew and is a good foundation foron-goingrevenue growth in the future.
We will continue to invest inbuilding out the organization to ensure continuing Nils Brauckmann improvements in execution capacity across all major business Chief Executive Officer functions and geographies as well as further investment in SUSE marketing program spend to drive demand generation and 13 July 2016 buildbrand awareness for SUSE.
