Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio From within the Micro Focus Product Portfolio we also manage, for Introduction the Group overall, the corporate support functions of HR, IT, Facilities, The Micro Focus Product Portfolio represents 79.6% of Finance, Legal and the Project Management Office PMO for total Group revenue in FY16 2015: pro-forma CCY 83.1% acquisitions and integration.
In addition we manage the delivery of and comprises the following sub-product portfolios, ashared service for other elements of infrastructure support to the which are shown with their percentage ofFY16 overall SUSE Product Portfolio.
This enables the Group to operate effectively and SUSE to directly control what they need to execute with speed product portfolios revenues: andflexibility whilst leveraging the larger Group where effective.
Wherever practical the shared functions staffs are dedicated to Proportion of revenue delivered during FY16by each product portfolios, including SUSE, in order to providethe additional ofthe Product Portfolio benefit of specialization whilst leveraging thescale of the shared function.
The chart below illustrates this organizational model.
Product portfolio Percentage In creating this organizational model we separated the SUSE Product revenue of FY16 Portfolio and brought together the original Micro Focus Company $m revenues together with Net IQ, Attachmate and Novell business units from the COBOL Development & TAG acquisition to create the Micro Focus Product Portfolio.
This resulted MainframeSolutions 258.8 26.0% in, one company with two operating portfolios Micro Focus and SUSE Host Connectivity 198.2 20.0% each built around clear business logic and a recognition that effective Identity, Access & Security 216.7 21.9% execution requires that we balance the need for specialization and focus with the need for efficiency and effectiveness overall.
For example Development & IT Operations sales, product development and product management are managed Management Tools 157.4 15.9% separately for each of the Micro Focus and SUSE Portfolios to ensure Collaboration & Networking 160.1 16.2% thecorrect focus and to reflect the collaborative nature of the Open Micro Focus Product Portfolio 991.2 100.0% Source community but our infrastructure systems, facilities, etc.
is managed once for the Group.
This approach to finding the right balance between specialization and collaboration is a continuous process and wherever compromise is required we favorspecialization.
Micro Focus organizational business structure SUSE Micro Focus NA, EMEA & APAC Go To Market LATAM from MF North America International APAC shared team EMEA, LATAM Channel, Systems Channel, Systems Integrators & Independent Software Vendors Integrators & OEM Marketing Marketing Product Group Product Management Product Management Product Development Product Development Services, Customer Care, Renewals, Corporate Marketing Services, Sales Operations Corporate Operations Business Operations Finance IT HR Legal & PMO 16 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Underpinning this drive for operational excellence is our FOUR-BOX Progress in FY16 MODEL which forces a much more granular focus at the product During 2016 our focus has been on integrating the different level based on the realities of where the product is in the technology businesses into a more coherent whole.
This has involved adoption lifecycle.
This granularity then informs product development significantvolumes and complexity of work spanning structure, priorities and from this marketing and GTM alignment decisions.
people, processes, systems and infrastructure across multiple Effective execution requires that we balance the need for specialization operational entities.
and focus with the need for efficiency and effectiveness overall.
Highlights include: To execute the above we created a single, global product organization Completion of the initial restructuring work to ensure stability Product Group to drive our product development and product and focus on delivery of our financial commitments: management approach, a single marketing organization to build the brand and improve our product positioning and sales enablement Delivery of significant levels of synergies: and re-organized the GTM teams to be geographically aligned.
Simplification of the branding to Micro Focus and SUSE from Micro Focus, SUSE, Borland, Net IQ, Attachmate and Novell Product Group underpinned by two completely new web domains of We now execute as one global organization covering the five microfocus.
Creation of dedicated GTM organizations for SUSE and During FY16 we delivered major product releases across each MicroFocus focused on quarterly instead of annual performance: portfolio and more than 180 releases in total.
We have established standard processes for market and opportunity analysis through Rationalization of our property portfolio from 128 offices product development to product launch and sales and partner inNovember 2014 to 83 offices at 30 April 2016: and enablement.
Best practices in areas such as development methodologies, pricing and licence management have been Creation of a comprehensive IT systems strategy for theGroup.
identified and are now being adopted across the Group.
Much of the above is on-going, most notably in the area of systems The FOUR-BOX MODEL approach was applied across all products where our stated goal of standardizing systems will take longer to tooptimize returns and ensure product roadmaps reflect the deliver than originally anticipated.
Progress has been made throughout appropriate priorities based on the individual products life cycle the year in our systems programme, for example reducing from five andportfolio management position.
customer relationship management CRM systems to one.
We now have a comprehensive plan built on detailed analysis work to define This more unified approach to product development and and map our processes and build target enterprise application and management is also beginning to present new opportunities for technical infrastructure environments.
This will enable us to move delivering more value to customers through sharing technology and tothe execution phase from a much improved position in terms of best practice focused on specific customer use cases or challenges.
clarity and stability but is still a very significant undertaking.
For example, we have just delivered capabilities for advanced authentication from our IAS portfolio into our Host Connectivity The above touches on the breadth of work underway and there solutions enabling customers to bring state of the art security remains a huge amount to do.
However, progress is encouraging techniques to their critical mainframe applications.
We have also and the foundations required for on-going delivery ofour business established more robust processes for customer engagement and model are beginning to emerge.
feedback gathering, for example the creation of a customer ideas portal for our Collaboration products.
This enables customers to On 2 May 2016 we completed the acquisition of Serena.
Serena is both tell us directly what they think and need but also vote on aleading provider of Application Lifecycle Management products.
Shortly after launch we reworked an upcoming release Its product offering will be integrated into the existing Micro Focus toincorporate the top requests from this feedback.
Development & IT Operations Management Tools Development & ITOM portfolio, further enhancing both our expertise in mainframe We continue to invest in product development and sharpen our computing and distributed software change management.
We intend focus in product management.
We are excited by the significant to continue developing the full portfolio of Serenas products, and enhancements to existing products, the new products released wewill aim to identify how additional customer value and capability inthe past year and the product roadmaps for the future.
can be realized for Serena customers, leveraging related Micro Focus software development and software quality solutions.
Go to Market GTM sales, services andmarketing The Micro Focus Portfolio Group in FY16 During FY16 we have combined the geographic approach from The degree of change required to create the Micro Focus Portfolio theoriginal Micro Focus GTM organization and the Business Group was significant as we had to merge the original Micro Focus Unitbased TAG GTM organization into one geographically aligned business with the Net IQ, Attachmate and Novell business units from team.
We moved from a focus on annual bookings to a focus on the TAG acquisition, all of which were run as highly autonomous quarterlyrevenue and from the sales teams being compensated operating units from product development and marketing through to broadly licence, maintenance and consulting to a more focused GTM.
We brought together four businesses and created one operating approach with teams dedicated to the opportunities specific to unit with five focused portfolios built around clear industrial logic and eachsub-portfolio.
aconsistent approach to execution and delivery.
This is key to our drivefor operational excellence in support of the business model.
17 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued This has meant realignment of structure, sales territories and We aim to increase sales productivity and predictability further by compensation plans and the need for significant behaviour continuing to simplify the underlying processes and systems we use changeat both the management and individual level.
For example, torun the business and improve customer insight by generating closer sales management now needs to drive to a quarterly cadence, interaction between Sales and Marketing, Product Management and delivering more detailed forecasts and ensuring more targeted Product Development.
We are committed to the completion of the execution plans.
significant work required to make our systems and processes consistentand easier for our sales teams and partners to use.
In services we have changed the direction and objectives to alignfully with our strategy of making, selling and supporting Micro Focus Product Portfolio software.
The teams have been reorganized with compensation Details of our five sub-portfolios are provided below.
and incentives changed to be targeted on delivering successful software implementations rather than more standalone services COBOL Development & Mainframe Solutions CDMS engagements.
This change also enables better alignment with 20.8% of FY16 Group revenues ourchannel partners.
We have an extensive partner network We have continued to invest in our core COBOL development thatisa fundamental part ofour long-term plans and it is CD products that primarily target the off-mainframe distributed importantweensure consistency ofdirection and focus to development market.
The CD products enable programmers to ensureobjectives are aligned and mutual success is achieved develop and deploy applications written in COBOL across multiple insupport of our customers.
platforms including Windows, UNIX, Linux and the cloud.
Visual COBOL provides the fastest way for customers to move enterprise Over the longer term, this realignment will enable us to address mainframe application workloads partially or wholly to Java Virtual theroot causes of the underlying complexity inhibiting sales Machine JVM, .
NET or cloud environments whilst protecting productivity and effectiveness.
For example, we have reduced theirexisting investments and intellectual property.
thenumber of sales compensation plans from more than 100 toless than 20 and the move from five CRM systems to one will COBOL applications continue to be at the heart of the worlds business improve our effectiveness in the longer term but will not deliver transactions and to power the majority of large organizations key fully until the related systems for the rest of the lifecycle of a sale business operations.
Maintaining our leadership position in CD is at the are standardized.
In the meantime the common CRM is providing core of our value proposition.
By embedding our products in industry aplatform for us to improve the depth and consistency of the standard development environments, specifically Visual Studio and customer data we collect and use to support our installed base.
Eclipse, we have addressed the perceived skill issues, and expect that Thecombination of the bookings rather than revenue focus COBOL will provide a stable base and strong cash flow for the Group previously inTAG with the lack of standardized systems or over the coming decades.
approachbetween business units means that less historical data isavailable than was the case in the original Micro Focus business Our Mainframe Solutions MS product set addresses a customers andless than is desired to run the business with the precision need to get the most value out of their mainframe environment.
This is a particular challenge in the Maintenance Fee technologies allow customers flexibility in deciding the platform choice Revenue MFR line where the historical data lacks depth.
for development, testing and deployment of their business applications.
Thishasbeen corrected looking forwardand work is on-going Various business and technical drivers would determine if it is best to toprovidefor the best possible workaround historically.
do these functions either within the mainframe environment or outside of it on distributed Windows, UNIX and Linux machines.
We offer We have simplified our branding such that we are now using customers the choice to do either or both, enabling the optimum theMicro Focus and SUSE brands and have broadly retired balance of cost, risk and speed of execution across their mainframe theNovell, Attachmate, NetIQ and Borland brand names.
Increasingly businesses are Thishasinvolved an extensive programme of work to align our seeking to re-use existing business logic and data, while also looking marketing toraise brand awareness, build understanding of our toexploit new innovations in technology such as mobile and cloud.
product propositions and increasingly target the right audiences Our mainframe solutions allow customers to accomplish both by togeneratequalified leads for new business opportunities.
enabling the re-deployment of enterprise mainframe applications Thenextphase of this work further simplifies and improves our todistributed systems, virtualized mobile platforms, and the cloud.
approach byrationalizing the historical web domains and moving Weestimate that the mainframe COBOL development market thecontenttothe new microfocus.
The Micro Focus opportunity is approximately three times as large as that for off Portfolio is rich in capability and well positioned to deliver value mainframe distributed COBOL development.
tocustomers today and into the future.
Ensuring our sales teams areenabled to position this value is key.
Our simplified branding Micro Focus will maintain its leadership positions in COBOL andassociated improvements in product positioning and focus Development & Mainframe Solutions through products such arethe foundationswe will build from.
asVisual COBOL and Enterprise Developer.
We believe the changes made enable us to better serve our Host Connectivity 15.9% of FY16 Group revenues customers but we still have a great deal to do across systems, The Host Connectivity solution set is the combination of the processes and people to deliver the levels of sales productivity Attachmate products from TAG and the Micro Focus Rumba desired and possible.
We believe that this combination gives us the number two position in terms of market share behind IBM in the provision ofhost connectivity solutions.
We specialize in environments with heterogeneous systems or platforms and this product set has, in one form or another, assisted in these tasks for over 30 years.
18 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 At the core of the product set are the Reflection and Rumba terminal Our IAS solutions are well suited to address these trends, using emulation product families that enable IT organizations tomodernize unique identity-powered technologies to help organizations and secure access to their host-based applications.
Our products help governand manage user privileges, facilitate and control access IT improve user productivity as they extend hostaccess to new web toapplications and data, and monitor user and system activities.
and mobile use cases while ensuring that modern security practices Through helping our customers balance between innovation and around encryption, authorization, and authentication can be enforced.
risk and by sharpening our focus in IAS we are well positioned During FY16 we have delivered capabilities from Refection to the forgrowth over the longer term.
Rumba customers and vice versa.
In addition we have built on our strengths in security to add capabilities from the rest of the Micro Development & IT Operations Management Tools Focus Portfolio to deliver even more value for customers who have 12.6%ofFY16 Group revenues invested in our Host Connectivity products.
This product set is the combination of the Application Development and Testing products from the original Micro Focus: the Data Center The Host Connectivity capabilities are extended by other products Management and Workload Migration products from the heritage that provide legacy integration technologies that enable businesses NetIQ brand: and the Endpoint management software from the to put their mainframe assets to work in new ways by exposing heritage Novell brand.
applications and data to modern development environments and business analytics systems.
There are additional Secure Shell SSH The Application Delivery and Testing products offer a range of based file transfer solutions that solve a range of tactical and DevOps solutions which span an organizations software supply strategic problems for securely transferring files of any size, enabling chain from definition requirements capture through to delivery businesses to work seamlessly with partners and customers.
Organizations competing in a global marketplace must deliver innovative applications that meet In Host Connectivity we will seek to build on our existing strengths customer expectations anytime, anywhere.
Greater agility is required in terms of technology and customer base combined with our as software teams rapidly adapt to the volume and velocity of innovations in security to establish a true leadership position.
evolving business requirements and the demand to work in more diverse environments including mobile and cloud.
Our Application Identity Access & Security IAS 17.4% of FY16 Delivery and Testing solutions improve communication and Grouprevenues collaboration between business, test, and development teams for This product set offers a broad set of proven solutions for Identity continuous delivery of a superior applications and user experience Governance and Administration, Access Management and across all their device and platform combinations.
Our customers span allsectors with particular strength in regulated industries, including Our Data Center Management solutions integrate service Healthcare, Finance, Government, Retail, Manufacturing, and management, application management, and systems management to Energy.
In addition companies in non-regulated industries also give organizations a holistic view of their IT environment and business implement our IAS products as a best practice for protecting services, enabling companies to manage increased complexity and intellectual property or other sensitive information, and to make capacity with the right balance of cost, risk and speed of execution.
provide application performance management, IT process automation, business service management, and systems management solutions.
Customers use our Identity & Access Management IAM solutions to apply integrated policies across local, mobile, and cloud environments Our Workload Migration and Disaster Recovery product suite help to govern access to information, administer and manage the identity organizations complete data center transformation and migration and access lifecycle of users, and demonstrate compliance with projects quickly and efficiently with automatic, unattended regulations or mandates.
We provide solutions that address identity high-speed Physical-to-Virtual, Virtual-to-Virtual, or anywhere-tolifecycle management, risk-based authentication, single sign-on cloud workload migrations.
Additionally, our high-performance SSO, access governance, and multi-factor authentication.
disaster recovery solutions offer warm-standby recovery speeds similar to mirroring but at low costs similar to tape backup for Our Security Management solutions build upon this Identity centric allserver workloads: physical and virtual, Windows and Linux.
approach by integrating identity and other contextual information with security monitoring, ensuring organizations have the security Additionally, the IT Operations Management Tools include the intelligence they need, when they need it, to detect and respond to endpoint management products that enable IT staff to handle abnormal activity that signals a data breach or compliance gap.
Our thecomplexities of securing and managing a large footprint of Security Management solutions provide privileged user management, PCs, Macs, tablets and smartphones to give the proper working secure configuration management and visibility and control over user environment to each employee.
activities, security events, and critical systems across an organization to enable them to quickly address evolving threats.
Using a unified management console, these tools enable all devicesto be patched, compliant, secure and properly equipped.
Key trends driving growth in this area include the continued expansion Due to themultifarious and complex nature of the user and and diversity of security threats to organizations and the growth of systemendpoints within todays large organizations, this can theresulting financial risk, the increasing demand for organizations to beaburdensome and costly undertaking, and accordingly the demonstrate that they have the processes in place to manage access, toolsetisboth broad and deep.
The capabilities include service and the continued expansion of virtualization and cloud deployments desk:application virtualization: asset management: configuration increasing the level of complexity of the applications and information management: software distribution: full disk encryption: mobile over which organizations need to manage access and monitor activity.
Additionally, organizations have an opportunity to cost effectively implement stronger authentication methods than traditional username password to help minimize data breaches.
19 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued We offer a very broad set of solutions and capabilities for customers.
Revenue for the year by product portfolio at actual exchange rates Our focus is on delivering the targeted innovation our customers and CCY pro-forma and reported comparatives are shown in the need as they seek to solve complex, real world and ever changing table below: challenges in building, operating and securing complex IT applications and infrastructure.
Micro Focus Product Portfolio revenue Collaboration & Networking 12.9% of FY16 Group revenues Year ended This product set has the balance of the Novell products together 30 April with CORBA from the original Micro Focus business.
Year ended 2016 Year ended 30 April Pro-forma Year ended 30 April 2015 CCY 30 April Our collaboration products enable organizations to build and 2016 Pro-forma Decline 2015 operate work environments that are more secure and easier to 1 Actual CCY Growth Actual manage, regardless of how or where people work.
The products $m $m % $m form a complete collaboration solution that has long been praised CDMS by customers and industry watchers for security and reliability.
Licence 104.7 105.9 1.1% 111.6 Keycapabilities include email, calendaring, instant messaging, Maintenance 145.2 141.9 2.3% 149.6 contact management, task management, team workspaces withdocument management, and workflows.
Consultancy 8.9 8.1 9.9% 8.8 258.8 255.9 1.1% 270.0 Collaboration brings people, projects and processes together in Host connectivity onesecure place to enhance team productivity and this fits closely with additional products that offer file, print and networking Licence 89.9 94.6 5.0% 71.6 services designed to enable organizations to securely print and Maintenance 105.4 105.8 0.4% 55.3 share files both inside and outside their organization.
The products Consultancy 2.9 4.0 27.5% 2.1 can automate the configuration and management of high availability 198.2 204.4 3.0% 129.0 collaboration and networking servers, that are simple to resource, manage and maintain.
Suitable for small workgroups, right through Identity, Access & Security to global enterprise deployments: the end-user value proposition Licence 52.4 43.1 21.6% 20.5 includes dynamic file services which automates policies data storage: Maintenance 142.2 147.0 3.3% 65.9 file access: secure file sharing, file reporting, mobile access, and Consultancy 22.1 27.6 19.9% 13.7 online, offline and mobile printing.
216.7 217.7 0.5% 100.1 Fully distributed networking services such as centralized server Development & IT management: secure file storage: and storage management provide Operations Management afull enterprise distributed networking environment suitable for Tools small workgroups, right through to global enterprise deployments.
Licence 33.9 41.8 18.9% 27.8 Maintenance 121.3 136.7 11.3% 62.9 This product set also includes the CORBA based network and datatransport products which provide unrivalled functionality and Consultancy 2.2 2.8 21.4% 3.6 performance to companies with a requirement for high speed, and 157.4 181.3 13.2% 94.3 secure transfer of data between systems on their multi-platform Collaboration & networks.
This technology is deployed across thousands of Networking customers supporting more than a billion transactions per day.
Licence 23.9 34.9 31.5% 29.5 We have been delivering value to our customer base with these Maintenance 130.4 154.9 15.8% 106.9 products for decades and are committed to delivering the practical Consultancy 5.8 6.9 15.9% 3.6 innovation and support our customers want and need to continue 160.1 196.7 18.6% 140.0 to leverage these investments.
Micro Focus Micro Focus will maintain its leadership positions in COBOL Product Portfolio Development & Mainframe Solutions through products such as Licence 304.8 320.3 4.8% 261.0 Visual COBOL and Enterprise Developer.
In Host Connectivity we Maintenance 644.5 686.3 6.1% 440.6 will seek to build on our existing strengths in terms of technology Consultancy 41.9 49.4 15.2% 31.8 and customer base combined with our innovations in security to establish a true leadership position.
In Development & ITOM 991.2 1,056.0 6.1% 733.4 andCollaboration & Networking the strength of our existing 1 franchises can be built upon through targeted innovation and unaudited.
By sharpening our focus in IAS we are wellpositioned for growth over the longer term.
20 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As anticipated Licence revenue declined by 4.8% on a pro-forma Development & IT Operations Management Tools revenues CCY basis compared with the year to 30 April 2015.
There was a were $157.4m: a 13.2% $23.9m decline on a pro-forma CCY basis.
strong Licence revenue performance in Identity, Access & Security $15.4m of the decline was in Maintenance revenues which declined offsetby declines in all the other portfolios.
Maintenance revenues by 11.3% in line with management expectations.
Licence revenues declined by 6.1% on a pro-forma CCY basis.
This was primarily declined in the period by $7.9m partly due to lower sales of our inDevelopment & ITOM Tools and Collaboration & Networking App Manager products which had some large licence sales which is in line with prior year trends.
The fair value deferred intheprior year.
Collaboration & Networking revenues were $160.1m, a 18.6% $36.6m decline on a pro-forma CCY basis.
Maintenance declined Consultancy revenues declined by 15.2% on a pro-forma by15.8% $24.5m in the year in line with management expectations CCYbasisas we implemented the established Micro Focus and consistent with the prior year trend.
policyoffocusing only on consulting business that supports ourlicence business.
Regional revenue performance As previously mentioned there were significant changes to the Year ended organization on the Micro Focus Portfolio at the beginning of the Year ended 30 April year and these can be seen to impact the performance in the year.
Year ended 30 April 2016 Year ended We changed the sales compensation plan of the former TAG 30 April 2015 Pro-forma 30 April 2016 Pro-forma CCY 2015 organization away from bookings as the primary target towards 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual revenue and introduced quarterly targets compared totheformer $m $m % $m TAG approach of annual targets.
North America 525.2 561.4 6.4% 367.3 CDMS revenues were $258.8m: a growth of 1.1% on a pro-forma International 377.0 395.1 4.6% 289.8 CCY basis compared with the year to 30 April 2015.
The reduction Asia Pacific & Japan 89.0 99.5 10.6% 76.3 in Licence revenues was 1.1% $1.2m offset by a growth in Total 991.2 1,056.0 6.1% 733.4 Maintenance revenues of 2.3% $3.3m and Consulting revenue growth of 9.9% $0.8m.
Visual COBOL revenues continued to 1 unaudited.
Host Connectivity revenues declined by 3.0% in the year on a Progress in North America was encouraging with execution pro-forma CCY basis.
levelsimproving through the strengthening of leadership talent The split of Licence revenue between the first half and second half andassociated improvements in execution and discipline.
Host of last year in the pro-forma CCY numbers was 28.3% and 71.7% Connectivity delivered a strong performance throughout the year respectively whereas the performance this year was 53.9% in the and a much more balanced performance in terms of H1 and H2 first half and 46.1% in the second half and can mostly be explained phasing.
IAS was challenged overall but delivered significant new by the change in compensation structure which lead to a more customer wins and much improved alignment and engagement balanced half-on-half performance in the current year.
This also with partner channels.
Development & ITOM suffered from reflects the generally shorter sales cycle in this portfolio.
Maintenance significant levels of attrition that took time to stabilize and begin revenues declined by 0.4% $0.4m and there was a decline in tocorrect.
Collaboration & Networking was down consistent Consulting revenues of 27.5% $1.1m.
CDMS execution improved throughout the year to deliver an acceptable performance overall Identity, Access & Security IAS revenues declined by 0.5% with Mainframe Solutions delivering exciting new customer wins $1.0m.
Licence revenue grew by 21.6% on a CCY basis partly due to and improving pipeline.
some significant changes in the approach to the product portfolio and thesuccessful closure of some key transactions.
There is also International region EMEA and LATAM had a challenging year.
alonger sales cycle on these transactions.
We acquired Authasas, EMEA took a significant time to stabilize as the restructuring actions aDutch company, in the period for $10.0m.
Authasas provides worked through local legislative and consultation requirements.
Multi Factor Authentication for the security market and TAG had Thiswas compounded by attrition in the key marketof Germany previously embedded the Authasas offering in their products on and some portfolios leading to increased levelsof disruption overall.
anOriginal Equipment Manufacturer OEM basis.
Micro Focus Despite this IAS delivered a strong performance and there were has a preference for owning its Intellectual Property wherever notable wins in Development & ITOM and CDMS.
LATAM was possible and when we had the opportunity to acquire theAuthasas impacted by the economic situation inBrazil and in therest of technology we did so.
We believe that IAS has the potential for LATAM we moved to a distribution ledmodel rather than direct further growth as the market it operates in continues to grow.
We sales resulting in an additional level oftransition and disruption will continue to drive for consistent and sustainable growth in this tobe managed.
Execution levels acrossInternational improved area but expect that this will take time tobe delivered.
declined by 3.3% $4.8m because ofa few contract cancellations that were known about when TAGwas acquired and Consulting revenues declined by 19.9% $5.5m due to proactive change in direction outlined previously.
21 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued Asia Pacific & Japan was mixed.
Strength in Japan broadly across the board was offset by weakness in Asia.
In Australia it was Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA necessary to rebuild the business to ensure that the correct teams Year Year ended were in place to execute consistently the Micro Focus approach and ended 30 April improve the overall capabilities locally.
There were some excellent 30 April 2015 wins in Mainframe Solutions and IAS that demonstrate what can 2016 Pro-forma 1 Actual CCY bedelivered when skill and execution levels are maintained.
$m $m Adjusted Operating Profit 453.7 424.7 Adjusted Operating Profit and Underlying Depreciation of property, plant Adjusted EBITDA andequipment 9.7 11.4 The table below shows the Adjusted Operating Profit for the portfolio together with a comparison to the pro-forma CCY Amortization of software intangibles 1.7 2.1 figuresfor FY15: Adjusted EBITDA 465.1 438.2 Foreign exchange credit 2.6 11.7 Net capitalization of development costs 11.4 0.1 Adjusted Operating profit Underlying Adjusted EBITDA 451.1 426.6 Year Year ended 1 ended 30 April unaudited.
30 April 2015 2016 Pro-forma 1 Actual CCY The Underlying Adjusted EBITDA improved by $24.5m in the year $m $m on a pro-forma CCY basis primarily due to cost saving actions taken Segment revenue 991.2 1,056.0 at the end of FY15.
Directly managed costs 566.4 663.4 Allocation of centrally managed costs Outlook toSUSE 28.9 32.1 We have achieved a great deal over the last 12 months and enter the new financial year with stronger foundations than a year ago Total Adjusted Operating costs 537.5 631.3 when the integration and change programme was just commencing.
Adjusted Operating Profit 453.7 424.7 We continue to focus on improving theway in whichwe operate Margin 45.8% 40.2% tomaximize the efficiency of theorganization.
The Group has undergone huge change in FY16 but the one constant has been clarity of strategy and the associated focus onaligning operational execution to the delivery of that strategy.
The directly managed costs are those costs specifically managed by Looking forward to FY17 this focus will continue with our key the CEOs of the Micro Focus Product Portfolio and SUSE Product priorities being: Portfolio.
All the Group central support costs are managed bythe Micro Focus Portfolio group and the allocation of these costs to Delivery of our financial plan: SUSE is based on an appropriate methodology.
The work to standardize systems and simplify the underlying The Adjusted Operating Profit was $453.7m, delivering a margin operations of the business: of45.8% which compares with the margin in the pro-forma CCY numbers for FY15 of 40.2%.
The increase in margin arises because Accelerating progress on improving the effectiveness of our of the cost saving actions that were taken at the end of FY15 when GTMteams: and we integrated the original Micro Focus business with TAG.
These savings were mostly in staff and property costs.
Continuing to operationalize the FOUR-BOX MODEL to betteralign resources to optimize the performance of The table above right, shows the reconciliation between eachsub-portfolio.
AdjustedOperating Profit and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA withacomparative of the pro-forma CCY figures for FY15: Stephen Murdoch Chief Executive Officer Micro Focus 13 July 2016 22
