Chief Executives statement Constantly striving for profitable sales Our brands and concepts are well established in their respective markets and I have been very impressed by the team of people we have here.
As a sector we clearly have some challenges, but these strong fundamentals remain and will help us meet them.
What were your initial impressions when you joined Mitchells & Butlers?
Having worked in the industry for several years, I had long been aware of Mitchells & Butlers as a competitor.
When I joined, my view was that we had the best brands operated from the best locations and by a very strong team of people.
I believe these impressions were correct.
We do have an outstanding set of assets, which are largely freehold backed.
Our brands and concepts are well established in their respective markets, and I have been very impressed by the team of people we have here.
As a sector we clearly have some challenges, but those strong fundamentals remain and will help us meet them.
What are the main challenges you face?
The restaurant and casual dining market has seen a great deal of new supply in recent years.
This new supply clearly provides competition, and can be problematic at a local level in the short term, although in time it should help to grow the overall market.
This growth has slowed more recently with net openings now broadly flat, reflecting increased uncertainty over the impact of the National Living Wage, providing us with the best chance we have had in recent years to steal back market share.
6 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 We are also facing a period of increased cost presence at a senior level within the Are you happy with the Groups headwinds most notably labour costs, with organisation, and also gives the benefit of performance?
the National Minimum Wage and National grouping businesses with similar customer types Im not sure Im ever completely satisfied Living Wage.
The impact of Brexit is potentially and occasions under one operational umbrella.
Sales in the first half were a further challenge both to ourselves and the This has already enabled us to speed up challenging.
However, in the second half they wider economy, particularly without clarity on decision-making, and benefit from some good improved, with like-for-like sales growing by exit terms: the effect on consumer behaviour sharing of ideas.
Our work on culture has also 0.2%.
It is encouraging to see that, outside of the remains to be seen, but a weaker sterling will extended beyond this we are carrying out period affected by the Rugby World Cup last year, impact our cost base.
Longer term we have specific sales training for all of our house this sales growth has been maintained in the first around 5,000 non-UK EU nationals working in managers, we introduced a new incentive for few weeks of 2017.
Our profits have been impacted our business and we would certainly not want house managers in the second half of last year by some second half cost pressures which have to lose access to this talent.
rewarding an improved trajectory of sales, seen margins fall.
When I reflect on it however, I and have focused heavily on improving our can see that weve got a lot done.
Were working Within Mitchells & Butlers, there is a challenge turnaround time in resolving guest complaints.
very hard to make some big changes, particularly alongside each of the strengths I mentioned regarding the pace at which we operate.
We have a fantastic estate, but We have also worked hard on the estate, and have responded really well and Im encouraged it had reached a point where it was have a full estate plan for where we aim to have that performance has started to improve.
That underinvested, especially in a marketplace all of our sites by 2020.
We are underway on said, I fully recognise that we cannot take our which had seen a large number of new this, having increased Miller & Carter from 36 foot off the gas as we still have a lot of work to do.
Prior to my joining, the business had to 52 sites in the last year, and 36 sites trading had to invest significantly in its IT infrastructure under our new Stonehouse concept.
We have What developments can we expect?
I am fortunate also significantly increased the number of Our focus remains on our three priorities, to have come in as those projects are largely remodels we undertake investing in the so we expect more progress on balancing complete.
However, it leaves us with a need estate to improve the general level of amenity.
the estate, instilling a commercial culture and to invest more in the guest-facing areas of our We are aiming to be on a cycle of investing in driving an innovation agenda.
As for brands, we simply need to each of our businesses about every six years, be more innovative.
This includes utilising from a cycle of more than 11 years recently.
Were continuing with our programme of digital technology, but also looking at potential This clearly requires additional capex, which rebalancing the estate, which will see us continue new concepts and sales channels such as we expect to increase from around 160m in to grow Miller & Carter and Stonehouse, delivery.
Finally, our people are fantastic, but 2015 to around 200m per year going forward.
principally through the conversion of existing I felt I met a culture which needed refocusing: Crucially, a greater proportion of it is guestsites but with a small number of acquisitions.
to get all of our teams fully engaged on facing, and hence return-generating, as we In total, we expect to complete around 300 commerciality.
I want to bring a sharper move forward.
conversions and remodels each year, nearly commercial acumen to what we do double the amount we did in FY 2015, which Finally, we have completed a great deal of constantly striving for sales and, more is a vital step forward to us improving the work in technology and digital.
This covers importantly, profitable sales.
guest-facing areas of the estate.
a range of activity, from consolidating our In order to meet these challenges, and utilise 10 million contact details from multiple Commercially, our teams will continue to be very our strengths, we identified three clear sources, to building a number of apps across focused on engaging with our guests, by resolving priorities: to build a more balanced business, our brands, to significantly growing our complaints quickly and efficiently, but also using to instil a more commercial culture and to drive numbers of online bookings from our own social media channels as a key sales driver, with an innovation agenda.
websites and through affiliates, to providing particularly increased use of TripAdvisor at our teams with the capability to read and house level as well as loyalty mechanic trials in Can you discuss your work on strategy?
our Miller & Carter and Browns brands.
We As a new CEO, I was very conscious of a will also be looking at making more of additional This is by no means an exhaustive explanation variety of suggestions as to how best to add sales channels, for example through extension of our activity, and there is further detail in the and extract value from Mitchells & Butlers.
So of our successful early trial into delivery.
Business Review, but it gives an idea of some we decided as a Board to take a fresh look at of the work weve been doing.
Our work on innovation will continue in various some of these strategic options, and whether forms.
Clearly, digital marketing is very important they were appropriate to best deliver long-term When do you expect to see the benefits to us and our guests, so we will continue to shareholder value.
We came to the conclusion coming through?
develop our online presence through booking that we are best placed to generate value We have started to see some of the early capability, apps and loyalty programmes, and so through a strategy of accelerated organic benefits already, with an improvement in our adding to the progress we made last year.
We growth: increasing the pace of our investment sales trajectory since the first half of last year.
are also looking at new concepts, and will open cycle, converting our brands towards more As well as our own numbers getting better, the first prototype of our new Chicken Society premium concepts, and innovating to keep up we have seen a notable improvement concept in Finchley in December.
This is an offer with the market.
This ties in with the three compared to the wider market, to a point that takes advantage of our scale purchasing strategic priorities above.
where we have outperformed the market in advantage and, if successful, will be rolled out to recent months, which is encouraging.
From other sites but, as importantly, helps us deliver a What changes were made last year?
here though, I dont see this as a standalone wider innovation process.
We undertook an organisational restructure piece of work that will one day be completed earlier in the year, which now sees the and we can suddenly say is done we are businesses managed by four Divisional changing our ongoing ways of working, and Phil Urban Directors, each of whom sit on the Executive that must become business as usual.
This gives a greater operational 7 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
