Chief Executives Review We have saved UK families over 11bn since 2009 Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer 2016 1.8bn savings for UK families I am confident that the investments we have made during my tenure in brands, data, technology, M&A and most of all people mean that as a business Moneysupermarket Group is well Group placed to capitalise on the opportunities ahead of us.
Our technology team finished the year with 24 comparison channels migrated to our new technology platform, leaving 7 to complete in early 2017.
In parallel, the Group has been moving its estate of more than 600 separate databases on to an Enterprise Data Warehouse EDW and data lake infrastructure.
Both initiatives will finally enable the Group to liberate itself once and for all from its Overview legacy data centres and fully benefit from the new technology platform.
I finished last years review with what has become During the year the Group opened a new lab my regular sign-off and mantra: the Group is well placed to help more people save more money in facility in Manchester staffed with around 40 engineers.
This team has developed and launched the year ahead, and once again that is exactly what we did.
a fourth branded service for the Group called GO.
GO is a new app service, written in native and therefore able to offer new and innovative money In 2016, we saved nearly 7 million families an estimated 1.8bn for free.
By doing this, we grew management services specifically designed for mobile users, wrapped around our most popular revenues by 12% to 316m and grew adjusted operating profit by 8% to 108m.
The Group offerings of motor insurance, energy, credit card and loan comparison.
The team has the skills and completed the bulk of our major technology resources to pioneer new tools and services for transformation project and launched new innovative services.
the emerging new generation of customers who only want to use a mobile and expect personalised, For customers, its been a challenging year for relevant functionality based on the deep insights we have on them.
Its early days for the team, but managing money.
Switching products once again they are already making great progress, having paid off, motor insurance prices rose 16% and energy costs fell, then increased again.
It was the built a new wallet service and are looking at the potential to integrate our bank account aggregator cheapest year for credit, with low loan rates and the longest balance transfer credit card deals we and budgeting app service.
With apps now being the preferred way for people to manage their bank have ever seen.
Our providers have given our accounts in the UK, this investment and facility is customers access to great deals, many exclusively.
Our customers are getting ever more very much aligned with emerging customer behaviour whilst leveraging the benefits of our comfortable managing their money online across all our channels.
6 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Savings made by customers bn Net Promoter Score MoneySuperMarket 1.8bn 49% 13% 2% The team launched a new service this year The world of technology is speeding up.
Our MoneySuperMarket called Credit Club, powered by Experian.
Credit users have moved from being early adopters MoneySuperMarket had a good year delivering Club allows users to check their credit scores to everyday families.
Price comparison is revenue of 285m, 14% higher than 2015. and credit files whenever they want.
This is a credit to everyone at MoneySavingExpert add further information who has worked in the Group over the years.
Insurance returned to strong growth in the allowing users to manage their money and second half of the year driven by pleasing access the credit products that suit them, However, we have already seen smartphone performances from both life and motor.
based on this combination of information.
This adoption overtake traditional computers and The motor teams focus on Best Site and development is the basis of the next generation laptops.
The average person spends around investment behind Best Price came through of personalised money management services three hours a day using their phone with over strongly as the year unfolded, growing that follow the successful Smart Search and 80% of that time using apps.
The next MoneySuperMarkets Net Promoter Score and Eligibility Checker tools that have been so generation of devices are likely to be voice market share.
popular over the past five years.
activated, such as Amazon Echo, Google Home and Siri.
Money had a good year, although falling interest TravelSupermarket rates post Brexit meant the attractiveness of On the data front, we have a government who switching current accounts and savings TravelSupermarket had a challenging year with actively encourages customers to have access accounts diminished further for providers and revenue of 22m, 9% lower than last year.
to their personal data with the ability to share it customers.
However, credit became even easily to check if they can find better deals.
cheaper for borrowers resulting in strong We have learned that not all innovative Midata and PSD2 Open Banking are just two of services are as good as customers tell us performances from credit cards and loans.
the exciting new developments for our industry.
During the migration of Home Services had another successful TravelSupermarket to its new platform, with a I am confident that the investments we have year with energy switching becoming the focus on mobile customers, we lost sight of the made during my tenure in brands, data, second largest channel for the Group.
true value TravelSupermarket brings through its technology, M&A, office locations including our services to customers: that of price comparison.
MoneySuperMarket and MoneySavingExpert new Manchester lab and a new London office worked together to help nearly 800,000 people However, after a year of relentless focus on due to open later this year and most of all switch their energy tariff, an increase of 46% getting back to our roots, the turnaround is well people mean that as a business, compared to 2015. on track.
The final quarter of 2016 was back in Moneysupermarket Group is well placed to to double digit revenue growth, with lessons capitalise on the opportunities ahead of us.
We await the decision from Ofgem in respect of the directive to list all energy providers on our As I prepare to hand over to Mark Lewis, I thank site.
The closure of GB Energy was a lesson to As we highlighted last year, we expect the online all our customers, providers, shareholders, us all that some energy companies are not as travel market to be very competitive in the years employees and of course our Board for the robust as others.
It does not seem appropriate ahead.
However, I am confident that we have a support, guidance and friendship they have great team, working on the right things with a that we are forced to list providers who do not given me over the past eight years.
want to do business with either ourselves or brand that is both trusted and highly our customers.
Since 2009 the Group has saved UK families over 11bn on their household bills.
Along The teams migration of 39 million customers Summary the way we have returned over 450 million to data to our EDW is already starting to pay The financial results tell only half the story of shareholders.
I have no doubt that the Group dividends.
Revenues from CRM rose 21% as what a tremendous job the team has done for will continue to prosper as it saves more email campaigns became more relevant and approximately 39 million users and customers people more money on more things in the personalised, a strategy set to continue thanks thats 85% of all online UK adults.
In my first Annual Report of 2009, I laid out Peter Plumb MoneySavingExpert the strategy for the Group behind a vision Chief Executive Officer MoneySavingExpert had another great year of helping every household make the most 27 February 2017 growing revenues by 20% to 37m.
of their money by building great brands, engineering the best shop, stocked with the As the brand most trusted by UK families to best products and using data to personalise save money and manage your finances, and simplify our services for customers.
subscriptions to the weekly email, full of saving tips, have now grown beyond 12 million people.
Eight years on, this strategy still serves the Group well.
The words have become more The unique Cheap Energy Club service now refined but the meaning has remained my monitors over 2.6m households for better invaluable compass for everything we have energy tariffs, immediately alerting them when done during my tenure as CEO.
savings can be made through the Groups quick and simple switching process.
Cheap Energy Club also allowed the team to conduct two collective energy switches during the year, with market leading deals taken up by over 300,000 people.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7
