10 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Group results The difficult market conditions seen in the WE ARE MAKING GOOD PROGRESS WITH THE second half of 2015 have continued through IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR STRATEGY AND 2016 as we expected.
We have delivered a solid set of results: HAVE DELIVERED A SOLID SET OF RESULTS Group revenue for 2016 was 989.2 million, IN A DIFFICULT MARKET.
8.5% above 2015 at reported exchange rates.
On a constant currency basis, Group revenue was lower by 1.5%.
The reported results have benefited from weaker sterling throughout the year.
The 2016 Group headline operating profit margin of 11.8% was in line with 2015, whilst weaker trading conditions impacted margins, this was largely offset by operational efficiencies and some foreign exchange benefits.
Group headline earnings per share was 22.7 pence 2015: 20.8 pence.
Net capital expenditure was 38.4 million 2015: 62.7 million, this included 12 million for the acquisition of the freehold of the Swansea, UK facility.
The Group has continued its investment in additional capability and capacity to support future growth.
Operating cash generation was good, PETE RABY with a cash flow from operations of CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 128.3 million 2015: 139.4 million.
Net debt at the year end was 242.5 million 2015: 216.0 million, primarily driven Safe and ethical working remains the top good progress during the year, meeting the by movements in foreign exchange rates.
During 2015 we milestones established in February.
It will take The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the began the rollout of thinkSAFE, a Group-wide three to five years to see the full benefits of year-end remained at 1.6x 2015: 1.6x.
project to deliver a step change in the safety these actions materialise, but we have made The Group remains well within its banking of our operations.
This has continued a good start to improve the performance of covenants and has good headroom and throughout 2016.
Through this programme, the business and position the Group for more balance sheet capacity for appropriate and a strengthened focus on safety across resilient financial performance and faster growth.
the business, we have delivered a significant improvement in safety performance.
In 2016 Looking forward to 2017, we are expecting On a statutory reporting basis operating we saw a 42% reduction in the number of the challenging market conditions to continue profit improved to 107.3 million Lost Time Accidents from 91 to 53, and a and we have planned prudently as a result.
2015: 82.9 million and profit 41% reduction in the Lost Time Accident However, despite the challenging environment, before tax improved to 87.9 million Frequency rate from 2015. we are making operational improvements 2015: 59.0 million.
Both of these across our business as part of our strategy benefited from year-on-year movements I am very pleased with the engagement of the execution and this is creating significant funds in exchange rates and specific adjusting business leadership and our employees in our for reinvestment in the business in 2017. items 2016: 1.7 million charge, safety performance and would like to thank We will make a further 3 million planned 2015: 16.0 million charge.
See pages them for their support in this critical area.
investment in research and development.
We will also be investing 3 million to We laid out our strategy for the Group in strengthen our selling capability and in business February 2016 and identified the improvement development resources to support future priorities for the next two to three years that growth in key business areas, as well as in begin the implementation of our strategy, and closing other capability gaps.
position the Group for growth.
We have made MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 11 Group strategy 2.
Increase investment in people management Our objective is to strengthen our technical teams and development.
MATERIALS and increase our investment in research and We are aiming to strengthen our leadership APPLICATION SCIENCE development to around 4% of sales from 2.8% capability and deepen functional capabilities ENGINEERING of sales in 2015 over the next three to four years.
across the business, including in sales and engineering.
We increased our investment by 3.8 million RELIABLE during 2016, adding technical resources to our In addition to the sales capability efforts outlined PROBLEM two existing Fibre and Structural Ceramics above, we have also focused on our leadership SOLVING Centres of Excellence, and across the capability, materials science careers and Ethically and safely businesses.
We have also established two new graduate development.
We have developed a research and development R&D Centres of new leadership framework that sets out clear Excellence, one for Carbon Science at Penn expectations for leadership behaviours and State University, Pennsylvania, US and one for will be the basis for assessing performance, CUSTOMER Metals and Joining in Hayward, California, US.
building strong succession, deploying our FOCUS These two new Centres of Excellence will leadership development programmes and enable an increased focus on the core rewarding achievements.
The leadership Our long-term strategy is to build a Group materials science that underpins our products behaviours will be launched at a leadership with distinctive capabilities and performance and will enable the accelerated development conference in March 2017.
We are also well in three areas: of key products.
We are planning to invest a advanced in designing the career structures for 1.
Materials science capability and technology.
further 3 million in 2017, funded through the our materials scientists to provide a clear set of 2.
reinvestment of the savings we are generating career options to this community.
have expanded our graduate development programme globally and, after five consecutive We have strengths in these areas today to 3.
years, have been rated publicly by our build on, and developing these capabilities Our objective is to strengthen our operational graduates as a top company for graduate further will be our focus in the coming years.
capabilities, reduce operational costs to fund programmes.
Through the application of our core skills in reinvestment in the business, and improve these areas we will add value as a Group.
We will apply these skills in markets that are We have announced two divestments which growing and where we can operate at scale, We are progressing well with a broad-based will materially simplify the Electrical Carbon on a global basis.
We will apply these skills to programme of improvements across the and Technical Ceramics global business units.
solve difficult materials-based problems for our business.
These are being delivered bottom These divestments see the Group exiting customers, ethically and safely and where they up, on a business by business basis through businesses where we are sub-scale and where value our differentiated solutions.
This set of the application of lean tools and techniques, there is limited synergy with the remainder of capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive consolidated procurement and targeted yield the Group and enable a sharpened focus on source of differentiation and is an enduring and scrap improvement projects.
We are our core business areas in both of these global strategic goal for the Group.
targeting 6 million savings in 2017 to support business units.
further investment in R&D and investment To reach this goal we need to develop our to build the effectiveness of our business Looking forward capabilities further and address performance development and sales teams, positioning With the global market environment remaining gaps in the business.
In February 2016 we set the Group for future growth.
challenging as we enter 2017, we have again six execution priorities that we will pursue over planned prudently for the year ahead.
the next three years to strengthen the Group 4.
Drive sales effectiveness and market focus.
We will deliver significant efficiencies in our and deliver resilient financial performance and Our objective is to strengthen our sales global operations to support reinvestment in faster growth: capability, and increase the intensity of effort capability, including in technology and in our with new customers and markets.
sales and business development, to improve 1.
Move to a global business structure.
the resilience of the Group, improve our We completed the move to a global business During 2016 we completed a capability execution and position us for future growth.
The change in assessment for much of our sales force, structure has improved global co-ordination identifying the strengths and gaps in our sales Finally, I would like to thank our employees for across the Group and has sharpened teams, and started the work to determine the their hard work and support during 2016. accountability within each of our global optimum sales structures across the Group.
This is an important change We will continue this work in 2017.
We are to enable the wider changes we need to investing in additional resources focused on a PETE RABY make and we completed this without any number of market segments where we have CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER loss of business momentum.
opportunities to accelerate our growth.
We expect to invest a further 3 million in additional sales and application engineering resources targeting markets including the automotive, transportation, medical and electronics sectors.
In early 2017 we started pilot work across the business to improve our underlying sales processes and routes to market.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
