Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review A strategy fit for the future Tragic accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee The tragic accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee on 21November 2016, when six children lost their lives and Dean Finch otherswere seriously injured in a crash on one of our school Group Chief Executive buses, has left six families grieving and a community in shock.
Ithas had a profound impact on us all at National Express andwe aredeeply sorry that such a horrific accident should happen tochildren aboard one of our vehicles.
The North American management team, working closely with the local school board and community groups, swiftly offered appropriate support to the families affected.
We have also offered our full co-operation to the investigations being led by the regulatory authorities that always follow an accident such asthis.
Without prejudicing the outcomes of these investigations we have accelerated programmes that were previously being piloted in our North American division as part of our longstanding determination to deliver industry-leading safety performance: an industry first, Lytx DriveCam, will be installed on our North American vehicles by the end of 2019: and a cloud-based portal recording communication between us and school administrators will be available for every location before the end of 2017.
None of us at National Express will ever forget the terrible accident and tragic impact on the friends and families of those children who lost their lives or were injured.
But it only reinforces if any reinforcement was ever needed why safety will remain my priority as Chief Executive, as I have consistently made clear in previous statements and at our Annual General Meetings.
While we have of course pledged to learn any necessary lessons from the investigations, I have also commissioned our independent safety consultant, Arthur D Little, to identify best practice in driver recruitment, training and assessment and review our procedures in all divisions to identify what further progress we can make to be consistently industry-leading.
It will report back by the middle of the year.
Our strategy i i Read more p18 Read more p19 1.
Deployment of technology We aim to lead the market in delivering excellence, Investing in technology to raise customer and safety standards whichwill raise standards and also drive revenue growth, and drive efficiencies throughout our business, generating sales, margin progression and cash generation.
6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Growth through targeted acquisitions, primarily bolt-on Financially, National Express delivered strong growth in 2016, opportunities in North America and strategic targets in Spain, with revenue, profit and cash all growing significantly.
Indeed, and prudent expansion into new international markets.
National Express delivered a record statutory profit of 120 million itself a doubling in the last two years has grown Before expanding on these areas in more detail, I would like to earnings per share by nearly 17% and increased return on turn to each of our divisions to pick out their highlights and how capital employed by 20 basis points to 11.9%.
This strong they are equipped to prosper in the future.
performance, coupled with the removal of our c2c franchise commitments, means we are both raising our guidance for Divisional highlights future free cash flow to 120 million and proposing a 10% North America increase in the final dividend.
North America has had another strong year financially, with revenue growing by 14.3% and profit by 11.9%, both in We believe our diversified international businesses and clear constantcurrency.
Despite a slight decline caused by the strategy have provided us with strong momentum and will growing transit business, our margins remain industry-leading continue to deliver growth in 2017 and 2018.
Since 2009 North American profits have with some positive tailwinds that, combined with proactive increased by 188%.
This performance reflects our success in management action, are both providing confidence for the tight cost control and organic growth, as well as the benefits future and helping us mitigate our identified challenges.
In the last bid season we achieved after last years highly successful bond placement we have the aprice increase of 7.0% on contracts up for renewal, translating benefit of reduced interest costs of 9 million every year.
In into a 3.7% average price increase across the whole portfolio.
2017, we will also see lower fuel costs of around 6 million, and The early signs this bid season suggest there are similar price in 2018 these savings will grow to around 20 million.
Secondly, increases coming through, which will help offset the continuing our recent acquisitions are all performing well, have all been pressure on driver wages.
We also added more buses, net, earnings accretive within the first 12 months and will continue through new or expanded existing contracts against those to generate growth in 2017 and beyond.
Our acquisitions made lostthrough regretted contract exit and enjoyed our best ever in North America during 2015, for example, continue to deliver school start-up, including proactive driver recruitment in what returns of around 15-20%.
Indeed, combined with our continued remains a tight labour market.
focus on rigorous cash flow management and operational excellence, and the receipts from the sale of c2c, we have an Our 2015 acquisitions made returns of around 15-20% in 2016. expanding portfolio of opportunities for further growth and In2016, we made a further eight acquisitions and we have a expansion that we are confident will underpin growth not just strong pipeline of further opportunities identified.
The North in 2017 and 2018, but also beyond.
America school bus market remains highly fragmented with around 1,000 operators.
We are currently the only active major Our strategy therefore remains: buyer in the market and have built a strong team who have made A focus on operational excellence, including tight cost 20 acquisitions over the last five years, adding $450 million of control, rigorous cash flow management and the disciplined annual revenue.
We believe there continues to be plenty of scope allocation of capital to maximise returns.
for further expansion through the acquisition of operators near Investment in technology to drive customer-focused our existing sites where our service excellence and synergies innovation and excellence, improved safety performance offer the opportunity for significant returns and growth.
D iversification into through acquisitions complementary markets We continue to look to grow our unique portfolio of We continue to look at opportunities to diversify into new internationalbus, coach and rail businesses through markets that are complementary to our existing businesses selectivebolt-on acquisitions.
and are fast growing, urbanising and seeing liberalisation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 7 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review continued These are good businesses in markets we already know well.
Moroccan business has now grown both revenue and Following the successful sale of c2c, the Group now has the passengers by over 70% since 2012, and we have recently opportunity to allocate more capital to our North American submitted a bid to operate the Casablanca Tramway.
We will, however, continue to do this in complemented our Ibiza regional bus and Herranz acquisitions adisciplined manner and seek similar returns to those with another in Switzerland.
This Swiss acquisition is in the alreadyachieved.
potentially lucrative ski tourism market and is based in Geneva, where ALSA has existing coach operations, providing immediate Spain and Morocco synergy benefits and the opportunity to utilise spare coaches Our Spanish and Moroccan division, ALSA, has again carried to meet demand.
This acquisition also provides a platform for a record number of passengers and continues to deliver an potential further expansion in complementary markets.
We have industry-leading margin of 14.2% 2015: 14.2%.
When coupled added another new contract to our Imserso success in 2015, with the success of our more sophisticated active real-time with a ten year concession to operate services at Granada revenue management system RMS, the continued strong Airport.
As in North America, with the additional proceeds growth in Morocco and the benefit of recent acquisitions such provided by the sale of c2c, we will also target, in a disciplined as Herranz and new contracts such as Imserso, this all drove manner, further acquisitions.
revenue up by 5.7% and grew profit by 5.3%, both in constant currency.
Rail We completed the sale of our c2c franchise to Trenitalia on 10 These results also demonstrate that we are entering the February 2017, receiving 108 million through a consideration of concession renewal process in Spain performing well.
ALSA has 72.6 million, and the settlement of 35 million of inter-company industry-leading credentials and has been pioneering initiatives, loans.
National Express is very proud of its record on c2c, such as RMS, which have improved our ability to compete and turning it into consistently the best performing railway in the UK.
These credentials are even We hand over c2c with a record number of passengers: holding more important as the terms of retendering competitions both the period and annual punctuality records: securing its have been recently altered to emphasise service quality and highest customer satisfaction scores for three years: and competitive yet sensible pricing that reduces the opportunity leading the industry on customer service standards, such for speculative very low-cost bids.
We have, so far, won both aswith automatic delay repay.
concessions we operate that have come up for renewal.
Indeed, their strong performance post renewal, with good margins, The current UK rail market is, however, one that we believe is means we are increasingly confident about our prospects.
not as attractive as our other growth opportunities.
By securing Evenunder a worst-case scenario, there will be no impact the proceeds from c2cs sale and using them to pay down debt in2017 and only up to a 3 million reduction in profit in 2018 while assessing where to best invest in our fastest growing onthose contracts retendered in the next 12 months.
markets, I firmly believe we have a real opportunity to generate significant shareholder value.
Further, despite significant organic This potential profit impact must also be considered in its growth on c2c, the commitments to substantial investment in context, however.
Firstly, it is important to note that in 2018 fleet and property and a growing premium were emerging as we expect a year on year fuel cost saving of over 11 million arisk.
The slowdown in UK rail passenger growth is likely to in ALSA alone.
Secondly, we are actively growing other parts present significant challenges to many operators with very high of the ALSA division and diversifying our operations.
By moving swiftly and firmly, we have both removed this risk and replaced it with the opportunity for further targeted investment.
We still remain fully committed to German rail.
In our first full year of operation on the Rhine-Mnster Express RME, we carried over 20 million passengers and delivered an improved operational performance compared with our predecessor.
Wehave begun the mobilisation for the first of our Rhine-Ruhr Express RRX contracts in June 2019.
Now that we have an established operational base in Germany we are consolidating our presence, securing cost benefits.
We will submit further German rail bids this year and also see it as an emerging opportunity for entry into other, complementary markets nearby.
As our decision to inform the local Bavarian authority that due to delay in its award we were not able to proceed with the Nuremberg S-Bahn contract demonstrates, we maintain Our operations team in Khourigba the newest city in Morocco to be adisciplined approach to bidding.
While not ruling out further served by ALSA UK rail bids our immediate focus will be in these markets.
8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 UK Coach Solihull Councils investment in bus prioritisation at Lode Lane made the journey of our local commuters eight minutes faster and helped drive 25% UK Coach has again grown in 2016, delivering a revenue growth on service using the route increase of 0.6%, profit up over 3% and an industry-leading margin of 11.8% 2015: 11.5%.
2016 saw UK Coach further establish itself as the fair-priced alternative to rail, with high profile successes.
We carried around an additional 25,000 customers on affected routes during the strikes on Southern Rail and achieved record-breaking days over the Christmas period where we both carried our highest ever number of passengers in a day and had two days where we took over 1 million in revenue.
Underpinning this success has been National Express Coachs determination to be at the forefront of new technology adoption within the sector.
Our recently installed more sophisticated active real-time RMS has, for example, helped us respond quickly and in a more targeted manner to competition.
Following a successful first quarter, quarters two and three were much more challenging.
Through action taken on targeted routes during the third quarter, we were able to reduce our prices to generate sufficient passenger growth that delivered an overall increase in both revenue and seat utilisation rates by the end of the year.
This trend has continued into 2017, with improved seat utilisation rates.
This action has helped increase revenue in our a West Midlands-wide congestion action plan that draws core coach business by 1.9% and passenger numbers by onexamples such as this and targets the key pinch points around 2% despite the UK Bus and Coach sector experiencing impacting the most significant number of passengers, thereby challenging market conditions and provides us with confidence providing the greatest opportunity for overall improvement.
for the future as we compete with both rail and other operators.
We are implementing a plan to boost passenger numbers, We have also augmented this organic growth in our core drawing on the early positive evidence from recent targeted network with strategic expansion through acquisition in our farereductions.
We have extended these reductions to deeply Kings Ferry operation.
Our acquisition of Clarkes of London, in discounted tickets in Sandwell and Dudley, supported by December 2016, provides the opportunity to deliver expanded significant marketing activity, to encourage more trips among commuter services into London while securing synergies with existing users and attract non-users as part of a granular our existing operations and expand into the in-bound tourism approach to pricing that better reflects the local markets market in which Clarkes has a substantial presence.
If the pilot is successful we will roll this new approach out across the business.
UK Bus Across the country the UK Bus industry is experiencing a We are complementing this new pricing with investment in particularly challenging period.
The combination of urban technology such as the roll-out of new ticket machines this year congestion and changing travel patterns is affecting revenue to provide the largest network of contactless payment in public and profit.
Across the year the bus division increased transport outside of London.
This will simplify ticket purchasing commercial revenue by 2%, but this was offset by the expected and provide the opportunity to reassure customers through decline in concessionary income, to deliver overall revenue farecapping guarantees.
Our tram services have pioneered growth of only 0.1%.
Normalised operating profit declined thistechnology and already nearly 20% of on-board tickets are by5.3%, with margins down to 12.4% 2015: 13.1%.
We are also reviewing costs, including opportunities for further timetable efficiencies.
And shortly Within this overall picture, there have been some success wewill roll out a new combined app which will bring together stories.
Our Platinum services combining state-of-the-art journey planning, real-time information, and m-ticketing in vehicles with bus priority measures installed by the local oneplace.
authority have grown patronage by nearly 4% on their routes.
Solihull Councils investment in bus prioritisation on Lode Lane So while there are industry-wide concerns, we are actively has, for example, made our 17,000 morning peak commuters pursuing a plan to address the particular challenges and journeys eight minutes faster and helped drive 5% growth on capitalise on our unique opportunities in the West Midlands theservices using this route.
We are also working through our and Dundee.
industry-leading Bus Alliance to rapidly establish and implement Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 9 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review continued annual survey: UK Bus has been named Bus Operator of the Year at the National Transport Awards: c2c again has one of the highest customer satisfaction scores for reliability and punctuality in London and South East franchises in the National Rail Passenger Survey: in North America School Bus over 90% of customers say they would recommend us on the basis of ourservice, safety and value for the fifth consecutive year: andALSA has won the prestigious 2016 IZO award for BestCustomer Experience in Transport.
We have sought external recognition of our approach to excellence and are very pleased with the progress we have madein the last year.
UK Coach has secured five-star European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM ratings, to join c2c on the top mark.
UK Bus and ALSA currently holding a four-star rating are working hard to join them shortly.
In North America In our first full year of operation on the Rhine Mnster Express we carried we won a Bronze Illinois Performance Excellence Recognition over 20 million passengers Program ILPEx award for the second year in a row, increasing our score by 50% in the process.
2016 again saw us secure a Bahrain record number of external awards across the Group.
Our bus services in Bahrain continue to grow, with nearly 12 million passengers carried in 2016 an increase of 85.7%.
The We have also secured some very important safety awards in GO Card smartcard was successfully introduced in 2016 and the year.
All of our UK businesses secured both five-star scores will be rolled out across the whole network in 2017.
We continue and a Sword of Honour from the British Safety Council.
This is to have positive discussions with the local Bahraini authority asignificant achievement and one I am particularly pleased with.
about the service and the opportunity for future expansion.
We also won a prestigious Prince Michael International Road Oursuccessful introduction to the Bahraini market has also Safety Award for our Driving Out Harm programme, especially provided an important credential in our recent bid for a bus as it has applied to our Moroccan operations.
But there is always more that we can do.
To ensure we are Across the Group as a whole these results show the success always striving for excellence and greater efficiency I launched of our existing strategy and why we believe it will continue to the Delivering Excellence team in late 2016 to identify examples generate growing returns for our shareholders.
I will now move of best practice both within and outside our Group and apply on to describe the benefits of our strategy in more detail.
This team is led by a senior member of the Group Executive but drawn from talented individuals within Strategy our businesses, to also develop the skills and experience of Operational excellence future managers and leaders.
The teams first project is an For a number of years I have consistently made the case that assessment of our driver training, recruitment and workforce our success as a business is dependent upon us securing and planning, to learn from the best and deliver improvements maintaining a reputation for operational excellence.
For our where necessary to embed excellence.
existing customers this means consistently delivering safe services that they want at competitive prices they can afford.
This recognition for excellence has helped unlock new contracts For new customers it means demonstrating to them that and our continued focus on it has helped drive organic growth our services will provide to them the service they want in a across our business.
We have seen further contract wins in the convenient way while offering good value for money.
Highlights include: a ten-year contract to operate services require a focus on cost efficiency to ensure we are delivering to Granada Airport: a six-year contract to operate sight-seeing the best possible value fares.
In 2016, we delivered a further services in Marrakech: a joint contract between UK Bus and 17 million of cost savings, a total of 131 million in savings Coach to operate staff bussing to Amazon sites: a contract to in five years.
provide the coaching services to UEFA officials for the 2017 Champions League Final: and, as well as the new school bus The Group carried a record 921 million passengers in 2016, contracts secured in North America during the bidding season, with both c2c and ALSA setting new records for the second our recent Ecolane acquisition secured new contracts and we year running.
We continue to deliver industry-leading customer had another successful year in Transit with annualised revenues service.
UK Coach is again the most trusted ground growing by 60% to around $200 million, driven by three new transportation brand in the UK Institute of Customer Services contracts wins and bolt-on acquisitions, while maintaining a 100% customer retention rate.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our underlying business saw passenger numbers increase by 2.7% with value fares helping generate growth and 6.3% when acquisitions are included.
Our ability to offer value fares is contingent on our excellence and our focus on cost efficiency.
Our choice is stark: we either pass cost efficiency on to a growing number of passengers or cost inefficiency on to fewer passengers.
That is why I am delighted with the example of UK Coach reacting so swiftly to challenging market conditions with lower fares to increase passenger numbers sufficiently to generate an overall revenue increase, as well as its recordbreaking Christmas.
On our Platinum bus routes in the West Midlands, we saw passenger numbers increase by nearly 4% in 2016.
In c2c in 2016, new products recently introduced saw significant growth: online advance sales increased by 71%and Senior Rover sales increased by 50%.
We have also focused on improving our Spanish marketing with, for example, 2016s Christmas Campaign delivering a 12% increase in revenue driven by an 11% increase in passengers.
When combined with the rigorous management of cash flow and a focus on returns, we see the benefits to shareholder value.
2016 again saw us beat our free cash flow target, with 139 million achieved against 111 million last year.
Our return on capital employed also increased by 20 basis points to 11.9%.
The Midland Metro began running to Grand Central in May 2016 the first As already set out above, it is because of our determination to time trams have run along the streets of Birmingham in over 60 years invest further in our fastest growing markets with the highest returns that we have sold c2c.
And it is because of the liabilities we have removed with c2cs sale and the confidence we have social media messages and promotions for specific locations and events and will shortly be trialling location-specific SMS that our operational excellence will continue to deliver that we have increased our free cash flow target to 120 million.
Both UK Bus and UK Coach are developing apps that bring together journey planning, real time Investment in technology information and m-ticketing, making sales easier to existing customers and removing barriers to potential new users.
As I signalled last year, this has been a strategic focus of the Group.
If we are to continue to deliver operational excellence, UK Coach has also advanced the on-board experience with attract new customers and compete effectively we need to continue to embrace the opportunities presented by new the roll-out of the VUER free entertainment system that allows passengers to access television programmes and magazines technology.
I see technology as particularly crucial to three areas.
on their phones or tablets.
The aim is to have this installed on all routes by the Summer of 2017 and has already seen higher First, delivering excellence to our customers, where 2016 saw customer satisfaction scores for those who have accessed the system.
Following its success we are piloting VUER on some of us make significant strides.
c2c pioneered automatic delay repay for smartcard season ticket holders which has now our Platinum bus routes in the West Midlands, with a view to a setanew standard that the Department for Transport wants wider roll-out if it is a success.
c2c was also the first franchise As well as using new technology to make it easier for current tolaunch flexi-season tickets and has an industry-leading take-up of smartcard season tickets at 43% of season ticket and new customers to pay for our services, we are using it to users.
As well as demonstrating our commitment to innovation, communicate with them in more sophisticated ways.
We have we can take the learnings from these products development grown our CRM databases, allowing targeted communication and implementation into our other divisions despite c2cs sale.
with customers: UK Coach, from a very strong position, by 13%: 23% in ALSA: significant growth in UK Bus: and, over 15% in UK Coach has pioneered targeted digital marketing and c2c.
We have also grown the amount of revenue we receive hasfurther enhanced its approach this year through more from digital sources significantly.
From a very strong position, personalised and real-time marketing drawing on, for example, UK Coach has grown further, with two percent growth in digital a customers location, their last travel destination and dynamic revenue.
Both UK Bus and c2c have doubled their digital data such as weather forecasts and ours and competitors revenue in the year and ALSA secured a 36% year on year pricing.
UK Coach is also developing its capability to target increase in revenue from email marketing and 40 year on year growth in revenue from mobile and apps, in 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 11 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review continued In North America we have introduced an app that helps parents with our strong cash flow and the proceeds from c2cs sale, track their childs bus, providing both reassurance and practical presents a significant opportunity for further value creation in help in meeting their son or daughter at the end of their trip.
We also acquired Ecolane, a company providing sophisticated route scheduling technology.
As well as a growth market the North America has been, and will continue to be, the main focus business has added new contracts since joining National of our activity.
With sensible price increases apparent last year Express this technology provides the opportunity to improve and early signs they are continuing this year a highly the efficiency of our operations across the Group as a whole, fragmented market with around 1,000 operators and a lack of not just North America.
competitors looking to acquire, we believe this remains a very attractive option.
We have consistently delivered strong returns, In Spain, we have launched the pioneering ALSAcab with the average return of our 20 acquisitions over the last 5 carpooling service that provides a door-to-door first or final years around 15-20%.
mile option after completing their longer journey on our buses or coaches.
This is an interesting new avenue for us and one ALSA has also secured important acquisitions in the last year.
that we are again looking to learn Group-wide lessons from.
In addition to our Ibiza regional bus and Herranz acquisitions we bought AlpyBus based in Geneva, Switzerland in December.
Across the Group we have a number of initiatives that are This provides us with an entry in to both the ski tourism market market-leading, setting new customer service standards and as well as a base for possible further moves in to attracting new customers and revenue.
In an increasingly complementary markets nearby.
The returns made by the Ibiza competitive market including from new entrants using and Herranz acquisitions are above 20% and our ALSA team is technology in increasingly sophisticated ways this is ever currently exploring further opportunities that offer similar more important.
Second, technology is being used to help us improve our safety We will also continue to monitor the market for opportunities performance.
Lytx DriveCam in particular is proving an such as UK Coachs acquisition of Clarkes of London.
This invaluable tool to help improve driving performance and reduce acquisition provided the opportunity to expand our existing the cost of accidents.
The leading technology of its type on the Kings Ferry commuter services into London in an efficient way market, its power lies both in the data analytics it generates and as Clarkes serves a complementary local market that provides the videos it allows to be reviewed.
It is therefore an important the scope for operational and management synergies.
management tool that allows tailored and targeted training.
It Importantly, it has also provided a strong entry in to the also provides evidence to deal with any claims made against our in-bound tourism market in which Clarkes has a substantial drivers in an accident.
We have fully installed the technology presence.
We believe this is a growth market that complements within UK Coach last year with the recently acquired Clarkes Kings Ferrys particular strengths.
vehicles to be fitted this year, and have begun its roll-out across UK Bus, ALSA and North America.
As well as proving popular We will also continue to look to grow our recent new market with staff, the emerging evidence demonstrates that it is a cost entries in Bahrain and Germany.
We continue to have productive saving measure with UK Coachs pilot in one of our depots discussions with the local Bahraini authorities about the future showing a 10% reduction in collision rate and annualised shape of the network.
We will also submit new contracts in insurance costs coming down around 30%.
Our early North Germany this year.
In both, we are looking to complementary American pilots have also demonstrated similar results.
markets, as demonstrated by our recent bid submitted for a Singapore bus contract, where we are due to hear in the coming Third, technology will also allow us to operate more efficiently.
months whether we have been successful.
We also continue The benefits of our more sophisticated RMS are particularly to pursue other capital-light opportunities and, for example, relevant here.
I have referred to UK Coachs figures above: in submitted a bid for the Casablanca Tramway in December ALSA, as well as increasing revenue for the corridors under and are preparing for other bids in the coming months RMS by 0.8%, seat occupancy was also boosted by 1.1%.
Our acquisition of Ecolane will also allow us to continue to seek Board changes more efficiencies across the Group in scheduling and routing.
In January 2017 we announced that Matthew Ashley will become President and Chief Executive Officer for our North Acquisitions and new opportunities American business later this year, following David Dukes I have already explained above the importance and opportunity decision to retire.
Matthew has done an excellent job as Group presented by new acquisitions.
Our recent acquisitions have Finance Director over the last two and a half years and taking proven very successful.
I believe that we have developed a real on such a senior operational position is an excellent career strength in identifying new acquisition targets, whether bolt-on development opportunity for him.
I wish Matthew and his family, to our existing operations or providing strategic new market who will be moving to the US with him, all the best for their time entries.
While remaining disciplined we believe we have a very there.
Matthew will remain a member of the PLC Board.
strong pipeline of further opportunity, which when combined 12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chris Davies will replace Matthew as Group Finance Director and join the PLC Board after the May AGM.
Chris joins us after holding senior finance positions at Inchcape plc and Diageo plc and I look forward to working with him, and continuing to work with Matthew, in the coming years.
Outlook During 2017 we expect to continue to make good progress across the Group.
We will continue with our strategy, with a focus on operational excellence driving a strong cash flow and returns and growing shareholder value.
We will further enhance our service and customer offering through the investment in industry-leading technology, which we will also use to drive further safety improvements and cost efficiencies.
And our focus on attracting the best and developing those with the highest potential will continue as we learn from fresh insight The acquisition of Clarkes of London provides an opportunity to expand and spread best practice.
our commuter services in a complementary local market to that served byThe Kings Ferry We have entered 2017 with good tailwinds, including the annualised saving of around 9 million secured through our UK Coach will continue its drive to be the fair-priced alternative recent bond refinancing and the full year benefit of the 11 acquisitions made in 2016.
Coupled with the expected savings to rail, with active real-time RMS and on-board entertainment delivering value fares that are complemented by targeted digital from fuel of around 6 million in 2017 and around 20 million in 2018, we will see significant reductions in our cost base in the marketing and sales to drive growth.
UK Bus will continue to execute its plan to drive passenger growth through pricing coming years.
We will remain focused on cash generation and have increased our annual target to 120 million, reflecting both initiatives, technology enhancements and cost reductions.
the c2c liabilities removed with its sale and our confidence in our future performance.
Safety will remain the Groups priority and we continue to target improvements in our performance.
With investment in the We will continue to look for acquisitions.
With the additional industry-leading Lytx DriveCam technology and initiatives to improve further enhance driver recruitment, training and resources provided by the sale of c2c we will continue to be disciplined and only acquire opportunities that meet our strict assessment including through the new Delivering Excellence teams first projects we are determined to be widely seen as returns criteria: our 2015 acquisitions are delivering returns of around 15-20%.
This also applies to our other businesses, the industrys safest operator.
especially ALSA, where we believe there are other opportunities for acquisitions that provide either the opportunity for Our uniquely diversified portfolio of international businesses and consistent delivery of our strategy has provided consistent operational synergies or targeted strategic expansion.
We will also continue to target capital-light new contract opportunities, growth in recent years and gives us confidence for our future using our existing operations as both credentials and bases for prospects.
While remaining disciplined we believe we have a complementary market expansion.
very strong pipeline of targeted acquisitions and new market entries, which when combined with our strong cash flow and In Spain, we enter the concession renewal process with a the proceeds from c2cs sale as well as the continued focus market-leading company that is winning customer awards and on delivering excellence for our customers to drive organic setting the standard on sophisticated value pricing through its growth presents a significant opportunity for further value upgraded RMS.
While we expect there to be an impact on creation in the coming years.
margin at renewal, the impact will not be felt until 2018.
Even if we lost every contract we operate that is likely to come up for renewal this year the impact on ALSAs operating profit will be between 0-3 million in 2018.
This needs to be considered against a saving of around 11 million in ALSAs fuel costs alone Dean Finch in 2018, compared to 2016 prices.
Group Chief Executive 23 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 13
