10 | Chief Executives review Laying the foundations for future growth Operational costs were reduced to below US$4 boe, our lowest on record.
Our cash position remained above US$100 million during the year as we continued to generate strong operating cash flows and received cash from our hedge during Q1 and Q2.
Our performance against the four keyobjectives for the Company in 2016 was as follows: 1.
Ensure that the financial position ofthe Company remains stable: Thefinancial position of the Company remained stable despite the challenging oil price environment andwe have ended the year with over US$100 million of cash on our balance sheet.
Despite the severity of the oil price fall in Q1 our strategy to hedge 15,000 boepd for 2016 and 2017 meant that we received cash under our hedge in both Q1 and Q2.
We also enjoyed allthe upside from the recovery in the oil price in the second half of the year.
We will continue to endeavour to deliver Nostrums growth programme in all oil price environments.
Ensure construction of the new GasTreatment Unit remains on track for 2017: Significant steps have been made in the construction of our next GTU, which will allow us to double ourproduction capacity during 2017.
Nostrum maintained a stable financial during this significant investment phase.
We have spent approximately footing at all times during 2016.
I look forward to driving the business US$380million to date on the project.
Thisallowed us to successfully deliver forward in 2017.
Due to the falling oil price environment our development programme.
we decided in December 2015 to phase Wedrilled three wells on time and How we performed in 2016 the remaining GTU3 payments across onbudget, GTU3 continued to Despite 2016 being a challenging year 2016 and 2017.
This means the scheduled progress with approximately 2 3 of for the oil and gas sector Nostrum project completion date is in 2017 which the budget spent, and we reduced hasenjoyed a very steady year both will allow us to preserve the liquidity our opex to below US$4 per barrel.
Consistent position of the Company and match the We remain protected against volatile progress was maintained on the hedging payment profile we have put oil prices whilst still generating construction of the GTU3 andthree inplace.
The phasing of payments on significant operating cash flow to production wells were successfully GTU3 inthis way will allow the Company maintain a healthy cash position brought online resulting inus achieving toremain fully financed to ensure all our production targets for the year.
payments on GTU3 can be made.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 11 Nostrum has enjoyed a very 40,351 boepd steadyyear both operationally 2016 production andfinancially.
Optimise the drilling programme theworldmarkets, and our operations toensure that we can fill the GTU3 arerunning at stable levels.
Key priority tasks asquickly as possible whilst not for 2017 jeopardising the Companys financial Future drilling programme at Our three key objectives for the position: During 2016 we have focused Chinarevskoye Company in order to continue on preserving cash and therefore In 2016 we completed three wells, todeliver on our strategy are targeted a drilling programme that inline with the number we set out to asfollows: would deliver the highest production complete at the start of the year.
Ensure that the financial against the lowest costs.
We added drilling programme has always been position of the Company three production wells which enabled designed to be scalable and the remains stable and part of the us to hit our production targets and falling oil prices resulted in us scaling 2019 debt is refinanced to enter 2017 with GTU1 & 2 at full capacity.
down the proposed drilling schedule alonger dated maturity.
We delivered these wells on budget at for 2016.
Ensure completion of the approximately US$11 million per well.
drillseven wells and balance adding construction of the next Gas This gives me great confidence that production with moving some Treatment Unit remains on when we start to ramp up our drilling probable reserves into the proven track for 2017. programme we have both the geological category.
This balance will allow us 3.
Start to grow the potential reserves in place to fill it and also a toramp-up production as quickly as reserve base to allow for a teamcapable of delivering the drilling possible once the GTU3 is complete.
prolonged production plateau programme on time and on budget.
As we have always stated, our drilling of over 100,000 boepd.
programme is balanced against the 4.
Implement a cost reduction oilprice and should we see a material Wehave today approximately programme: In 2016 we adopted increase, then there is always scope 118mmboe and 622 billion cubic feet asignificant cost reduction programme.
toincrease drilling and ramp-up of sales gas of contingent resources Whilst this meant some difficult morequickly.
and an additional 87m 2P reserves decisions had to be made, itwas crucial inthe three additional licences.
that the Company could demonstrate Construction of GTU3 Wewill continue to build this reserve its ability to manage thecost base During 2016 we have made significant base over the coming years.
during a period of low oil prices.
I am steps towards the construction of delighted with the outcome and want GTU3.
The rationale behind building I believe that these objectives, if togive credit to allthe departments the Plant is that it will allow faster successfully achieved, will provide who shared in the burden of cost monetisation of reserves by increasing theplatform to enhance shareholder cutting.
One such example was the treatment capacity by an additional value in the future.
We have decision to not pay any bonus to any 2.5 bcm of raw gas per year, bringing demonstrated in the past that we employee during 2016 in relation to total capacity to 4.2 bcm of raw gas candeliver on all these objectives 2015 which I believe was quite rare per annum.
Over US$380 million has andI am therefore confident as we across not justthe oil and gas industry already been invested into the facility.
enter 2017 that we are well placed but any industry which is going through We are currently on track to deliver toachieve our goals.
theproject on time and remain withinthe Board-approved budget Steady production levels ofUS$500 million.
The Chinarevskoye field is now in stable production phase with all facilities Building up further reserves running smoothly.
Nostrum expects A key long-term strategic target is aminimum daily total production toestablish a material reserve base average of at least 44,000 boepd for around our infrastructure.
Ourproducts crude oil, stabilised excellent opportunities both for condensate, LPG and dry gas are organic growth within Chinarevskoye Chief Executive Officer soldat the best possible prices on and the additional licences, as well asthrough potential acquisitions.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 12 | Chief Executives review continued Our growth potential Production A clear path todoubling production capacity Completion of our third Gas Nostrum has invested over US$2 billion Treatment Unit GTU3 remains over more than 10 years to create scheduled for 2017 and progress aworld-class infrastructure hub in continues to be made toward north-west Kazakhstan to unlock completion on time and on budget.
thevalue of the regions substantial When the GTU3 project is finalised resources.
In addition to its advantageous itwill more than double our raw gas geographical position, Nostrum has processing capacity to 4.2 billion extensive storage andtransportation cubic metres per annum allowing infrastructure to accommodate the theCompany to produce in excess forthcoming material increase in the of100,000 boepd at full capacity.
The production ramp-up process willbegin by transferring all existing production wells to GTU3 to take advantage of its enhanced LPG technology.
Additional production 100,000 boepd volumes coming from new well 2020 feedstock will then be used to fill remaining plant capacity over thecoming months to reach our targetaverage daily production of100,000 boepd by 2020.
40,351 boepd 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 13 Nostrum has invested over 40,351 boepd US$2 billion over more than 10 years 2016 production to create aworld class infrastructure hub in North-western Kazakhstan tounlock thevalue of the regions 97% 1P reserve substantial resources.
replacement ratio will be sufficient to reach the Reserve Companys average daily production Reserves target of over 100,000 boepd by 2020.
2 growth Having appraised, developed and produced both crude oil and gas Underpinning condensate in North-western Kazakhstan for over a decade, our strong Nostrum has accumulated a 1P considerable amount of knowledge growth 2 ofboth the Chinarevskoye asset 147 andalso the surrounding regional potential geology.
The Company seeks to mmboe leverage this competitive advantage to pursue value accretive transactions Nostrum has a substantial asset which enhance our commercial basein north-west Kazakhstan with reserve base and prolong the an independently audited 2P reserve 2P Companys average daily production base of 466 million barrels of oil 2 plateau above 100,000 boepd until equivalent Ryder Scott 2017.
466 the end of the Chinarevskoye licence During2016 the Chinarevskoye asset 1 period 2031-2033. mmboe continued to operate in line with expectations with average daily During 2013, Nostrum acquired production of 40,351 boepd and 98million barrels of 2P reserves a1Preserve replacement ratio of adjacent to the Chinarevskoye 97%.
With a 1P reserve base of licencearea the Trident fields for 147million barrels of oil equivalent, aconsideration of US$16 million.
the core asset base at Chinarevskoye 1 See page 20 on Chinarevskoye field.
Nostrum is a low cost producer with crude oil transportation costs and steady production volumes, substantial realise further savings.
Continued Financials storage and transportation infrastructure investment throughout the and access to multiple export markets.
commodity cycle has enhanced The Companys sizeable historical Nostrums financial operating investment programmes have created leverage and positions the Company Resilient abusiness that has demonstrated its extremely well for the next phase financial and durability and ability to generate cash ofproduction growth.
flow during one of the most challenging operational commodity market environments Existing cash reserves, operating cash inrecent memory.
flow and the protection afforded by performance 15,000 bopd of hedged production A continuation of Nostrums cost ensures that the completion of GTU3 cutting programme during 2016 has is fully funded under any oil price protected the Companys margins in scenario.
The Company continues to spite of low oil prices.
The completion operate with a conservative financial of a short connection to the KazTransOil policy and maintains adequate international pipeline during H1 2017 liquidity on its balance sheet to run will enable us to significantly reduce our thebusiness at all times.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
