com stock code: NTG In discussion with the Chief Executive Bob Contreras Why has Northgate not grown by as much this year compared to last year?
BC Our focus remains on targeting growth where the appropriate level of return exists.
For this reason we have seen decreases with some of our less profitable National customers in the UK and Spain.
We have also made a decision to reduce short term retail business in the UK that was stretching Why is the SME sector so Given the importance of operations and taking away the focus important to Northgate: are protecting the customer from our core business customers.
We National customers no longer base, what measures have have experienced some reductions with a focus for the business?
been put in place to improve customers trading in the renewable BC Our National customers remain a customer service and monitor energy sector.
Excluding this impact, key part of the Northgate business and performance?
vehicles on hire and customer numbers are a central part of the strategy going BC We continue to look at ways through within our targeted SME customer forward.
We have seen reductions in which to enhance our service levels and segment have increased.
some National customers who have provide customers with a flexible rental How do you plan to grow the moved a larger proportion of their solution which will aid their business in business going forward?
business in house or to a contract hire the most effective way possible.
NPS BC The rental market accounts for only model.
Our flexible rental model is most is a key way to track and measure our 5% of the seven million light commercial suited to SMEs who benefit from the customer base perceptions, and to vehicles driven on the roads in the UK, whole life costs of using a flexible rental uphold the high standards we maintain.
We therefore plan to model.
The market potential in this Our NPS performance has increased by capitalise upon this significant market segment is also very large.
3% across the Group in the year.
opportunity through expanding our What are Northgate doing in Why do you keep changing product offering so that it appeals to the area of corporate social vehicle depreciation rates, customers who have not traditionally responsibility?
which makes it difficult to rented.
Within our existing markets BC In January 2016 our UK business understand the underlying we will clarify our sales proposition to launched a wellbeing section of its performance of the Group ensure that the benefits of our products employee benefits portal, aiming to year-on-year?
We will focus provide a wealth of information to all BC This is a key area of judgement in marketing effort on increasing brand employees with the aim of helping our accounts and we acknowledge that awareness, particularly targeting sectors them live healthier, happy lives.
In Spain changing depreciation rates makes it where there is the greatest need for our we are pleased with the partnerships difficult to understand our underlying solution.
Our routes to market will also we have developed with educational performance year-on-year.
be enhanced through deployment of our institutions.
digital strategy and a new sales structure In order to address this concern we have explained the issues surrounding this Read more in our Corporate social in the UK will enable us to reach matter further on pages 32 to 35. responsibility report on page 44 customers in the most efficient way.
