Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We expect to continue on this path in 2017 Ensuring business readiness Dear Shareholders and may also execute one or more sales Business readiness remains a key The past year has been one of tremendous to strategic investors.
In January 2017, determinant of the timing of the managed change for Old Mutual plc and for many of we completed the sale of OMW Italy for separation and we continue to deliver on the countries in which we operate.
In March 210 million, simplifying the perimeter of our plans to capacitate the businesses we announced a new strategy, which is the UK business, in line with the conclusions appropriately to stand alone.
Naturally, intended to create and unlock significant drawn from the aforementioned strategy most of the work arises in the two unlisted value for our shareholders by eliminating review.
When we announced the new businesses, OMEM and OMW.
Over the central costs and separating the four strategy in early 2016, we committed to course of 2016, we have reviewed their underlying subsidiaries from each other.
investors that we would materially reduce business portfolios, re-evaluated their This will give investors direct access to four holding company debt, which we did operating models, and clarified and strong and well-positioned businesses, through the repurchase of our outstanding rearticulated their strategies.
all with attractive growth opportunities in Tier 1 bonds and the redemption of senior their chosen markets: For OMEM, we have concluded that it debt, for a total of 385 million.
OMEM: an attractive business with will focus on Sub-Saharan Africa going Our current plan for materially completing a dominant position in South Africa, forward, and we are working on changes the managed separation in 2018 envisages well-placed to capitalise on sub-Saharan to its operating model designed to one or more transactions to deliver two African growth as a diversified financial deliver meaningful cost savings in the separate entities, listed on both the services provider with strong operations near term and provide a foundation Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE and in key East and West African markets.
for demonstrating strong cost discipline the London Stock Exchange LSE, into the while delivering business growth as an hands of shareholders.
One will consist Nedbank: one of South Africas four independent company.
principally of the OMW operations, the largest banks with very strong corporate, other principally of the OMEM operations, commercial and property finance In the case of OMW, we have worked with delivered through a demerger and the franchises, and a growth opportunity in the management team to build capacity in creation of a new South African holding the retail market, as well as pan-African critical areas such as operations, IT, audit, company, respectively.
optionality through its stake in Ecobank risk and compliance.
We appointed Glyn Transnational Inc ETI.
Jones as the independent chair as well as Wind down of the five additional non-executive directors, each OMW: a leading, integrated wealth plc Head Office of which will add significant subject-matter management business, focused on A key part of the strategy is the eventual and industry expertise to the Board.
the UK upper and middle market, closure of the plc Head Office in London.
Following the review of OMWs operations with strong prospects in a growing So far, we have reduced Head Office and operating model, we rearticulated its 3 trillion market.
headcount by approximately 50%, while strategy, simplified the business perimeter, continuing to discharge all regulatory and OMAM: an institutionally focused, and set financial targets that support the statutory obligations inherent in running multi-boutique asset management business, attractive investment case of this business.
In a financial services company listed on the delivering strong, diversified growth in our view, OMW can achieve significant LSE and the JSE.
Our work on completing attractive asset classes through organic growth going forward as it delivers the transfer of capabilities needed by initiatives and acquisitions.
increasing operating leverage across its OMW and OMEM, and for winding growing asset and adviser base.
down the remaining plc activities, is We expect to materially complete the progressing and includes the resolution necessary work by the end of 2018, at We have also worked with our two listed of legacy balance sheet exposures.
which point we anticipate the market to businesses to refine their respective begin valuing each business in line with its strategies and to sharpen their propositions performance relative to its peers, unlocking to investors.
We worked closely with OMAM This has been an eventful and successful the discount at which we believe the Group on the acquisition of Landmark, which we year, with robust business performance trades.
Shareholders should also be able believe will contribute meaningfully to the in the context of unprecedented political to realise the full benefit of the central cost growth and diversification of assets under and economic uncertainty.
The managed savings at that time.
Executing this strategy is management AUM going forward.
separation strategy will, in our view, a complex task, requiring careful balancing Nedbank is a great business, whose unlock and deliver significant value for of diverse stakeholder interests in the UK management team continues to execute well shareholders and we have made good and South Africa.
We have worked progress against our implementation with them over the course of 2016 to sharpen plans, with all activities on track to deliver To affect the managed separation, their focus on costs and on the evaluation of within the timelines set out last year.
I would we have focused our efforts on three their investment in ETI.
like to echo the chairmans closing remarks areas, which I will discuss below.
These in expressing my gratitude to all of our are: ensuring business readiness for Executing transactions people for the contribution they have made independence: executing the transactions In December 2016, we executed a market to our businesses and the communities needed for separation, including materially sell-down of our OMAM stake, in line with they served over the course of 2016. reducing holding company debt: and our plans disclosed previously, reducing winding down the plc Head Office.
our ownership meaningfully from 66% to Bruce Hemphill 51%, with net proceeds of 230 million.
