34 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REPORT Throughout 2016, significant progress has been made with The Group remains highly confident in the underlying respect to embedding the Strategic Risk Management robustness of the business model and quality of the balance Framework SRMF, through further extending the core risk sheet as demonstrated by ongoing stress testing analysis.
disciplines defined by the SRMF across all key underlying risk categories, with a particular focus on risk analytical The continued supervisory focus on the Buy-to-Let sector has capabilities, data management and management information been an important consideration for the Credit and Risk and reporting.
The inherent strength of the Groups underwriting procedures and risk measurement capabilities have enabled The Group has continued to grow its balance sheet during the Group to respond effectively to the changes in its primary 2016 in a profitable and prudent manner.
approved risk appetite has remained strong throughout the period with the underlying quality of the loan portfolio The Group has made significant progress in the development exhibiting strong performance.
The Group has further of its IFRS 9 and Internal Ratings Based IRB models.
The strengthened its core solvency and liquidity ratios in an Board has identified transition towards IRB based capital uncertain economic, political and regulatory environment.
treatment as an important strategic objective.
The net potential benefits of the IRB approval remain uncertain given The Risk function has continued to deliver against its the ongoing consultations in relation to changes to the overarching objective of being a strategic partner whilst standardised risk weights and IRB floors.
However, the Group retaining its independence.
This has been achieved by also views the IFRS 9 and IRB model development initiative judicious and considered investment in risk data and analytics from the perspective of enhancing wider risk management and enhancing risk management capability through a further capabilities.
In particular, the increased granularity of risk increase in the size and structure of the Risk function.
The based information would further enhance portfolio nature and quality of engagement with internal and external optimisation and pricing capabilities.
stakeholders has further strengthened the risk culture and ensured increased embeddedness of the risk disciplines.
RISK PROFILE REVIEW Coupled with the strong financial performance, the Groups Whilst the UK economic performance has remained broadly risk profile has been managed in accordance with the Board stable throughout the year, the outlook remains uncertain approved risk appetite.
The performance against key risk post the referendum decision to leave the European Union.
indicators has been strong throughout the year.
The table Further global uncertainty has been created following the below outlines the comparative analysis of the leading risk recent US presidential election.
The Group continues to closely indicators with supporting commentary.
monitor economic developments within the UK and overseas, with support from its independent macroeconomic advisors.
KEY RISK INDICATORS COMMENTARY KEY RISK INDICATORS COMMENTARY CET1 Ratio Total Capital Ratio Improvements in the Groups arrears The Groups Total Capital Ratio TCR was profile in conjunction with stable LTV further strengthened during 2016 driven 13.3% 15.1% ratios resulted in a reduction of average by strong profit generation during 14.1% 11.6% mortgage credit risk weights applied theperiod.
Strong loan book growth resulted in higher total risk weighted An increase in total risk weighted assets asset values.
was primarily driven by loan book growth, whilst continued improvements In comparison, CET1 capital increased in the Groups credit profile led to a significantly more owing to strong reduction in average mortgage credit 2015 2016 2015 2016 profitability and an exceptional gain from riskweights.
the disposal of Rochester 1 of 34.7m.
Cost of Risk The Group observed strong arrears 3 Months in Arrears performance over the period, driven by Marked reduction in the percentage of 0.23% organic origination performance.
loan balances more than three months 2.1% Problem legacy loans continued to run inarrears, resulting from underlying book 0.16% down during the period.
LTV ratios performance, in conjunction with the remained broadly stable during the saleof non performing loans.
In Continued strong performance conjunction, the acquired portfolios, acrossnewly originated loans, with funding lines and development finance improvements in acquired portfolio businesses continued to perform in line arrearslevels drove overall Group arrears 2015 2016 with expectations, resulting in an performance throughout 2016 note: 2015 2016 improved cost of risk.
3 month in arrears ratios exclude the legacy problem loans, underlying 3 months arrears ratio would have Liquidity Ratio The Liquidity ratio has improved owing to been1.5%.
total liquid assets increasing by 19% 17.9% driven by increased use of the FLS 16.4% scheme off balance sheet.
In contrast, liabilities only increased by 9% largely driven by retail funding.
2015 2016 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 35 Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
The Group has KEY RISK INDICATORS OVERVIEW ensured that the Real Estate function is placed within the INDIVIDUAL RISK TYPE REVIEW Banks assurance team and are therefore independent from all Credit Risk credit making decisions.
The Groups credit portfolio has exhibited strong performance across all risk indicators and has operated within the Board Since its inception, the Group has experienced material loan approved risk appetite.
Deep market knowledge, prudent growth with Group loans and advances totalling 5.9bn as at lending policies and supportive market conditions have been December 2016.
Importantly, there has been a portfolio the underlying explanatory factors.
composition change over the period, with post 2011 lending incorporating enhanced lending criteria now making up a OSB continues to identify low-risk opportunities in areas of the greater proportion of the total Group loan balances.
Since market poorly serviced by mainstream lenders, including the 2011, the Group has originated 29,000 loans with only 91 delivery of compelling products to professional Buy-to-Let cases with aggregate balances totalling 8.6m greater than landlords, first charge bespoke residential, second charge three months in arrears, with an average 60% LTV, reflecting loans to prime borrowers at conservative LTV levels, the continued strength of the Groups underwriting and commercial loans against highly marketable properties, and lending criteria.
During 2016, the Group continued to prudently niche residential development lending to borrowers with underwrite new loans, carefully assessing customer strong track records and credible projects.
We offer secured affordability as demonstrated by the number of newly funding lines to finance companies, managing credit risk originated residential mortgage loans with a loan to income of through .
greater than 4.5 falling to 2.6% from 3.3% during 2015.
Buy-to-Let interest coverage ratios ICR for new loans The Group carefully underwrites each lending case, maintains increased to 171% up from 159% during 2015, further sensible LTVs, assesses affordability on each loan and avoids demonstrating the prudent underwriting conducted during lending on property where we believe current valuations are 2016.
Buy-to-Let LTVs for new lending remained stable at 70%, unsustainable.
A suite of portfolio limits have been established whilst residential mortgage new lending LTVs increased in adherence to the Board credit risk appetite.
Stress and marginally to 66% from 64% during 2016.
The acquired scenario analysis are used to assess the potential impact on portfolios, funding lines and development finance portfolios credit impairments, losses and capital requirements when continued to perform in line with expectations, whilst the subjected to severe but plausible stress scenarios.
Group also sold 10.9m gross value of non-performing personal loan accounts during the year.
Pre 2011 lending The Group ensures that security valuations are reviewed on an balances continued to run down during the year, and historic ongoing basis for appropriateness, with ongoing annual problem loans reduced from 17.8m to 13.8m as at indexing of commercial properties, with residential properties December 2016. indexed against monthly HPI data.
Where the Group identifies that a published index is not representative, a formal review The net impact of the above loan book composition changes will be carried out by the Group Real Estate function to assess and strong performance of new lending, in conjunction with valuations appropriately.
The Group Real Estate function the sale of non-performing loan balances resulted in the ensures that newly underwritten lending cases are written to Group observing a historically low portfolio greater than three appropriate valuations, with assessment being carried out by months in arrears rate of 1.4% versus 2.1% as at December appointed, qualified chartered surveyors, accredited by the 2015 excluding legacy problem loan balances.
Forbearance measures undertaken during 2016: 2016 vs 2015 Number 2016 year Number 2015 year variance 2016 vs 2015 of accounts end balances of accounts end balances number variance Forbearance type 2016 m 2015 m of accounts of balances Interest only switch 60 6.3 106 10.7 46 4.4 Interest rate reduction 3 2.2 3 2.2 Term extension 31 5.9 59 3.5 28 2.4 Payment holiday 37 3.6 21 6.5 16 2.9 Voluntary assisted sale 11 7.7 11 7.7 Payment concession reduced monthly payments 58 6.4 70 5.7 12 0.7 Capitalisation 3 0.1 4 0.2 1 0.1 Full or partial debt forgiveness TOTAL 192 24.5 271 34.3 79 9.8 2016 vs 2015 Number 2016 year Number 2015 year variance 2016 vs 2015 of accounts end balances of accounts end balances number variance Loan Type 2016 m 2015 m of accounts of balances First charge owner occupier 117 12.3 200 21.0 83 8.7 Second charge owner occupier 60 6.2 38 1.3 22 4.9 Buy-to-Let 14 5.5 27 11.5 13 6.0 Commercial 1 0.5 6 0.5 5 0.1 TOTAL 192 24.5 271 34.3 79 9.8 36 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REPORT CONTINUED There was however an observed increase in Buy-to-Let not solvency when reviewing the Banks business plans and impaired past due 1 to 3 months as at December 2016 see inorganic growth opportunities.
note 35 Risk Management and financial instruments analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears for BTL SME, driven by a low During the course of 2016, the Bank strengthened its common number of high balance cases which fell into arrears during equity tier 1 CET1 capital ratio and total capital ratio despite 2016 and technical arrears balance inflow during December organic and inorganic growth, demonstrating the strength of internal capital generation capabilities of its business through 2016 resulting from requested payments being carried over profitability.
into the first working day of January 2017.
In all cases the technical arrears accounts moved back up to date.
There was Liquidity and Funding also an increase in residential first charge balances not in The Bank has a prudent approach to liquidity management impairment but past due 1 to 3 months, driven by historic through maintaining sufficient liquidity resources to cover cash legacy loans falling into arrears during the year in conjunction flow imbalances and fluctuations in funding under both with arrears balances introduced via portfolio purchases normal and stressed conditions arising from market wide and within the year see note 35 Risk management and financial Bank specific events.
The Banks liquidity risk appetite has been instruments analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears for calibrated to ensure that the Bank always operates above the residential.
minimum prudential requirements with sufficient contingency for unexpected stresses whilst actively minimising the risk of Occasionally, some borrowers experience financial difficulties holding excessive liquidity which would adversely impact the which impact their ability to meet mortgage finance financial efficiency of the business model.
We may seek to identify borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties as well as contacting The Bank has successfully utilised the Bank of England Funding borrowers whose loans have gone into arrears, consulting with for Lending FLS and Term Funding Scheme TFS secured them in order to ascertain the reasons for the difficulties and funding facilities to manage its liquidity in 2016, and continues to establish the best course of action to be taken to bring the to attract new retail savers and retain existing customers account up-to-date.
In certain circumstances, where the through transparent and loyalty-based product offerings.
borrower is experiencing significant financial distress, we may use forbearance measures to assist them.
During the course of 2016, the Bank actively managed its liquidity and funding profile within the confines of its risk Throughout the year the Group materially enhanced its appetite as set out in the Liquidity Risk Policy and reviewed in identification and management of forborne accounts.
With the year-end Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment respect to proactive identification the Group now leverages Process ILAAP.
external forward looking bureau information, analysing probability of default and customer indebtedness which in Market Risk turn underpin pre arrears watchlist triggers.
Watchlist cases The Bank proactively manages its risk profile in respect of are then in turn carefully monitored and managed as adverse movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates appropriate.
During the year the Group also internally and counterparty exposures.
The Bank accepts interest rate developed a collections dashboard tool, again leveraging risk and basis risk as a consequence of structural mismatches external bureau information which provides the arrears between fixed rate mortgage lending, sight and fixed term management team with detailed information about the savings and the maintenance of a significant portfolio of high borrowers full financial position, facilitating enhanced quality liquid assets.
Interest rate exposure is mitigated on a conversations when establishing the best course of action to continuous basis through portfolio diversification, reserve bring their accounts up to date or out of a forborne state.
allocation and the use of financial derivatives within limits set by ALCO and approved by the Board.
The Group continues to observe low levels of accounts in forbearance with total forbearance balances reducing Interest Rate Risk materially within the year see tables on page 35.
The Bank does not actively assume interest rate risk and does not seek to take a significant directional interest rate position.
Solvency Risk Limits have been set to allow management to run some The Group continues to maintain an appropriate level and un-hedged positions in response to balance sheet dynamics quality of capital to support its growth objectives and to meet and capital has been allocated for this.
The Bank does not take its prudential requirements.
By subjecting its financial a directional view on future interest rates.
The capital operating plan to extreme but plausible stresses, the Group is allocation has been set to be proportionate to the available able to assess the effectiveness of its capital strategy and plan CET1 capital to allow for balance sheet growth.
under expected and stressed market conditions.
The Group sets limits on the mismatch between fixed-rate The Group defines its solvency risk appetite by projecting assets and liabilities, taking into account interest rate swaps forward its capital requirements internal and prudential and that are in place.
Exposure is mitigated on a continuous basis ensuring that it currently holds sufficient CET1 and total through the use of derivatives within limits set by the ALCO, capital to meet its target capital ratios.
the Board and reserve allocations currently 1.5% of common equity tier 1 capital.
The limit is measured against the Solvency risk is a function of balance sheet growth, sensitivity of the fair value of the portfolio as a whole to profitability, access to capital markets and regulatory changes.
These moves are specified in the The Bank actively monitors all key drivers of solvency risk and Board-approved interest rate and basis risk policy and capture takes prompt action to maintain its solvency ratios at parallel movement, twist, and flex in the yield curve.
The Board and management also assess Strategic report Financial statements Governance 37 stress scenario interest rate movements are scaled to In order to minimise regulatory risk, OSB maintains a proactive approximate the potential move over one year at 99.9% relationship with key regulators, engages with industry bodies two-tailed confidence interval.
After taking into account the such as the Council for Mortgage Lenders and British Bankers derivatives entered into by the Group, the highest loss under Association, and seeks external advice from our professional these scenarios as at year end would have been 1.9m and advisers.
The Group also assesses the impact of upstream the highest gain 2.1m.
Against a parallel interest rate regulation on OSB and the wider markets in which we operate, and undertakes robust assurance assessments from within movement of 2%, the impact would have been 3.9m gain the Risk and Compliance functions.
2015: 0.2m gain recognised in the statement of profit orloss.
During 2016, the Group has responded effectively to a broad range of regulatory changes impacting its primary products Basis Risk Buy-to-Let and ISAs, Board and senior management Basis risk arises from assets and liabilities re-pricing with governance and oversight Senior Managers and Certification reference to different interest rate indices, including positions Regime and financial crime EU Fourth Money Laundering which reference variable market, policy and managed rates.
As with structural interest rate risk, the Group does not seek to take a significant basis risk position, but maintains defined Conduct Risk limits to allow operational flexibility.
The Groups culture and behaviours are central to ensuring a fair and considered approach in dealing with its customers.
It As with structural interest rate risk, capital allocation has been operates in a manner that ensures the underlying integrity of set in proportion to common equity tier 1 capital, with markets in which it operates.
OSB will not tolerate any exposure assessed and monitored monthly across a range of systemic failure to deliver fair customer outcomes or practices business as usual and stressed scenarios.
Operational Risk On an isolated basis, incidents can result in customer OSB continues to assume a proactive approach to the detriment owing to human and or operational failures.
Where management of operational risks.
The Operational Risk such incidents occur they are thoroughly investigated, and the Management Framework has been designed to ensure a robust appropriate remedial actions are taken to address any approach to the identification, measurement and mitigation of customer detriment and to prevent recurrence.
operational risks, utilising a combination of both qualitative and quantitative techniques in order to promote an environment of OSB views effective conduct risk management as a core progressive operational risk management.
The Groups feature of its risk culture and values.
A clear tone from the top operational processes, systems and controls are designed to with respect to conduct ensures awareness of behaviours minimise disruption to customers, damage to the Banks which demonstrate commitment to good customer outcomes reputation and any detrimental impact on financial performance.
The Bank actively promotes the continual evolution of its operating environment through the identification, evaluation and Strategic and Business Risk mitigation of risks, whilst recognising that the complete The Board has clearly articulated the Banks strategic vision elimination of operational risk is not possible.
and business objectives underpinned by performance targets.
The Bank does not intend to undertake any medium to long A strong culture of transparency and escalation has been term strategic actions which would put at risk the Banks vision cultivated throughout the organisation, with the operational of being a leading specialist lender in its chosen markets and Risk function having a Group-wide remit, ensuring a risk being backed by a strong and dependable savings franchise.
management model that is well embedded and consistently applied.
In addition, a community of Risk Champions To deliver against its strategic objectives and business plan, representing each business line and functional area has been the Bank has adopted a resilient and efficient business identified.
Operational Risk Champions ensure that the operating model based on a focused approach to core niche operational risk identification and assessment processes are markets where its experience and capabilities give it a clear established across the Group in a consistent manner.
Champions are provided with appropriate support and training by the Group Operational Risk function.
The Bank remains highly focused on delivering against its core strategic objectives and strengthening its market position Regulatory and Compliance Risk further through strong and sustainable financial performance.
The Bank is committed to the highest standards of regulatory conduct and aims to minimise breaches, financial costs and reputational damage associated with non-compliance.
KEY EVENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS DURING 2016 However, given the growing scale and complexity of regulatory The Group has further improved its approach to assessing and changes, it is acknowledged that there may be isolated calibrating its risk appetite through closer alignment with the instances whereby the Banks response to new regulatory Groups strategic objectives and business operating plan.
requirements may be subject to interpretation risk.
Through the use of stress testing analysis the risk appetite has been calibrated to ensure that the level of risk being assumed The Bank has an established compliance function which is commensurate with the risk management and absorption actively identifies, assesses and monitors adherence with capabilities of the Group.
current regulation and the impact of emerging regulation.
38 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REPORT CONTINUED The Groups IFRS 9 programme progressed to plan, moving To ensure that the Groups growth objectives are achieved into the parallel run phase for 2017.
Embedding the IFRS 9 in a stable and controlled operating environment, a significant framework into the standard monthly reporting processes level of management focus has been placed on further is ongoing.
enhancements to the Operational Risk Management Framework.
A fully integrated purpose built risk management An important strategic initiative for the Group is to progress system OSIRIS has been put in place, supporting both towards the implementation of an IRB approach for credit risk.
operational and conduct risk management.
Tangible progress has been made during 2016 with a suite of first generation IRB models being developed.
This is a A comprehensive Group-wide Risk and Control Selfsignificant milestone for the Group.
Assessment RCSA has been performed to identify material risks and assess controls effectiveness.
Identified risks have Improvements made to the collective provision methodology also informed the Banks operational risk scenario exercise have enabled the Group to better align its approach to which in turn informed the internal assessment of capital industry good practice basing its provisioning decisions on a requirements.
more robust and prudent approach.
A comprehensive review of the methodologies, judgements and estimates which PRIORITIES FOR 2017 underpin IAS 39 collective provisioning calculations took place On a forward looking basis, the Risk function has identified the during 2016. following areas of priority: Integration of the IFRS 9 capability into other core risk Risk based management information has been identified as a processes such as risk appetite, ICAAP, stress testing and critical area of enhancement and investment.
During 2016, the risk based pricing, is a priority for 2017.
Group has leveraged the improved analytics and has aligned Integration of the IRB capability into the Groups capital internal risk data with external credit bureau customer profiles monitoring and planning framework and independent to provide a more insightful and forward looking assessment review and validation of the first generation models are key of its risk profile.
In parallel, a comprehensive selfassessment against the regulatory requirements will take The Group has identified stress testing capabilities as a critical place within the year allowing further development of the tool to assess and quantify the potential areas of vulnerability implementation route to gaining the necessary regulatory in its risk profile.
Stress testing as a discipline has been applied approvals.
across all principal risks, based on industry best practice and The Risk function will be an important contributor to the regulatory guidelines.
Stress testing has also been used to Strategic Data Management Project, in light of the support the Groups development of both the ICAAP and ILAAP.
requirements arising from IRB, but also the wider risk data Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF Risk Principles and Culture Risk Strategy and Appetite Risk Governance and Organisational Structure Risk Denitions and Categorisation Financial Risks Non-Financial Risks Credit Risk Strategic and Business Risk Operational Risk Conduct Risk Market Risk Liquidity Risk Regulatory Compliance Risk Reputational Risk Solvency Risk Framework Risk Data and IT Risk Analytics Risk MI and Policies ICAAP ILAAP RRP Risk Regulatory Capabilities Principal Risks Key Elements Submissions Strategic report Financial statements Governance 39 identify a suite of early warning indicators and triggers which management disciplines outlined in the Strategic Risk inform the nature and type of recovery options which would Management Framework.
The resolution pack provides the regulatory Further build out of the Groups risk management authorities with information and analysis on the Groups information capability is a continuing priority for 2017.
This businesses, organisation and structures to facilitate an orderly is a key area where further enhancements will result in resolution should it become necessary.
even more informed risk and reward decisions being made across the Group.
The Bank actively engages with its key regulators to ensure In line with the Groups business model the Risk function that the supervisory teams are kept abreast of the Banks plans to build out a risk analytics support function at our strategic and business objectives, the risks to which it is OSBIndia subsidiary to support our UK based risk teams.
exposed and the adequacy of risk controls and mitigants.
Investment in enhanced risk analytics continues to be viewed as essential in delivering the risk strategy and keeping pace with industry standards and regulatory Strategic Risk Management expectations.
Framework Overview RISK-BASED SUBMISSIONS The Group undertakes a comprehensive review of its current OSB continues to enhance and leverage its SRMF in support and projected risk profiles based on expected and stressed of its strategic and business growth objectives.
OSBs market and economic conditions.
The two primary risk-based approach to risk management ensures effective identification, annual planning exercises are the Internal Capital Adequacy assessment and pricing of risk and therefore is a critical driver Assessment Process ICAAP and the ILAAP.
The ICAAP of the Banks competitive advantage.
Effective risk informs the Boards and managements view on the level and management has generated shareholder value through the quality of capital needed to meet the prudential and riskoptimisation of the risk-reward profile which is framed within based capital requirements over the planning horizon under the Board approved risk appetite.
Specifically, OSBs risk base and stress scenarios.
The ICAAP is an integral input into management capabilities have made it possible to operate the PRAs supervisory review process SREP and forms the in distinct specialist market segments.
basis upon which the Groups capital guidance is set.
The ILAAP informs the Boards view on the Groups level and The SRMF and its core modular components are subject to quality of liquidity buffer and liquidity management periodic review and approval by the Board and its oversight framework.
It is an input to the PRAs L-SREP process, which committees.
The modular construct of the SRMF makes it leads to regulatory liquidity buffer guidance.
dynamic and versatile, making it an enduring framework.
The integrated nature of the SRMF provides for improved The Group also reviews and updates its Recovery and Board oversight, engagement, and monitoring of the Banks Resolution Plan RRP on an annual basis.
The recovery plan risk profile.
The following sections describe the key modules process is designed to ensure that the Groups recovery plan of the SRMF structure.
is credible and can be implemented in a time of stress.
The Groups recovery options are assessed for feasibility and time to implementation under stressed conditions.
The Group leverages its risk appetite and stress testing procedures to Business and risk strategy provide the context within which the bank outlines its business objectives and establishes its SRMF.
The risk appetite seeks to articulate the willingness of the rm to take risks in light of its strategic and risk objectives.
Business and Risk Strategy The overarching risk appetite outlines the culture and attitude towards risk management at all levels of the Group.
It sets the framework Overarching within which risk controls, limits and policies are established to adhere to the Boards risk management objectives.
Appetite Statement The overarching risk appetite statement is supported by individual risk-type level appetite statements for Principal Risks Risk Appetite Statements all relevant risks.
Risk appetite statements are supported by a broad range of qualitative and quantitative metrics which are subject to active monitoring and reporting.
Risk Metrics Information and Reporting Oversight and Monitoring 40 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REPORT CONTINUED The Groups corporate vision of being a leading specialist RISK PRINCIPLES AND CULTURE lender within its chosen markets helps to shape its risk culture.
The Board has established overarching risk based principles.
The Board and senior management have cultivated a risk These risk principles provide for a clearly articulated risk vision culture which encourages a proactive, transparent and and strategy, and ensure that the Banks risk capabilities and informed approach to risk management in a balanced and processes are aligned.
The risk principles are: considered manner, taking into account stakeholder expectations and good customer outcomes.
Customer Interests: Customer outcomes and conduct risk are central to all aspects of OSBs business and control RISK STRATEGY & APPETITE functions RISK STRATEGY Proportionate and Commensurate: The Strategic Risk The Groups risk strategy is to create value through correct Management Framework reflects the complexity of the decisions being taken informed by accurate and timely risk Banks business model and is scalable to accommodate assessments.
future growth Defined Risk Appetite: Risks are assumed subject to defined This risk strategy is based on three key components: qualitative statements and quantitative limits and Scalability of the Risk function: thresholds Structure and discipline around how risks are identified, Coverage: All principal risks are identified, assessed and assessed and managed: managed based on robust systems and controls Risk management capability leveraged to create true Risk Governance: Risk taking and oversight responsibility is information value.
appropriately segregated, in adherence to the three lines of defence principle RISK APPETITE Integration and Usage: Risk management disciplines are At OSB, we have established a clear linkage between our fully integrated into the Board and senior management strategy and risk appetite, ensuring that the setting and decision making processes monitoring of risk appetite is embedded within the business Versatile: Risk framework and underlying capabilities are with respect to processes e. g. business planning processes, subject to ongoing review and are adaptive to the changing new product development approval.
Our risk appetite is operating environment and the Banks business model The OSB risk governance framework is summarised in the diagram below.
Board of Directors Nomination and Governance Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Committee Executive Committee Operations Credit Regulatory Assets and Disclosure Regulatory, Committee Executive Committee Governance Liabilities Committee Operational & M&A Committee Committee Conduct Risk Committee Change Control Transactional Committee Committee Credit Pricing Committee Committee First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Ensures that risks are identied, measured, monitored Provides an independent review and chalenges to the Provides independent assurance on the and reported in line with policy in an effective manner.
business and control functions to ensure that all aspects of effectiveness of the SRMF, compliance with the risk prole are managed in adherance to risk appetite regulations, adherance to policies and Key Brands IT and Change and policies.
Finance and HR Commercial Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Operations Sales and Marketing Credit Strategy Legal and Regulation Chief Executive officer Group Commercial Chief Financial Chief Risk officer Head of Director officer Internal Audit Chief Operating Sales & Marketing Chief Credit officer officer Director - Chief Information Brand-Level officer Senior Management Group General Counsel Executive Board Business and Executives Committees Committees Control Functions Strategic report Financial statements Governance 41 informed by our strategic choices and our business strategy, The Board acts directly or through its committees to discharge which in turn is developed within the confines of our its risk oversight and control responsibilities.
The Board and its articulated risk appetite.
Our risk appetite is calibrated to committees are provided with appropriate and timely aplausible but extreme macroeconomic scenario severity information relating to the nature and level of risks to which 1in20, which seeks to ensure that our strategy and business the Group is exposed and the adequacy of risk controls and model remains resilient under a range of macroeconomic mitigants.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance as environments.
to the effectiveness and compliance with the SRMF and the underlying risk management policies and procedures.
The risk appetite process is informed by robust statistical analysis which supports the development of scenario analysis The executive function has day-to-day responsibility for and stress testing.
Our risk appetite framework ensures we managing the risk profile of the Group within the defined risk understand how the Group performs under current market and appetite, with oversight and guidance provided by the Board economic conditions and under a range of stress scenarios.
The Chief Risk Officer is the executive accountable for establishing an effective risk management OVERARCHING RISK APPETITE STATEMENT and reporting framework.
The Chief Risk Officer has dual The Bank has a prudent and proportionate approach to reporting lines into the Chief Executive Officer and the Chair of risktaking and management, which is reflective of its the Board Risk Committee.
The business model is basedon secured lending, robust underwriting standards, The Chief Risk Officer has management responsibility for intermediary based distribution, stable funding, financial ensuring an independent risk oversight and reporting function strength, and efficient and effective operational capabilities.
is established and is able to undertake its second line Astrong conduct and compliance culture is critical to the responsibility.
The risk function is organised to ensure an overall success of the Bank.
appropriate level of resources and capabilities are in place to identify, assess, manage and report all material risks.
RISK GOVERNANCE AND ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Management level risk committees have been established to Risk governance refers to the processes and structures ensure a more focused approach to the review and challenge established by the Board to ensure that risks are taken within of individual principal risk profiles take place.
Additional the approved appetite, with clear delineation between risk sub-committees are also in place which focus on specific and taking and oversight responsibilities.
finer aspects of the risk profile and its ongoing management.
For example, the Transactional Credit Committee, a subThe Group has established a structural approach to risk committee of the Credit Committee, meets twice a week to governance, ensuring an effective level of alignment between sanction individual lending cases that fall outside the oversight and management responsibility for risk.
The risk mandates of the underwriting team.
governance structure has clearly defined roles and responsibilities for Board and Management committees, control functions and the accountable executives.
The risk based roles and responsibilities are organised in adherence to the three lines of defence principle to ensure appropriate levels of segregation.
THE OSB RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE IS DETAILED BELOW RISK CREDIT MARKET LIQUIDITY OPERATIONAL REGULATORY CONDUCT Board BOARD GOVERNANCE Risk Committee Audit Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT Credit Regulatory, Operational, and Compliance Asset and Liability Committee ALCO GOVERNANCE Committee Risk Committee ROCC CHIEF RISK OFFICER FRAMEWORKS Strategic Risk Management Framework Lending Policy, Operational Risk Framework Policy, Conduct Risk Arrears, Interest Rate Treasury, Funding Anti Money Laundering Policy, Framework, Repossession and and Risk, and Liquidity Anti Corruption and the Bribery Policy, Conduct Risk Forbearance Basis Risk Policy Risk Policies Approved persons, Data retention, Fraud, KEY POLICIES Policy Policy Waiver and Modification policies AND DOCUMENTS ICAAP ILAAP Compliance and MANAGEMENT Operational Conduct Risk Credit MI pack ALCO MI pack Financial Crime MI INFORMATION Risk MI pack MI pack pack
