04 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT ANDY GOLDING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CONTINUED STRONG PERFORMANCE I am delighted to report OneSavings Bank OSB continued to grow the loan book another strong performance through our specialist lending brands during 2016, with 28% growth in organic origination, responding well to the from the OneSavings Bank headwinds created by the change in Stamp Duty Land Tax Group, in a year where we SDLT, the EU referendum result and the signalled individual taxation regime changes.
This growth was achieved without have once again met or compromising net interest margin as the Group remained exceeded all of our financial focused on delivering our objective of being a leading specialist lender in our chosen markets, supported by a strong objectives set at IPO.
Our clear retail savings franchise and an efficient and scalable back strategy and unique business office function.
We have created value by taking a people-centric approach to our business through bespoke, model have proven robust manual underwriting, distribution and customer service, andwe finish the year with which have collectively driven the performance of our lending and savings brands.
astrong balance sheet, ahighquality secured asset We achieved particularly strong growth in our core Buy-to-Let lending sub-segment as the market became more focused on portfolio and an excellent our professional landlord audience.
We enhanced our core reputation for customer residential segment through selective asset acquisition and Iam very pleased that we also increased our capital ratio service.
This continues to following the sale of our economic interest in the Rochester position us well going forward.
1 plc securitisation the Rochester 1 disposal as well as through our profitable organic origination.
We have grown the commercial side of our Buy-to-Let SME segment cautiously and we have been prudent in business areas exposed to cyclical uncertainty, such as residential development finance, through increased stress testing measures in these sub-segments.
RESULTS AT A GLANCE The Group delivered strong profit and loan book growth in 1 2016.
Underlying pre-tax profit increased by 29% to 137.0m 1 2015: 105.9m and underlying basic earnings per share grew by 20% to 41.7 pence 2015: 34.8 pence.
The Group grew its loan book by 16% to 5.9bn in 2016 2015: 5.1bn, whilst maintaining an appropriate risk return profile.
Excluding the Rochester 1 disposal, the loan book grew by 20%.
This was driven by strong new originations in our core Buy-to-Let SME segment, which continued to build on our 2015 achievements.
Our high quality residential mortgage segment also continued to perform well.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 05 We have continued to focus on customer needs and the quality of new lending, leading to an enhanced customer reputation across our lending and savings brands.
The balance sheet growth was achieved whilst delivering a A significant proportion of the Buy-to-Let market comes from strong return on equity of 29% 2015: 32% or, 32% excluding refinancing.
OSBs Buy-to-Let refinancing percentage was 58% the impact of the new bank corporation tax surcharge, despite during 2016 despite the high level of purchase activity ahead strengthening our fully-loaded common equity tier 1 CET1 of the change to SDLT 2015: 58%.
The capital ratio increased following the Rochester 1 disposal, whilst also demonstrating I am pleased that our more cyclical commercial businesses the strong organic capital generation capability of the continued to perform strongly.
Heritable Development Finance business through profitability.
continued to grow and deliver high quality residential development lending, with a preference for forging The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.6 pence per relationships with those active outside prime central London.
This gives a total dividend per share for the full year of The business continued to gain momentum in spite of new 10.5 pence in-line with our stated dividend policy.
entrants to the market, as customers sought an experienced and knowledgeable lender.
After the EU referendum, the BEST SPECIALIST LENDER number of potential development schemes which can meet The increase in gross new origination of 28% to 2.3bn our stringent stress tests may reduce, but our high quality 2015: 1.8bn demonstrates the strength of our lending relationships have supported loan book growth, with franchises in the specialist lending markets we serve.
We commitments standing at 212m at year end, an increase of continue to differentiate ourselves from the competition by 44m for the year.
offering well defined propositions in high margin, underserved markets, where we have the experience, as well as the internal In addition, we have also grown the provision of secured and intermediary infrastructure, to successfully develop and funding lines to other lenders that operate in certain high service those markets.
yielding, specialist sub-segments, such as residential bridge finance and asset finance.
Total credit approved limits were Changes to SDLT at the end of the first quarter of 2016 and the 330m with total loans outstanding of 122m as at signalled changes in the individual taxation regime led to 31 December 2016 2015: 185m and 126m respectively.
varying levels of mortgage applications and completions in During 2016, four new funding lines were added, with a further Buy-to-Let throughout the year.
Completion volumes in our two credit lines approved and in the documentation process.
core businesses were strong in the first quarter as we fulfilled heightened demand to accelerate Buy-to-Let mortgage We continued to gain recognition amongst mortgage completions ahead of the SDLT changes and then grew again customers and intermediaries, winning multiple awards during to record levels during the second half.
Application volumes in the year.
I am particularly pleased that Kent Reliance won the our core businesses remained strong throughout the year with Personal Finance Best Buy-to-Let Mortgage Provider award for the run-rate increasing in the second half of 2016.
It increased the second year running and the What Mortgage Best further in the last quarter ahead of the introduction of new Specialist Lender award in 2016.
This combined with our broker underwriting standards for Buy-to-Let at the beginning of net promoter score NPS of 48% demonstrates the strength 2017.
This performance demonstrates the sustainable and value of our lending customer franchise.
strength of our propositions targeted at professional landlords, particularly our specialist, manual underwriting and our deep relationships with mortgage intermediaries.
Professional multi-property landlords accounted for 68% of completions for OSB by value during the second half of 2016 2015: 60%.
06 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED We have diversified sources of funding including the AWARD WINNING SAVINGS governments Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and Term Our stable and award winning retail funding franchise Funding Scheme TFS and we managed liquidity using a continues to support lending growth, with retail deposits up mixture of new and retained retail deposits, FLS and TFS.
Our loan to deposit ratio for 2 2016, the Group also extended its savings product proposition 2016 was 90%, comfortably within our target of less than to small and medium businesses.
100%, delivering on our strategy to be primarily retail funded.
Nearly 27,000 new savings customers joined the Bank during OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND SERVICE IS CORE 2016 and our successful programme of creating long-term As the Group has grown, costs have been controlled in-line savings relationships by offering market competitive rates to with our stated financial objectives, resulting in a broadly all customers, including those with maturing fixed rate bonds stable cost to income ratio of 27% 2015: 26%.
During 2016, and ISAs, continued to deliver a very strong 87% retention we continued to invest in risk and compliance functions as rate.
In particular, we continued to invest in the development of models needed both for IFRS 9 The strength and fairness of our retail savings proposition, and to progress our stated aim of becoming an internal coupled with excellent customer service and high retention ratings-based approach bank IRB.
The Groups IFRS 9 rates, continues to allow the Bank to raise significant funds models and first generation IRB models were delivered on without needing to price at the very top of the best buy tables.
We commenced the parallel run for IFRS 9 at the start of 2017 and are well placed to implement the requirements for 2018.
We continue to invest in customer facing and back office infrastructure as previously reported and to accommodate growth in OSBIndia, new premises in 1 RETURN ON EQUITY Bangalore became operational during the first quarter of 2016.
DOWN 3% OSBIndia undertakes a range of primary processing services at a significantly lower cost than an equivalent UK-based operation and with very high quality levels.
I am especially pleased that we achieved this whilst maintaining our focus on 29% customers, borne out by an increase in customer NPS to an 1.
32% excluding impact of the new bank corporation outstanding 59% 2015: 55%.
This is also demonstrated by tax surcharge our numerous awards including Kent Reliance being named in the Moneyfacts awards as Best Bank Savings Provider for the 2015: 32% second year in succession.
BUILDING A BUSINESS FOR THE FUTURE The Groups strength and expertise in manual underwriting has continued to exercise strong diligence over loan and customer assessment, contributing to the Groups loan loss DIVIDEND PER SHARE ratio falling to 16bps in the year to 31 December 2016 2015: UP 21% 23bps.
We remain particularly pleased with the performance of the front book of mortgages.
From more than 29,000 loans totalling 5.9bn of new organic originations since the Banks 10.5p 2015: 8.7p Strategic report Financial statements Governance 07 We continue to gain recognition amongst customers and intermediaries, winning multiple awards during the year.
creation in February 2011, we only have 91 cases of arrears We continued our focus on disciplined lending following the EU over three months in duration, with an aggregate balance of referendum, using lending criteria together with product 8.6m and an average loan to value LTV of 60%, reflecting targeting to position the business to grow its lower risk, low the continued strength of the Banks underwriting and LTV portfolio.
The weighted average loan to value LTV of the lendingcriteria.
mortgage book remained low at 63% at the end of 2016, with an average LTV of 69% on new origination during the year In June 2016, we implemented a revised mortgage product 2015: 69%.
We have limited exposure to high value transfer scheme Choices to encourage greater levels of properties, with only 2% of our total loan book secured on retention amongst those borrowers reaching the end of their properties valued at greater than 2m and with an LTV above initial product term.
Under this programme, borrowers are 65%.
encouraged to engage with their broker to receive advice and select from a bespoke product set.
Since the implementation In its internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP, of the scheme there has been a significant increase in the OSB applies a number of severe stress scenarios to its balance number of borrowers choosing a new product within three sheet including the H2 2016 PRA Stress Scenario, to months of their initial product ending, driven exclusively by demonstrate that it can survive a substantial economic success in switching borrowers who were otherwise remaining downturn while maintaining capital levels above the Board on standard variable rate SVR and who, by definition, were capital risk appetite.
The H2 2016 PRA Stress Scenario contains therefore in the market for other lenders.
a severe reduction in house prices of more than 30% over the first two years of the five-year stress period, as well as an The Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee announced a increase in unemployment to more than 9% and a significant bank base rate cut of 25bps on 4 August 2016 and signalled fall in GDP.
OSBs secured balance sheet with low average LTVs that rates could go lower if the economy worsens.
OSB and the underlying profitability of its existing loan book allow reduced its SVR by the full 25bps effective from 1 September it to survive such a stress, keeping above regulatory prescribed 2016.
This reduction had a broadly neutral impact on the levels.
Banks NIM due to rate reductions on administered savings.
Since the creation of OSB we have kept control of asset pricing STRENGTHENING THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM in our core businesses, with the majority of new origination During 2016, we took the opportunity to strengthen the senior linked to our SVR or in naturally hedged fixed rate products.
Jason Elphick joined as Group General This control over pricing provides significant protection against Counsel and Company Secretary in June 2016 from Santander, rate changes.
where he was Legal Director, Head of UK Banking Legal.
The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA issued a Additionally, Lisa Odendaal joined OSB in April 2016 as Head of Supervisory Statement on Buy-to-Let underwriting standards Internal Audit and is a member of the Executive Team.
Lisa in September 2016, requiring lenders to adopt more stringent was previously part of the outsourced Grant Thornton Internal affordability assessments from 1 January 2017.
always assessed affordability for borrowers through our specialist underwriting model and applied stringent stress tests.
This can be seen in our weighted average interest coverage ratio ICR for Buy-to-Let origination during 2016, which increased to 171% from 159% in 2015, demonstrating our cautious approach to the assessment of customer affordability.
08 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED We remain committed to being retail funded and the MARKET OUTLOOK through-the-cycle benefits that this brings, but intend to In 2016 we successfully negotiated regulatory uncertainty and complement this by taking advantage of the four-year term economic challenges, and we believe that our specialist funding provided through the TFS at Bank of England base manual underwriting capabilities will become increasingly rate, as we lend into the real economy.
We have drawn down relevant during 2017 as economic uncertainty persists and 301m to date.
We will maintain a deep understanding of the risks that we can actively manage and The consultation from the Basel Committee on revised price for, and this together with our strong service proposition standardised risk weights proposed higher risk weights for based on flexibility and speed of turnaround, will underpin the Buy-to-Let, to be implemented from 2019 at the earliest.
This attractiveness of our products to customers.
proposed standardised risk weight revision is based on a global calibration, which in OSBs view is not appropriate for the UK The SDLT increase for Buy-to-Let purchases introduced in April Buy-to-Let market.
Additional information is expected in 2016 has been absorbed by the market with little long-term March 2017 updating the Basel Committee proposals.
As an impact for our target audience of professional landlords.
alternative to the standardised risk weights, OSB is progressing towards IRB and the required models have been built and are In 2017 we will see the market adjusting to the new Buy-tobeing run during 2017 to test their accuracy.
OSB is on target Let underwriting standards which ensure that lenders, inter and aims to have it in place for residential and Buy-to-Let alia reflect the changes to personal tax on landlords within lending prior to adoption of final rules on standardised risk their affordability assessments.
These changes will reduce weights.
The PRA published a consultation, Refining the PRAs yield for some higher rate tax payers.
We have seen a clear Pillar 2A capital framework in February 2017 to be trend for borrowers to seek to mitigate this by opting to implemented by 1 January 2018.
The consultations aim is to borrow via a limited company during 2016.
We saw a ensure that the total amount of capital required is not continued increase in the proportion of applications from excessive for firms following the standardised approach for limited companies for our main Buy-to-Let brand, Kent credit risk.
Reliance, from around 40% in December 2015 to 57% in the second half of 2016.
The Group has always specialised in Finally, there is the broader macroeconomic environment, lending to limited companies, and given the market trends, primarily driven by uncertainties following the decision to this gives us competitive advantage over those lenders leave the EU and the intention of the UK Government to without such a capability.
trigger Article 50 before the end of March 2017.
The UK economy has remained resilient in the face of the uncertainty Our manual, bespoke approach to underwriting will give us and we have seen no material change in customer confidence additional advantages when further market-wide measures to or demand for loans in our core markets.
We will continue to strengthen underwriting standards are to be implemented concentrate on our core strengths, and remain confident in from September 2017, as we already substantively meet the the quality of our chosen markets and our business model, regulatory requirements for assessment of landlords with four and believe we are in a strong position to perform well in each or more mortgaged properties.
of our key market segments.
Our achievements in 2016 are a testament to the management and staff of OSB and I would like to thank my colleagues for their hard work and commitment throughout the year.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 09 We are a responsible lender and will continue to manage the business prudently.
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2017 Following the strong performance in 2016, we entered 2017 with a strong pipeline of new business and are currently seeing very strong application levels in our core businesses.
We expect to deliver net loan book growth in the mid-teens in 2017, whilst keeping NIM and cost to income ratio broadly flat to 2016.
We will concentrate on what we have proven we do best: being a people focused business, using our relationships, manual underwriting expertise and secured lending strategy to lend responsibly to customers in underserved markets.
Over the coming year, organic lending, through the Buy-to-Let segment will remain the key driver of loan book growth focused on professional, multi-property landlords.
Additionally, we will continue to evaluate selective inorganic opportunities that provide long-term value and meet our strategic objectives.
We start 2017 with a fully loaded CET1 ratio of 13.3% and aproven organic capital generation capability through profitability.
We anticipate maintaining a CET1 ratio at a minimum 12% going forward.
We remain keen to transition the capital stack to an optimum mix which may include Additional Tier 1 Capital AT1 when market conditions areright.
Our dividend policy for 2017 remains a pay-out ratio of at least 25% of underlying profit after taxation.
It is too soon to predict the medium to long-term impact of economic, tax and regulatory changes, but I believe that OneSavings Bank is well placed to take advantage of opportunities that arise and we remain capable of generating attractive returns for our shareholders.
ANDY GOLDING Chief Executive Officer 16 March 2017 1.
See Highlights, page 1 for statutory equivalents 2.
Excluding the impact of drawdowns under the FLS and TFS
