President and Chief Executive Officers statement We are successfully leveraging the enlarged payments offering we provide, with the Skrill business having been integrated ahead of schedule early in the second half of the year, following its acquisition in August 2015.
$48bn of total payment volume passed through our processing, digital wallet and prepaid voucher platforms, up 21% on the previous year.
In 2016 our focus has been on ensuring we have a strong multi-year vision, based on our strategic pillars, as well as an entrepreneurial culture to underpin those pillars.
Weve also worked to ensure we are well positioned to adapt and benefit from ongoing changes in our market and regulatory environments.
In 2017, our focus will be on driving our businesses to maximise their potential through one centralised consolidated technology platform a project which has been underway since H1 2016.
Our market Our success is consistent with the acceleration in the shift from traditional payment formats to digital, technologydriven platforms.
Consumers and merchants are increasingly demanding easier, faster, safer and more efficient ways to pay, transfer and receive money, and we are building our platform with an eye on becoming a natural home for them as their needs grow and diversify.
The creation of Paysafe, with the acquisition of Skrill in 2015, Joel Leonoff was in response to this rapidly changing and growing President and payments landscape.
Our success in addressing the market Chief Executive Officer opportunity is driven by an entrepreneurial management team focused on delivering excellence across all of our These results reflect our first full year products and services - from cash to digital currency, all-in-one processing to multi-currency consumer wallets asPaysafe and we have delivered a and money transfer, and order-ahead mobile apps to performance which underscores how consumer credit solutions.
much our business has developed over Operating in a highly-regulated environment means adapting the period.
We have executed against to changes and uncertainty in various legislative and industry frameworks.
Examples include the new EU Payment Services our five strategic pillars and delivered Directive PSD2 : changes to EU Anti-Money Laundering another excellent financial Directives: the UKs referendum decision to leave the European Union leading to volatility in exchange rates performance, while continuing to anduncertainty around licencing: and the General Data invest in improving our capabilities, Protection Regulation coming into force in the UK inMay2018.
our culture and our relevance.
We are particularly pleased to have passed the Our strategic planning process covers risks and uncertainty aswell as opportunities, and we view ongoing regulatory $1bn revenue milestone while developments as an opportunity for us to become more materially increasing our profitability.
relevant to our merchants wherever possible.
For example, Building relevance in payments Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 20 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION our strength in alternative payment methods sets us up well During the year, we invested significantly in our risk and for responding to PSD2.
The investments we have already compliance functions across the Group.
Our investment in made in compliance and risk management capabilities, as people and technology underpins our approach to well as the prudent assumptions in relation to additional sustainable growth, based on quality systems, robust costs built into internal forecasts, gives us confidence that processes, policies and an employee culture that values and changes to anti-money laundering regulation will not have a prioritises intelligent risk management.
We will continue to material effect on our expectations for revenue growth and invest in these areas, alongside information security and data adjusted EBITDA margin in 2017.
In addition, we have a protection, throughout 2017. diverse geographic spread of merchants, consumers and State-of-the-art technology operations, supported by a strong compliance and Technology is the foundation of the Paysafe business, and a monitoring team, which positions us well to respond to key driver of our current and future success.
By completing the Skrill integration project five months ahead Strategic progress: five pillars for growth of schedule in 2016, we made an early start on consolidating At the time of our interim results in August, we set out five all of our products and services to form a new comprehensive strategic pillars supporting our growth and the way we do and scalable payments platform.
These pillars embody our market approach and the onboarding and developer tools, centralised data and key areas that we are focusing on, and investing in, to ensure analytics, detailed reconciliations, as well as additional that we lead the way in capturing the significant market shift compliance and risk management tools.
functionality will be delivered in a modular approach Our pillars are: delivering sustainable organic growth, throughout 2017, reflecting the developing needs of Paysafe harnessing state-of-the-art technology, leveraging relevant, and our merchants.
niche-oriented payment solutions, fostering an Our consolidated platform will enable our merchants across entrepreneurial culture and pursuing bold M&A.
the Group to access all our products and, through those, the We have renamed our organic growth strategic pillar to speak spending power of our engaged consumer base.
It will also more clearly to how our core capability of managing risk and enable us to integrate new functionalities and capabilities compliance enables us to deliver sustainable organic growth.
across multiple channels, including online and mobile through to smart point of sale, more quickly and efficiently Sustainable organic growth than before.
Our three divisions delivered strong revenue performances in Supporting our proprietary development, during 2016 we FY 2016 as more fully outlined in each divisional Operating have integrated several additional technology providers review.
within our risk management functions to make automated Central to the Paysafe growth strategy is our ability to know-your-customer KYC as frictionless as possible for our generate significant cash flows from this growth, and weve consumers and merchants.
In addition, we launched our new demonstrated that again in FY 2016.
With our adjusted free developer portal in December 2016, to simplify onboarding cash conversion before payments working capital for FY 2016 and enable Paysafe to share its payments expertise with a 8 at 101% and free cash flow as a percentage of operating vibrant developer-centric community of users.
profit at 104%, it allows us to scope ambitious M&A opportunities, continue to invest in core areas of compliance Relevant, niche-oriented solutions and technology, and provide returns to shareholders.
We have a niche-oriented approach to the payments market, using our evolving payments platform technology to create We were also pleased to announce our inaugural buyback relevant, differentiated offerings for businesses and programme of up to 100m in December 2016.
Importantly, consumers in areas where we can see potential for growth we were able to do this without compromising our ability to and scale by delivering value to those segments.
We focus continue to pursue bold M&A.
onindustries where we have or can build significant expertise, as well as consumer and merchant segments with complex For the longer term, we continue to invest in organic market needs and regulatory requirements that are opportunities where we see potential for future growth.
example, during the year, we saw good growth in our remittance business, our European acquiring business and our payolution consumer credit business.
com 21 President and Chief Executive Officers statement One of our most significant niche verticals, largely within our we scored 68%.
While this is a strong starting point, compared Digital Wallets and Prepaid divisions, is online gambling.
to the average engagement rates of the winners of the 2016 Weve been disclosing our merchant revenue from online Gallup Great Workplace Award at around 70%, were looking gambling since H2 2015, and in H2 2016 online gambling to improve this metric, underpinned by programmes aimed revenue grew around 23% year-on-year on a pro-forma at developing and retaining our talent.
We were also pleased 9 basis.
We continue to seek opportunities in other verticals as that voluntary employee attrition during a year of transition part of our ongoing drive to take advantage of growth to the new Paysafe business and brand was only 11%.
In addition, we saw Our Executive Leadership team continues to strengthen and strong growth in medium to higher-risk e-commerce post year end we announced Oscar Nieboer as Chief processing within our Payments Processing division during Marketing Officer.
Oscar brings extensive experience in the year.
strategic marketing across e-commerce, payments and the The soft launch of our GOLO mobile ordering and delivery gambling industries, and will support our drive to promote product during the year is another example of how we are the business and brand to a wider audience of businesses addressing merchant needs through innovation.
we aim to help merchants secure higher revenues, increase In March 2017, we appointed Tim Thurman as Chief Digital operational efficiency, enhance loyalty and customer Officer to drive the development and deployment of our retention and gain better insights into their customers digital technology capabilities.
Tim brings more than 20 years existing and future needs.
of technology experience, and is a proven leader in digital The relevance and excellence of our solutions was recognised transformation projects at scale.
during the year with a number of awards, including: In addition to sourcing external resources that embody our - Payments Awards 2016 Best Merchant core values, we strive to promote from within and create Acquirer Processor opportunistic and exciting career paths that encourage - Pay Before 10th Anniversary Awards 2016 Best Online or leadership and growth.
Mobile Commerce Solution - Payments & Fraud Company of the Year paysafecard Bold M&A Paysafe is not a business that stands still.
We have big Entrepreneurial culture ambitions which are an integral part of our growth strategy.
Were building an entrepreneurial culture where our We have a strong track record in identifying businesses that employees are empowered, engaged and encouraged to take add value to our Group, and integrating these businesses initiative and develop their expertise.
This involves quickly and effectively.
empowering our divisional CEOs and their teams so they can We have proven our significant capability in executing on make decisions quickly in ways that maximise success for acquisitions during FY 2016.
We completed the Skrill their respective business lines, and for the Group as a whole.
integration five months ahead of schedule, at lower cost, and This approach embodies our Paysafe values of being delivered synergies of over $40m during FY 2016. courageous, pioneering, open, and focused, and weve We acquired MeritCard in February 2016, broadening and invested in the rollout of these Paysafe values across the deepening our sales capabilities and partner relationships in combined business during 2016.
US payment processing, and balancing our risk profile to In April 2016 we carried out our first Paysafe employee enable additional merchant onboarding.
We also acquired engagement survey, based on the internationally recognised Income Access in August 2016, a digital marketing and affiliate Gallup Q12 survey.
In this year of transition and integration, technology business, boosting our relevance to the online gambling sector.
Both transactions reflect our drive to broaden Paysafes payments offering across niche areas of At Paysafe, we are focused on addressing the expertise and create multi-channel offerings.
market opportunity with a niche approach, using We continue to review and research companies that we our evolving payments platform technology to believe can accelerate growth opportunities, diversify our create relevant, differentiated offerings for merchant and product base, and fortify our strong position in the payments space, against our clearly defined criteria of businesses and consumers.
accretion to shareholders and advancing and accelerating the strategic initiatives of the overall business.
Free cash flow is a non IFRS figure defined as operating cash flow after working capital movements, interest, tax and capital expenditure.
Free cash flow before payments working capital is a non IFRS figure defined as Joel Leonoff operating cash flow after operating working capital movements, interest, President and Chief Executive Officer tax and capital expenditure.
It excludes payments working capital, being cash flows that are not revenue or costs to the Group, constituted by movements in restricted cash balances, cash held as reserves, settlement assets and merchant processing liabilities.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 22
