Chief Executives review We have made good progress and our underlying businesses have performed well.
We have been working hard to engage with the retail community, and we are developing a new retail pledge to reinforce this commitment.
It will take determination and time to show retailers that we are committed to improving the relationships.
The refocusing of our business has allowed us to streamline the organisation by reintegrating group and UK retail management.
We have established a new Executive Board and have set out clear values and cultural commitments across all company activities.
We have also been taking the opportunity to review our business processes to improve our responsiveness to retailers and our efficiency.
As an example, we have been able to reduce the lead-time for on-boarding new agents by 40%.
We expect to deliver further process efficiency gains as the review continues.
Product development There has been substantial service progress during the year particularly in respect of two new flagship developments our ground-breaking new terminal and MultiPay, our market Review leading multi-channel payment system for smart metering We have made good progress in what has been a challenging and general billing.
Our businesses have performed credibly, with growth in the UK being driven primarily through our developing retail PayPoint One services.
I am confident that delivery of new products, in After over 12 years of success with our current terminal, particular our next generation terminal and our MultiPay our next generation point-of-sale terminal, named PayPoint One, platform, will provide the basis of continuing future growth in which will provide everything needed to run in-store technology payments and services.
within one compact device, is currently in commercial trials.
The new terminal is based on cloud-enabled Android tablet Retail services in the UK and our Romanian business technology which transforms the flexibility and ease of use of performed well, offset by sluggish results in prepaid energy the device.
It has a full range of connectivity options including warmer weather, lower energy prices and slower prepayment broadband, WiFi, Bluetooth and beacon.
meter roll out and the continued decline of mobile top-ups.
Revenue decline in the online payments business and its Above all, as well as providing a technologically advanced inclusion for only part of the year until its sale on 8 January platform for PayPoints payments and services, the app 2016 were offset by growth in revenue in the mobile payments capability of Android will allow us to introduce new added value business.
These factors led to relatively low growth in adjusted functionality, including Electronic Point-of-Sale EPoS retail 1 operating profits of 1.2%, further exacerbarated by the till systems.
This will enable retailers to use PayPoint One for adverse VAT ruling, in dispute with HMRC, which cost product and price scanning, replacing their tills, and later to run 2 million in the year under review.
their full back office stock control and replenishment.
EPoS will become our latest retail service offer building on the existing PayPoint serves millions of consumers in its day to day successful portfolio of ATMs, card payments, Western Union, business operations working on behalf of leading consumer parcels and SIM card sales.
service organisations in the UK and Romania.
At the heart of our capability are our unique national retail networks, unrivalled MultiPay in their coverage, access and convenience.
Whether part of MultiPay, has been in development and introduced with a major chain or individual shopkeepers, retailers are the encouraging early success.
The service combines payments lifeblood of our business and it is fundamental to our success, in-store with web, app, IVR and SMS payments.
Our pilot client, that we serve them well, delivering services that help to Utilita is growing very strongly and is proving our strategic intent underpin the profitability of their businesses and the to serve customers with a balance of retail and digital payments, service they provide to their local communities.
Utilitas growth has been based on a particular prepay specialism which is taking share from the Big 6.
Adjusted operating profit excludes impairments of 49.0 million and the profit on disposal of the online payments business of 7.0 million and includes our share of joint venture results and is a measure which the directors believe assists with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the group.
8 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have also signed several smaller energy companies and a We completed the sale of our online payments business in framework agreement with Procurement for Housing, which January 2016 and are in the process of selling our mobile should also serve smaller clients.
We have now secured our payments business.
Given that the sale is not yet achieved, first Big 6 energy client for MultiPay, in Scottish & Southern we have written down its carrying value by 30.8 million.
Energy, the UKs number two by size which will go live in the We have also been in long running discussions with our next few months.
We are also pursuing further Big 6 success joint venture partners, Yodel, about the future structure and already have an agreement with nPower to support of Collect, which we had hoped to conclude by now.
To encourage discussions, we temporarily agreed to allow Yodel to charge more for its carrier services to Collect and The roll out of smart meters will provide householders with this has caused it to make a small loss.
We are positive about up to date information on their usage and provide alternative our prospects with such strong products and platforms in ways for them to pay.
This is a government mandated our armoury and look to achieve further MultiPay sales programme, which is expected to gain pace later this year success and to roll out PayPoint One to thousands of once the new central Data Communications Company goes retailers this year.
However, it is still subject to uncertainty as to its pace, phasing of the rollout and therefore its impact on Strategy prepayment customers.
With MultiPay, PayPoint is well Our mission is to be the market leader in providing multiplaced to address the market however it moves forward.
channel payments and retail services to major consumer organisations and retailers, delivered through innovative Romania technology and first class service.
We are proud of our good PayPoint Romania continues to lead the market in retail bill reputation which underpins our contractual relationships payments and has made good progress in establishing retail with service companies and retailers in both services to complement the core payments capability.
Western Union partnership has performed strongly as has the sale of road tax permits.
We continue to build one of We believe there is substantial opportunity for sustainable Romanias strongest financial brands.
growth in revenues from products and services to our convenience retailers and introducing new capabilities that will help them grow their businesses profitably.
Our Executive Board From left: Katy Wilde, Jon Marchant, George Earle, Lewis Alcraft, Dominic Taylor, David Roe, Susan Court, Tim Watkin-Rees.
PayPoint One PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 9 Chief Executives review continued For example, the decline of the high street and growth in Our new tighter retail focus has allowed us to reshape the online retailing leaves community based convenience stores in business enabling us to restructure from a group approach to a strong position to complement online service delivery.
This is an integrated one, with renewed emphasis on retail innovation illustrated by our success in our parcels service, where goods and momentum in pushing forward our new retail technology.
are ordered online but collected and returned in local stores.
We will be driving our new solutions to provide the platform The proportion of retail service based revenues relative to for deeper integration into retail store operations and the traditional payments will continue to increase and there will introduction of further added value applications and services, be some displacement from cash to digital payments through notably through EPoS.
We have a proven track record of innovation and differentiation in our retail networks, where we have clear In so doing, we will leverage our scale and capability and market leadership and generate strong returns on capital further extend our geographic footprint, potentially into new from our investments.
countries as well, although international prospecting will be of lower priority in the immediate future.
This is in addition to The payments capability of PayPoint continues to be growing our existing retail services portfolio that has fundamental to our differentiation and success.
PayPoint has performed well over many years, including ATMs, card had particular strength in cash payments and cash has been payments, Western Union, parcels and SIM card sales.
In this and continues to be extremely resilient and is used by millions context, we need to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of consumers for their essential services.
PayPoint has grown with Yodel regarding Collect.
payment volumes strongly throughout two decades, in which cash has gradually declined as a proportion of all payments.
In summary, we are committed to developing the business through our retail network and our strong relationships with Nonetheless, cash usage is in slow but long-term decline.
In so doing, we can look forward to continuing To address online and cashless payment growth, we have growth in earnings per share and a progressive dividend policy developed solutions for multi-channel payment systems for alongside returning excess capital over a five year period.
non-retail and card and contactless payments in-store, as sources of future growth.
We will continue to extend in-store Dominic Taylor card payments functionality, currently in over 10,000 shops Chief Executive in which contactless payment growth is particularly strong.
26 May 2016 We will also use MultiPay to establish a strong position in digital payments for smart meters and other payments to complement our unique strength in cash, enabling us to benefit across the board.
Long term strategic vision Our mission is to lead the market in the provision of products to consumer service companies and retailers, through innovative solutions and first class customer service.
A Growth in retail services G F B PayPoint One E C Growth in MultiPay solutions D D Growth in parcels C B E New consumer services A F Growth in Romania G New countries Current Future Substantial opportunity for sustainable growth Results for the year ended 31 March 2016 10 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016
