General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officers introduction to Risk management Putting risk management at the heart of our culture 2016 was a year of significant progress for Paysafe.
Enhancing our risk framework We completed the integration of Skrill ahead of schedule.
Weacquired MeritCard in February and Income Access in August.
We also commenced substantial investment in the development of a new and scalable platform technology and product suite.
Faced with so many major developments, asoutlined in last years Annual Report, the Board commissioned a comprehensive review of the Groups governance structure and an enhancement of the Enterprise Risk Management ERM processes.
The implementation of this review and these enhancements continued throughout 2016 and included the introduction offunctional Executive Committees aligned to the new Group structure, and further investment in risk management tools and internal resources, including hiring a number of senior risk management experts alongside additions to our risk and compliance teams based in Sofia.
The review cumulated in a comprehensive analysis of the Groups risk universe and key risks.
The output of this review was communicated to all areas of the business through meetings and workshops Elliott Wiseman facilitated by senior members of the Enterprise Risk function.
General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer Throughout 2016, weve also been focused on embedding astrong culture of risk-awareness throughout the business.
Putting risk management at the heart of our culture, supported by our company values, allows us to take aniche-oriented approach to market opportunities, select themost strategic, bold M&A and build the most relevant expertise in our people.
In short, rather than looking at risk negatively we aim to use it pro-actively to drive and inform the right decisions across the business.
By taking steps to identify the risks that might affect our business, we put ourselves in the strongest position to deal with them if they emerge.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 48
