06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 S CEOs strategic overview The long-term opportunity in education remains hugely signi cant.
John Fallon Chief executive We also announced a number of steps to our North American businesses, and in Dear shareholders, accelerate our digital transition, protecting particular the 1998 acquisition of Simon & 2016 was a tough year for Pearson.
We saw existing revenues and growing new ones, Schuster Education and the 2000 acquisition our biggest market US higher education while managing the ongoing decline in of NCS.
courseware shrink again, as a result of print sales.
All this has been di cult for Pearson three factors: declining college enrolments, We will weather these challenges as well as, shareholders.
However, we remain changes in the buying patterns of students if not better than, our competitors.
Digital committed to returning the company and a correction in inventory levels carried now represents 50% of Pearsons higher to growth and to building a stronger, by distributors and bookstore chains.
education courseware revenues, and is more durable business.
In retrospect, we failed to see the growing steadily, even at a time when Pearson has demonstrated competitive accelerated level of disruption taking place college enrolments are declining.
By the spirit, resilience and progress on many in the US market.
This disruption a ected end of this decade, the balance will be 75:25. fronts even in the tough conditions noted the whole sector, not just Pearson but Our digital higher education products are above.
We performed well in our major led to an 18% underlying decline in revenues roughly twice as popular as those of our markets and announced a number of new for our largest business.
digital products and new partnerships to We announced in January 2017 that we As a natural consequence of our lower help reach more learners.
We delivered our would not achieve our previously set 2018 pro ts expectations, we have also taken restructuring and cost savings programme pro t target, and will rebase our dividend a signi cant non-cash write-down of in full and, thanks to careful cost from 2017 onwards.
goodwill of 2,548m, as part of our annual management, hit our 2016 pro t goal.
The goodwill relates to S Three key trends in our markets 1 CV 2 3 Online education Personalised learning Employability To meet the demand for more exible, Through the move to online education, rapid In a world where 500 million people are out digital and e ective education, schools, advances in technology are also enabling of work but four in 10 employers are unable colleges and universities are increasingly individual, adaptive learning to take place to nd quali ed candidates to ll open roles, seeking partnership models which enable at scale.
The rise of arti cial intelligence and the link between learning and earning is more them to reach more learners, scale virtual reality in the classroom brings exciting crucial than ever before.
Students are focused their teaching online and improve new opportunities for learners, schools, on gaining the skills they need to get better their productivity.
colleges and educators, and will help increase jobs and more rewarding careers, while student engagement and course completion re-skilling and up-skilling are taking place and, ultimately, improve learning outcomes.
in the shifting digital economy.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 07 We are achieving important synergies Our strategy can More e ective be expressed across Pearson in terms of our product teaching and as an equation: platforms and enabling technologies personalised CONTENT ASSESSMENT learning at helping to run the company more smoothly scale and e ciently.
We are creating an increasingly digital and services-based business.
US student Powered by services and technology assessment contributed more in pro t than a year ago despite a 22% underlying decline in revenues.
We have made our emerging market Pearsons strategy 100% focused Pearson serves the needs of millions Growth businesses pro table again, with on education of students and teachers by combining a more durable platform for future success.
world-class educational content and In our Core business incorporating The long-term opportunity in education assessment with the promise of new markets such as the UK, Australia and parts remains signi cant.
Around the world, technologies and cutting-edge new of continental Europe we are managing 500 million young people and adults are educational services.
a huge programme of change in UK out of work, yet 40% of employers are quali cations, and setting the business unable to nd quali ed candidates to ll In 2016, Pearson continued to invest up for future success.
We are growing well 1 open positions.
The social and economic signi cantly in research and expertise in virtual schooling, online degrees for changes being wrought by technology, for education products.
Our courseware universities, and English language testing: ageing populations and globalisation will educational materials, in print, blended and all promising parts of our future.
only increase the value of high-quality digital formats now combines the very education.
Much of our work relates to best content with learning design and This report highlights a number of ways we meeting these new needs whether technology to create great user experiences are drawing on the potential of technology through our vocational quali cations and better learning outcomes.
Our MyLabs to make meaningful improvements to and apprenticeship programmes in the software now adapts to prompt college learning, alongside our partners.
UK, or o ering workforce development students with hints about what to study partnerships to some of Americas next, and gives early alerts to teachers largest employers.
when their students are in danger of falling behind.
S How our strategy creates value Our goal is to improve access and outcomes in education through our world-class capabilities in educational content and assessment, powered by services and technology.
Short-term priorities Strategic growth drivers Our constant goals Develop digital & services Simplify our portfolio Our strategy will deliver growth by: See p14-15 Control costs building a sustainable business: Build market presence Invest in the biggest opportunities being a trusted partner: and See p16-17 in education reaching more learners: Deliver measurable outcomes to create long-term value.
See p18-19 See p20-27 Sustainability plan 2020 08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 S CEOs strategic overview Our quali cations and assessment services Personalised learning in action The digital opportunity are cutting edge.
We help to measure Our products are increasingly driven by The colleges and universities with whom progress and analyse insights about the the concept of personalised learning, and we work still teach primarily face to face, achievements and abilities of learners all our goal is to help educators reach every in physical buildings, which limits their over the world.
In 2016, we ran 23.6 million student in a way that meets their individual own scale and reach but this is starting to online tests in the US alone and helped needs.
New technologies are enabling change.
Technology now enables them to teachers create millions more of their own Pearson to make personalised learning reach far more students, with teaching and short, formative assessments, to check a reality for millions of students and learning happening virtually, online, as well student progress and learning.
teachers: analytics, which provide decisionas in the physical classroom.
Our digital teaching and learning services making insights to teachers and students: We are partnering with universities on three combine these capabilities and focus on adaptive capabilities, that intelligently adjust continents with services including course extending educational access and improving to the needs of each student based on their and programme design and development, outcomes through virtual schools and knowledge, skills, attributes or behaviours: student recruitment and retention, and online degree programmes, we are creating and implementation services, that support related platforms and technologies.
These digital products that are more reliable and educators to successfully integrate digital services help our partners reach more enjoyable for the students that use them.
students, ensure more of those students These will in turn create new opportunities Millions of students already experience are successful in their studies, and help to grow.
adaptive learning every day with our those partners run their operations The process of making, selling and servicing products, but we have major plans to step more e ectively.
our products means that we are in daily up these capabilities.
In October 2016, We already have more than 40 of these contact with more educators than any we announced a partnership with IBM partnerships in the US and Australia.
other commercial organisation in the world.
to integrate their advanced cognitive In 2016, we began our first online degree We understand the realities of running computing capabilities into Pearsons partnership in the UK with Kings College schools and universities, and teaching products.
Together, we plan to provide London, helping to create online masters students of all ages and backgrounds.
college students with a virtual tutor, degrees in Psychology and Law.
We expect That understanding means Pearson is well powered by arti cial intelligence techniques to announce further partnerships with placed to assist schools and universities to help increase engagement, provide leading universities in 2017. in their transition from analogue to educators with better tools and ultimately predominantly digital learning.
We will be piloting the product in colleges across America in 2017 and over time we see the potential to reach millions of students around the world with better, more engaging teaching.
Executive team We are managed by a board of directors and I, as chief executive, am responsible to the board and lead through an executive team.
Coram Williams Chief financial o cer Albert Hitchcock Chief technology and operations o cer Michael Barber Chief education advisor Kate James Chief corporate a airs and global marketing o cer stepping down in March 2017 Bjarne Tellmann General counsel and chief legal o cer Tim Bozik President, global product joined executive in 2017 Rod Bristow President, core markets Bob Whelan President, assessments Kevin Capitani President, North America Melinda Wolfe Chief human resources o cer Giovanni Giovannelli President, growth markets For more on our governance structure, see p63 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 09 The achievement of these core aims will help Our priorities for 2017 us to meet our financial targets: achieving Penguin Random House Pearson needs to achieve a number of our 2017 budget, investing in Pearsons important goals in 2017 to fuel our return growth, maintaining our financial strength to sustainable growth.
through a period of change and volatility, Penguin has been an important part and improving returns to shareholders.
Our competitive performance has been of Pearson for many years, and our strong even in the face of market challenges decision in 2012 to combine it with The year ahead you can read more about this on p38-43.
Random House, creating the worlds In 2017, we will be focused on holding or 2016 was a challenging year for Pearson.
largest consumer publisher has been gaining share in all our major markets We have been hit hard by pressures in US vindicated by its continued creative from seeking improvements in US higher higher education, which will continue into and commercial success.
education to building on the rapid growth 2017 and 2018.
We are acting quickly to build Our recent announcement of our we have achieved with virtual schools, a more sustainable, digital business less intention to exit our 47% stake of the online degrees, professional testing and exposed to volatility.
combined business re ects an the Pearson Test of English.
Across Pearson we have strong businesses intention that we will now focus entirely Having made Pearson a more focused delivering steady pro ts in educational on our education strategy.
business and lowered operating costs content and assessment.
We have others Should Bertelsmann choose to buy signi cantly over the past three years, we which are growing fast from a smaller Pearsons stake we will reinvest the will also continue to make Pearson simpler, base, meeting new needs as education proceeds to maintain a strong balance more e cient and e ective.
We will further itself evolves.
sheet, invest in our business and return rationalise our platforms and tools, supply We are creating a more digital, services-led excess capital to you, our shareholders, chain process and property portfolio: company that can maximise opportunities while retaining a solid investment improve our e cacy and the speed with and mitigate threats by making grade credit rating.
which we launch new product features: and education more accessible, a ordable and ensure our digital and marketing capabilities e ective for far more people.
We are making are optimised and e ective.
These Pearson a more e cient company, with investments in stronger simpler platforms digital services that support a new and in better learning outcomes should all generation of personalised learning and contribute to better user experiences for the which create subscription-style business millions of teachers and students we serve.
models for us to renew and repeat sales.
You can read more on our approach to sustainability on p20-27 and our e cacy This is challenging, but exciting work.
Pearson will continue to focus on fewer, larger opportunities, to manage our cost Our employees bring diverse talents to base tightly and to make Pearson a simpler, Pearson, and learning and social impact more e cient company.
Over time, we will matter for our sta as much as those we deliver a more sustainable, more pro table serve.
In 2017, we will continue to identify business, delivering better educational and retain the best talent across Pearson, outcomes for learners.
building a talent pipeline for key roles and promoting employee programmes that Thank you for your support of Pearson.
We are also intent on building Pearsons culture and our brand, which we relaunched in 2016, to position Pearson as a force for good with John Fallon all the stakeholders with whom we work Chief executive recognising the value of our core business Learn more about as much as our important partnerships through Project Literacy and with Save the our Strategy in action Children, Unicef and others.
You can read on the following more about this on p20.
