| STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OVERVIEW CHRIS LOUGHLIN, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER As the new Group Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to report The year 2015 16 has been transformative that Pennon has performed very well in 2015 16. for Pennon Group.
While continuing to South West Water is outperforming its regulatory contract having begun the K6 2015-2020 period in a position of confidence deliver market-leading performance in following a successful Price Review, which saw its business plan many areas of our businesses, we have deemed best-in-class.
The drive towards further efficiency and improved performance has been complemented by the successful been fine-tuning our strategic focus acquisition and merger with Bournemouth Water.
Integration is substantially complete and the bringing together of these two to meet the changing demands of our good companies is allowing for substantial efficiency savings, the sharing of best practice and operational synergies.
The combined sector, evolving our governance and water business is well placed for the regulatory changes ahead, internal structures and beginning to draw including the opening of the non-household retail market in 2017, and there is a 94% probability it will set the efficiency new synergistic benefits from the closer 1 frontier at the 2019 Price Review.
In waste management, Viridor has also performed well.
The company has made a clear transition from landfill to a greater focus on recycling and the recovery of energy from waste.
Eight of the 11 committed Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs are now on stream with the remainder under construction at Glasgow, Dunbar and Beddington.
The ERF portfolio is being progressively fide-risked with demand expected to exceed capacity over the long term.
Approximately 80% of the total ERF portfolio volumes have been secured under long-term, index-linked contracts with short and medium-term contracts in place for the remaining 20%.
As Viridor completes its move from the investment phase to the delivery phase with the completion of the ERF portfolio, we are moving towards a more homogeneous risk profile across the Group.
We are increasing the predictability and visibility of our revenues over the long term and putting Pennon in the strongest position possible to capitalise on future growth opportunities.
STRONG OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Both South West Water and Bournemouth Water have made considerable progress on their K6 business plan commitments.
At South West Water, drinking water quality remains high 99.97% 2 compliance, customer service continues to increase, and accelerated investment in bathing water improvements has helped the region perform very well against the revised EU standards, which came into force in 2015.
Of the 145 bathing waters tested, 141 met the required standard.
The failure of the other four was unrelated to the performance of any South West Water asset.
Bournemouth Water achieved 100% compliance with drinking water quality standards and continued to deliver customer service improvements, building on its already impressive track record of customer service excellence.
In both the South West Water 1 Oxera modelling for South West Water and Bournemouth Water submission to and Bournemouth Water service areas leakage rates were kept the Competition and Markets Authority.
This estimate provides the probability of the merged company, with synergy savings, being within the UQ the efficiency within target levels and there were no water restrictions placed benchmark as used by Ofwat in PR14 at PR19.
2 As measured by mean zonal compliance.
14 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the waste management sector, Viridor has been a consistent DRIVING VALUE THROUGH EFFICIENCY leader and is well on track to increase Pennons future earnings South West Water is striving for ever greater efficiency in K6, growth.
This is being achieved through the delivery and ramp-up building on its strong track record from K5.
Recognised by Ofwat of ERFs, which are expected to contribute c. 100 million to as delivering industry-leading cost efficiency, it was awarded an Viridors EBITDA in 2016 17. enhanced business plan assessment with the largest element of potential operational outperformance over K6 coming from total In landfill energy, Viridor continues to maximise value from its expenditure Totex savings.
assets, managing the ongoing reduction in inputs and moving from Plans to merge Bournemouth Water with South West Water the 14 remaining operational sites to a smaller number of strategic were given unconditional clearance by the Competition and sites by 2020.
Landfill gas will remain a significant earnings stream Markets Authority CMA in November 2015.
The merger after the sites have closed to waste inputs, and the company is became official on 1 April 2016 and the integration process has maximising opportunities to use existing grid connections.
been progressing well with a new management structure in place.
AREAS OF FOCUS During K6 2015-2020 c. 27 million of synergies South West Water delivered a step change in customer service net of restructuring costs is set to be achieved through performance during K5 2010-2015 through a combination a combination of: of operational improvements and initiatives to improve the the merging of the two companies wholesale and customer service experience, including a more proactive retail operations approach to communications.
the creation of a single, centralised support function 1 In 2015 16 the companys customer service score continued the sharing of best practice to form common to increase, and further improvements are anticipated as best systems and processes practice is shared with Bournemouth Water which consistently supply chain efficiencies.
delivers SIM performance in the upper quartile of the industry.
A new single legally separate company, Pennon Water Services, In wastewater services, areas for operational improvement has been created which will provide retail and water management remain, particularly with regards to reducing the risk of flooding services for our c. 85,000 non-household customers, who will be and pollution.
South West Water is working resolutely towards eligible for the new water retail market in 2017.
The new market its 2020 targets, making the most of new techniques in activities will move into a period of shadow operation in October 2016 prior such as forecasting and monitoring, and working closely alongside to formal opening in April 2017. its supply chain partners to deliver the necessary enhancements.
In addition to Viridors operational delivery, overheads are being streamlined as part of the announced reorganisation and In recycling, Viridor is accelerating the optimisation and restructuring.
This is expected to deliver c. 9 million a year of rationalisation of its assets and contracts through the Input, enduring financial benefits from 2018 19.
Throughput and Output Optimisation ITOO programme see page 33.
By moving towards a more efficient cost base and more profitable activity, this is designed to overcome lower commodity prices.
The programme is targeting a substantial enhancement in the companys EBITDA margin through restructuring and improvements in source material quality including contract renegotiation where required, asset efficiency, productivity and yield, and specific quality control of outputs.
A number of input contracts have been successfully renegotiated to enhance value and the quality of inputs.
New recycling contracts reflect the sharing of recyclate price risks with customers through better gate fees and a better specified quality of inputs.
A TRANSFORMATIVE YEAR FOR PENNON GROUP 1 As measured by service incentive mechanism SIM.
co. uk 2016 15 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OVERVIEW CONTINUED GROUP-WIDE SYNERGY SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Pennon is focused on driving greater synergies and savings across Through innovation, the use of new technologies and the the Group, sharing best practice and ensuring it is well placed to application of best practice, we continue to focus on sustainability.
By improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our business Both Viridor and South West Water have a breadth and depth of activities we ensure sustainable value for both shareholders and experience in managing large asset bases and in using engineering customers while minimising our environmental impacts.
This excellence, technology and innovation to deliver efficiency spans everything from our holistic approach to water and and effectiveness.
By sharing knowledge across the Group and wastewater management at catchment level see Upstream harnessing our combined skills we can provide even better Thinking and Downstream Thinking on pages 29 and 31 to services to our extensive customer base of local authorities, our strategic purpose of giving resources new life.
major corporate clients and household customers.
At a community level we do our best to be a good A more joined-up Group brings benefits in a variety of ways.
neighbour through community engagement, high operational Looking ahead to the opening of the non-household retail standards, support for education and the provision of access market for water services, a key differentiator for Pennon is the and recreation.
link that can be forged between Pennon Water Services and South West Water continues to offer an industry-leading range Viridors customer base.
By capitalising on Viridors commercial of affordability schemes to those customers who genuinely relationships and culture we can add value and improve our struggle to pay.
We continue to provide a social tariff and expand service offering.
our innovative work with housing providers to help reduce Furthermore, as part of the evolution in Pennons structure, customer debt.
a shared services review is underway, assessing where we can At Viridor, a network of active community liaison groups unlock opportunities to create additional value through integrating continues to ensure close dialogue with people living and working back office functions.
in areas close to our major operational sites, enabling focused community benefit programmes.
In 2015 both South West Water and Viridor were recognised as responsible businesses within Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility CR Index.
Pennon Group also retained its inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index following independent assessment in 2015 of its Environmental, Social and Governance ESG performance.
PROUD OF OUR PEOPLE Pennon has more than 4,800 employees.
Their health and safety remains our top priority and we continue to refine our policies and make enhancements where necessary in order to protect their wellbeing and comply with best practice.
Further detail can be found on page 48.
Across the Group we are focused on attracting, nurturing and retaining a high calibre workforce.
South West Water, a significant employer in the south west of England, is ranked as a top 100 apprenticeship employer nationally, and has recruited 85 apprentices since 2011.
IN A CHANGING Meanwhile at Viridor, there is a growing focus on apprenticeships with 23 apprentices in the business today and a SECTOR PENNON commitment to expand this at each of the ERFs.
IS EVOLVING WITH The efforts and achievements of our employees have made 2015 16 CONFIDENCE a successful year and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their ongoing professionalism and dedication.
AND AMBITION 16 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the water industry we are well placed to capitalise on OUTLOOK structural changes and resilience challenges, making the As an environmental infrastructure business, Pennon is continually most of opportunities for future consolidation and growth looking to the future to anticipate, influence and manage while continuing to deliver our business plans effectively.
As regulatory change and the policy environment.
This is crucial to Bournemouth Water becomes fully integrated with South our success.
West Water, we anticipate further synergistic benefits together Through Viridor, we are well positioned with services with performance improvements derived from the sharing of reflecting the waste hierarchy, leading with reduction and best practice.
recycling, through to energy recovery and finally to disposal.
At a wider industry level South West Water is fully engaged in We expect demand for ERFs to continue to exceed capacity Water 2020 as we prepare and position ourselves for PR19.
The option to commit to an additional ERF company is in an extremely good position to anticipate and at Avonmouth remains and would take the total portfolio to 12 influence future regulatory reforms and is working hard to ensure plants nationwide.
involvement in shaping the future of the industry.
We remain cautious about future recyclate price growth but are In a changing sector Pennon is evolving with confidence and not relying on a near-term price recovery and are instead driving ambition.
We continue to build on a strong platform, recognising forward self-help measures through Viridors ITOO programme, areas for further improvement and efficiencies while which is delivering margin improvement.
We continue to target remaining focused on delivering sustainable business value.
new long-term and medium-term commercial and industrial Chris Loughlin recycling and recovery contracts.
Group Chief Executive Officer Pennon Group Plc www.
