Chief Executives statement I am pleased to report on another good year of progress and look forward to my first full year as Group Chief Executive We enter our 26th year confident in the future.
The pet market has proved over time to be more resilient than general retail, so whilst consumer confidence may be more fragile, we believe our drive to become more specialist and most loved by customers will deliver further progress.
Ian Kellet Group Chief Executive Officer Pets at Home Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Mission and strategy on page 18 Strategic update As we have highlighted previously, customers are increasingly opting to 4.5m collect their online orders in store.
This Strategic pillar: Expanding like-for-like VIP club members method of pickup represented around 50% growth of our online revenues in the second half Growing loyalty from our VIP club members of the year, up from just over 40% in the Our loyalty scheme has continued to prior year.
This increase has been achieved provide support to like-for-like growth through improving our collection service this year, through tailored offers on both 13.5m in-store and continual optimisation of the products and services, alongside achieving pets registered on our database product range.
an increased level of engagement with our members.
Providing value for our customers The VIP App is now in its final stages of development, ahead of a colleague, Our approach is to provide value for our The VIP club has reached over 4.5m and then customer, launch.
The App will customers, reflecting innovation, quality, members with over 13.5m pets registered give further benefits to our customers, expertise and customer service, as well on our database.
The scheme is now over making it simpler to both swipe without as price.
three years old, which has enabled us to the need for a card and redeem offers take an initial view of the active customer without presenting a voucher.
As part of this, we have continued to base, as well as total membership.
The refresh our range, with 40% of total number of VIP members who have actively Strategic initiatives in our products changed during the year.
Growing used their card over the past 12 months veterinary business Advanced Nutrition revenue remains core is 3.3m.
The active member participation Within our primary opinion vet practice to our strategy and this year we extended rises for those customers who are multinetwork we are rolling out new practices, Wainwrights into the frozen category, brand users, whether that be through our but at the same time, we have focused on added Lilys Kitchen to our range and vet practices, grooming salons or online, strategies to deliver extra growth to our exclusively launched Wellness, which is reflecting the increased loyalty of such more mature practices.
We have achieved the leading independent natural food brand customers.
We will therefore continue with this through space expansions to eight in the US.
We are also adding brands to our strategy to introduce vet and grooming existing practices and trialling 24 7 or assist customers with bridging the gap to services to our members through active extended opening hours in six practices.
the top tiers of Advanced Nutrition, which marketing, as well as the rollout of services Both space and opening hours extensions we believe is encouraging customers to within the store estate, which remains are bringing even greater convenience to trade out of the grocery food segment.
our customers and are delivering additional revenue to these practices.
In March, we launched our Brandmatch Our swipe rate of the card in stores promise for customers.
We expect to see We have also built a presence in the compares the price of the branded products further progression in the swipe rate this specialist referrals market through in our customers baskets against both year, but at a slower rate than we have acquisition.
Specialist referral represents Tesco and Jollyes, and if there is a difference, seen previously, which is a normal trend the premier tier of veterinary medicine, and generates a money back voucher for their reflective of the clubs maturity.
by acquiring such centres, we gain access next shop.
This is automatically emailed to an additional area of customer spend in to the customer if they are a VIP member.
Positively, we are seeing an increasing the market, whilst improving the retention Brandmatch is still very new, but initial revenue contribution from our earliest of customer revenue from our primary results indicate the vouchers are enrolled members, which reaffirms our view opinion practice network.
encouraging incremental spend from that we are successfully using the club to customers when they next purchase.
drive incremental spend from customers.
Delivering results from our seamless shopping investment We have invested further in our seamless shopping strategy this year, through optimising our website, upgrading systems and expanding our colleague teams to deliver the plan.
This has resulted in good traffic growth to our website, enhanced conversion rates and an improved customer experience.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Chief Executives statement continued We now have four specialist referral centres and have focused on acquiring those with the best reputations for clinical excellence and service, in locations which are complementary to our primary practice network.
We continue to explore opportunities in the wider veterinary services market that will deliver growth to our business, at an acceptable rate of return on our investment.
Engagement with our customers Alongside our ongoing customer engagement through our colleagues in-store and the VIP club, we have continued with television advertising during the year, both with the Pets at Home and Vets4Pets brands.
We are the only branded veterinary services business in the UK with the scale to advertise nationally.
Our customer engagement and advocacy levels are indicated through a net promoter score, which is collected though an online customer survey.
Our net promoter score for the year was 88%, up from 86% in the prior year, having risen from 75% in FY11.
In Services, we ended the year with 388 veterinary practices, having opened 419 Strategic pillar: Space rollout and 39 in new and existing stores, and 11 in Pets at Home superstores footprint development standalone locations.
Nearly 60% of our We executed our rollout strategy successfully store estate now has a vet practice and during the year, having achieved our store we remain committed to working towards and services opening targets.
our target of 90% of stores with a practice.
Grooming salon openings progressed 60 strongly, with 60 new salons in both new Our Pets at Home estate now numbers new grooming salons in both new and existing stores, taking the total number 419 superstores and we plan to open and existing stores to 240.
In the coming year, we expect to between 15 and 20 superstores in FY17.
open 4555 new veterinary practices and As we come closer to reaching our UK 5060 grooming salons.
target of around 500 superstores, our location options narrow, and as we The performance and returns of new are mainly dependent upon space from stores, vet practices and grooming salons new retail park openings, we are seeing remain in line with our expectations.
an impact on our opening rate.
During the year we continued with the rollout trial of our premium Barkers dog stores.
We also commenced a new trial format, with a High Street based convenience store, branded Whiskers n Paws by Pets at Home.
Pets at Home Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Strategic pillar: Growing margins We have seen a strong progression in the Group gross margin this financial year, Targeting new areas of the veterinary growing by 31bps to 54.5%.
Merchandise market through specialist referral centres margin benefitted from our Advanced Nutrition growth and improved terms negotiations with suppliers.
In Services, Our recent acquisitions have allowed We acquired two referral centres during us to access the most advanced tier the year: we saw positive support from the of the veterinary market and will build maturation of our vet practices, although Northwest Surgeons, based in Cheshire, the reputation of our brand with both has ten veterinary specialists and acts this was partially offset by the number of vets and customers.
as a referral centre for practices in the immature grooming salons and the addition Specialist referral centres provide veterinary North West of England.
It specialises of lower margin specialist referral centres.
services that are too complex for primary in orthopaedic, soft tissue and spinal opinion practice, through the advanced surgery and internal medicine with support Our pre-exceptional EBITDA margin declined qualifications of the practising surgeons, in anaesthesia, pain management and by 38bps to 16.0%, also reflecting the state of the art operating theatres and diagnostic imaging.
mix impact of specialist referral centres, diagnostic equipment.
Anderson Moores veterinary specialists, alongside our commitment to strategic based near Winchester, has 25 referral investment in seamless shopping and clinicians and provides referral expertise our colleagues, investments which we in internal medicine, soft tissue surgery, maintained despite some of the top line orthopaedic surgery, cardiology, neurology challenges we saw during the year.
and neurosurgery, diagnostic imaging, dermatology and anaesthesia.
Anderson Moores is equipped with dedicated Looking forward, we expect to see support MRI and CT scanners, state of the art to our Group gross margin from further operating theatres and a range of other Advanced Nutrition growth and services specialist facilities.
maturity, but this will be more than offset in the current financial year by the impact of weaker sterling.
"The National Living Wage ""NLW"" will be incorporated into our colleague cost base this financial year and as we have previously highlighted, alongside our ongoing investment in seamless shopping, will cause some EBITDA margin dilution."
Whilst the progression in NLW over the coming years is an ongoing cost pressure, we expect the maturity profile of our vet and grooming businesses to generate EBITDA margin expansion in the medium to long term.
Ian Kellett Group Chief Executive Officer 25 May 2016 All 2016 financials refer to the 52 week proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
