28 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Officers review Respect, innovation, progression We remain confident of strong performance in 2017 driven by both organic growth and the acquisitions made in 2016.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer Our results 48% Revenues from regulated markets 2015: 47% 10 Ten new customer wins 33% Of software revenues from mobile 296m Returned to shareholders Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Our pipeline of new licensees and Licensees Overview: executing structured agreements remains strong, I am pleased to report that operationally on our strategy driven by newly regulated and soonPlaytech had a strong 2016 from to-be-regulated markets.
We have an operational perspective, achieving I am proud to report that 2016 saw relationships with the leading retail one of our key strategic objectives of Playtech deliver on its operational gaming operators in every commercially locking-in future growth for the business.
viable jurisdiction and expect the regulatory shift identified several years This year saw the launch of several The double-digit growth reported in ago, to continue being the Companys important customers including the Gaming division at the half year has largest growth opportunity.
Pokerstars, Sun Bingo, Mr Green, continued into the second half including Maxbet, Win2day and Victor Chandler the announcement of new licensees, with further significant new licensees Customer concentration new content and features for customers signed in 2016 including Fortuna and As outlined at the half-year results, in and important long-term renewals.
In total, more than future we will be presenting customer The repositioning of our Financials ten new licensees launched in the year concentration on a new basis to more division also produced an encouraging with a number of relationships already accurately reflect the reality of how performance in the second half of the year.
secured and expected to go-lives we operate.
Playtech has continued to successfully Historically we have presented our largest execute its strategy of acquiring The strength of Playtechs offering licensee as a single customer.
However, complementary businesses, including and commitment to its licensees is this licensee is a licensed distributor for enhancing our omni-channel offering and clearly evidenced by the length of its many smaller licensees who sit beneath adding further premium content, with the relationships with its customers.
The aggregator model is acquisitions of BGT, Quickspin and ECM.
important agreements were renewed common in Asia and used by different In addition, the acquisition of Eyecon in 2016 and the beginning of 2017 with B2B and services providers.
Playtech post the period end further strengthens nine out of Playtechs top ten licensees has always used licensed distributors Playtechs position and extending its now on long-term contracts, including and local companies to establish itself reach into new areas.
The acquisition Paddy Power Betfair, William Hill, across the region given the importance of CFH in November significantly Rank and Betfred.
of understanding the culture and the enhanced Playtechs B2B offering importance of having the right partner in the Financials division.
While we have been successful in not just any partner.
extending relationships into new verticals Our balance sheet strength and continued and new geographies, due to regulatory This model serves us well as it provides us substantial cash generation enabled us changes in Europe, Latin America and with access to local gaming specialists who to execute the two cornerstones of our elsewhere, we are seeing a fundamental truly understand the culture, the key people strategy, firstly to continue the programme change in the type of licensees we do and the most relevant potential operators.
of strategic acquisitions to further business with.
Given our experience of They ensure that all operators go through strengthen our market leading position, regulated and newly regulated markets, a strict due diligence process and that they and secondly to focus on shareholder Playtech is seeing an increase in early maintain all relevant permits and licences returns by returning 150 million through a stage customers in new or emerging as well as serve them locally by using local special dividend and launch a 50 million regulatory regimes.
Over a short period, personnel who share the same languages share buyback programme in 2016.
This as the new regulatory framework is being and culture.
commitment was underlined by the move introduced, these operators become to a progressive dividend policy to provide amongst the largest and best performing Following the reclassification at the half year shareholders with more certainty and online operators in the new markets.
the revenue from our top five licensees consistency of dividend payments.
stood at 36% compared to 42% at the 2015 As most retail gaming operators lack year end.
The trend of diversification in our Gaming division the operational capabilities required to customer base continued from the previous successfully operate an online gaming year at all levels, with the top 15 licensees Overview arm they seek a strong technology accounting for 66% of revenues, down from The Gaming division delivered another partner.
In many cases, they often also 73% at the 2015 year end.
strong year achieving 21% reported lack the digital infrastructure to support revenue growth at constant currency, their retail arm, and through its unique with a good contribution from existing omni-channel solution, Playtech is the and new customers.
obvious choice to provide better CRM, technology, premium products and a best of breed operational skills, expertise and capabilities.
Accordingly, Playtech remains focused on regulated and newly regulated jurisdictions.
30 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Officers review continued We truly believe that the convergence Regulated markets Playtech ONE: omni-channel between retail and online is inevitable Our focus remains on regulated offering due to the combination of two factors markets which represent the future of Playtech ONE is the industrys only the fact that a large number of retail our ever-evolving industry.
During the true integrated omni-channel offering.
gaming businesses still operate legacy period we continued to strengthen Playtech ONE allows operators to systems that do not fit players demand our position andextend our reach develop a seamless inclusive approach and more than ever understand the in regulated markets by supporting to channels, products and platforms.
importance of digitising their retail the organic growth of our customers A true, commercial omni-channel infrastructure.
In addition, the significant in the UK, Italy, Spain, Denmark and offering is not just an integrated solution opportunity in the online space Finland.
Additionally, we established our connecting products or games delivered capitalising the investments made into presence in newly regulated markets to customers or the same games offered the brand that usually comes with better such as Mexico, Bulgaria and Romania across different channels.
Instead, omnicash conversion due to lower capex and working with existing and new retail channel is a comprehensive solution opex investments and better margins.
that shares the same infrastructure and CRM through Playtechs IMS across Regulated revenues in the Gaming Mobile retail, web and mobile environments, division grew both in absolute terms Across all verticals mobile continues to be allowing a seamless journey between and as a percentage of total revenues a key driver of increased player activity with the different channels, products and despite strong growth in soon and yet revenues from mobile accounting for 33% platforms as well as cross platform to be regulated markets and a weaker of overall software revenues, an increase functionality improving the offering to Sterling.
Looking forward to 2017, we of 50% on the same period last year.
players and creating an eco-system will see the percentage of revenues that incentivises the players to remain from regulated markets further improve.
Importantly Playtech saw an 80% increase loyal to the operators.
The one CRM and This will be predominantly driven by in Gaming mobile penetration during the infrastructure provides operators with a the continued growth of our licences year.
With increases across all verticals single view across all customer activity in regulated markets, as operators except for Sports, with the Sports figure and allows them to tailor promotions and reallocate their marketing budgets affected by the previously disclosed bonuses across channels and verticals.
and focus on regulated and soon to loss of certain Mobenga contracts and It also provides operators with the ability be regulated markets, and also within the inclusion of BGT in the second half.
to deliver a fully personalised offering Playtech we will see the full-year impact Unsurprisingly given the maturity of the and successfully target players through from Sun Bingo, BGT, ECM and Eyecon.
UK gaming market and the quality of its cross-product marketing.
mobile networks, there still exists a material The strong momentum that we difference between the UK and the rest of Our proven track record of working experienced in recent years is expected the world, with mobile accounting for 54% with operators in regulated markets to continue as Playtech benefits from of UK software revenues, but only 24% for demonstrates that there is an overlap the growth of its customers and signs the rest of the world.
This highlights not in the demographics of retail and online, new licensees in regulated markets.
only how developed the UK market is, but that traditional retail customers playing In addition, a significant number of also the significant opportunity in other online are more valuable: and that the countries are well advanced in their parts of the world.
acquisition costs associated with such legislation processes across Europe, players are far lower when compared Latin America and elsewhere while Mobile remains an important element of to direct acquisition channels.
A number other important markets are considering omni-channel and is an integral part of of operators have been pre-occupied regulating in the coming future.
every development cycle for our products in recent years with the digitalisation alongside retail and web.
Accordingly, we of retail, concentrating on taking retail have reorganised internally to ensure we online, in reality retail and online form streamline the development lifecycle to part of one experience and channel include a sophisticated mobile solution that for customers.
Accordingly, we believe includes native apps and not just HTML5 that an omni-channel solution will or an HTML5 based solution as most other inevitably be implemented by most companies do.
retail businesses that have or intend to launch an online gaming arm.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Product Playtech continues to lead innovation and can deploy unmatched research and development resources, all of which is Playtech opens worlds available to our licensees.
largest live casino studio Surge in demand sees opening of unrivalled Live casino next generation operation.
Playtech remains focused on live casino given the strong growth we have seen In February 2017 Playtech opened the worlds largest across all our licensees.
We believe next generation live casino studio in Riga, Latvia due positive momentum will continue in to a huge surge in client demand.
2017 and beyond and have continued Built on top of the citys fortified 16th century walls in to develop our live casino offering.
the heart of Riga Old Town, the 8,500 square metre Throughout the year new launches capacity studio dwarfs any existing live casino area and releases have included innovative in the market today.
concepts, games and features, as well as never-before-seen real native apps that The technology within the building is equally unmatched with hundreds of state-of-the-art cameras, prove to be very successful and appealing catering for hundreds more custom-made tables and to customers.
We have also continued to gaming areas, an advanced control and monitoring develop our relationships with customers centre and large-scale dealer campus that will be and worked closely to ensure success used to train and develop all of Playtech Lives staff.
and accelerated growth in their live casino operations.
The new studio will cater for the majority of Playtechs European live casino footprint, further building on the Companys reputation as the leading, global provider In early 2017 Playtech revealed its latest of next generation live casino games, software and ground-breaking Augmented Reality services.
Playtech Live has further studios in the experience within a spectacular Age Philippines, Spain, Belgium and a recently opened of the Gods Live environment.
operation in Romania to cater for an increase in demand for the newly regulated gaming market.
The augmented reality roulette themed As part of the Playtech ONE omni-channel offering, around Playtechs smash-hit suite of Age of Playtech Live allows players to access content the Gods games and due to be launched anywhere, at any time and on any device through later this year uses the latest augmented a single wallet and single account.
Driven by the reality technology to significantly heighten powerful Playtech IMS player management platform the live experience with 3D graphics that and data-driven business intelligence technology, Playtech casino delivers industry-leading in-house can be configured to suit any operator and premium branded games.
requirements, players experience a range of visuals depending on the outcome of each game round.
The game concept is aimed at not only creating a next generation gaming experience, but also giving Playtech licensees greater flexibility and further opportunities to cross-sell to a new This has been a huge undertaking but, demographic of player who would either more importantly, is a huge step forwards have not previously considered or who in live casino and one no other company could potentially re-connect to live casino.
except Playtech is capable of making.
Our licensees offerings have firmly been In addition, we also opened two new futureproofed with the completion of our Live studios in the past few months in new studio, leading-edge software and Latvia and Romania due to the high hardware and state-of-the-art control centre.
And crucially, it is their players who will benefit the most from the best live casino offering on the market.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer 32 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Officers review continued As a result of extensive development The casino offering is at times mistakenly Live casino continued th Built on top of the citys fortified 16 century during 2016 Playtech launched post period regarded as casino games offered on end an industry first new slot game, Tiki operators sites under the casino tab while walls in the heart of Riga Old Town in Latvia, the 8,500 square metre capacity Paradise, that rewards customers with the Playtech casino platform is a lot more.
unique enhanced experiences, features Integrated with the Playtech infrastructure studio dwarfs any existing live casino area in the market today.
The technology and bonuses through the use of omniand information management system the channel play.
Playtech casino platform provides online within the building is equally unmatched with hundreds of state-of-the-art cameras, casino operators with the most advanced Launched across all channels and devices and sophisticated feature-rich solution catering for hundreds more custom-made tables and gaming areas, an advanced with Coral throughout its 1,800 shop that allows operators to better control estate, Tiki Paradise is a true omni-channel their offering.
control and monitoring centre and largescale dealer campus that will be used to game that rewards players as they unlock enhanced features and functionality by Playtechs cutting-edge casino platform train and develop all of Playtech Lives staff.
Every inch of the new operation has been playing in-shop, online and on mobile, enables operators to maximise player made possible due to Playtechs cuttingvalue by offering a full suite of real-time conceptualised, designed and delivered with a future-first approach with all Playtech edge platform technology and unified player incentives and engagement system that enables cross-channel play.
The platform allows for industry Live common and Live dedicated licensee areas remodelled to accommodate the standard bonusing, such as deposit match Given the first feedbacks and performance bonuses, together with more sophisticated latest software and hardware presenting players with the ultimate, never-beforewe are confident that omni-channel content mechanics, including automated cashback, will play a key role in the success of our free-spins, golden chip for table and card seen gaming experience.
omni-channel approach and will become games and game play bonuses.
All these a necessary and important element of promotional methods can be controlled The second studio, a state-of-the-art live casino studio facility in Bucharest, Romania the offering provided by retail and online and configured by the operator, allowing operators delivering a single coherent user for stringent liability and monetary control.
will cater for demand in licensees in the newly regulated Eastern European country.
experience across retail, online and mobile.
To illustrate the platforms sophistication, The game is equally beneficial to the gameplay bonuses allow the operator to New content licensees as it both increases omni-channel incentivise players based on the outcome sign ups and incentivises the players to of a specific hand of black jack or spin of a We launched over 55 new games in the year, including the innovative and exciting remain loyal to the brand within the ecoroulette wheel.
All promotional types can TM system created between retail and online in be triggered by a player event, but Playtech Age of the Gods suite, a great addition to our own industry leading game intellectual the most efficient and responsible way.
The has also developed the ability to automate launch of Tiki Paradise is the first of a series some of the player journeys by developing property.
This has been a highly successful launch and has been very popular with of new omni-channel games expected to business intelligence BI algorithms to launch in the coming months.
trigger the qualification of such incentives.
licensees and is based on an extensive data analysis ahead of the games Furthermore, players can be targeted with personalised login logout messages development to ensure its appeal Gaming division to customers.
and communications, segmented crossperformance by vertical promotion messages in-game and, game Playtechs scale also allows it to launch adviser, possibly one of the systems most Casino effective tools.
Game adviser is a real-time branded content.
After the period end, in Casino, Playtechs flagship offering, February 2017 Playtech signed its largest BI driven recommendation engine that continues to go from strength to strength, suggests other games the player might be ever, multi-year, exclusive branded games with revenue increasing 23% on a constant content deal with Warner Bros. Consumer interested in, dependent on many gamecurrency basis in 2016.
Casino contributed specific variables, including volatility, win Products, on behalf of DC Entertainment, 354.6 million to reported revenues in to license and develop an extensive hit frequency and win distribution.
2016, with mobile revenues seeing a catalogue of iconic DC-branded film and 113% increase in mobile penetration.
television properties into leading omniDuring the period, we invested heavily into the entire casino platform and focused on channel casino games, with the deal This exceptional performance was driven being announced at the start of ICE 2017. its key strength as the largest distributor of by a mixture of existing and new business, games.
With its unrivalled knowledge and Drawing from the worlds of such Warner including growth from UK customers Bros. Pictures titles as Batman v Superman: experience of omni-channel game content, such as Ladbrokes, Sky and BGO, with a Playtech has built a ground-breaking Dawn of Justice, The Dark Knight Trilogy, particularly strong performance from both Suicide Squad and the Studios upcoming new games platform that will change the Live and Asia, where we have added way slot games are built, tested, certified, action adventure Justice League, Playtech, new customers as well as improved our the worlds leading gaming content and delivered and distributed.
platform uses a modelling approach instead software, systems and services supplier, will develop a series of omni-channel of a coding approach, resulting in faster development and more cost-effective DC-branded slot, bingo and roulette games, available across multiple casino content delivery than ever before.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 This unified approach to rapid omniBingo channel game deployment enables In line with the trend identified at the interim operators seeking differentiation and results, despite high levels of activity at the customisation to integrate bespoke operator level, Bingo saw a small decline games in record time and under budget.
in revenue at constant currency for the full year.
This was a result of continuing trend The new games platform technology is for increased bonusing from operators.
now being rolled out across a number As outlined previously this approach is part of Playtechs content creation units and, of an industry wide strategy to utilise bingo looking ahead, it positions Playtech as as an acquisition channel, cross-selling not only the worlds leading software strategy driving further revenues into other and platform provider, but also a true verticals, predominantly casino.
We believe pioneer and world leader in games this approach will strengthen Playtechs content creation.
position in the long term as our Playtech Contributing ONE omni-channel offering will allow Services operators to successfully cross-sell to society Services grew 4% in the full year on a across all products and all verticals.
constant currency basis, in line with the Playtech employees are growth reported at the half year, reflecting Late in the year, the Company successfully sharing their knowledge, skills the continued transition from.
com to migrated The Sun Bingo to the Playtech and expertise as a way of regulated revenue streams strengthened platform as part of an initial five-year contributing to the long-term through the white-label offering, resulting in relationship.
While the technical migration success of the communities a higher proportion of regulated revenues was successful, the low quality of the data where we operate.
provided during the migration meant it mentoring to charitable initiatives required additional analysis to ensure that to equipping more women to The significant efficiencies achieved the information is correctly segmented enter the technology industry.
at the beginning of 2016, changing into different types of VIPs to better utilise For instance, during 2016 2017, the operational structure to localised the customer base.
The Sun Bingo brand Playtech in the UK hosted a operations in jurisdictions where we service remains amongst the best and strongest series of meetup groups on our customers, will result in approximately brands in the industry and continues to various technical subjects.
These 9 million of savings on an annualised attract high levels of new players, and forums bring together Playtech basis, although investment in the business Playtech remains committed to ensure the employees, industry experts, means that this will not simply drop success of The Sun Bingo through the professionals and customers from through to the bottom line given delivery of better products, data analysis different communities in order to the local investment required.
share knowledge and insights related to specific technical We are also making significant progress The end of 2016 and the start of 2017 applications.
In addition, the in certain markets such as Mexico and also saw two significant acquisitions series enables participants to Spain, where we have established a which have enhanced our Bingo and explore how the application of broader relationship as part of structured omni-channel offering.
these technologies can improve agreements with local companies.
This business performance and is an example of the opportunity in an ECM is highly regarded within the bingo team collaboration, while they increasing number of regulated jurisdictions industry and its extensive range of products are also able to explore career and soon to be regulated markets, where is instrumental to the daily operation of development opportunities well recognised retail brands intend to retail bingo in the UK and the Republic of within Playtech, as well as other launch an online gaming arm, seek a Ireland.
Its systems provide key facilities sponsors or guest speakers at strategic partner that can equip them with for Main Stage Bingo, Cash Bingo, wide the events.
not only best of breed technology and area linked gaming operations and See more on page 52 products but a sophisticated tool box of front-of-house reporting.
A complete online operational capabilities they usually customer support facility provides lack.
The success Playtech enjoyed in technical and repair services for all previous years and the successful launch current and legacy products.
of new partners in key markets we believe that the Services division will continue to Eyecon, announced post the period end, see strong growth in the coming years and is a further example of driving revenue will play a key role in our future success.
The acquisition strengthens Playtechs Bingo distribution network whilst offering industry leading slots content such as the Fluffy Favorites game and others which will all be available to Playtech bingo licensees.
34 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Officers review continued of full-sized SSBTs, as well as the recently Sports Land-based launched compact SSBTs, with the initial Growth in Sports slowed in the second half Land-based increased markedly in 2016, roll-out of machines commencing in 2017 of 2016 following the loss of the Mobenga primarily reflecting the revenues from followed by the rollout of an OTC solution contracts which came into effect at the end BGT which were included from July 2016 in 2018.
PBS will provide a fully managed of H1.
Ultimately performance for the full onwards and the organic growth of what service to OPAP including trading and year increased 2% at constant currency, was referred to as land-based vertical.
with the inclusion of BGT for much of H2 discussed at the interim results in August offsetting the loss of the contracts.
2016, it is worth noting that from 2017 Virtual sports onwards, the Land-based vertical will be We believe that our approach to Sports is Working with Warner Bros. Studios the removed with revenues from this vertical unique in the industry.
Playtech is focusing virtual sports product began life in the allocated into Casino, Sports, Bingo and on delivering an omni-channel sports summer of 2015 using the most advanced Other as appropriate.
As we are seeing systems and technology available today.
based reflects the true omni-channel nature across all retail industries the convergence Following almost a year-long process of of our offering.
Revenues from BGT will be of e-commerce and physical retail is a exhaustive and record-breaking motion included in the Sport vertical going forward.
Playtechs omni-channel capture initiatives at Warner Bros. Studios A detailed breakdown of the reallocation offering can offer a fully integrated retail, and 3D design and modelling work at ison pages 39 to 40. online and mobile solution allowing the Playtech Studios, both in the UK, licensees to offer a seamless customer Playtech virtual products using professional Poker journey through online and in-store sportsmen and women in competition The online Poker market remains integration.
As outlined above this allows conditions and techniques and technology challenging with revenues down 17% for retail operators to launch an online gaming used in films such as Avatar, Godzilla the fully year at constant currency.
Playtech arm in newly regulated markets, partnering and James Bonds Quantum of Solace, remains dedicated to the poker product, with Playtech to utilise their retail base in order to capture hundreds of hours and we believe poker remains an important and footprint and become the largest and of movement and footage, the result of part of the full product offering of operators.
best performing online bookmakers in a which is as close to the real game as However, it remains a low margin vertical relatively short period of time.
anyone has ever achieved with compelling and accordingly operators focus on graphics, gameplay and extensive betting investing in cross selling into casino.
Accordingly, following the acquisition opportunities.
All Playtechs virtual sports Notwithstanding, in some markets such as of BGT in July 2016, in November we products are future proof and developed France where only sports betting and poker launched the new Playtech BGT Sports with tournament, matches and leagues are allowed, poker remains a very valid division PBS.
The new division brings in mind.
Playtech also concentrated product vertical.
Playtech also gains from together Playtech Sports companies BGT, heavily on back-end simulation, the natural conversion of certain players Geneity, Mobenga, Unilogic and Playtechs ensuring real-life football, tennis to the poker product.
We also believe that internal Sports Trading team and contains and basketball was replicated from Poker will continue to attract recreational more than 600 employees.
Playtech BGT a gameplay, user experience and players to the product and is utilising it Sports will provide a bricks-to-clicks an odds and betting perspective.
cross-product expertise to develop new fully integrated sports betting technology poker experiences such as an Age of the solution based on Playtechs unique omniThe first half of 2016 saw the launch of TM Gods themed poker experience.
With Dr Armin Sagader a pioneering virtual product in 2016, appointed as CEO of the new division including best ever virtual Tennis and a Financials division we believe that PBS will continue Virtual Sports Football Accumulator or Acca to revolutionise retail and online across all platforms, channels and devices.
The year was a transformational one for businesses alike.
Replicating a real-life football Acca, the Playtechs Financials division, which today Virtual Sports Football Accumulator out of finds itself at an inflection point following Post the period end, PBS announced that the box product has been rolled out across the re-positioning of the business and it has signed a three-year agreement 100 UK Coral shops with the potential to the structural changes in the industry.
with OPAP, the leading Greek betting deploy it across 1,000 outlets This necessitated Ron Hoffman to take and lottery operator, for the supply of in the next 12 months.
full-time control of the business as its self-service betting terminals SSBTs, Chief Executive.
Under Rons leadership relevant software and services, as well as we anticipate the Financials division will the subsequent introduction of an Overcapitalise on its position and realise the the-Counter OTC sports betting solution.
Under the agreement, PBS will supply software and services for a combination Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 There has been continuous development In November 2016, Playtech announced M&A in the regulatory landscape across different the acquisition of CFH, a technology jurisdictions in the industry, including the UK company with products including a We have been pleased with Groups M&A and Europe.
Tighter on-boarding controls leading Straight Through Processing STP activity in 2016, having spent 240 million have been imposed on brokers: there are brokerage which provides retail brokers on acquisitions.
After the period end, we now greater restrictions on marketing and with multi-asset execution, prime brokerage spent a further initial consideration of promotions: companies are required to services, liquidity and complementary 25 million 29 million on Eyecon.
provide enhanced AML procedures: and, risk management tools.
The acquisition more recently, new leverage limitations significantly enhances Playtechs position Quickspin were introduced.
as it continues to build a B2B offering In May Playtech announced the acquisition within its Financials division.
CFHs wholly of Quickspin, a fast-growing Swedish In the face of this more demanding owned subsidiary, CFH Clearing Limited games studio that develops and supplies regulatory framework, the 2016 results is regulated by the Financial Conduct high-quality video slots to operators, both reflect the full impact of the business Authority FCA and Playtech received in online real money gambling as well as transition completed in the first half regulatory approval from the FCA as in the social gaming market.
Our experience of new part of the acquisition process.
regulatory frameworks learned in the Headquartered in Stockholm, Quickspins Gaming division prompted improvements CFH is uniquely positioned in the market portfolio currently consists of over 20 to our business model, including the with $1.5 billion in direct interbank credit games which the company provides cessation of relationships with Introducing lines with tier 1 banks, liquidity providers to over 40 customers, including many Brokers and the decision to move from a and prime brokers, including Barclays, international tier 1 operators.
Quickspin salesperson-based approach to automated Goldman Sachs, UBS, Jefferies and more.
generated revenue and Adjusted EBITDA funnels for customer acquisition.
of 6.0 million and 2.1 million respectively We see significant opportunities following in the financial year ending 31 December The second half of the year saw a the acquisition, including enabling CFH 2015 and is forecast to grow significantly significant improvement in the performance customers to enjoy a deeper pool of over the coming years, with a number of of the Financials division with a small liquidity and an expanded variety of new customers recently secured and with improvement in revenues, encouraging tradable instruments.
In addition, we see a strong pipeline of both new customers KPIs and the benefits of cost reductions significant cross-selling opportunities to and new games.
offer our unique trading platform, CRM and back office systems to a selective range of The acquisition provides Playtech with a In the B2C Markets.
com business, customers which will fit the relevant profile, proven virtual slot machine games portfolio, we have grown active customers by increasing our market reach and cater for strengthening its position as the leading 7%.
This reflects an improvement in further stickiness with our customers.
content provider in the industry, as well as the attrition rate and an increase in providing greater penetration in the Nordic the attractiveness of Markets platform, The acquisition completed on 30 November region.
In addition to Quickspins existing following its continued development 2016 meaning that 1.8 million of new customer base, Playtech plans to cascade and addition of further features, such revenue has been contributed to our Quickspins content through its existing as live traders trends, more relevant consolidated accounts for 2016: and distribution channels across all verticals.
notifications and personalised customer in 2017 CFHs contribution has met communications relevant to their expectations, with a healthy pipeline Playtech will pay a maximum consideration trading history.
of further customers to be on-boarded.
of 50 million based on 2017 and 2018 EBITDA levels.
The maximum consideration The performance improvement of Markets.
In summary, 2016 has seen our Financials of 50 million comprises an initial payment com is even more visible in the number division establish the foundations needed of 24 million for 100% of the shares of of first time depositors, which increased by to capture future growth.
We now have Quickspin on a cash-free debt-free basis almost 60% compared to the first half an efficient, compliant and competitive with the remaining maximum consideration of the year.
This reflects a significant business model offering an industry of 26 million payable on an earn-out basis growth trajectory, which we anticipate leading B2B and B2C solution.
This young by reference to Quickspins EBITDA in 2017 will translate into an increased number industry is experiencing the development and 2018. of active customers, increased revenues of appropriate regulation which will only and EBITDA.
These will be driven by improve the customer experience and The founders of the business, Daniel efficient marketing initiatives through our model is well placed to gain market Lindberg CEO, Joachim Timmermans our unique media buying technology and share as the regulatory framework CPO and Mats Westerlund CCO, who automated customer acquisition funnels.
As the industry are all industry veterans and highly continues to mature and non-compliant regarded in the online gambling market, companies exit the sector the Financials will remain with the business for at least divisions unique B2C and B2B model of three years from completion.
will create opportunities to play a potential role in industry consolidation.
36 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Officers review continued BGTs business model is based on a BGT ECM revenue share of the gross win margin from In July 2016, Playtech announced the In October 2016 Playtech acquired bingo each SSBT.
At the end of FY2016, BGT strategic acquisition of Best Gaming software and hardware solutions provider provided approximately 27,000 SSBTs with Technology GmbH BGT for 138 million ECM Systems ECM.
ECM supplies software its betting software to licensed operators for 90% of the issued share capital.
The and support services to the UK retail bingo with this number forecast to increase consideration was paid from Playtechs market, including major operators Gala significantly over the coming years, driven existing cash resources.
Leisure, Mecca Bingo and the leading primarily by the roll-out of new SSBTs, independent bingo operators.
compact terminals and tablets as bet entry Headquartered in Vienna, BGT was devices as well as by increased usage of founded in 2005 and is the leading ECM is highly regarded within the bingo existing SSBTs.
provider of sports betting software and industry and its extensive range of products solutions for gaming and sports betting is instrumental to the daily operation of Playtech acquired 90% of the issued operators.
Its customer base includes some retail bingo in the UK and the Republic share capital of BGT with the remaining of the most well established bookmakers in of Ireland.
Its systems provide key facilities 10% retained by Dr. Armin Sageder, BGTs the UK and Spain, such as Betfred, Codere, for Main Stage Bingo, Cash Bingo, wide founder and CEO, who will remain with BGT Coral, Ladbrokes, Paddy Power Betfair area linked gaming operations and frontfor at least three years from completion.
A complete customer Playtech has a call option to purchase the support facility provides technical and remaining 10% of BGT at a valuation of 6x BGTs main product is its proprietary repair services for all current and BGTs 2019 EBITDA, subject to maximum software for self-service betting terminals legacy products.
consideration of 55 million for the 10% SSBTs.
Its offering combines class-leading holding, with Dr. Sageder having certain put technology with a digital terminal that Given the inevitable change across the options over his 10% holding at the same transforms the traditional over-the-counter gaming industry bingo operators had to valuation.
Dr. Sageder may also be entitled experience, at times generating more revamp and digitize their retail offering.
to an additional payment of 5 million than double the volumes of other SSBT Accordingly, the last few years have seen subject to the achievement of certain providers.
Other products include ePOS ECM invest in expanding its digital strategy.
and till systems for betting operators and an As a result, ECM is the leading provider omni-channel web mobile betting platform.
and licensor of digital bingo software for In FY2015, BGT generated revenues of In addition to supplying many of the most a wide range of handheld tablets known 41.6 million, with all of these revenues profitable bookmakers in the UK, the as Electronic Bingo Terminals EBT, and coming from regulated markets: and over acquisition will enable Playtech to achieve this generates a significant proportion of three quarters of revenues coming from the greater penetration into the Spanish and its revenues.
The digitisations of the bingo SSBT software segment.
BGT generated Italian markets, with several significant halls together which is based on the ECM Adjusted EBITDA of 12.9 million in FY2015 potential new customers in the pipeline.
infrastructure and technology will serve and 12.5 million of Adjusted EBITDA in Playtech well and will allow it to integrate the first six months of 2016.
In 2015, BGT SSBTs and ePOS systems that digitise retail ECM into Playtech worlds largest bingo generated profit before tax of 6.0 million betting businesses form one of the fastest network and offer a true omni-channel that and had gross assets of 35.9 million growing areas for betting companies and will not only provide better tools to the as at the year end.
one of the most important elements of a bingo hall operators as they use one single true omni-channel offering given the priority set of integrated infrastructure but will also Playtech acquired BGT on a forecast and focus provided by the majority of retail provide a seamless journey and better 2016 EBITDA multiple of less than 7x, a operators many of which are bookmakers experience across the different channels.
highly attractive multiple for an asset of with sports being their core business.
BGTs this quality, which has a track record of product portfolio will enhance the Playtech The acquisition of ECM positions Playtech significant growth and which is expected ONE omni-channel offering, which enables at the forefront of the retail bingo market to continue to achieve significant growth players to enjoy a seamless, anywherein the UK.
It also empowers Playtech to going forwards in both revenues and profit, anytime gaming experience across any provide omni-channel solutions to the including margin expansion.
The acquisition product, channel and device, all using bingo operators by connecting their retail is expected to generate high single-digit a single account and wallet.
and online operations as well as providing earnings accretion for Playtech in the first a platform to supply Playtech content.
For FY2016, ECM reported revenues of The acquisition of BGT was central to 9.1 million and Adjusted EBITDA of 4.5 the foundation of Playtech BGT Sports in million.
Playtech has paid approximately November this year which combined BGT, 14.9 million for 90% of the issued share Geneity, Mobenga, Unilogic and Playtechs capital of ECM.
The remaining 10%, which internal Sports Trading team.
is subject to put and call options capped at 1.1 million, is held by Allen Richardson who will remain as CEO of the business for the next three years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 The acquisition of CFH is a major The maximum consideration of 50 million CFH step forward in the development of c. 58 million comprises an initial payment November this year saw the Playtech our financial division B2B offering of 25 million c. 29 million on a cash free Financials division announce the acquisition given the hundreds of brokers CFH debt free basis, representing a multiple of Consolidated Financial Holdings A S has a relationship with, an advanced of c. 8x Eyecons current run-rate EBITDA.
CFH for an initial consideration of 39.8 sophisticated offering and technology, An additional consideration of up to 25 million for 70% of CFHs diluted share coverage of an enlarged number of million is payable on an earn-out basis of capital.
The remaining 30% will be subject instruments as well as the ability to 6x Eyecons EBITDA in the period to June to put and call options between Playtech provide an attractive liquidity pool.
2019 subject to certain adjustments less and CFHs management team, who are the initial payment.
remaining with the business, and which can be exercised in 2019.
CFH is a technology Eyecon To assist in retaining the knowledgeable company with products including a Following the period end in February 2017, and specialist Eyecon team, its founder leading Straight Through Processing STP Playtech announced the acquisition of Scott Murray, has committed to remain brokerage which provides retail brokers the entire issued share capital of Eyecon with the business for at least three years.
with multi-asset execution, prime brokerage Limited and Eyecon Pty.
Ltd together services, liquidity and complementary risk Eyecon, a specialist supplier of online management tools.
CFHs wholly owned gaming soft slots and a bingo slots Current trading subsidiary, CFH Clearing Limited CFH specialist software to a number of bingo and outlook Clearing was regulated by the Financial networks and other international operators Conduct Authority and as a result of for a maximum total consideration of Average daily revenue in the Gaming the acquisition Playtech received FCA 50 million.
division for the first 51 days of Q1 2017 regulatory approval.
was up 27% on Q1 2016 32% at constant Eyecon was founded in Brisbane, Australia currency and up 11% on Q4 2016 10% at Through its proprietary ClearVision in 1997 and is a specialist software supplier constant currency.
Excluding acquisitions, technology, CFHs services to customers with a particular focus on bingo audiences average daily revenue in the Gaming include providing liquidity control and with an established games portfolio of over division for the first 51 days of Q1 2017 customisation capabilities: real time risk 70 games, including the industry-leading was up 9% on Q1 2016 12% at constant management tools: and cloud-based soft gaming slot Fluffy Favourites.
Eyecon currency and up 11% on Q4 2016 up 10% back office.
has also developed its own Remote at constant currency.
Gaming Server RGS which enables it to CFH Clearing is one of the top STP venues distribute its content direct to operators The Financials division has performed in the world with award-winning liquidity and via distributors, such as the entire 888 in line with expectations in 2017 to services and $1.5 billion in direct interbank bingo network including 888 own bingo date.
com KPIs continue to be credit lines with tier 1 banks, liquidity brand and Virtue Fusion, Playtechs bingo encouraging against a backdrop of low providers and prime brokers including network which integrated only a selected volatility and CFH continues to perform well Barclays, Goldman Sachs, UBS, Jefferies few games so far with the intention to offer with B2B volumes in line with expectations.
Through its relationships the entire portfolio of Eyecon games across with liquidity providers and prime brokers, the network for the benefit of its licensees Playtech continues to focus on M&A to CFH is currently able to offer liquidity on and their customers, who will now have augment organic growth and its M&A approximately 110 instruments.
access to the same portfolio of Eyecon pipeline remains healthy.
CFHs revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Given the progress we have made in 2016, generated for the year ended 31 December Eyecon currently derives almost all its delivering on our strategic objectives, we 2015 was $19.2 million 17.6 million and revenue from the UK market and in line with remain confident of strong performance $5.7 million 5.2 million respectively.
Playtechs acquisition strategy, almost all in 2017 driven by both organic growth of Eyecons revenues are fully regulated.
and the acquisitions made in 2016.
As a result of the acquisition CFH will The addition of Eyecons content portfolio have access to the Playtechs Financials strengthens Playtechs position as the divisions wide range of CFD instruments leading content provider in this key which CFH will be able to offer on its market.
In addition, Eyecons proprietary clearing system over time.
Playtech will also RGS and distribution network will allow CFH to offer a deeper pool of liquidity strengthen the penetration of through the addition of intra group liquidity Playtechs Virtue Fusion offering.
arrangements, enabling more competitive Mor Weizer prices and faster execution.
Moreover, Chief Executive Officer CFH will benefit from Playtechs leading technological superiority to further develop 22 February 2017 its offering and improve client experience.
