GROUP CEO STATEMENT On track with delivering ambitious growth plans While the macro environment for our business once again remained volatile and unpredictable, Polymetal reports solid operating and financial results for the year.
We also made significant progress on advancing our key strategic goals.
We have always focused on delivering superior returns from our carefully selected and efficiently run high-quality assets, and this remained our priority throughout the year.
Polymetals strategic growth plans were reinforced in May 2016 with two new acquisitions, and despite unexpected political outcomes and ensuing fluctuations in the commodity markets, we remain on track.
Generating long-term value Our portfolio of high-grade,  assets ensures both profitable operations and sustainable cash returns throughout the cycle.
This ability to generate a healthy cash flow today enables us to finance the pipeline of future projects that drive our ambitious growth plans.
At the same time, we are also able to maintain a sound capital structure and pay out significant dividends.
We are on track with the construction of our flagship project, Kyzyl.
It is one of the highest grade and largest untapped gold deposits in the Former Soviet Union which will go into production in late 2018, and will then be ramped up to full capacity in 2019.
In the meantime, we are continuously on the lookout for attractive and synergistic growth options.
In this reporting year, we have acquired Kapan, our first operating mine in Armenia, and Komar in Kazakhstan.
Both are valueaccretive and we are already turning the operations around: in the case of Komar, immediately creating additional high-grade feedstock source for our existing Varvara mine.
We are also working on the development of our joint venture at Nezhda.
We invest substantial amounts towards in-house exploration both brownfield and greenfield, with the dual purpose of extending the life-of-mine at existing operations and finding new resources for future standalone growth projects.
Our maiden platinum group metals PGM resource at the Viksha project in Karelia is a prime example of this, with positive results from our initial exploration and a further feasibility study planned.
Key highlights in 2016 Polymetal reports another year of strong operational delivery.
Gold equivalent GE production for the year comprised 1.27 Moz, in line with the increased GE production guidance for 2016.
This was achieved due to the robust operating performance at key mines such as Dukat, Albazino and Omolon, as well as input from Kapan acquired in April 2016 and Svetloye - Okhotsk hub launched one year ahead of its original schedule.
We have addressed geotechnical issues at Mayskoye and ramped up underground mining during the year, while also achieving higher grade levels.
We have also improved the profitability of Varvara by adding Komar to the feedstock.
The effect of currency devaluations in Russia and Kazakhstan improved our operating profitability, despite depressed gold and silver prices.
Our all-in sustaining cash costs AISC of US$ 776 GE oz remain at low levels that allow us to generate a healthy FCF margin, driven not only by devaluation but also by our careful choice of high-grade assets which have an average reserve grade of 3.8 g t GE, and an average grade processed during 2016 of 4.0 g t. Free cash flow generation remains the distinguishing feature of Polymetal.
On the back of robust cash flow generation for the year, the Company paid out US$ 158 million in regular and special dividends to shareholders, while maintaining stable net debt and also financing the construction of Kyzyl out of free cash flow.
Investing in further growth In the reporting year, we have made significant progress towards achieveing our growth plans of 1.8 Moz of GE production by 2020.
We are pleased with the progress at Kyzyl, having completed all regulatory approvals and permitting processes, we started construction of the processing plant and commenced pre-stripping.
The Board has also approved the Amursk POX expansion project, which will enable us to divert 50% of the concentrate produced at Kyzyl for in-house processing rather than offtake.
This will significantly improve the economics of the project through better recovery and the cost of treatment.
The project will be completed in 2018, in line with the start-up of Kyzyl.
Polymetal International plc 7 Our new assets at Kapan and Komar both started generating positive free cash flow shortly after acquisition and offer further growth potential.
At Kapan, we plan to eliminate bottlenecks at the existing mine and add feedstock from our other Armenian mine, Lichkvaz.
Komar is a bolt-on acquisition to Varvara, offering up to 1.2 Mtpa of ore, accessible by rail and with a grade that is twice as high as that of the main Varvara mine.
Our joint venture at Nezhda is another example of a potentially long-lived asset leveraging our core competences.
During the year, we performed an extensive exploration campaign and are now much more confident about proceeding with Stage 2 of the development, which is expected to bring us to commercial production within four years.
Creating a sustainable future The health and safety record for the year is, unfortunately, the largest area of concern for the Company.
We are greatly saddened by the four fatalities at our sites during 2016 and remain committed to our aim of achieving zero fatalities.
Management at all levels continues to take steps aimed at radically improving our safety performance.
While we have seen improvement in the underground safety record, breaches in other areas of our operations have demonstrated a significant need to reinforce the safety culture and tighten up procedures across all functions.
Investment in our people, local communities and the surrounding environment are also key to the commercial success of the business.
We continue to provide support for the well-being of our employees and communities, particularly given the current macroeconomic environment.
Polymetal is committed to equal opportunities, the development of our staff and to making a positive impact on the remote areas and communities where we operate.
I would like to thank our employees and partners for all their hard work in 2016.
Together, I am confident that we will achieve even more in 2017 towards reaching our mission of sustainable value creation.
Vitaly Nesis Group CEO Polymetal International plc 8
