Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Following on from a record performance in 2016 I am confident that our strategic development initiatives will continue to deliver growth ahead of the market.
Our record performance during 2016 period of uncertainty following the and continuing growth underscores the EU Referendum result.
Whilst market strength of the Polypipe business model forecasts were unsettled by the outcome, and the robust fundamentals underlying the majority of our UK market sectors the majority of our market segments.
In a were largely unaffected with our order period of heightened political and market intake showing no discernible impact.
uncertainties, Polypipe continued to Political will, especially following the focus on its priorities and delivered results changes in Government leadership, toward the top end of our expectations.
to improve the housing shortage and The drivers of our main UK market national infrastructure is evident and has remain positive and I am confident that helped maintain and bolster confidence our strategic development initiatives will in the construction sector overall.
continue to deliver growth ahead of the Whilst we took a measured response market.
to slow capital expenditure relating to capacity expansion, in the immediate Following the acquisition of Nuaire aftermath of the EU Referendum, as our last year, using cash and our debt confidence returned we recommenced facilities, our immediate focus has been those projects, which has the effect of to integrate the acquisition and to having pushed forward around 3m of reduce our level of debt.
I am extremely GROUP REVENUE expenditure originally planned for 2016 pleased to report that Nuaire has been into 2017.
Despite this rescheduling, we successfully integrated and continued still invested 19.1m during the year, 436.9m to perform well under our ownership, some 2.8m ahead of depreciation.
maintaining its previous growth trajectory as well as developing the sales synergies The sharp downward movement in 23.8% that we had envisaged.
The highly cash exchange rates coupled with increases generative nature of our business has in crude oil prices, resulted in a steady enabled us to reduce net debt to 1.9 increase in virgin polymer prices over UNDERLYING OPERATING times EBITDA at the end of the year the second half of the year.
This was a PROFIT compared to 2.5 times at the end of significant reversal of trends seen in the 2015, delivering on our stated aim to first half and had an increasing impact reduce towards 2.0 times.
We expect this on margins during the final quarter.
In 69.4m downwards trend to continue but at the general, our products represent a small same time we have sufficient financial part of overall project costs and because 28.0% headroom to continue to develop of the historical volatility in commodity our investment opportunities and will polymer prices, customers recognise the continue to seek compelling bolt on need for us to pass through both price acquisition opportunities.
increases and decreases in our selling prices.
Although there is an inevitable Our customers rely on our ability to lag in achieving full pass through, and deliver the vast majority of their orders we do all that we can to ameliorate price within a very short lead time and carrying increases, Polypipe is well experienced the right level of inventory across such a and has a good history of recovering broad product range is a key capability input cost inflation, even in difficult of the Group.
Our ability to respond market conditions.
and flex rapidly with demand, allowed us to not take any precipitative action with regard to capacity in the immediate 08 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT In the UK residential sector our core on site, HDPE 4-way boss pipes and The Group continued to invest in products and systems targeted at the low-level manifolds, a range of guardrail its capability to reprocess consumer new build market showed strong growth and chain assembly accessories for waste into durable, long lifecycle, high with further ongoing substitution of Ridgistorm-XL installations, Permavoid performance systems.
Approximately alternative traditional materials and our capillary cone cells, and an upright Boxer one third of our UK production comprehensive range of carbon efficient packaged solution air handling unit from utilises reprocessed polymer, making a solutions.
We continued to enjoy success Nuaire, incorporating high efficiency considerable contribution to the circular with our underfloor heating offer with a heat recovery and the latest generation economy with Polypipe one of the largest well-received launch of a new range of of ecosmart controls.
Progressive recyclers of household plastic waste aesthetic and intuitive TFT touch-screen introduction of new products enables in the UK.
Our latest investment is in smart controls.
In residential ventilation, the Group to win an increasing number state-of-the-art multilayer technology our Silavent range benefited from further of high profile project specifications for sewerage pipe within our Building leverage of Nuaires routes to market, and secure further penetration into the Products business, which will come on whilst Nuaire themselves have continued sectors of the construction industry that stream in early 2017.
Whilst there are to innovate with the launch of the energy offer opportunities for us to add value.
some benefits to lower and more stable efficient Drimaster-Eco range of positive input costs, these are largely offset by the Our most significant operational input ventilation for both new build and investment needed and higher processing development project during 2016 was retrofit residential applications.
Nonetheless, we are committed to the setting up of a manufacturing continue to increase our use of recycled In Commercial and Infrastructure facility in the Middle East.
After careful polymer and believe our customers Systems - UK, Government and legislative consideration of several options with regard it as an important factor in their focus on flood alleviation continued regard to location we chose the Jebel environmentally responsible sourcing to drive strong sales growth for our Ali Free Zone in Dubai.
comprehensive range of engineered Free Zone enables us to have 100% water management solutions.
In addition ownership of the operation which we We were honoured to receive the to providing an increasing number believe gives us flexibility and has also Queens Award for Enterprise: of SUDS sustainable urban drainage been one of the reasons we have been International Trade, which was solutions to developers for a variety of able to move with such pace.
Presently, announced on 21 April 2016, to coincide different contracts, we were specified for we have set up one manufacturing with the 90th birthday of Queen a number of significant projects helping cell for our geocellular storm water Elizabeth II.
The Group was recognised to design some innovative prefabricated attenuation products which are the most for delivering significant growth in export solutions, minimizing site work and space hungry items we export to the activity, not least to the Middle East, time, enhancing quality and health and region.
All of our other products and where Polypipe recently solidified our safety.
In one London development ancillaries continue to be manufactured presence in the region with the opening project alone, we installed a shallow in the UK and exported as previously.
of our first overseas Technical Training Permavoid system, designed to handle The building is on a relatively short Centre in October 2015. a  storm event lease, whilst we evaluate the potential and capable of handling 1.5 million litres opportunity, and the production cell of storm water.
Further north, our 1.5m mirrors those in the UK.
This means we diameter Ridgistorm-XL catchpits were have in-depth knowledge and experience pre-fabricated off-site and helicoptered of operating the equipment but also into position as part of SSEs repair minimises risk should we decide at a programme on the Loch Sloy Hydraulic future date to repatriate the equipment Power Station in the Highlands.
to one of our UK facilities.
After a very fast set up, we started to manufacture We have continued to invest and samples for test in July and fulfilled sales maintained our focus on our rate of of 3.8m from the facility during the year.
development in new products and This is an excellent start, however we will enhancement of existing ranges.
During continue to move forward cautiously as the period many new products were we refine our knowledge and skills of introduced across our businesses, operating in the region, to ensure we can including a new easy-to-install push-fit as closely as possible match supply and stainless steel manifold for our underfloor demand in an arena where the average heating range, a range of cast-iron effect project is considerably larger than those PVC rainwater hoppers, a squeezable we are used to supplying in the UK.
cavity closure which requires no cutting 09 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The following tables set out Group revenue and underlying operating profit by help alleviate the squeeze on public operating segment: housing RMI budgets resulting from the impact of policies such as Right to LFL Buy and the obligation to reduce rents.
2016 2015 Change Change The combination of these factors led to REVENUE m m % % overall housing RMI output to decline Residential Systems 207.6 182.6 13.7 6.6 marginally during the year.
Commercial and Residential systems delivered an Infrastructure Systems underlying operating profit of 39.1m, UK 184.2 131.5 40.1 16.1 an increase of 19.2% over the prior year.
Inter-segment sales 11.0 10.2 COMMERCIAL AND UK Operations 380.8 303.9 25.3 10.5 INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS UK Commercial and Revenue from our UK commercial and Infrastructure Systems infrastructure systems segment was Mainland Europe 57.9 50.4 14.9 2.4 184.2m and represented 41% of overall Inter-segment sales 1.8 1.4 Group revenue in 2016.
Group revenue 436.9 352.9 23.8 9.1 Although there is some uncertainty 2016 2015 Change over the timing of the Governments UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT m m % 15.2 billion Road Investment Strategy a number of significant road projects Residential Systems 39.1 32.8 19.2 were commenced and our products are Commercial and Infrastructure installed towards the front end of those Systems UK 29.0 20.1 44.3 works.
As a result, 2016 was a strong year for demand from this sector and UK Operations 68.1 52.9 28.7 the additional schemes which have been Commercial and Infrastructure tendered and are starting to be initiated Systems Mainland Europe 1.3 1.3 n a for 2017, are encouraging.
Group underlying operating profit 69.4 54.2 28.0 Although private commercial project awards faltered during the middle of Like for like LFL measures exclude acquisitions, where relevant, and are at constant currency translation.
the year, picking up again towards the end, the long gestation period of these kind of projects meant site activity again during the year being impacted RESIDENTIAL SYSTEMS remained good throughout the period.
by budgetary concerns arising from Revenue from the residential systems Infrastructure related to residential Government funding and obligations.
segment was 207.6m all of which was development also performed well and in the UK and Ireland and represented Private Renovation, Maintenance and combined with the increase in the 46% of overall Group revenue in 2016.
Improvement RMI activity has grown construction of high rise multi occupancy at a slower pace than market conditions Growth in activity in private residential buildings in London, and more recently in would suggest.
Although the second new build has continued to be driven by other major cities, provided a good level hand housing market, which is historically the national housebuilders, whilst smaller of demand for our commercial systems, a driver of RMI, has remained very builders still appear to be constrained or including the Nuaire ranges.
sluggish, the rise in real incomes and reluctant to commit capital investment to strong mortgage availability coupled enable higher volume growth.
The much with a slow housing market would have reported trend of the slowing rate of been expected to have driven more growth in the London market is evident improvement activity by those who with faster growth in the regions and cannot move.
There were no significant in particular some of the larger regional changes to Government funding to cities.
Public sector housing starts fell 10 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Export revenue is predominantly from OUTLOOK our commercial and infrastructure The new year has started well, with the systems product portfolio and is primarily underlying momentum in our main UK targeted at the Gulf states, although we market carrying through from a strong also won some notable projects in other final quarter, boosted by some pre-price British Standard regions of the world.
We increase orders from our stockists.
Market report sales from our new Middle East forecasts coupled with statements facility in this segment as the products made by contractors and housebuilders are combined with pipes, fittings and regarding their anticipated activity levels, ancillaries which are exported from suggest that the overall UK construction the UK.
Including locally manufactured market will continue to grow.
We intend products, export revenue grew by 28.7% to maintain our focus and investment over 2015. on those development opportunities which enable us to add value to our Commercial and Infrastructure Systems customer proposition and deliver growth UK delivered an underlying profit of ahead of the market.
Whilst the level of 29.0m, an increase of 44.3% over the uncertainty appears to have eased since prior year.
the immediate reaction to the outcome COMMERCIAL AND of the EU Referendum, we remain alert INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS to market risks and are confident in our ability to adapt to any changes in market MAINLAND EUROPE conditions quickly and from a position of Revenue from our Mainland Europe strength.
segment was 57.9m and represented 13% of overall Group revenue in 2016.
Passing on the impact of input inflation When translated into Sterling this is on our base polymers and other costs an increase of 14.9% on prior year, is one of our most immediate priorities.
compared to an increase of 2.4% in local Whilst doing everything we can to currency.
alleviate the need for selling price increases, we are confident that our Although traditionally the French market customers expect us to pass on essential improves as construction and municipal increases.
We expect to see the impact spending is accelerated towards an of these price increases coming through election period, we saw little evidence as we move into the second quarter, of improvement during the year.
During delivering our planned margin over the the first half we ran some distributor year as a whole, albeit resulting in a incentives to encourage them to build different profile through the year when stock, however given the market picked compared to 2016. up less than had been hoped, this had the effect of pulling forward some sales The combination of forecast market into the first half of the year to the growth, our focus on executing our detriment of our sales in the second strategic development initiatives and half of the year, resulting in only a small resolve to recover input cost inflation incremental volume growth overall.
mean that we look forward to 2017 Nonetheless, our management initiatives being a further year of progression for are delivering a gradual improvement, the Group.
maintaining profitability despite the lag in passing through the adverse impact of David Hall higher raw material costs in this segment, Chief Executive Officer where materials represent a higher proportion of input costs.
Underlying operating profit was flat at 1.3m, a slight decrease in local currency.
