0 01 1G Gr ro ou up po ov five er rv viie ew w Chairmans Challenge Prudential Malaysia The PRUkasih programme offers financial aid to the urban poor, covering the basic needs of food and shelter and providing social protection for families.
Prudential volunteers are actively involved in manning information booths, undertaking door-to-door visits and assisting with financial literacy sessions.
Over 8,000 children have benefited from the education sessions, and over 20,600 families from 12 communities have had access to PRUkasihs unique protection plan.
By 2018, the programme aims to equip 50,000 children with money management skills.
Gan Leong Hin, CEO of Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad, says, Financial protection and education are very close to our hearts.
We have first-hand experience of seeing how devastating the impact can be on the lives of families living without financial security when something unfortunate happens to the main breadwinners.
That is what led us to create PRUkasih.
We are also committed to promoting financial literacy and inculcating the right values to raise our next generation in becoming financially literate.
This is in line with our mission of providing financial freedom and peace of mind to all Malaysians.
of educational survival tips for natural Our people disasters with a potential reach of In each of our markets we have teams 200 million people.
In the UK, over the focused on delivering for our customers.
It past four years, Prudential RideLondon is the diligence, creativity and hard work of has raised 41 million for charity and these teams that enable Prudential to become one of the largest fundraising succeed.
Their contribution is vital and it is events in the country.
In 2016 alone, the responsibility of the Board to consider more than 740 charities benefited from their interests in every decision we make.
Our people ensure we can continue to respond to the changing external I am particularly proud of the direct environment and in 2016, their resilience contribution made by our people to the and enthusiasm were critical to our communities in which they live and achieving the excellent set of results we participate.
In 2016, Prudential colleagues have reported.
Their commitment to our volunteered over 80,000 hours of their customers provides me with great time.
I support this personally via our confidence for the future.
flagship international volunteering programme, the Chairmans Challenge.
Our communities The programme continues to appeal to The most obvious benefits that result from colleagues, with the number of volunteers Prudentials activities are the peace of mind signing up increasing year-on-year.
From we bring to our customers and the its launch in 2006, when 2,603 employees long-term capital we provide to companies signed up, volunteer numbers have Paul Manduca and governments.
It is, however, also in our increased by 208 per cent to 8,011 in Chairman customers and shareholders interests for 2016, benefiting 92,720 individuals Prudential to be a responsible business across the world.
which invests in and gives back to our local In conclusion, while the events of 2016 communities, alongside the jobs, growth caused some uncertainty in our operating and tax revenue we provide.
environment around the world, We are proud of our work in financial Prudentials performance has been strong.
education, disaster preparedness and It is a testament to the commitment and social inclusion.
The Cha-Ching calibre of our people and the quality of the programme that we launched in Asia in products and services we provide to 2011 is now the first truly global financial customers that we were able to achieve education programme.
As I look to the future, I am now been launched in Poland, the UK and confident that our people, our customer Africa and will shortly launch in the US.
The proposition and our culture will enable us Prudence Foundations Safe Steps is a to continue to grow.
first-of-its-kind pan-Asian public service initiative to enhance disaster preparedness and awareness through the dissemination www.
