s t n e m t s e v t n i i M d t t r o n u e n e n O o r e i m p t C m m e o e s o r r r r s u R f e s a R a R i s a s s i t i n s e k s s s i e d k s a k o k m e i t R r n a d t p k e m e a p t n s k l o i p i a p a R l r o m b e n i R a r u t I c a i i t s s m n i t i M g k n e e s o s e e, u s s f l c s m i r r Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Generating value through selective exposure to risk adverse outcome.
For our retained risks, Introduction Our Risk Management we ensure that we have the necessary 2016 has been a year of extraordinary Framework is designed to capabilities, expertise, processes and global change, starting with market ensure the business controls to manage appropriately the turbulence in China, followed by the UKs exposure.
vote to leave the EU and ending with the remains strong through election of a new president in the US.
In my report, I seek to explain the main risks stress events so we can inherent in our business and how we Even in such a year, we have maintained a continue to deliver on our manage these evolving risks, with the aim strong and sustained focus on planning for long-term commitments of ensuring we maintain an appropriate risk the possibility of, and ultimately managing, profile.
the market volatility and macroeconomic to our customers and uncertainty arising from these events.
2016 Risk governance, culture and Risk Management Framework and risk our risk management cycle has been a year of appetite have allowed us to control Prudential defines risk as the uncertainty successfully our risk exposure throughout extraordinary global that we face in successfully implementing the year.
Our strong governance, uncertainty and the our strategies and objectives.
This includes processes and controls enable us to deal all internal or external events, acts or with the uncertainty ahead in order to financial strength of our omissions that have the potential to continue helping our customers achieve Group has remained threaten the success and survival of the their long-term financial goals.
As such, material risks will be robust throughout.
For our shareholders, we generate value by retained selectively where we think there is selectively taking exposure to risks that are value to do so, and where it is consistent Penny James adequately rewarded and that can be with the Groups risk appetite and Group Chief Risk Officer appropriately quantified and managed.
We philosophy towards risk taking.
retain risks within a clearly defined risk The following section provides more detail appetite, where we believe doing so on our risk governance, culture and risk contributes to value creation and the management process.
Group is able to withstand the impact of an Risk governance Risk management cycle Identified major risk categories Risk Risk Group management culture risk profile cycle 50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk a p o m e a d r M i m n o n n n c t n d a t s i o d c o u a i n g c u e a f t t a s r e r a n s s s t g c a t n d d i a e o a f m t r i i n r r L t a t a e i a i t n d n g r o q w S e e d g a B u d o p e r i c i o r r d o d s k k s t s i n s s n s t i t e e s R y r n m e i o s n n l u i o s b r i u r v B u n e o m o r f s k s i R 02 Strategic report Risk governance Risk appetite, limits and triggers Liquidity The extent to which we are willing to take The objective is to ensure that the Group is Our risk governance comprises the risk in the pursuit of our objective to create able to generate sufficient cash resources organisational structures, reporting shareholder value is defined by a number to meet financial obligations as they fall due relationships, delegation of authority, roles of risk appetite statements, operationalised in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
and responsibilities, and risk policies that the through measures such as limits, triggers Risk appetite with respect to liquidity risk is Group head office and the business units and indicators.
The Group risk appetite is measured using a Liquidity Coverage Ratio establish to make decisions and control approved by the Board and is set with which considers the sources of liquidity their activities on risk-related matters.
This reference to economic and regulatory versus liquidity requirements under stress encompasses individuals, Group-wide capital, liquidity and earnings volatility.
functions and committees involved in the Group risk appetite is aimed at ensuring management of risk.
Capital requirements that we take an appropriate level of The limits aim to ensure that: Risk committees and governance aggregate risk and covers all risks to structure shareholders, including those from The Group meets its internal economic Our Risk governance structure is led by the participating and third party business.
We capital requirements: Groups Risk Committee, supported by have no appetite for material losses direct The Group achieves its desired target independent non-executives on risk or indirect suffered as a result of failing to rating to meet its business objectives: committees of major subsidiaries.
These develop, implement and monitor and committees monitor the development of appropriate controls to manage operational the risk management framework, and the risks.
Group limits operate within the risk Supervisory intervention is avoided.
Groups risk appetites, limits, and policies appetite to constrain the material risks, The two measures used at the Group level as well as its risk culture.
We have in place a while triggers and indicators provide are Solvency II capital requirements and comprehensive risk management cycle to further constraint and ensure escalation.
identify, measure, manage and monitor our The Group Chief Risk Officer determines In addition, capital requirements are risk exposures.
the action to be taken upon any breaches.
monitored on local statutory bases.
In addition to the risk committees The Group Risk function is responsible for The Group Risk Committee is responsible mentioned, there are various executive risk reviewing the scope and operation of these for reviewing the risks inherent in the forums to ensure risk issues are shared and measures at least annually, to determine Groups business plan and for providing the considered across the Group.
These are led that they remain relevant.
The Board Board with input on the risk reward by the Group Executive Risk Committee approves all changes made to the Groups trade-offs implicit therein.
This review is which is supported by a number of specific Risk Appetite Framework.
We define and supported by the Group Risk function, committees including in relation to security monitor aggregate risk limits based on which uses submissions from our local and information security where specialist financial and non-financial stresses for our business units to calculate the Groups skills are required.
earnings volatility, liquidity and capital aggregated position allowing for requirements.
Risk Management Framework diversification effects between local The Groups Risk Management Framework Earnings volatility business units relative to the aggregate has been developed to monitor and The objectives of the aggregate risk limits risk limits.
manage the risk of the business at all levels seek to ensure that: Risk policies and is owned by the Board.
The aggregate The volatility of earnings is consistent These set out the specific requirements Group exposure to the key risk drivers is with the expectations of stakeholders: which cover the fundamental principles for monitored and managed by the Group risk management within the Group Risk Risk function whose responsibility it is to The Group has adequate earnings and Framework.
Policies are designed to give review, assess and report on the Groups cash flows to service debt, expected some flexibility so that business users can risk exposure and solvency position from dividends and to withstand unexpected determine how best to comply with policies the Group economic, regulatory and shocks: and based on their local expertise.
Earnings and cash flows are managed There are core risk policies for credit, The Framework requires that all our properly across geographies and are market, insurance, liquidity and operational businesses and functions establish consistent with funding strategies.
risks and a number of internal control processes for identifying, evaluating and The two measures used to monitor the policies covering internal model risk, managing the key risks faced by the Group volatility of earnings are IFRS operating underwriting, dealing controls and tax risk the Risk Management Cycle see below profit and EEV operating profit, although management.
They form part of the Group and is based on the concept of the three IFRS and EEV total profits are also Governance Manual, which was lines of defence, comprising risk taking and considered.
developed to make a key contribution to management, risk control and oversight, the sound system of internal control that and independent assurance.
A major part we maintain in line with the UK Corporate of the Risk Management Cycle is the annual Governance Code and the Hong Kong assessment of the Groups risks which are Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
These key risks range from Group Head Office and business units risks associated with the economic, must confirm that they have implemented market, political and regulatory the necessary controls to evidence environment: those that we assume when compliance with the Group Governance writing our insurance products and by Manual on an annual basis.
virtue of the investments we hold: and those that are inherent in our business model and its operation.
This is used to inform risk reporting to the risk committees and the Board for the year.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 51 M t t o n n e n e i m t m e o s r r s u e s a a s n e s d a m r d k e n s i p a R o r t Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Continued Risk standards Employees understand and care about horizon-scanning performed as part of our their role in managing risk they are emerging risk management process.
The Group-wide Operating Standards provide supporting detail to the higher aware of and openly discuss risk as part On an annual basis, a top-down of the way they perform their role: and level risk policies.
In many cases they identification of the Groups key risks is define the minimum requirements for Employees invite open discussion on the performed which considers those risks that compliance with Solvency II regulations approach to the management of risk.
have the greatest potential to impact the which in some areas are highly Groups operating results and financial Key aspects of risk culture are also prescriptive.
The standards are more condition.
A bottom-up process of risk detailed than policies.
communicated through the Code of identification is performed by the business Conduct and the policies in the Group units who identify, assess and document Our risk culture Governance Manual, including the risks, with appropriate coordination and Culture is a strategic priority of the Board commitments to the fair treatment of our challenge from the risk functions.
who recognise the importance of good customers and staff.
The approach to the culture in the way that we do business.
Risk management of risk is also a key part of the The Group ORSA report pulls together the culture is a subset of broader organisational evaluation of the remuneration of analysis performed by a number of risk and culture, which shapes the .
Risk culture is an evolving topic capital management processes, which are wide values that we use to prioritise risk across the financial services industry and embedded across the Group, and provides management behaviours and practices.
we will be continuing work to evaluate and quantitative and qualitative assessments of embed a strong risk culture through 2017. the Groups risk profile, risk management An evaluation of risk culture is part of the and solvency needs on a forward-looking Risk Management Framework and in The risk management cycle basis.
The scope of the report covers the particular seeks to identify evidence that: The risk management cycle comprises full known risk universe of the Group.
processes to identify, measure and assess, Senior management in business units In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the articulate the need for good risk manage and control, and monitor and UK Code, the Directors have performed a report on our risks.
management as a way to realise robust assessment of the principal risks long-term value and continuously Risk identification facing the Company, through the Group support this through their actions.
Group-wide risk identification takes place ORSA report and the risk assessments throughout the year, and includes done as part of the business planning processes such as our Own Risk and review, including how they are managed Solvency Assessment ORSA and the and mitigated.
Risk identification covers Group-wide: Risks are assessed in terms of materiality.
Top down risk identification Material risks which are modelled are Bottom up risk identification included in capital models, including Emerging risk identification E-Cap.
Risks which cannot be quantified are assessed qualitatively.
Risk management cycle Risk processes that support the Risk reports provide monthly updates management and controlling of risk to the Group Executive Risk Committee, exposures include: Group Risk Committee and Board on Risk appetite and limits exposure against Board-approved risk Financial incidents procedures appetite statements and limits.
Large risk approval process Risk reports also provide updates on the Global counterparty limit Group top risks.
framework Own risk and solvency assessment Reverse stress testing 52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk M n a o i n t a a g c i e f i a t n n e d d i c o k n s i t R r o l 02 Strategic report Reverse stress testing, which requires us to in the Groups internal model, which is and management of the Group material work backwards from an assumed point of used to determine capital requirements risk profile in a consistent and coherent business model failure, is another tool that under Solvency II and our own economic way: and helps us to identify the key risks and scenarios capital basis.
Governance arrangements The flows of management information that may materially impact the Group.
are in place to support the internal model, required to support the measurement including independent validation and Our emerging risk management process and management of the Group material process and controls around model identifies potentially material risks which risk profile and to meet the needs of changes and limitations.
have a high degree of uncertainty around external stakeholders.
timing, magnitude and propensity to Risk management and control The methods and risk management tools evolve.
The Group holds emerging risk The control procedures and systems we employ to mitigate each of our major sessions over the year to identify emerging established within the Group are designed categories of risks are detailed in section 4 risks which includes input from local to manage reasonably the risk of failing to below.
subject matter and industry experts.
We meet business objectives and are detailed maintain contacts with thought leaders and in the Group risk policies.
This can of Risk monitoring and reporting peers to benchmark and refine our process.
course only provide reasonable and not The identification of the Groups key risks absolute assurance against material informs the management information The risk profile is a key output from the risk misstatement or loss.
They focus on received by the Group risk committees and identification and risk measurement aligning the levels of risk taking with the the Board.
Risk reporting of key exposures processes, and is used as a basis for setting achievement of business objectives.
against appetite is also included, as well as Group-wide limits, management ongoing developments in other key and information, assessment of solvency The management and control of risks are emerging risks.
needs, and determining appropriate stress set out in the Group risk policies, and form and scenario testing.
The risk identification part of the holistic risk management Summary risks processes support the creation of our approach under the Groups ORSA.
These The table below is a summary of the key annual set of key risks, which are then risk policies define: risks facing the Group, which can be given enhanced management and The Groups risk appetite in respect of grouped into those which apply to us reporting focus.
because of the global environment in material risks, and the framework under Risk measurement and assessment which the Groups exposure to those which we operate, and those which arise as a result of the business that we operate All identified risks are assessed based on risks is limited: an appropriate methodology for that risk.
including risks arising from our The processes to enable Group senior investments, the nature of our products All quantifiable risks which are material and management to effect the measurement mitigated by holding capital are modelled and from our business operations.
Macro risks Some of the risks that we are exposed to are necessarily broad given the external influences which may impact on the Group.
These risks include: Global economic conditions Changes in global economic conditions can impact us directly: for example by leading to poor returns on our investments and increasing the cost of promises we have made to our customers.
They can also have an indirect impact: for example economic pressures could lead to decreased savings, reducing the propensity for people to buy our products.
Global economic conditions may also impact on regulatory risk for the Group by changing prevailing political attitudes towards regulation.
Geopolitical risk The geopolitical environment is increasingly uncertain with political upheaval in the UK, the US and the Eurozone.
Uncertainty in these regions, combined with conflict in the Middle East and increasing tensions in east Asia underline that geopolitical risks are truly global and their potential impacts are wide-ranging: for example through increased regulatory risk.
The geopolitical and economic environments are increasingly closely linked, and changes in the political arena may have direct or indirect impacts on our Group.
Digital disruption The emergence of advance technologies such as artificial intelligence and block chain is providing an impetus for companies to rethink their existing operating models and how they interact with their customers.
Prudential is embracing the opportunities presented by digitalisation and is closely monitoring any risks which arise.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 53 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Continued Risks from our investments Risks from our products Risks from our business operations Global economic conditions see above Insurance risks Operational risks have a large impact on those risks from our The nature of the products offered by the As a Group, we are dependent on the investments.
Group exposes it to insurance risks, which appropriate and secure processing of a are a significant part of our overall risk large number of transactions by our people, Our fund investment performance is a profile.
IT infrastructure and outsourcing partners, fundamental part of our business in which exposes us to operational risks and providing appropriate returns for our The insurance risks that we are exposed to reputational risks.
customers and shareholders, and so is an by virtue of our products include longevity important area of focus.
risk policyholders living longer than Information security risk is a significant expected : mortality risk policyholders consideration within operational risk, Credit risk with life protection dying : morbidity risk including both the risk of malicious attack Is the potential for reduced value of our policyholders with health protection on our systems as well as risks relating to investments due to the uncertainty around becoming ill and persistency risk data security and integrity and network investment returns arising from the customers lapsing their policies.
The size of Prudentials IT potential for defaults of our investment infrastructure and network, our move From our health protection products, counterparties.
toward digitisation and the increasing increases in the costs of claims including number of high-profile cyber security Invested credit risk arises from our asset the level of medical expenses increasing incidents across industries means that this portfolio.
We increase sector focus where over and above price inflation claim will continue to be an area of high focus.
The assets backing the UK and Jacksons Regulatory risk The processes that determine the price of annuity business mean credit risk is a We also operate under the ever-evolving our products and reporting the results of significant focus for the Group.
our long-term business operations require requirements set out by diverse regulatory and legal regimes including tax, as well as us to make a number of assumptions.
Market risk Where experience deviates from these utilising a significant number of third parties Is the potential for reduced value of our to distribute products and to support assumptions our profitability may be investments resulting from the volatility of impacted.
business operations: all of which add to the asset prices as driven by fluctuations in complexity of the operating model if not Across our business units, persistency and equity prices, interest rates, foreign properly managed.
morbidity risks are among the largest exchange rates and property prices.
In our insurance risks for our Asia business given The number of regulatory changes under Asia business, our main market risks arise way across Asia, in particular those focusing our strong focus on health protection from the value of fees from our fee-earning products in the region.
on consumer protection means that products.
regulatory change in the region is also For the UK and Jackson, the most significant In the US, Jacksons fixed and variable annuity considered a key risk.
insurance risk is longevity risk driven by books are exposed to a variety of market risks Both Jackson and the UK operate in highly their annuity businesses.
due to the assets backing these policies.
Regulatory reforms In the UK, exposure relates to the valuation of could materially impact our businesses, and the proportion of the with-profits funds future regulatory focus continues to be high.
profits which is transferred to the shareholders future transfers, which is dependent on equity, property and bond values.
M&G invests in a broad range of asset classes and its income is subject to the price volatility of global financial and currency markets.
Liquidity risk Is the risk of not having sufficient liquid assets to meet our obligations as they fall, and incorporates the risk arising from funds composed of illiquid assets.
It results from a mismatch between the liquidity profile of assets and liabilities.
54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Use of derivative programmes, to reduce the risk to the in-force business, Further risk information including, for example, interest rate as well as re-pricing and restructuring new In reading the sections below, it is useful to swaps, options and hybrid options for business offerings in response to these understand that there are some risks that interest rate risk: historically low interest rates.
our policyholders assume by virtue of the Nevertheless, we still retain some nature of their products, and some risks Regular deep dive assessments: and sensitivity to interest rate movements.
that the Company and its shareholders Use of currency hedging.
Examples of the latter include Interest rate risk arises in our UK business those risks arising from assets held directly Investment risk from the need to match cash payments to by and for the Company, or the risk that meet annuity obligations with the cash we Audited policyholder funds are exhausted.
This receive from our investments.
To minimise In the UK business, our main investment report is focused mainly on risks to the the impact on our profit, we aim to match risk arises from the assets held in the shareholder, but will include those which the duration a measure of interest rate with-profits funds.
Although this is mainly arise indirectly through our policyholder sensitivity of assets and liabilities as held by our policyholders, a proportion of exposures.
closely as possible and the position is the funds profit one tenth is transferred monitored regularly.
Under the Solvency II to us and so our investment exposure Risks from our investments regulatory regime, additional interest rate relates to the future valuation of that Market risk risk results from the way the balance sheet proportion future transfers.
This The main drivers of market risk in the is constructed, such as the requirement investment risk is driven mainly by equities Group are: for us to include a risk margin.
The UK in the fund, although there is some risk business continually assesses the need for associated with other investments such as Investment risk including equity and any derivatives in managing its interest rate property and bonds.
Some hedging to property risk : sensitivity.
The with-profits business is protect from a reduction in the value of Interest rate risk: and exposed to interest rate risk because of these future transfers against falls in equity underlying guarantees in some of its prices is performed outside the fund using Given the geographical diversity of our products.
Such risk is largely borne by the derivatives.
The with-profits funds large business, foreign exchange risk.
with-profits fund itself but shareholder Solvency II own funds estimated at With respect to investment risk, equity and support may be required in extreme 8.4 billion as at 31 December 2016 property risk arises from our holdings of circumstances where the fund has 31 December 2015: 7.6 billion helps to equity and property investments, the insufficient resources to support the risk.
protect against market fluctuations and prices of which can change depending on helps the fund to maintain appropriate In Asia, our exposure to interest rate risk market conditions.
The with-profits funds arises from the guarantees of some non Solvency II own funds are partially The valuation of our assets particularly the unit-linked investment products.
This protected against falls in equity markets bonds that we invest in and liabilities are exposure exists because it may not be through an active hedging programme also dependent on market interest rates possible to hold assets which will provide within the fund.
and exposes us to the risk of those moving cash payments to us which match exactly in a way that is detrimental for us.
those payments we in turn need to make to In Asia, our shareholder exposure to equity policyholders this is known as an asset price movements results from unit-linked Given our global business, we earn our and liability mismatch and although it is products, where our fee income is linked to profits and hold assets in various small and appropriately managed, it cannot the market value of the funds under currencies.
The translation of those into our be eliminated.
Further exposure arises from reporting currency exposes us to with-profits businesses where bonuses movements in foreign exchange rates.
Jackson is exposed to interest rate risk in its declared are broadly based on historical fixed, fixed index and variable annuity Our main investment risk exposure arises and current rates of return on equity.
Movements in interest rates can from the portion of the profits from the UK In Jackson, investment risk arises from the impact on the cost of guarantees in these with-profits fund to which we are entitled products, in particular the cost of assets backing customer policies.
In the to receive: the value of the future fees from case of spread-based business, including guarantees may increase when interest our fee-earning products in our Asia rates fall.
We actively monitor the level of fixed annuities, these assets are generally business: and from the asset returns bonds, and shareholder exposure comes sales of variable annuity products with backing Jacksons variable annuities guaranteed living benefits, and together from the minimum returns needed to meet business.
the guaranteed rates that we offer to with the risk limits we have in place this Our interest rate risk is driven in the UK by helps us to ensure that we are comfortable policyholders.
For our variable annuity our need to match our assets and liabilities: with the interest rate and market risks we business, these assets include both from the guarantees of some non unitincur as a result.
The Jackson hedging equities and bonds.
In this case, the main linked investment products in Asia: and the programme in place includes hybrid risk to the shareholder comes from the cost of guarantees in Jacksons fixed, fixed derivatives to protect us from a combined guaranteed benefits that can be included index and variable annuity business.
The fall in interest rates and equity markets as part of these products.
Our exposure to methods that we use to manage and since Jackson is exposed to the this kind of situation is reduced by using a mitigate our market risks include the combination of these market movements.
derivative hedging programme, as well as following: through the use of reinsurance to pass on Foreign exchange risk the risk to third-party reinsurers.
Our market risk policy: Audited The geographical diversity of our Risk appetite statements, limits and Interest rate risk businesses means that we have some triggers that we have in place: Audited exposure to the risk of exchange rate While long-term interest rates in advanced The monitoring and oversight of market fluctuations.
Our operations in the US and economies have broadly increased since risks through the regular reporting of Asia, which represent a large proportion of mid-2016, they remain close to historical management information: our operating profit and shareholders lows.
Some products that we offer are funds, generally write policies and invest in Our asset and liability management sensitive to movements in interest rates.
Although this programmes: We have already taken a number of actions limits the effect of exchange rate www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 55 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Continued movements on local operating results, it We use a number of risk management tools Debt and loan portfolio can lead to fluctuations in our Group to manage and mitigate this credit risk, Audited financial statements when results are including the following: Our UK business is mainly exposed to reported in UK sterling.
credit risk on fixed income assets in the Our credit risk policy: shareholder-backed portfolio.
At We retain revenues locally to support the Risk appetite statements and limits that 31 December 2016, this portfolio growth of our business and capital is held we have defined on issuers, contained fixed income assets worth in the local currency of the business to counterparties and the average credit 38.6 billion.
Credit risk arising from a meet local regulatory and market quality of the portfolio: further 55.2 billion of fixed income assets requirements.
We accept the foreign is largely borne by the with-profits fund, to exchange risk this can produce when Collateral arrangements we have in which the shareholder is not directly reporting our Group balance sheet and place for derivative transactions: exposed although under extreme income statement.
In cases where a surplus The Group Credit Risk Committees circumstances shareholder support may be arises in an overseas operation which is to oversight of credit and counterparty required if the fund is unable to meet be used to support Group capital, or where credit risk and sector and or namepayments as they fall due.
a significant cash payment is due from an specific reviews.
During 2016, it has overseas subsidiary to the Group, this The value of our debt portfolio in our Asia conducted sector reviews in the foreign exchange exposure is hedged business was 36.5 billion at 31 December banking UK and Asia and energy where we believe it is economically 2016.
The majority 69 per cent of the sectors: favourable to do so.
Generally, we do not portfolio is in unit-linked and with-profits have appetite for significant direct Regular deep dive assessments: and funds and so exposure of the shareholder shareholder exposure to foreign exchange to this component is minimal.
The Close monitoring or restrictions on risks in currencies outside local territories, remaining 31 per cent of the debt portfolio investments that may be of concern.
but we do have some controlled appetite is held to back the shareholder business.
for this on fee income and on non-sterling investments within the with-profits fund.
Where foreign exchange risk arises outside our appetite, currency borrowings, swaps Shareholder exposure Shareholder exposure and other derivatives are used to manage by rating by sector our exposure.
Credit risk We invest in bonds that provide a regular, fixed amount of interest income fixed income assets in order to match the payments we need to make to policyholders.
We also enter into reinsurance and derivative contracts with third parties to mitigate various types of risk, as well as holding cash deposits at certain banks.
As a result, we are exposed to credit risk and counterparty risk across our business.
AAA 7% Financial 19.63% Credit risk is the potential for reduction in AA 26% Government 18.71% the value of our investments which results A 35% Real estate 8.52% from the perceived level of risk of an BBB 28% Utilities 8.34% investment issuer being unable to meet its B B or below or Consumer, non-cyclical 8.23% obligations defaulting.
Counterparty risk non-rated assets 4% Mortgage securities 3.85% is a type of credit risk and relates to the risk Industrial 4.69% that the counterparty to any contract we Energy 4.41% enter into being unable to meet their Communications 3.61% obligations causing us to suffer loss.
Consumer, cyclical 2.56% Asset-backed securities 3.32% Other 14.13% 56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report Credit risk also arises in the general information provided to the Groups Risk Our risk management and mitigation of account of the Jackson business, where Committees and the Board.
liquidity risk include: 40.7 billion of fixed income assets are held The exposures held by the shareholderOur liquidity risk policy: to support shareholder liabilities including backed business and with-profits funds in those from our fixed annuities, fixed index The risk appetite statements, limits and bank debt securities at 31 December 2016 annuities and life insurance products.
triggers that we have in place: are given in Note C3.2 f of the Groups The shareholder-owned debt and loan IFRS financial statements.
The monitoring of liquidity risk we portfolio of the Groups asset management perform through regular management Our exposure to derivative counterparty business of 2.3 billion as at 31 December information to committees and the and reinsurance counterparty credit 2016 mostly belongs to our Prudential Board: risk is managed using an array of Capital PruCap operations.
risk management tools, including Our Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Certain sectors have been under pressure a comprehensive system of limits.
which includes details of the Group during 2016, including the European Liquidity Risk Framework as well as gap Where appropriate, we reduce our banking sector.
Most of the focus on the analysis of our liquidity risks and the exposure, buy credit protection or use latter was around UK banks due to Brexit adequacy of our available liquidity additional collateral arrangements to concerns, Italian banks and certain banks resources under normal and stressed manage our levels of counterparty credit at risk of fines for the mis-selling of conditions: risk.
mortgage securities leading up to the 2008 Regular stress testing: financial crisis.
We subject these sectors to At December 2016, shareholder exposures ongoing monitoring and regular by rating and sector are shown below: Our established contingency plans and management information reporting to the identified sources of liquidity: 96 per cent of the shareholder portfolio Groups risk committees.
Certain sectors is investment grade rated.
In particular, Our ability to access the money and are also subject to our watch list and early 53 per cent of the portfolio is rated debt capital markets: warning indicator monitoring processes.
Aand above: and Regular deep dive assessments: and Further details of the composition and The Groups shareholder portfolio is quality of our debt portfolio, and exposure The access we enjoy to external sources well diversified: no individual sector to loans, can be found in the IFRS financial of finance through committed credit makes up more than 10 per cent of the statements.
total portfolio excluding the financial and sovereign sectors.
Group sovereign debt Risks from our products Audited Liquidity risk Insurance risk We also invest in bonds issued by national Insurance risk makes up a significant Our liquidity risk arises from the need to governments, that are traditionally seen as have sufficient liquid assets to meet proportion of our overall risk exposure.
This sovereign debt profitability of our businesses depends on a policyholder and third-party payments as represented 19 per cent or 17.1 billion of they fall due.
This incorporates the risk mix of factors including levels of, and the shareholder debt portfolio as at trends in, mortality policyholders dying, arising from funds composed of illiquid 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: assets and results from a mismatch morbidity policyholders becoming ill and 17 per cent or 12.8 billion.
4 per cent of persistency customers lapsing their between the liquidity profile of assets and this was rated AAA and 92 per cent was liabilities.
Liquidity risk may arise, for policies, and increases in the costs of considered investment grade claims, including the level of medical example, where external capital is 31 December 2015: 94 per cent unavailable at sustainable cost, increased expenses increases over and above price investment grade.
At 31 December 2016, inflation claim inflation.
liquid assets are required to be held as the Groups shareholder holding in collateral under derivative transactions or 1 The key drivers of the Groups insurance Eurozone sovereign debt was redemption requests are made against risks are persistency and morbidity risk in 767 million.
75 per cent of this was rated Prudential issued illiquid funds.
the Asia business: and longevity risk in the AAA 31 December 2015: 75 per cent We have significant internal sources of Jackson and Prudential UK & Europe rated AAA.
We do not have any sovereign businesses.
liquidity, which are sufficient to meet all of our expected cash requirements for at least We manage and mitigate our insurance risk The particular risks associated with holding 12 months from the date the financial using the following: sovereign debt are detailed further in our statements are approved, without having disclosures on risk factors.
Our insurance and underwriting risk to resort to external sources of funding.
In total, the Group has 2.6 billion of undrawn policies: The exposures held by the shareholderbacked business and with-profits funds in committed facilities that we can make use The risk appetite statements, limits and of, expiring in 2020.
We have access to sovereign debt securities at 31 December triggers we have in place: 2016 are given in Note C3.2 f of the further liquidity by way of the debt capital markets, and also have in place an unlimited Using longevity, morbidity and Groups IFRS financial statements.
persistency assumptions that reflect commercial paper programme and have Bank debt exposure and counterparty maintained a consistent presence as an recent experience and expectation of credit risk future trends, and industry data and issuer in this market for the last decade.
Audited expert judgement where appropriate: Liquidity uses and sources are assessed at Our exposure to banks is a key part of our We use reinsurance to mitigate a Group and business unit level under both core investment business, as well as being base case and stressed assumptions.
We longevity and morbidity risks: important for the hedging and other calculate a Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR activities we undertake to manage our Morbidity risk is also mitigated by under stress scenarios as one measure of various financial risks.
Given the appropriate underwriting when policies our liquidity risk, and this ratio and the importance of our relationship with our are issued and claims are received: liquidity resources available to us are banks, exposure to the sector is a regularly monitored and are assessed to be considered a key risk for the Group with an sufficient.
appropriate level of management www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 57 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Continued Persistency risk is mitigated through the Our persistency assumptions similarly An important element of operational risk quality of sales processes and with reflect a combination of recent past relates to compliance with changing initiatives to increase customer retention: experience for each relevant line of regulatory requirements.
The high rate of business and expert judgement, especially global regulatory change, in an already Medical expense inflation risk mitigated where a lack of relevant and credible complex regulatory landscape, increases through product re-pricing: and experience data exists.
Any expected the risk of non-compliance due to a failure Regular deep dive assessments.
change in future persistency is also to identify, correctly interpret, implement reflected in the assumption.
Persistency and or monitor regulations.
Legislative Longevity risk is an important element of risk is mitigated by appropriate training and developments over recent years, together our insurance risks for which we need to sales processes and managed locally with enhanced regulatory oversight and hold a large amount of capital under post-sale through regular experience increased capability to issue sanctions, Solvency II regulations.
Longevity monitoring and the identification of have resulted in a complex regulatory reinsurance is a key tool for us in managing common characteristics of business with environment that may lead to breaches of our risk.
The enhanced pensions freedoms high lapse rates.
Where appropriate, we varying magnitude if the Groups businessintroduced in the UK during 2015 greatly make allowance for the relationship either as-usual operations are not compliant.
As reduced the demand for retail annuities assumed or historically observed, well as prudential regulation, we focus on and further liberalisation is anticipated.
between persistency and investment conduct regulation, including regulations Although we have scaled down our returns and account for the resulting related to anti-money laundering, bribery participation in the annuity market by additional risk.
Modelling this dynamic and corruption, and sales practices.
We reducing new business acquisition, given policyholder behaviour is particularly have a particular focus on these regulations our significant annuity portfolio the important when assessing the likely in newer emerging markets.
assumptions we make about future rates of take-up rate of options embedded within improvement in mortality rates remain key The performance of core activities places certain products.
The effect of persistency to the measurement of our insurance reliance on the IT infrastructure that on our financial results can vary but mostly liabilities and to our assessment of any supports day-to-day transaction processing.
depends on the value of the product reinsurance transactions.
Our IT environment must also be secure features and market conditions.
and we must address an increasing cyber We continue to conduct research into risk threat as our digital footprint increases Risks from our business longevity risk using both experience from see separate Cyber risk section below.
operations our annuity portfolio and industry data.
The risk that our IT infrastructure does not Although the general consensus in recent Operational risk meet these requirements is a key area of years is that people are living longer, there Operational risk is the risk of loss or focus, particularly the risk that legacy IT is considerable volatility in year-on-year unintended gain or profit arising from infrastructure supporting core activities longevity experience, which is why we inadequate or failed internal processes, processes affects business continuity or need expert judgement in setting our personnel and systems, or from external impacts on business growth.
This includes employee error, As well as the above, other key areas of model error, system failures, fraud or some Our morbidity risk is mitigated by other event which disrupts business focus within operational risk include: appropriate underwriting when policies are processes.
issued and claims are received.
Our The risk of a significant failure of a morbidity assumptions reflect our recent third-party outsourcing partner We manage and mitigate our operational experience and expectation of future risk using the following: impacting critical services: trends for each relevant line of business.
The risk of trading or transaction errors Operational risk and outsourcing and In Asia, we write significant volumes of third-party supply policies: having a material cost across Group: health protection business, and so a key Corporate insurance programmes to The risk that errors within models and assumption for us is the rate of medical user-developed applications used by the limit the impact of operational risks: inflation, which is often in excess of general Group result in incorrect or inappropriate price inflation.
There is a risk that the Scenario analysis for operational risk transactions being instructed: expenses of medical treatment increase capital requirements, which focus on more than we expect, so the medical claim extreme, yet plausible, events: Departure of key persons or teams cost passed on to us is higher than resulting in disruption to current and Internal and external review of cyber anticipated.
Medical expense inflation risk planned business activities: security capability: and is best mitigated by retaining the right to The risk that key people, processes and re-price our products each year and by Regular testing of elements of the systems are unable to operate thus having suitable overall claim limits within disaster-recovery plan.
impacting on the on-going operation of our policies, either limits per type of claim the business due to a significant or in total across a policy.
58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report unexpected external event: for example The EUs Solvency II directive came into The IAIS is also developing a Common pandemic, terrorist attack, natural effect on 1 January 2016: however, the Framework ComFrame which is focused disaster, or political unrest: UKs vote to leave the EU has the potential on the supervision of Internationally Active to result in changes to future applicability of Insurance Groups.
ComFrame will The risk that a significant project fails or the regime in the UK.
In September 2016, establish a set of common principles and partially fails to meet its objectives, following the Brexit vote, the UK Treasury standards designed to assist regulators in leading to financial loss: and published terms of reference of its addressing risks that arise from insurance The risk of inadequate or inappropriate consultation into Solvency II to consider the groups with operations in multiple controls, governance structures or options for British insurers and to assess jurisdictions.
As part of this, work is communication channels in place to the impact of the regime on the underway to develop a global Insurance support the desired culture and ensure competitiveness of the UK insurance Capital Standard that is intended to apply that the business is managed in line with industry, the needs of UK consumers and to Internationally Active Insurance Groups.
the core business values, within the the wider UK business economy.
The Once the development of the Insurance established risk appetite and in outcome is likely to be dependent on the Capital Standard ICS has been alignment with external stakeholder overall Brexit agreement reached between concluded, it is intended to replace the expectations.
Separately, the European Basic Capital Requirement as the minimum Commission has commenced a review of group capital requirement for G-SIIs.
Global regulatory and political risk some elements of the application of the Our risk management and mitigation of A consultation on the ICS was concluded in Solvency II legislation with a particular regulatory and political risk includes the 2016 and the IAIS intends to publish an focus on the Solvency Capital Requirement following: interim version of ICS in 2017.
Further field calculated using the standard formula.
testing, consultations and private reporting A Risk and Capital Plan that includes National and regional efforts to curb to group-wide supervisors on the interim considerations of current strategies: systemic risk and promote financial stability version of the ICS are expected over the Close monitoring and assessment of our are also underway in certain jurisdictions in coming years.
It is currently planned to be business environment and strategic risks: which Prudential operates, including the adopted as part of ComFrame by the IAIS Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and in late 2019.
Board strategy sessions that consider Consumer Protection Act in the US, and risk themes: The IAISs Insurance Core Principles, which other European Union legislation related to provide a globally-accepted framework for A Systemic Risk Management Plan that the financial services industry.
the supervision of the insurance sector and details the Groups strategy and Risk There are a number of ongoing policy ComFrame evolution, are expected to Management Framework: and initiatives and regulatory developments create continued development in both that are having, and will continue to have, A Recovery Plan covering corporate prudential and conduct regulations over and risk governance for managing risks an impact on the way Prudential is the next two to three years.
These include addressing in a distressed environment, a range of In the US, the Department of Labor recovery options, and scenarios to Financial Conduct Authority FCA proposal in April 2016 to introduce new reviews, ongoing engagement with the assess the effectiveness of these fiduciary obligations for distributors of recovery options Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, and investment products to holders of the work of the Financial Stability Board In June 2016, the UK voted to leave the EU.
regulated accounts, which could FSB and standard-setting institutions The potential outcome of the negotiations dramatically reshape the distribution of such as the International Association of on UK withdrawal and any subsequent retirement products.
Jacksons strong Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
Decisions negotiations on trade and access to major relationships with distributors, history of taken by regulators, including those related trading markets, including the single EU product innovation and efficient operations to solvency requirements and capital market, is currently highly uncertain.
should help mitigate any impacts.
allocation may have an impact on our The ongoing uncertainty and likelihood of business.
The US National Association of Insurance a lengthy negotiation period may increase Commissioners NAIC is currently The IAISs Global Systematically Important volatility in the markets where we operate, conducting an industry consultation with Insurers G-SII regime form additional creating the potential for a general the aim of reducing the complexity in the compliance considerations for us.
Groups downturn in economic activity and for variable annuity statutory balance sheet designated as a G-SIIs are subject to further or prolonged falls in interest rates in and risk management.
Following an additional regulatory requirements, some jurisdictions due to easing of industry quantitative impact study, including enhanced group-wide monetary policy and investor sentiment.
changes have been proposed to the supervision, effective resolution planning, We have several UK-domiciled operations, current framework: however, these are development of a Systemic Risk including Prudential UK and M&G, and considered to be at an early stage of Management Plan, a Recovery Plan and a these may be impacted by a UK withdrawal development.
Jackson continues to be Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
However, our diversification engaged in the consultation and testing Prudentials designation as a G-SII was by geography, currency, product and process.
The proposal is currently planned reaffirmed by the IAIS in November 2016, distribution should reduce some of the to be effective from 2018. based on the updated methodology potential impact.
Contingency plans were published in June 2016.
Prudential is With the new US administration having developed ahead of the referendum by monitoring the development and potential taken office in January 2017, the potential business units and operations that may be impact of the policy measures and is uncertainty as to the timetable and status immediately impacted by a vote to continuing to engage with the PRA on the of these key US reforms has increased withdraw the UK from the EU, and these implications of the policy measures and given preliminary indications from plans have been enacted since the Prudentials designation as a G-SII.
Our preparations to manage referendum result.
continue to engage with the IAIS on the impact of these reforms will continue developments in capital requirements for until further clarification is provided.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 59 Group Chief Risk Officers report of the risks facing our business and how these are managed Penny James Continued In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing Protecting our customers remains core to period.
Such assumptions include foreign at different speeds, driven by a our business, and the successful delivery of exchange rates, interest rates, economic combination of global factors and local the Cyber Defence Plan will reinforce our growth rates and the impact on the considerations.
New requirements could capabilities to continue doing so in business environment for events such as be introduced in these and other regulatory cyberspace as we transition to a digital the exit of the United Kingdom from the regimes that challenge legal structures and business.
Group functions work with each of the Although three years is regarded as an Cyber risk business units to address cyber risks locally appropriate period for the assessment of within the national and regional context of the Groups viability, the Directors regularly Cyber risk is an area of increased scrutiny for global regulators after a number of each business, following the strategic consider strategic matters that may affect direction laid out in the Cyber Risk the longer-term prospects of the Group.
recent high profile attacks and data losses.
The growing maturity and industrialisation Management Strategy and managed Further, the Group as a whole and each of through the execution of the Cyber its life assurance operations are subject to of cyber-criminal capability, together with an increasing level of understanding of Defence Plan.
extensive regulation and supervision, which are designed primarily to reinforce complex financial transactions by criminal The Group Information Security groups are two reasons why risks to the the companys management of its Committee, which consists of senior long-term solvency, liquidity and viability financial services industry are increasing.
executives from each of the businesses to ensure that it can continue to meet Given this, cyber security is seen as a key and meets on a regular basis, governs the obligations to policyholders.
execution of the Cyber Defence Plan and risk for the Group.
Our current threat assessment is that, while we are not reports on delivery and cyber risks to the In particular, the Group and UK insurance Group Executive Risk Committee.
Both subsidiaries are subject to the capital individually viewed as a compelling target for a direct cyber-attack, we are at risk of committees also receive regular adequacy requirements of the European operational management information on Union Solvency II regulatory basis as suffering attacks as a member of the global financial services industry, with potentially the performance of controls.
implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK.
Capital requirements significant impact on business continuity, Viability statement our customer relationship and our brand for the Groups other subsidiaries are also In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the monitored on their local regulatory bases.
UK code, the Directors have assessed the In addition to these external capital The Board receives periodic updates on prospects of the Company and the Group metrics, the Group uses an internal cyber risk management throughout the for a period longer than the 12 months economic capital assessment to monitor year.
The current Group-wide Cyber Risk required by the going concern statement.
its capital requirements across the Group.
Management Strategy and the associated Further details on the capital strength Group-wide Coordinated Cyber Defence Period of assessment of the Group are provided on pages 47 Plan were approved by the Board in 2016.
The Directors performed the assessment and 48. by reference to the three-year period to The Cyber Risk Management Strategy Assessment of risks over the December 2019.
Three years is considered includes three core objectives: to develop a an appropriate period as it represents the period comprehensive situational awareness of period covered by the detailed business our business in cyberspace: to proactively Assessment of the risks to achieving the plan that is prepared annually on a rolling projected performance remains an integral engage cyber attackers to minimise harm to three-year basis.
In approving the business our business and to enable the business to part of the planning process.
The Groups plan the Directors review the Groups risk teams identify key risks to the delivery grow confidently and safely in cyberspace.
projected performance with regards to of the plan and set out mitigating actions The Cyber Defence Plan consists of profitability, cash generation and capital where applicable.
The Groups business a number of work-streams, including position, together with the parent activities and the factors likely to affect its developing our ability to deal with companys liquidity over this three-year future development, successful incidents: alignment with our digital period.
As well as implementing the Groups performance and position in the current transformation strategy: and increasing strategic objectives, this projection economic climate are set out on pages 4 to cyber oversight and assurance to the Board.
involves setting a number of economic 36.
The risks facing the Groups capital and and other assumptions that are inherently liquidity positions and their sensitivities volatile over a much longer reporting are referred to on pages 50 to 60.
60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 02 Strategic report For the purposes of assessing the Groups The impact on the business of known areas viability, the Directors further considered of regulatory change whose financial those risks where the impact of possible implications can be reasonably quantified adverse external developments could be of is also considered as part of the plan.
As such speed and severity to present a shock well as known areas of regulatory change to the Groups financial position.
The risks the Group is exposed to the risk of sudden further considered, from those detailed and unexpected changes in regulatory on page 54, are: market risk, credit risk, requirements at the Group and local level.
liquidity risk and regulatory risk.
The risk of regulatory change is mitigated by capital held by the Group and its To evaluate the Groups resilience to subsidiaries in excess of Group and local significant deteriorations in market and regulatory requirements, the Groups credit conditions and other shock events, ability to generate significant capital these risks are grouped together into annually through its operational delivery severe but plausible scenarios which are and the availability of compensating then applied to the assumptions underlying actions designed to restore key capital and the business plan.
For example, the solvency metrics.
impacts of scenarios assuming a disorderly transition to a more normalised interest rate Penny James Conclusion on viability environment and an international recession Group Chief Risk Officer Based on this assessment, the Directors were considered in the preparation of the have a reasonable expectation that the most recent business plan, together with Company and the Group will be able to the impact on Group liquidity of a scenario continue in operation and meet their assuming the closure of short-term debt liabilities as they fall due over the threemarkets for three months.
In addition, year plan period to December 2019. the Group conducts an annual reverse stress test which gives the Directors an understanding of the maximum resilience of the Group to extremely severe adverse scenarios.
In considering these scenarios the impacts of mitigating management actions designed to maintain or restore key capital, liquidity and solvency metrics to the Groups approved risk appetite are considered.
In the scenarios tested, sufficient actions were available to management to maintain the viability of the Group over the three year period under assessment.
Note 1 Excludes Groups proportionate share in joint ventures and unit-linked assets and holdings of consolidated unit trust and similar funds.
