Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells Strong performance based on long-term opportunities I am pleased to report significant progress in 2016, reflecting our successful strategy and the growing capabilities of the Group.
Our global scale, close understanding of diversity of the Groups global platform, 7 per cent respectively, while the our markets and constant drive to improve the disciplined execution of our strategy contribution from our UK-based are continuing to create shared value for and the strength of the opportunities in our businesses reduced by 23 per cent.
Here, our customers and our shareholders.
as expected, the overall result was impacted by the effect of negative fund Prudential exists to fide-risk peoples lives.
Our operational agility and broad business flows at M&G, our deliberate withdrawal Saving for a childs education, protecting mix mean we are able to continually flex from the UK bulk annuity market as returns people against the financial cost of ill-health our approach in response to local market ceased to be attractive and a lower or the death of a familys primary income conditions and opportunities without contribution from UK capital optimisation earner, turning hard-earned savings into compromising our overall near-term actions.
The result also includes a provision secure retirement income across all these financial performance.
These for the cost of undertaking a review in the areas we help to remove uncertainty from characteristics have recently been UK of past non-advised annuity sales lifes biggest financial events.
particularly evident in our businesses in practices and related potential redress.
Asia, which continue to drive the growth of Our strategy is shaped around meeting the Group and in 2016 achieved doublePrudentials growing in-force business those needs where they are greatest and digit increases across all of our major continues to support our overall cash where we have the capabilities to make the 3,7 metrics.
This was despite pricing and generation.
Free surplus generation rose most significant impact.
That is among the 2 by 10 per cent to 3,588 million up product actions to protect profitability of increasingly affluent population of Asia, some market segments where returns were 18 per cent on an actual exchange rate who have a growing demand for the health basis.
Cash remittances to the Group were no longer sufficiently attractive given the and protection products we provide, and low-interest-rate environment.
We always also higher at 1,718 million, supporting the ageing populations of the US and the seek the appropriate balance between the 12 per cent increase in the 2016 full UK, who are looking for ways to invest their value and volume.
year ordinary dividend to 43.5 pence per savings to produce income for retirement.
Since 2012 Prudential has made total As in previous years, we comment on our This was another year of innovation, as we payments to shareholders of 4.6 billion, performance in local currency terms continue to improve and personalise our highlighting the underlying growth and expressed on a constant exchange rate basis products to ensure they are tailored to the cash-generative nature of the business.
to show the underlying business trends in a diverse financial needs of our customers.
period of significant currency movements.
The Group continues to operate with a At the same time, we remain focused on strong capital position, ending the year 1,3 increased by the expansion of our distinctive distribution New business profit 9 with a Solvency II cover ratio of 2,4 platforms, allowing us to reach new 11 per cent to 3,088 million up 8 201 per cent.
Over the period, IFRS 24 per cent on an actual exchange rate customers and better serve existing ones.
shareholders funds increased by 2 Meanwhile, we continue to develop the basis, driven by growth of 22 per cent in 13 per cent to 14.7 billion after taking into 4 Asia and 33 per cent in our UK retail investment capabilities of our asset account profit after tax of 1,921 million management businesses and to invest in business.
In the US, a 13 per cent reduction 2015: 2,579 million on an actual in new business profit mainly reflected the systems and people to manage the risks exchange rate basis and other movements we assume on behalf of our customers.
We lower industry volumes due to the including positive foreign exchange are also sowing the seeds for our future sector-wide disruption that followed the movements of 1.2 billion.
EEV growth by investing in new markets.
announcement in April 2016 of the shareholders funds increased by Department of Labors fiduciary reform, 22 per cent to 39.0 billion, equivalent Group performance the implementation of which is presently to 1,510 pence per share.
Prudential has delivered a strong financial uncertain under the Trump administration.
performance in 2016, led by growth in During 2016, we have strengthened our 6 Group IFRS operating profit based on Asia.
In a year that has seen continued low position as a diversified global Group, longer-term investment returns was interest rates, market volatility and delivering long-term value to customers 2 2 per cent lower at 4,256 million up dramatic political change, our results and shareholders.
7 per cent on an actual exchange rate continue to benefit from the scale and basis.
Our businesses in Asia and the US In Asia, we are developing our operations, 2 generated growth of 15 per cent and through the quality of our business and 4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 01Groupoverview through our scale.
Underpinning the outlook for Asia earnings, our new Diversification advantage regular-premium income is up 20 per cent 6 IFRS operating profit by business and currency, full year 2016 to 3,359 million and life in-force weighted premium income is up 20 per cent to Our broad diversification by 9% 9.1 billion.
In addition, our Asian asset geography, products and manager, Eastspring Investments, has distribution channels remains a grown, with overall assets under primary source of strength and GBP Other 33% management reaching 117.9 billion at the resilience for the Groups 14% 17% 17% year end, a new high.
In the US we are well positioned to navigate US$ a period of significant regulatory change, 21% linked Asia including the currently scheduled US$ United States 48% introduction of the Department of Labors fiduciary duty rule.
The product innovation United Kingdom that is in train to address the new regulatory M&G requirements, coupled with our sector- 41% leading IT and servicing capabilities, enables us to access sizeable retirement asset pools that were previously not open Segmental earnings of key businesses and excludes Prudential Capital and other income and expenditure.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 5 Thanh Tam and Thi Tams story Prudential Vietnam Thanh Tam and Thi Tam have held policies with Prudential Vietnam since 2004, protecting their son, Thanh Tai, and his education, their parents and their home.
The premiums are low, but the policies hold very special value for the family, both financially and emotionally.
Prudential supports the family in achieving their goals, and creates investment opportunities through various loans and bonds.
Prudential has been able to help the family prepare for a peaceful future, and receive protection from terminal illnesses once they reach retirement age.
Understanding that Prudential will take care of the family and protect them from the unexpected risks in life, they can live safely and peacefully.
