Chief Executive Officers statement Creating the conditions for growth As a leading science Responding decisively to a changing Our vision and strategy market environment We have established an ambitious vision andengineering company The world around us is changing.
Day by that defines where we want to be in five operating primarily in day we witness increasing global security to ten years time, building on our strengths.
threats both at home and abroad.
We also thedefence, security and see government budgets continuing to be Our vision is: to be the chosen partner aerospace markets, QinetiQ under pressure.
Customers are looking to around the world for mission-critical solutions, achieve more with less and demanding innovating for our customers advantage.
analyses and anticipates better value for money.
This requires greater howglobal security threats efficiency, innovation and collaboration both To realise our vision, we are implementing domestically and with international partners.
strategic priorities designed to grow the company are evolving.
We recognise that staying the same will by focusing on our primary UK customer, on not be good enough in a changing world.
international customers and on innovation.
QinetiQ willinnovate and invest carefully togrow its As a company we have a solid foundation Transforming our way of working to build on, because our core competences We are embedding a new way of working to market share andsources are well matched to emerging themes in our align the organisation with our strategy and of revenue.
We have considerable breadth and ensure we are agile and responsive in meeting depth of knowledge and capability that we can customer needs.
We have also launched deliver for our customers, particularly in test a transformation programme to deliver the and evaluation, and science and technology.
key changes that we need to put in place as Not only are our people critical to sovereign a company to achieve growth, in particular the capability, we are also experienced in delivering dynamic resourcing of people and assets from more for less and responding to new across QinetiQ to deliver better value for money challenges through innovation in services, and a more efficient service for our customers.
Last year our customer satisfaction scores remained strong Improving customer focus and competitiveness at more than eight out of ten.
Customers have are our immediate priorities.
The savings we requirements we can meet if we remain deliver through improved efficiencies and greater sufficiently agile and responsive to connect their agility will ensure we remain one step ahead of requirements with the strength and depth of our the competition and also create the headroom so core technical and engineering competences.
that we can invest in our future.
This will allow us to invest carefully in research and development, improve skills and processes, take and manage risk more effectively on our customers behalf, and pursue campaigns to grow the company.
Delivering benefits to our key stakeholders Although market headwinds are strong, by working together and encouraging our peoples entrepreneurial spirit, we are creating a customer-focused, collaborative and competitive environment in order to deliver growth.
Our customers will benefit through better products and services, increased responsiveness and improved value for money.
Our employees will benefit through greater opportunities to work in integrated teams, utilising their expertise across multiple domains throughout QinetiQ.
Over the medium term we expect our shareholders to benefit through growth in quality earnings as we realise our vision and deliver our full potential.
Steve Wadey Chief Executive Officer 26 May 2016 06 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The world around us is changing.
We are responding decisively by establishing a vision andstrategy for QinetiQ to ensure we continue to meet customer needs.
We have reorganised the Group, introducing a way of working which aligns the organisation with our strategy, andlaunched a transformation programme to deliver the changes we need to make as acompany.
The model below sets out our plan to adapt and deliver in a changing world.
Common themes across our markets Increasing security threats International partnerships Government budgets under pressure Need for innovation Drive for greater efficiency Page 08 Market overview VISION AND STRATEGY Our vision defines where we want to be as a company.
To realise our vision we are implementing strategic priorities designed to create the conditions for growth.
page 10 Further detail around each specific area can be found on the relevant pages.
WAY OF WORKING Our new way of working ensures we are responsive in meeting customer needs.
In particular, dynamic resourcing of people and resources from across QinetiQ delivers better value for money and a more efficient service for our customers.
page 12 TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMME page 14 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE BUSINESS WINNING INVESTING IN OUR FUTURE Our future success will be built We are improving our business The savings we deliver through improved on operational excellence and winning skills to evolve in an efficiencies and greater agility will create underpinned by continued increasingly competitive market.
the capacity we need to invest in key operational and financial discipline.
campaigns to grow the company.
Delivering benefits to our customers and other key stakeholders Customers Employees Shareholders Better products and services Work in integrated teams Growth in quality earnings Increased responsiveness Utilise experience across QinetiQ Improved value for money QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07
