Strategic report Chief Executives Q&A Delivering the future In the spotlight Henry Birch answers some of the key questions raised by shareholders during the course of the year and addresses some of the important issues facing the Group.
But much of it has been about How do you gauge the overall giving us a genuine platform for growth: progress and performance such as putting in place a modern digital of the business over the platform, putting in place a vastly improved retail casino management last year?
system and investing in a new generation Overall I am satisfied with what we have of electronic product across Grosvenor achieved in the last year, but there are and Mecca.
Additionally, we have areas, both in terms of progress and invested in people: improving our digital performance, where I recognise we and marketing expertise and creating a need to do better.
new data science and analytics team.
So however you look at it we have delivered We set out at the beginning of the year a lot over the last year in terms of those to do a huge amount, and put in place building blocks of growth.
the building blocks to transform our business.
Some of this I would view as Our Mecca venues business has seen an catch-up upgrading servers, putting impressive last 12 months and is now on decent wi-fi into our clubs, renovating an entirely different footing.
After many some of our clubs that were long years of decline on the back of the The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 10 More information Our strategy 15 We have spent the year putting in Operating review 26 place the building blocks to transform our business, whilst maintaining financial performance and delivering for our shareholders and customers.
smoking ban and an economic recession, we are wholly supportive of these a desire to have a proposition that did we are now in like-for-like revenue growth measures, they impacted our Mecca not look and feel like many of our other and have grown overall customer numbers digital revenues.
Even though we are competitors who had opted to work with for a second consecutive year.
It is a disappointed by the performance of the same supplier.
In choosing to work testament to every single member of Mecca digital, there is a lot that we with Bede Gaming, we felt we could the Mecca team that not only have they are doing and will do this year from achieve both these objectives and achieved this, but their ambition for the product to people to marketing which underlined what we felt could be a future remains unbounded.
Likewise our we are confident will have a significant clear competitive advantage by making positive impact on the business.
Grosvenor digital business has continued a small investment in Bede Gaming via its stellar trajectory of the last few years a convertible loan.
with 37% revenue growth year on year, What has been the experience Since launch, the Grosvenor digital and shows few signs of slowing down.
business has benefited substantially of the new digital platform?
Our Grosvenor venues business had three from the Bede Gaming platform and has We migrated both Meccas and Grosvenors solid quarters, but had a disappointing continued to grow rapidly.
We have also digital businesses onto the Bede Gaming Q4.
Much of this was a result of gaming been able to add a new poker product platform at the very end of February.
This margin with some of our higher staking and a sports betting product very rapidly platform migration was achieved within customers winning but we also felt a and smoothly as a result of our new our timetable and budget.
consumer softness that much of the platform.
Mecca has had significant leisure and hospitality sectors also stability issues, affecting both short-term Our previous platform, which was a witnessed.
Mecca also had lower relative revenue performance and our ability legacy from the days when we owned admissions in Q4 than the other three to add new functionality.
This has been Blue Square, had not received sufficient quarters.
Identifying the underlying a source of great frustration and Bede investment and had fallen substantially causes of a seeming lack of consumer Gaming faced financial penalties as a behind the market norm in terms of confidence, or time and money spent result.
Bede Gaming has focused on functionality, particularly with respect elsewhere, is difficult to pin down, but resolving these issues to our satisfaction, to bonusing and player management the good news is that admissions and but the net result is that we are behind capabilities.
We determined that it staking levels seem to have returned schedule with our plans for Mecca digital did not make sense trying to retro-fit to normal levels for the start of this and will have to work all the harder this a platform that had been built with financial year.
There is a huge amount that we will sports in mind and at a time before deliver in the course of this year in terms the explosion of mobile gambling.
We Mecca digital had a frustrating year, with of new games content and functionality therefore conducted a thorough review early growth which increasingly flat-lined and we have every confidence that we of what new platform alternatives were as we prepared for platform migration will see our digital business continue available.
At the heart of our decision and was then impacted by platform to grow.
making was the desire to be able to stability issues once we moved to our leverage our retail assets, which meant new Bede Gaming platform.
On top of having clear control over our own this we implemented a number of social platform development roadmap, and responsibility measures and tools.
com 11 Strategic report Chief Executives Q&A continued failure to tackle problem gambling as an How has the introduction of What are the areas of focus operator is not only morally wrong, but social responsibility tools for the year ahead?
is also not a sustainable business strategy.
In addition to our existing resources, we Our focus is predominantly on have recently hired a head of responsible improving performance and, in The first thing to say is that we are gambling and have implemented a board particular, ensuring that we see growth wholly supportive of the introduction responsible gambling committee chaired in our Mecca digital business and putting of social responsibility tools and are by Lord Kilmorey, alongside our existing the weak Q4 in Grosvenor behind us.
committed to being a responsible compliance and responsible gambling gambling operator.
In March of this year, We are continuing to build our business committee that I chair on a monthly all digital operators licensed in the UK through investment in tools, products basis.
With three million customers were required to introduce a number of and venues.
Many of these initiatives will coming through our doors and using customer tools on their digital services become a reality in this financial year.
our digital services every year, we cant to help counter excessive or problem On the venues side, we will complete guarantee we wont make mistakes and gambling.
These included: automatic significant refurbishments of our Leeds people with gambling problems may self-exclusion from a website: time-out and Nottingham casinos and will launch access our services, but it wont be functionality whereby a customer can our new format bingo club.
In terms of through a lack of trying or a lack elect to take a forced break from a tools, we will put in place a new data ofcommitment.
gambling service: and reality checks, platform with a range of analytical tools: whereby a customer can receive an and product-wise, well launch our single automated reminder of how long they How has and how will account and wallet which will allow have been gambling.
At the end of 2015, customers to move seamlessly from one Brexit affect your business?
prior to the introduction of these tools, channel to another.
Theres much more Other than preoccupying the nation and we had undertaken a review of our that we are doing that you can read potentially directly or indirectly keeping higher spending customers across all about elsewhere in this report, but at its customers out of our casinos and bingo brands and channels to ensure that we heart is a focus on driving growth and clubs in May and June, so far Brexit has were comfortable as to their sources of improving the customer experience with had little impact on our business.
At the heart of this review, which an emphasis on using technology to our any longer term broader economic involved putting in place a set of new advantage where we can.
We are excited consequence, we see little negative processes, was a desire to continue to and optimistic about the year ahead, impact of Brexit.
We are predominantly tackle money laundering, prevent the although we will undoubtedly be busy.
a UK business in terms of revenues 94% use of the proceeds of crime and reduce Henry Birch and costs.
We may benefit from foreign problem gambling.
Chief Executive exchange rates with respect to our The combination of these two factors 22 August 2016 Enracha business in Spain and our two had an impact on the industry and casinos in Belgium.
Also, if London specifically on the performance of our benefits from attracting more foreign business.
Whilst it is extremely difficult visitors as a result of a weaker pound, to quantify this impact, we believe that a then our London casinos may well see some benefit.
However, overall there seems to be little direct impact.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 12
