12 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A purpose-driven company Chief Executives RB has a clear purpose: to provide people with innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
This purpose inspires us and Statement we are passionate about achieving it.
We look to bring it to life in everything we do: the strategic choices we make, the brands we focus on, the type of innovations we bring to market and the programmes we run.
Having this purpose makes the work we do each day more fulfilling for our people and drives us to higher levels of performance.
Our purpose also encompasses the role we play in the world.
There is a social dimension The acquisition of Mead Johnson to our work, in particular our programme to eradicate diarrhoea as a leading killer of is a significant step forward in children under five years old.
This unique, multi-year commitment focuses everyone RBs journey as a leader in in RB on an issue where we can use our health and hygiene capabilities to real effect.
Our financial contribution is important but we also apply our R&D resources to create products specifically for families See more on pages 10-11 around the world who cannot afford highend solutions for preventing diarrhoea.
Rakesh Kapoor RBs betterbusiness strategy also includes Chief Executive Officer setting challenging environmental objectives.
We have set ourselves targets for reductions in carbon emissions and water use.
As a highly innovative company we can use our new product pipeline to bring more responsible products to the market.
These efforts have made us one of the top-ranked companies in the sector for corporate responsibility.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements However, I am deeply sorry that an Oxy RB The Mead Johnson acquisition E-commerce China revenue product in South Korea caused lung and this year was The acquisition of Mead Johnson will respiratory injuries and deaths among its mark a significant step forward in RBs users.
Oxy RB has taken responsibility for the journey as a global leader in consumer part it played, along with other companies health: with the Enfa franchise already 30% who supplied humidifier sanitisers.
In July established as the global leader in the of Chinas Net Revenue 2016, Oxy RB announced a full and fair infant and childrens nutrition category.
compensation package for Category I & II Oxy Up from 25% of Chinas Net Revenue HS victims categorised by the South Korean Mead Johnson brings significant R&D, in 2015 Government in its first two categorisation quality, regulatory and specialist distribution rounds.
As of 31 January 2017, 97% of capabilities.
When paired with our existing eligible victims are participating in this plan.
expertise in consumer-centric innovation, Connected Health scaling global brands and commitment to Connected Health is the As Oxy RB strives to do the right thing in driving performance this will enable long-term interrelationship between digital South Korea, we must also ensure that value creation for the Group.
See more on technology, health and self care.
similar problems cannot arise in the future.
The ability to bring these areas We have therefore created a new position of together has led to our breakthrough Chief Safety, Quality and Compliance SQC Looking forward innovation and first-ever connected Officer, reporting directly to me.
Through The next few years will be both challenging health product: Nurofen FeverSmart this combined SQC organisation, we will and exciting for RB.
The challenges will Temperature Monitor.
focus on end-to-end safety: product and come from world markets that are likely to consumer safety, as well as the health and remain tough.
However, we see exciting safety of our people, and our quality and This innovation has been designed possibilities for our business and aim to compliance systems and processes.
I am with young children in mind.
Parents outperform categories whose long-term determined that RB will learn all the lessons growth prospects remain robust.
will be familiar with the concern we can from this tragedy, so we emerge experienced when a child is unwell a much stronger and better Group.
We continue to position RB for a world where with fever.
Research shows that over digital and technological advancements are 80% of parents find it hard to monitor Delivering outperformance changing how people live their lives, as well a young childs temperature.
Market conditions were generally difficult as how they connect with brands and look in 2016.
Economic growth was slow in for solutions that can keep them healthier.
At In response to this clear consumer developed markets and mixed in developing the touch of a button, consumers can now need RB has launched FeverSmart.
markets, with India expanding rapidly find the right medication for their symptoms.
Placed under a childs arm the small, but major economies such as Brazil and Offering tailored, innovative solutions for their flexible monitor sends real-time Russia proving weak, and geopolitical and everyday ailments is a huge opportunity for us.
continuous temperature readings social issues affecting the Middle East and straight to the users smartphone.
Commodity prices, which had been At the same time, the rise of e-commerce Parents can track medicine doses and favourable, have also started to rise.
is creating a borderless world, opening receive alerts for when their childs up new opportunities for RB.
We already temperature spikes: helping parents RB is not immune to these challenges but have major successes in this area, notably manage their childs temperature.
our goal is to always deliver, no matter in China where more than 30% of our what the external environment.
Our Net revenue this year was online.
We intend to Revenue performance of 3% growth on stay at the forefront as other developing a like-for-like basis, was affected by a countries go through this transformation.
combination of challenging markets, the HS issue in South Korea reducing our growth Overall, we remain confident that our medium rate by 1% and an innovation within our and long-term strategic choices are right, consumer health portfolio which failed and will deliver Shareholder returns.
In 2017, to meet our expectations.
However, RBs we are targeting like-for-like Net Revenue virtuous earnings model delivered a further growth of 3%.
For Adjusted Operating strong expansion in our Operating Profit Margin, we reiterate our medium-term Margin, while giving us the room to invest target of moderate margin expansion.
in category building initiatives, penetration programmes and new market entries.
Rakesh Kapoor Innovation plays an important role in our Chief Executive Officer growth, with Dettol Squeezy, Mucinex Clear 20 March 2017 & Cool and Harpic Bathroom among the many new products contributing in 2016.
However, there was a negative impact from the lowerthan-expected uptake of the Scholl Amop Wet & Dry express pedi, which we launched this year.
We pride ourselves on high-quality innovation and have a culture that allows people to push ideas they are passionate about.
This passion for ideas is the most important driver of innovation.
While we are never happy when a launch fails, I firmly believe it is the sign of a healthy culture.
Companies that never fail are companies that are not doing their best, since they avoid the calculated risks that outperformance demands.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
