STR ATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 27 26 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW THE GROUP HAS ONCE AGAIN DELIVERED RECORD RESULTS STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE DELIVERING MORE HOMES CUSTOMERS LOOKING TO THE FUTURE The Group has once again delivered record results.
To deliver more homes the industry needs more We are a customer focused business and we In summary, 2016 was an excellent year for the Turnover increased by 20% to 1.38bn and pre-tax outlets.
Increasing outlets is essential, but is a recognised some time ago that our customers Group.
We are an innovative organisation and our profits were up 23% to 250m.
However, behind huge challenge: it requires talented and expectations were rising at a faster rate than we initiatives are aimed at both improving shareholder these headline results there is a bigger story.
This determined teams to close land deals and progress could support.
We responded by making a value and supporting our brand purpose to years integrated Annual Report provides much sites through what is a long-winded, undersignificant investment to raise our game in this create a better way for people to live.
We more detail on the progress we have made across resourced planning system.
Despite the area: we expanded our customer service teams, produced a very strong set of record results but of the many parts of our business that have come frustrations of the system we have a good track introduced new technology and most recently equal importance made significant progress across together to make these outstanding results possible.
record of growing outlets year-on-year.
Over the obtained accreditation from the Institute of those parts of the business that are essential to past three years we have increased outlets by Customer Service.
It is comforting to know that our strategy for sustainable growth.
We have an JOHN TUTTE Our growth in recent years has been exceptional.
nearly 40% from 92 to 128 and we expect the in a fast growing business such as ours, close to excellent product with a strong brand, we have an Over the past three years legal completions have Group Chief Executive number of outlets to rise in 2017.
90% of our discerning customers continue to operational structure with capacity to grow and grown by 67%, turnover by 128% and profit before recommend us.
expand and a land bank with which to do so.
We tax by 262% and our strategy is to continue to To grow outlets you need land.
2016 was a very have talented, dedicated and loyal teams of people grow, albeit we expect the pace to moderate.
Our successful year for land acquisition across the PEOPLE that share the same values.
The Group is in good divisions in the South grew most strongly in the Group.
We took advantage of a benign market and shape and well-positioned for the future.
I am It is pleasing to report that a record 24 of our site year and it is pleasing to report that the new South benefitted from an exceptional pull-through from confident 2017 will be another excellent year for managers received NHBC Pride in the Job awards East division made a valuable contribution to the the forward land portfolio that included 2,900 the business.
This is a great Groups results in its first year of trading.
plots at Colindale, North London.
achievement at a time when the industry has a shortage of skilled trades, managers and MARKET PLACEMAKING technicians: a shortage that we recognised a The market throughout the year was stronger than Our product distinguishes us from our major number of years ago and have been doing more the previous year which resulted in our average sales competitors.
Heritage is and will remain our core than our share to address ever since.
John Tutte per outlet per week increasing by 6% to 0.72 with a collection.
We make continuous but subtle Group Chief Executive seasonally stronger performance in the second-half.
changes to the range to ensure it maintains its The wider industry needs to do more to address The top-end of the market however suffered from leading and award winning position in the new the skills crisis and I was delighted to accept the 5 September 2016 the impact of successive SDLT increases and this was homes market.
opportunity to Chair the Homebuilding Skills particularly notable in London.
The HSP is an HBF initiative and But creating great places to live is not just about has secured four years of funding from the CITB to In response to the weaker top-end of the market individual homes: its about much more.
Its about help tackle the countrys skills shortage.
The HSP we have focused our land buying and development Placemaking: designing developments that are will be looking to broaden the industrys appeal to programmes more towards our mid-range homes sympathetic to the surroundings where our attract a more diverse workforce as well as looking that have proven to be so popular with buyers customers can enhance their wellbeing and feel at ways to raise standards and productivity.
with many also being able to take advantage of part of a community.
Its about creating a Better Help to Buy.
In London we announced some time Way to Live which we adopted as a new strap-line As we grow we have a responsibility for the THE GROUP IS IN GOOD ago that our strategy was to concentrate on more during the year.
welfare of an increasing number of people and we affordable apartments in the outer boroughs and it have to ensure our sites are safe places to live and SHAPE AND WELL-POSITIONED We have also worked hard to make our is within these areas we have acquired new sites.
We have expanded our Health and Safety developments more sustainable from an FOR THE FUTURE.
We have made good progress working through our teams during the year and despite a significant environmental perspective.
We are working towards legacy of prime London apartments, including increase in build output, reduced the number of ISO14001 certification for our environmental Connaught Place, and now have very little notifiable accidents per site.
management systems and became the first major exposure to this sector of the market.
housebuilder to score a maximum rating of three trees in the WWFs Timber Scorecard.
