4 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Chief Executive Officers report Strategic direction Our strategy remains consistent: to be a global professional information solutions provider, a company that delivers improved outcomes for professional and business customers across industries.
Our number one priority remains the organic development of increasingly sophisticated information-based analytics and decision tools that deliver enhanced value to our customers.
Our goal is to help our customers make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our customers to create innovative solutions which combine content and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
These solutions often account for about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant and positive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
We aim to build leading positions in long-term global growth Erik Engstrom markets and leverage our skills, assets and resources across Chief Executive Officer RELX Group, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
We achieved good underlying During the year we continued to make progress in this strategic direction.
We are systematically migrating all of our businesses revenue growth in 2016 and across RELX Group towards electronic decision tools, adding broader datasets, embedding more sophisticated analytics and continued to generate underlying leveraging more powerful technology, primarily through organic development.
operating profit growth ahead of We are transforming our core business, building out new products and expanding into higher growth adjacencies and geographies.
revenue growth, with underlying We are supplementing this organic development with selective acquisitions of targeted data sets and analytics, and assets in revenue and adjusted operating high-growth markets that support our organic growth strategies, and are natural additions to our existing businesses.
profit growth across all four By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we business areas.
believe that, over time, we are improving our business profile and the quality of our earnings.
This is leading to more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and geographic balance: ahigher growth profile by expanding in higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged businesses and gradually reducing the drag from print format declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic development with strong cash generation.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT GROWTH 6% 6% 5% 5% 5% 4% 3% 3% 3% 3% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chief Executive Officers report 5 2016 progress Financial performance In 2016 we made further strategic and operational progress, and Our positive financial performance continued throughout 2016, continued to evolve our business profile.
Our preferred formats, with underlying revenue and profit growth across all four business electronic and face-to-face, now generate 87% of our total areas.
Underlying operating revenues, growing in mid-single digits.
profit growth was 6%, and adjusted earnings per share at constant currencies grew 8%.
We continued to focus our acquisitions on select, targeted data sets and analytics, and assets in high-growth markets that Key business trends in our Scientific, Technical & Medical support our organic growth strategies.
We completed 17 business remained positive, with underlying profit growth slightly transactions of small content, data and exhibition assets for a total exceeding underlying revenue growth.
In primary research, consideration of 338m, and disposed of assets for 16m.
strong growth in usage and article submissions continued.
Good growth continued in databases and tools, as well as in electronic With a strong balance sheet and an inherently cash-generative reference products.
business, the strategic priority order for using our cash is unchanged.
First to invest in the organic development of our Underlying revenue growth improved at Risk & Business businesses to drive underlying revenue growth: second to support Analytics with strong growth across all key segments in both our organic growth strategy with targeted acquisitions: third to subscription and transactional revenues.
Underlying profit grow dividends predictably, broadly in line with EPS growth: fourth growth broadly matched underlying revenue growth.
to maintain our leverage in a comfortable range: and finally use Underlying revenue growth in Legal improved slightly, with any remaining cash to buy back shares.
As part of this we bought continued efficiency gains driving strong underlying operating back shares for 700m in 2016, and announced 700m in buybacks profit growth.
US and European markets remained stable but for 2017. subdued.
Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth, in line with the previous year.
Revenue growth was strong in the US andmoderate in Europe.
Japan grew strongly and China saw goodgrowth.
6 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Corporate responsibility suppliers in the US had greater chances to work with us.
We also Corporate responsibility is at the heart of our business.
In purchased more electricity from renewable sources.
improving outcomes for our customers, we make an important With the help of our CR Forum and CR networks like the Quality contribution to society.
Our products and services advance First Working Group, Green Teams, RE Cares Champions and science and health, protect people, further the rule of law and Socially Responsible Supply Chain Network we will progress an access to justice, and foster communities.
These contributions ambitious agenda for 2017, which the Boards and other senior arealigned with the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development leaders, will be monitoring.
Goals SDGs and we are dedicated to doing our part towards theirattainment.
Outlook Key business trends in the early part of 2017 are consistent with We are focused on making continual improvements in the conduct the early part of 2016 and we are confident that, by continuing to of our business.
Among the ways we did that in 2016 was by execute on our strategy, we will deliver another year of underlying training more employees to respond to compliance concerns and revenue, profit and earnings growth in 2017. conducting a mental health at work campaign to destigmatise the issue and raise awareness of support mechanisms.
We created Erik Engstrom more resources to help staff reference our CR focus in Chief Executive Officer discussions with customers.
