Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 34 Strategic report Performance Overview The Healthcare Centre of Excellence Architects impression of the new includes an operating theatre for training.
The planning application for 1.74m sq ft Despite a reduction in revenue Review of 2016 of development at the Miskin site, and profit due to a number of Revenue last year benefited from including 400,000 sq ft for long-term use large orders in the Far East in the a number of large orders in the Far by Renishaw, has now been granted and previous year not repeating to the East, particularly in the consumer work has started on the next stage in this electronics markets, which have not same extent this year, Renishaw exciting development.
been repeated to the same extent this continued its focus on investments year.
After adjusting for these factors, The Old Town site in Wotton-under-Edge, required to achieve long-term there was still underlying growth of 6%.
which was vacated by our spectroscopy business growth, including new This provided us with the confidence to products line at the start of the year, has product development, global continue our ongoing investments for also been fully refurbished as an R&D marketing and distribution the long-term sustainability of the Group, facility and re-occupation will start during infrastructure, manufacturing including recruitment and training of the summer of 2016. capacity, and the recruitment skilled employees, global marketing and In Stone, Staffordshire, there has been andtraining of skilled people.
distribution infrastructure, IT infrastructure, significant ongoing refurbishment of the new product development and two adjacent properties, totalling 90,000 manufacturing capacity.
sq ft, which were purchased last year to The year saw another high level of capital allow Renishaws additive manufacturing investment in the development and products line to relocate from its former refurbishment of property.
The new facilities now house site in South Wales, around 40m has our UK Solutions Centre, one of a now been invested in site acquisition, global network that is being established refurbishment and purchase of plant to increase the adoption of additive andmachinery.
During the second half manufacturing technology by providing of the year the refurbishment of a a secure development environment in 122,000sq ft production hall was which our customers can expand their completed, which has enabled machining AM knowledge and confidence to enable and assembly operations to be separated, it to be deployed in their own facilities for whilst an annexe now houses newly volume production see page 26. completed R&D facilities, a demonstration Outside the UK, there were further area, a Fabrication Development Centre investments in group facilities, including for educating students and a Healthcare the creation of new Solutions Centres Centre of Excellence.
The latter, which anew facility in Canada close to our includes an operating theatre for training existing office and a centre at our existing neurosurgeons, will be formally opened in facility in Pune, India, which was formally September 2016 and is already producing opened by the British Deputy High additively manufactured metal dental and Commissioner, Colin Wells, in June 2016. medical components.
In the USA, the new build of a 133,000 sq ft facility in West Dundee, near Chicago, Illinois, is nearing completion.
This new US facility will allow us to consolidate operations from two existing sites and is due for occupation inautumn 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 The new building for Renishaw, Inc. near UK Additive Manufacturing Solutions Chicago is nearing completion.
Following the acquisition of land last Market conditions Strategy year, work is underway to create a new Last year was exceptional for our To meet our key strategic aims, we building that will provide expansion space Far East business, primarily due to continued to make investments, which for sales and marketing operations in large orders from China and South this year included focusing on enhancing Mexico, whilst in Europe, refurbishment Korea for our machine tool products our manufacturing capabilities, our ability of existing premises in Sweden, Italy and used in the manufacture of consumer to demonstrate our products and their France is also in progress.
However these did not applications, and our continuing drive to have moved to a facility in an industrial repeat at the same levels this year, but develop a strong market presence in both area of Taichung that provides a new there was a favourable environment for established and emerging markets.
demonstration facility and is close to many position encoders as a result of new Our investment during the year at the of our key customers in the machine tool investments in LED manufacture and the Miskin facility has further reduced supply and motion control industries.
chain risk, whilst increasing manufacturing These new facilities require supporting Whilst there was weaker trading in the Far capacity for component part machining, IT infrastructure, and during the East electronics sector, globally we are still electronics assembly, the production of year, there was also a focus on the seeing ongoing investment in production additive manufacturing machines, and creation of regional data centres to systems and processes for key sectors dental structures medical implants.
It has improve performance across our such as aerospace, automotive and also provided a healthcare training facility subsidiary network.
energy, as evidenced by our underlying and product demonstration area, and growth.
All these sectors require Renishaw importantly for our talent pipeline, has Competition for the best talent that will systems to meet their need for ever tighter also seen the creation of a Fabrication ensure the future success of the business production tolerances and cost controls.
Development Centre which aims to is very strong and we continue to promote raise awareness amongst students Renishaw regionally and nationally as a and teachers of the value of a career desirable employer.
This has been aided in engineering.
by Renishaw being recognised for the third consecutive year by The JobCrowd We continued to invest heavily in R&D to a UK graduate job review website create strong market positions through as a Top 3 employer of graduates in technology leadership, with 69.1m net the UKs engineering manufacturing of capitalised costs expenditure on R&D sector.
We have a planned record intake and engineering during the year.
We filed of 75 graduates and 45 apprentices 45 new patent applications and there this summer, whilst our in-house were 68 previously filed applications academy delivered 6,500 training days granted this year.
During the year we also created new subsidiaries in Denmark Renishaw ApS, Hungary Renishaw Hungary Kft and Finland Renishaw Oy to support the increasing level of sales and potential forgrowth in those countries.
