7 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives Q&A Growth from our North American Pest Control operations excluding This year we have delivered Ongoing Products has also been significantly aided by our successful acquisition Revenue growth of 12.6% of which 3.0% programme across the region and during the year we bought 17 new businesses, all of which are integrating well.
Im very pleased to report was Organic Revenue growth and 9.6% that our Pest Control margins excluding Products in this key growth was from acquisitions, Ongoing Operating market are now at 16% and this still leaves us with significant margin opportunity to be gained through operational efficiencies including Profit growth of 11.5% and FreeCash Flow service productivity and procurement.
Q. Pest Control is going from strength to strength but We have alsobenefited from the recent weakness in sterling with total Hygiene is also now looking increasingly promising.
revenue and profit before income tax at actual rates of exchange rising Why is this?
Initial Hygiene is the worlds leading hygiene services business, operating in an attractive industry offering good growth opportunities Our core Pest Control business has again performed strongly, Ongoing as expectations around standards of hygiene increase.
The business is Revenue growing by 25.9% of which 5.7% was Organic Revenue highly profitable and, as in Pest Control, margins are driven by postcode growth, and we are increasingly encouraged by the ongoing traction density servicing as many customers as possible in a tight geographic in our Hygiene business which grew by 4.8% of which 3.1% was Organic zone and customer penetration selling multiple service lines to Revenue growth.
In December we signed a joint venture customers.
In recent years we have made significant investments in JV agreement with Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH Haniel to establish developing our products and believe we have the best range in the a leading provider of workwear and hygiene services in Europe, to market, giving us greater confidence to sell to customers.
In addition, be created by transferring our Workwear and Hygiene businesses in weare also changing the way we incentivise and reward our colleagues, Benelux, Sweden and Central and Eastern Europe CEE into CWS-boco moving away from revenue-based schemes for sales towards marginowned by Haniel.
Completion is expected in mid-2017, subject based schemes to improve revenue quality and reduce downside risks tocompetition clearance.
of underperformance and price pressure.
As a result of our growing Q.
What are the key takeaways for investors from the confidence in the business, we are now acquiring bolt-ons to build Companys performance in 2016?
scale and density and during 2016 we bought five small businesses inAustralia, New Zealand, Malaysia, the Republic of Ireland and Chile A.
During the year we continued to implement an effective and all of which are performing well.
consistent strategy called our RIGHT WAY plan at pace, and it is this strategy which is beginning to deliver consistent progress against our medium-term targets.
The plan is based upon a clear, business model with five geographic regions and three core business lines, all operating on a low-cost, single-country operating structure.
Our three core competencies are: our colleagues as experts: our business leadership: I am very encouraged and our lean multi-business operations.
We use a quadrant analysis tool for capital allocation and operational management and group our by our performance businesses into a four-box growth potential grid which has again worked well for us in 2016.
Finally, our financial targets are to deliver mid-singledigit Ongoing Revenue growth, high-single-digit Ongoing Profit growth in organic growth and strong and sustainable Free Cash Flow of 110m, and we have exceeded all three of these targets in 2016. which, at 3.0%, In Pest Control we have strengthened our position as the worlds most international pest control company through increased organic growth isat its highest and through acquisitions, by establishing stronger market positions particularly in Emerging and Growth markets, and through innovation level for 10years.
In our Hygiene business we have delivered a significant improvement in revenue growth, established a strong product range, launched the myInitial customer portal for enhanced customer Andy Ransom, Chief Executive insight and engagement and have begun to acquire target bolt-ons to build scale and density.
Finally, in Workwear, we have announced the creation of a JV with Haniel to form a leading provider of workwear and hygiene services in Europe.
What is the rationale for your joint venture with Haniel?
A. I absolutely believe that this transaction is the right deal at the right Lastly, our continued focus on cash has enabled us to accelerate our time it is the best decision to take for the future of the businesses acquisition plans during the year, particularly within Emerging and being transferred into the JV, is the right thing to do for the remaining Growth markets.
We acquired 41 businesses in Pest Control, Hygiene Rentokil Initial businesses and is value creating for our shareholders.
and Other across 19 countries, with combined annualised revenues in The transaction strengthens our balance sheet through cash proceeds the 12 months prior to acquisition of 124m.
of c. 420m which will be used to reduce debt and interest costs and Q.
How have your Pest Control operations performed increase our flexibility for value-enhancing acquisitions in the higherthisyear?
growth markets of Pest Control and Hygiene.
On a pro forma basis our net debt to EBITDA ratio will be reduced on completion and our annual A.
Weve seen an overall improvement in Organic Revenue interest costs will fall by some 7m.
Further, through retaining a c. 18% growth of 5.7% with notably strong growth from Brazil, Chile, China, stake in the new JV, we will receive an annual dividend of 19m for five Germany, India, Indonesia and the US.
This year we deployed multiple years subject to a true-up mechanism.
We anticipate maintaining our growth levers across our global portfolio to improve organic growth.
stake in the combined business for three to five years after which time These included using our technical expertise, innovation and digital we have various exit options under the agreement to optimise further expertise to drive new sales and reach new customers.
Another key value for shareholders.
driver of organic growth in 2016 was progress in targeting international and national accounts.
Our acquisition of Steritech in the US has really strengthened our capability in both these segments.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
