Strategic report | Chief Executives review Nick McKittrick Chief Executive Officer Rightmove, the UKs number one property portal, has national TV through our partnership with Channel 4 and broke delivered another year of record results.
Visits from home new ground as we delivered contextual adverts which gave live movers increased by 10% and they spent nearly a billion information on available properties in locations referred to minutes on Rightmove every month in 2016.
Our number in Channel 4s property content.
We also continued to add of advertisers grew by 2% to reach an all-time high of over further weight to our presence in London with TV advertising, 20,100 and with advertisers spending more on our products, additional outdoor media and our exclusive partnerships with data and services, our revenue increased by 15% to the Evening Standard and Time Out.
1 220.0m with underlying operating profit up 15% to More consumers than ever turned to Rightmove in 2016 with 166.2m and operating profit up 18% to 161.6m.
nearly 1.5 billion visits across all our platforms, a 10% increase Our progress is testament to our disciplined focus on the UK on the previous year.
The growth was driven by mobile and property advertising market and the huge effort Rightmovers of the nearly 12 billion minutes that consumers spent on have made to build this business together with our industry Rightmove, two thirds of time spent was on mobile devices.
We look forward to delivering further growth as Our market share of traffic across both desktop and mobile 2 2 we continue to shape the UK property market.
was 77% with the mobile component even higher at 81%.
Our Strategy Traffic to our research tools also grew significantly in 2016 as The place consumers turn to first and engage with most sellers and landlords turned to Rightmove first to help inform At the core of our strategy is a relentless focus on continual their decisions.
Our research tools, such as sold prices, are improvement and innovation to create the most compelling by far the most widely used in the UK and provide the unique experience for consumers so that they turn to us first.
We benefit of access to our catalogue of 1 million current will continue to achieve this by providing consumers with the properties and 40 million historic property records.
most up to date, engaging and comprehensive property Consumers spent over 350 million minutes using our research content together with the best search, research and home tools in 2016 which is up by over 20% on the previous year.
moving tools to support their home moving journey.
Traffic to our Overseas property site increased in 2016 To that end we launched new search technology in the first suggesting the dream of owning a property abroad for half of the year, leading the way and setting the standard for many of the British public continues to be a popular one.
the fastest, simplest and richest search experience with Our overseas site attracted 1.6 million more unique visitors more images, larger images, simplified filtering options compared to 2015 and surpassed 100 million searches for and a fully responsive design ensuring the best possible the first time.
We now have a record number of both overseas presentation of content across all devices.
The future is estate agent and developer customers advertising more than also exciting with our next search innovation, Where can a quarter of a million properties across the world with over half I live, launching in early 2017.
This search identifies the of the properties located in the two most popular countries commutable areas home hunters can afford, and then for British buyers, namely Spain and France.
shows them the properties available in those areas.
Our Commercial property advertising business continues to We continued to invest in our brand in 2016 with an updated gain momentum with over 40 million visits in 2016, and an look and feel and through our find your happy advertising 86% market share of visits among the top three commercial campaign.
This campaign connects with the strong positive property portals in the UK.
As a result, more and more emotions that moving home often generates and reflects commercial agents and landlords are choosing to advertise our position at the heart of it.
Our brand building focused on with us.
1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements More consumers than ever turned to Rightmove in 2016 with nearly 1.5 billion visits across all our platforms.
Unrivalled exposure, leads and products for our customers There is significant headroom to grow product revenue as we With traffic to our platforms growing for the 16th consecutive leverage data to increase the penetration of existing products, year we continued to increase the exposure for our customers evolve their value and pricing, and continue to innovate and brands and properties.
This record exposure generated nearly introduce new products as customers look to invest more to 47 million leads for our customers, six percent down on 2015 drive their brand exposure and gain market share.
This year as the result of less activity in the housing market post the ARPA increased by 12% to 842 driven by customers spending result of the EU referendum, although still nine percent higher more on products and packages.
Innovation to create a better marketplace Our long-established focus on the quality of our leads Combining our software and whole of market dataset whilst continues to stand us in good stead as they convert far more supported by our dedicated account management teams, often to outcomes for our customers.
In fact, we generate we help customers drive operational efficiencies and inform 3 six times as many sales and lets for our Agency customers their business decisions.
Our focus is on the areas our as our nearest competitor.
No wonder, when home sellers and customers value most, which in the case of our agents is landlords are so much more likely to find their buyer or tenant winning and retaining business.
4 on Rightmove compared to any other portal, that 85% of For example, whereas previously our customers would have people selling their home rank Rightmove as the most manually gathered valuation and comparable data, paid for important site for marketing their property.
printing and postage of property or development details and Winning the right to an instruction to sell or let a property is paid a third party to count For Sale and Sold advertising critical to an agents success.
Over a million of the email boards for market share information, they can now do this leads sent by home movers to agents highlighted that they electronically with our software all included as part of their had a property to sell, each one creating an instruction membership of Rightmove.
These were in addition to the We introduced the next wave of market share analysis tools instruction opportunities that came via our phone leads, within our popular market intelligence software Rightmove which accounted for two-thirds of all leads.
We also delivered Intel along with the capability for multi-branch agents to nearly 200,000 leads from people asking for a valuation easily see metrics at branch and area levels.
We also on their home, for those customers who bought our Local changed the way that we report on the performance of Valuation Alert product.
properties by moving to the more complete measure of We have continued to innovate our products alongside detailed views.
This takes into account all consumer the development of our new search technology to further interactions with properties on all Rightmove platforms increase the value we deliver to customers.
Our property and allows us to better highlight the performance of our products, Featured Property and Premium Listings are additional products to both customers and consumers.
attracting more attention following their redesign which Our new Marketing Report is based on this new measure and focused on making them larger and more premium.
The is proving extremely popular as our customers are already Featured Agent branding product now gains more visibility using the report on over 100,000 properties each month.
as a larger creative space in the search results that gives The overall engagement and value of our Rightmove Intel our customers more flexibility to better communicate their software keeps growing with usage up over 30% year on year.
message to the largest home hunting audience in the UK.
The digitalisation of the property industry and the efficiencies our software and tools bring help to reduce the cost per office and have also enabled the growth in the number of 3 Source: Independent software provider to the estate agency industry.
4 Source: The Property Academy 2015 Home Moving Trends Survey.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 11 a new identity thats clean and fresh our brand refresh When it comes to property first impressions count.
Thats why weve refreshed our brand with a new logo that looks great on all devices and is cleaner and bolder.
Our house and arrow design is familiar to home hunters everywhere and will ensure Rightmove continues to be the place people visit first.
co. uk o. uk o. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued There is significant headroom to grow product revenue as we leverage data to increase the penetration of existing products, evolve their value and pricing, and continue to innovate.
Over the last 12 months our membership base Great talent and passion to perform is not enough to make a has grown by 2% to over 20,100 customers.
great Rightmover: the way in which we behave towards each other, our customers and partners is vital.
How we go about We care about our customers business success and building our work is central to our recruitment, feedback and personal strong relationships is vital to support their ambitions, development processes.
We also have a scheme to allow especially in light of the significant digital changes taking place.
Rightmovers to recognise their peers who embody the T o that end we are spending more time with customers than behaviours we aspire to.
ever before and making sure that more of our conversations lead to recommendations that our customers truly value.
The biggest influence in our restless and inquisitive culture, of course, comes from our people.
Their actions and In 2017 we plan to evolve our event programme with the behaviours create the sense of belonging and connection introduction of Rightmove Live.
These events will include and allow the business to continue to thrive and attract speakers from a range of industries covering content great people.
In our 2016 Have Your Say people survey, applicable to all small and medium-sized businesses, with an 95% of Rightmovers think Rightmove is a great place to objective of inspiring and motivating the industry.
To recognise employees who have been part of the with an online culture these events will be filmed and hosted journey with Rightmove for ten years we create a gnome in on an on demand platform, meaning our customers can their image.
Im pleased that for such a young company, benefit from this content irrespective of whether they are over 50 gnomes have pride of place in our office.
I am proud of the vibrant culture and business we have built Build great teams and continue to make Rightmove together, I would like to thank everyone for everything they a great place to work have done to achieve this and look forward to watching We strive to create one team of Rightmovers with as Rightmoves continued success in the future.
few barriers as possible to rapid growth and innovation.
We believe that this comes from a process-light, highly Current trading and outlook connected organisation with little constraining hierarchy We believe the outlook for the UK online property advertising and bureaucracy.
It is about selecting the right people, market remains positive, despite the uncertainties stemming giving them the freedom and authority to innovate and from the result of the EU referendum.
Consumers and lead with very simple measures, and then guiding them to customers are becoming increasingly digital and therefore spend succeed.
We need every Rightmover to be both individually continues to transition from traditional advertising channels.
Our clear market leadership coupled with the value of our We believe in sharing often and early and reinforce this products and data positions us well for the future.
With average through events such as townhalls, stand-ups, team away revenue per advertiser continuing to grow the Board remains days and company days which all share progress, successes confident of making further progress in 2017 and beyond.
The culture is not solely built on events like these, but also from the everyday small gestures and the care Rightmovers have for one another.
Everything together creates a unique, driven and quirky environment that we Nick McKittrick believe results in people feeling theres no place theyd rather Chief Executive Officer be.
By striving to make Rightmove a great place to work we can attract and retain the best talent and provide the best 24 February 2017 service for consumers and customers.
