STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Chief executives statement Our success in generating cash, controlling The Energy & Minerals product group matched Dear shareholders, capex, and actively strengthening the portfolio, production with market demand, generating It is a privilege to serve as chief executive of a meant that we closed the year with net debt of significant free cash flow in 2016 of great company with world-class assets, US$9.6billion.
Thisisareductionof US$1.3 billion, due to improved prices in some talented employees and a commitment to US$4.2 billion compared with December 2015. commodities, including coal.
delivering value to our shareholders over the short, medium and long term.
This strong performance was delivered against The Australian coal portfolio, which has a backdrop of significant commodity price delivered a reduction in unit costs of more than Safety comes first volatility and geopolitical uncertainty.
We see 40 per cent over the last four years, benefited At Rio Tinto, safety comes first.
Our ambition is this continuing into 2017 which is why we from higher coking coal prices.
clear: all of our employees and contractors intend to maintain our strong balance sheet, must return home safely at the end of each Driving productivity the foundation of a resilient business.
 Our team around the world is focused on our In 2016, most aspects of our safety any market conditions.
Since 2012, we have fourPsportfolio, performance, peopleand performance improved, but this is still not good reduced our annual cost run rate by more than partners.
Relentless and consistent delivery enough.
US$7 billion, and we are well on track to deliver against each of these will underpin our aim to on our promise of US$2 billion in cost savings deliver superior shareholder returns through It is a real concern that fatalities continue to across 2016 and 2017. the cycle.
occur in the sector and at our operations.
These deaths are devastating losses for family, It is energising to be leading a business where Profitable performance from our friends and colleagues.
continuous improvement and efficiency are world-class assets partoftheculture, andwearetakingevery In June, we had a tragic fatality at one of our The external environment for our businesses opportunity to generate value, from mine iron ore operations in Western Australia.
One of remained challenging in 2016.
our colleagues was crushed while working on a financial planning is to set objectives for your drill rig.
We completed a full investigation into Cutting costs can only deliver so much we company that are resilient against various this event and have shared the learnings across must also lift productivity.
Increasing the macroeconomic and commodity Rio Tinto to seek to prevent an incident like this mine-to-market productivity of our pricing scenarios.
US$50 billion asset base is the highest return Notwithstanding a significant lift in some At the operations of our non-managed joint availabletous.
Assuch, wehavepromisedto commodity prices in the latter part of 2016, arrangements Alumar, Grasberg and deliver an additional US$5 billion of fromaverylowbase,  Escondida, six people died during the year.
We productivity-driven free cash flow over the next year were slightly lower than in 2015. have shared our fatality prevention initiatives five years.
with our joint-venture partners and learn from Our aim is to maximise cash and productivity We will boost productivity across the entire their efforts as well.
across our entire portfolio of assets.
organisation, through harnessing technology During2016,  and through improved operation and utilisation We made good progress during 2016 with management CRM system across more than of our fixed assets, organisational resources underlying EBITDA of US$13.5 billion, 60 sites and completed more than 1.3 million and systems.
We will continue focusing on representing a margin of 38 per cent for the safety verifications.
value, not volume, and using our commercial Group, compared with 34 per cent in 2015. excellence to achieve premium pricing for our CRM is an important tool in our drive to quality products such as the Pilbara blend.
In 2016, our Iron Ore business delivered cash eliminate fatalities across our organisation.
from operations of US$5.6 billion and delivered In 2016, our lost time injury numbers Our new centre of commercial excellence in industry-leading margins.
This group delivered decreased and we have reduced our all injury Singapore is focused on generating more of cost savings of US$315 million for the year.
frequency rate by 64 per cent over the last these types of initiatives, with the aim of The Pilbara infrastructure investments of decade.
maximising value across our customer and recent years are essentially complete.
In June, supplier chains throughout the business.
We must continue to learn and share we announced the US$338 million Silvergrass information, for the benefit of our people, our Investing in future growth investment which will provide new ore later in contractors, and our partners.
2017, and complement our Pilbara blend.
The competitive advantage of our strong For us, safety comes first and our drive to balance sheet has meant that our cost and Our Aluminium group has world-leading improve continues.
 positions in bauxite, alumina and aluminium, growth, and we seek to continue to invest Value over volume  wisely where we see opportunities for 2016, driven by productivity and cash cost In 2016, your company delivered on its attractive returns.
Most importantly, we met our commitment to deliver superior shareholder In2016,  With its low-carbon footprint, our aluminium returns.
In February 2017, we announced total growth projects, which play to the companys business is among the best positioned in the dividends for 2016 of 170 US cents per share, strengths.
In line with our strategy, they are all world, but the price declines of the past year well in excess of the previously indicated multi-decade in outlook and offer highly continue to pose industry-wide challenges.
110 US cents per share minimum, and a share attractive returns.
In Aluminium, all of our assets were free cash buy-back of US$0.5 billion.
In May, work began on the underground flow positive, despite lower realised prices in We maximised cash from our world-class .
 assets and focused on value over volume.
We operating costs by more than US$480 million delivered US$1.6 billion in cost savings, and we First production is expected in 2020.
When the against a full year target of US$300 million.
progressed our three high-value growth underground is fully ramped up in 2027, the projects, Oyu Tolgoi underground, Silvergrass The Copper & Diamonds product group company expects it to produce more than and Amrun, while maintaining tight control of delivered cash from operations of 500,000 tonnes of copper a year.
The mine also our capital expenditure, which in 2016 totalled US$987 million and had underlying EBITDA benefits from significant gold by-products, with US$3.0 billion.
margins from its operations of 31 per cent.
an average gold grade of 0.35 grams per tonne.
com 5 Chief executives statement continued The new Silvergrass iron ore mine will take the These businesses were all pioneered on People with purpose total number of mines in the Pilbara to 16.
Our foundations of partnership between our My new role has provided me with an integrated system also includes 1,700 company, government, business partners opportunity to visit many sites and meet our kilometres of rail and four ports to serve more and communities.
great teams around the world.
Our people work than 100 customers globally.
In2017,  hard for their families, their communities, and In Cape York, Australia, the Amrun bauxite Channar Mining Joint Venture with Chinas our company.
project is progressing well, with 70 per cent of Sinosteel Corporation in the Pilbara, and the .
Iwould th the US$1.9 billion spend to occur in 2017 and 145 anniversary of our borates operations like to thank our 51,000 people for their efforts 2018.
during 2016 and their commitment to stepping supplier of quality bauxite from Cape York, Our operations take years to plan and decades up further in 2017. which Rio Tinto first discovered in the region todeliver.
Thebenefitsoftaxes, wagesand over six decades ago.
Our employee engagement score, measured in procurement are shared across generations.
our2016PeopleSurvey, waslowerthanwe As the next generation of deposits becomes In an increasingly complex and uncertain world, would have liked, but we will use the insights more difficult to find and develop, we continue which brings significant risks to our ongoing this provides to improve our leadership and our focus on exploration.
Rio Tinto has one of success, it is critical we partner expertly with direct our initiatives to build engagement.
the largest exploration programmes in the customers, governments, communities and our industry, and in 2016 we were active in We will focus on developing our employees in suppliers.
Our operations and our people make 14 countries across a range of commodities.
2017, building commercial and technical a material difference in the communities in expertise, as these are key enablers of which we have the privilege to work and live.
Portfolio of world-class businesses our performance.
At Rio Tinto our strategy is centred on Looking to the future  world-class assets those that are long life, do.
Integrity and The way we work our global Rio Tinto is in a strong position.
Our robust low cost and expandable.
code of business conduct guide our actions, balance sheet, world-class assets, our focus on During the year, we strengthened our portfolio.
and, at Rio Tinto, commitment to them is the drivers of performance and our talented We announced or completed disposals of more non-negotiable.
employees will keep us resilient in times of than US$1.3 billion in the year, including volatility.
We renewed our focus on graduates in 2016 as completing the sale of Lochaber in the UK in part of our broader commitment to grow our We can, however, be confident about the December.
In January 2017, we announced the diversity and critical capability for the future.
medium and long term megatrends of divestment of our thermal coal business in population growth and urbanisation.
Australia for up to US$2.45 billion, which, We are a global organisation with all the subject to approvals, should complete later strengths this provides and we must do more Combined with the large infrastructure deficits this year.
to attract the next generation, and people from  , tobecome economies, the long-term view is positive for In June 2016, we announced a reorganisation of part of our company.
our product group structure which saw the formation of the Copper & Diamonds group to In2016,   help maximise our technical underground Executive Committee.
The new team offers a change in the years ahead, Rio Tintos purpose mining expertise.
We also created the Energy & strong and diverse perspective with deep will continue to be to produce materials Minerals group which now holds a suite of industry expertise and global knowledge.
essential to human progress, as we have done premium coking coal and speciality mineral since the company was founded.
Strengthening our partnerships products and will act as an incubator for In 2017, we will do all we can to improve safety emerging opportunities.
Last year, we celebrated a number of and our cash performance, drive our significant milestones which testify to the The Iron Ore group is now focused on our productivity agenda, and again deliver strong long-term nature of our investment, operations in Western Australia, and the returns to our shareholders.
commitment and partnerships with local Aluminium group retains its focus on value Thank you for your ongoing support and communities and governments.
creation from its high-quality bauxite, alumina confidence in your company.
During 2016, I met with many stakeholders, including visiting Australia, China, and Canada The product groups are complemented by a to meet customers and business partners.
newly shaped Growth & Innovation group, to drive our productivity agenda, project delivery Our Rssing uranium mine in Namibia and  Richards Bay Minerals operation in South Africa th new technologies.
AndinAustralia, wemarkedthe th 50 anniversary of the companys first contracted shipment of iron ore from the Pilbara to Japan.
Jean-Sbastien Jacques Chief executive 1 March 2017 6 riotinto.
