Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement Group Chief Executives statement In 2016 RSA took major strides forward, moving seamlessly from successful turnaround to organic outperformance.
Stephen Hester Group Chief Executive Operating Underlying Total dividend Profit earnings per share per share 655m 39.5p 16p 25% 42% 52% For more information see Financial Review on pages 2225 10 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report The strategic restructuring and turnaround of RSA started three years ago.
Since then we have accomplished everything, and more, that was targeted.
The Group is now focused on its strongest businesses, a key to future RSA networking breakfast outperformance.
Divestments to achieve this focus have raised 1.2bn.
RSAs balance sheet is transformed.
Strategy and Focus Financial markets are also important for RSA is a strong and focused international Credit Ratings are restored, regulatory all insurers.
But capital and related capital ratios are insurer.
We have complementary they force a greater concentration on the leadership positions in the major general at the upper end of our target ranges.
core business of underwriting which can insurance markets of the UK, Scandinavia yield significant improvements.
We have valuable franchise the first year for RSA where underwriting record underwriting profits of 380m strength and balance across these profits have grown to exceed investment compare to a 2013 profit of 1m.
regions, between commercial and income, a trend we expect to continue.
Underlying return on tangible equity personal customers and across of 14.2 percent in 2016, is now in the 2016 was a year of volatile financial product lines.
upper part of the 12-15 percent target markets, testing both capital resilience range we originally set.
Dividends are The history, dynamics and structure of and profits.
Bond yields at year end were restored and growing.
our markets show that focused regional below those of a year ago in our major market leaders can both successfully markets.
Credit spreads were narrower The quality of the foundations laid during sustain customer appeal market hurting UK pension accounting.
But this period, underpinned by the franchise position and achieve superior conversely, a significant Brexit-induced strengths of RSAs 300-year history, shareholder performance.
This is weakening of Sterling since June helps gave us confidence at the start of 2016 the course we have set out upon.
RSA, as c. 70 percent of our operating to lay out new ambitions for the future.
profit is earned outside the UK.
External Conditions We now aspire to move RSAs The general insurance markets we 2016 Actions performance levels towards best-inoperate in are relatively mature, Strategic Focus: RSAs three year focus class for our markets, for customers consolidated and stable.
Attractive programme was completed with the sale and shareholders.
If we succeed we performance is possible despite slow of our businesses in Latin America and will outperform over the coming years.
growth, economic and competitive Russia which closed in 2016.
Evidence 2016 performance provides an encouraging challenges.
It requires intense is mounting that the concentration of down payment on this aspiration, operational focus within a disciplined management focus and resource onto delivering a combined ratio COR strategic framework.
our core businesses will be a key enabler of 94.2 percent, a record for RSA.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement continued Financial Strength: Our A grade Across the Group, our many customer 180m.
We believe we can raise our credit ratings are strong and stable.
initiatives have sustained retention savings target for the third time and Our Solvency II capital ratio has been rates and above average satisfaction now expect to deliver over 400m p. a. improved from 143 percent 2015 to 158 measures.
Headcount has reduced percent at the end of 2016 target range in 2016 but on lower policy volumes.
19 percent since 2013 in our core 130-160 percent, despite retirement of We are determined to compete on businesses as our people have become 200m of high-cost subordinated debt.
quality, with competitive but profitable more productive.
We expect to enhance Risk reduction in our UK pension scheme pricing.
We will not chase unprofitable their productivity further with continued assets has also been successfully growth.
However, there are encouraging business re-engineering, enabled by completed.
And 2016 saw testing signs that continuing underwriting technology and infrastructure renewal financial and insurance event volatility and service capability improvements programmes covering digitisation, which RSA withstood well.
Since year will restore modest volume growth robotics, infrastructure replacement end our disposal of UK Legacy liabilities and we hope to deliver good evidence and software upgrades which continue has given us an important boost to of that in 2017. successfully in each region.
capital and the opportunity to improve RSAs most important performance capital quality still further.
Financial Results 2016 lever is our underwriting judgement.
Operating profits our key ongoing Business Improvement: Our goal is Across the Group portfolio disciplines, measure rose 25 percent to 655m.
to systematically and determinedly skills enhancement, data and model Underlying earnings per share EPS rose hunt down performance improvement improvement and indemnity initiatives 42 percent to 39.5p.
Statutory profit after opportunities across our business.
Attritional tax of 20m reflects a particularly noisy We have taken RSAs performance loss ratios for the Core Group improved year in accounting terms.
The very strong from below that of competitors in 1.4 points on 2015 and are 4 points underlying results were optically offset 2013 and prior, to in the pack.
We target by planned restructuring costs, debt buyAll efforts are now concentrated further improvement still.
back costs and non-capital accounting on moving towards our best-in-class charges.
We plan that 2017 should be Cost efficiency is the other crucial ambitions.
The plan is substantially much cleaner and be the last year of performance ingredient.
We have the same across our businesses.
material below the line costs.
achieved c. 290m of gross annual Focus on improving service to customers, savings vs original 2016 target of on underwriting and on costs.
Pathway to outperformance TURNAROUND DONE PURSUIT OF OUTPERFORMANCE Strategy implemented Customer actions Focus on strongest businesses Digital for convenience, flexibility and speed 19 disposals completed Improve service standards Increase customer satisfaction and retention Sharpen customer acquisition tools Balance sheet fixed Underwriting actions 1.2bn disposal proceeds Elevate underwriting disciplines 750m Rights Issue Ongoing BAU portfolio re-underwriting Solvency II delivered Invest in tools and technology Debt restructuring actions Optimise reinsurance Performance restored Cost actions 1 2013 : 100 percent COR: 1m underwriting profit Lean robotics process redesign 2016: 94.2 percent COR: 380m underwriting profit Procurement spans and layers Underlying ROTE 14.2 percent Simplify offerings IT change Foundations laid to power next phase People, management and culture Build sustainable outperformance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 & BEYOND Note: 1.
Refer to page 190 for further explanation.
12 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report The More Th n brand launch Core premium income was up 6 percent, Reflecting RSAs strong progress, a final Thanks but adjusting for FX and price changes, dividend of 11p share is proposed making RSA is making terrific progress.
This is volumes were modestly down.
Premium 16p share total for the year, up 52 percent.
thanks to the efforts of our people and income was in line with our plan on This represents a 41 percent pay out the support of customers, brokers and that basis.
of underlying EPS in line with stated other stakeholders.
It remains our belief that RSA gains are not easy things to achieve, Underwriting profits, the litmus test of will generate attractive free capital, especially with a tough industry performance, rose 73 percent to a record net of organic growth needs and regular backdrop.
This represents a combined ratio dividend pay outs, once restructuring appreciation go to all involved.
of 94.2 percent, also a record for RSA.
actions complete and bond pull to par Reserve margins were strengthened RSA has a proud history, despite bumps impacts reduce, probably in 2018. to 5.5 percent 2015: 5 percent building along the way.
We are determined, some additional cushion against in performance terms, that the future Looking Forward future challenges.
Our performance target of 12-15 percent return on tangible net assets is still good Underlying quality of results was excellent.
by industry standards and represents Current year underwriting profits were a a creditable achievement level for RSA, record 271m, up 110 percent, and volatile implying better ongoing underwriting weather large loss items did not help us performance than any year prior to 2016. out, being 0.3 points higher than 2015 at However, given our progress and the Core Group level.
Legacy sale, we are raising the target Particularly pleasing was the spread 1 to 13-17 percent ROTE.
Additionally Stephen Hester of performance.
Each region hit or the supplementary ambition we have Group Chief Executive exceeded its operating plan targets.
set of moving towards best-in-class 22 February 2017 Scandinavia supplied 47 percent combined ratio performance in our of operating profits with a COR of markets, if achieved, should allow 86.2 percent.
The UK recorded its first us to exceed even this higher range significant underwriting profit in a in time.
We will try to do just that.
And Canada did well 94.9% COR, despite natural catastrophes in the region.
The one sub-regional disappointment was Ireland.
Despite dramatic improvement to break even on current year operating profit, further prior year reserve strengthening was required taking the Irish COR to 116.2 percent.
Our 2016 Strategic Report, on pages 4 to 41, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2017.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
