STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives review Our strong underlying performance reflects our focus on driving superior growth by strengthening our core brands, expanding the beer category to reach more consumers on more occasions, and emphasising premiumisation.
Business performance We achieved strong underlying performance for the year.
We grew EBITA across all regions and our group EBITA margin improved through the year, on an underlying basis.
This performance reects our focus on driving superior growth by strengthening our core brands, expanding the beer category to reach more consumers on more occasions, and placing an emphasis on premiumisation in all regions.
As noted through the year, the strengthening of the US dollar against our operating currencies had a material negative impact on reported results.
Our affordability and premiumisation initiatives have allowed us to capture growth in developing markets and capitalise on key trends in developed markets.
Our subsidiaries achieved organic volume growth of 5% and NPR growth of 8% on an organic, constant currency basis, with a particularly good performance in a number of key markets.
This was offset by a more muted performance in our associates and joint ventures held back by headwinds in their major markets and continued weak industry trends in the USA, such that group NPR grew by 5% on the same basis.
Premium lager 1 brands NPR grew by 12% and global lager 1 brands NPR grew by 13%, both on a constant currency basis, with growth across all regions.
Our underlying growth accelerated in the year, driven by improving momentum in Latin America, continued strong and well-balanced momentum in Africa, and improvements in Australia and Europe in the second half.
On a reported basis, group NPR and EBITA declined by 8% and 9%, respectively, reecting the depreciation of our key operating currencies against the US dollar.
1 On a subsidiary basis, excluding home markets for global brands.
6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT By creating a more integrated global Well-positioned for superior business we have been able to cut costs topline growth and free up in-market resources to achieve SABMillers business is beer and soft Our vision our strategic objectives.
We continue to focus drinks, giving us the benefit of operating on improving our in-country performance in in the two largest profit pools in global To be the most admired beverage a cost efficient manner, supported by our packaged beverages.
global cost and efficiency programme which is ahead of schedule and delivered We are further advantaged by the cumulative net annualised savings of geographical spread that we have built Our purpose US$547 million by the year end.
This is biased towards programme is on track to achieve our 2020 developing markets, which offer higher We bring refreshment and sociability, target of US$1,050 million.
These initiatives long-term growth opportunities in both improve livelihoods, and help build mitigated adverse transactional currency volume sales and margin expansion.
Exceptional charges of US$721 Our developing markets exposure is million before tax, principally relating to the complemented by our scale in wellOur values impairment of our investments in Angola and established, highly profitable, and cashSouth Sudan, together with costs associated generative businesses in developed People are our enduring advantage.
with the ABInBev transaction, resulted in a markets, principally in the USA through Accountability is clear and personal.
our joint venture with Molson Coors, We work and win in teams across Australia, and Europe.
We are expanding our exposure to growing We are customerand consumermarkets and building the optimum portfolio As developing markets grow and disposable focused.
of lager, soft drinks and other alcoholic incomes rise, per capita beer and soft drinks We do our best for local communities.
Soft drinks consumption typically increase in parallel.
On 10 May 2016, the Keys to tapping into this growing demand South African Competition Tribunal approved, are availability and affordability.
We offer with agreed conditions, the formation of a range of beers appropriate to each Africas largest soft drinks beverage developing market, starting with affordable operation, Coca-Cola Beverages Africa and mainstream lagers and introducing more CCBA in which we will have majority local premium and international premium ownership.
We expect the transaction beers as GDP rises.
to complete in early July 2016.
Developed markets have higher profits per hl but mainstream beer sales have been in gradual decline for a number of years.
Competition from wine and spirits has intensied at the same time as increasing consumer focus on health and wellbeing has led to overall declines in alcohol consumption.
More recently, the beer category has been undergoing a renaissance as the popularity of craft beers and easy-drinking lagers has boomed, but this has intensied competition with mainstream lager.
In these changing market dynamics, SABMiller has adopted a strategy to expand the beer category, which at its heart aims to make beer more appealing to more consumers on more occasions.
Supporting small enterprises, supporting growth Small businesses play a critical role across our value chain and are the lifeblood of local economies and communities.
In Africa, as part of our Go Farming strategy, we assist farmers by using local crops to produce our affordable beers.
In Uganda, Eagle Lager a beer brewed from locally-sourced sorghum supports more than 20,000 smallholders.
It has inspired similar initiatives throughout Africa.
Across the world, we help retailers develop the skills to grow their businesses, sell beer responsibly, access finance, and lead improvements in their communities.
Our 4e programme in Latin America pioneered this approach and to date has supported over 20,000 small-scale shopkeepers.
com prosper SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 7 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives review continued | It is a huge credit Some of the key elements in this strategy This means supporting jobs and stimulating include innovation that is scalable and growth, promoting responsible alcohol to all of our people repeatable across multiple markets, from new consumption, and being good stewards beer styles, including craft, to avoured malt of water and other natural resources.
that they have beverages to low or zero-alcohol beers: When communities prosper, our business expanding the range of occasions on which prospers too.
not allowed the people will choose to drink beer rather than other alcohol, such as with meals: and This year saw two ground-breaking uncertainty and tackling an age-old challenge of making beer global agreements, which will shape the that is more appealing to women.
development agenda for years to come: prospective changes the United Nations launched 17 Sustainable Recommended offer by ABInBev Development Goals SDGs, and world to distract them from Since the announcement of the AB InBev leaders committed to tackle climate change offer, we have taken a number of steps to at COP21 in Paris.
delivering a very ensure that we continue to focus on strong performance, recognising our duty to deliver Expectations of business are high, and we strong performance, sustainable value into the future.
welcome the challenge for companies to step up and collaborate in addressing global with momentum We have continued to manage our business challenges.
Many of the SDGs align with our based on our strategic priorities and budgets, existing sustainable development strategy, increasing in the although some longer-term projects have Prosper, and present opportunities to been deferred or adjusted.
Our values, strengthen our business as well as to second half.
leadership behaviours, culture, processes, contribute to society.
Putting Prosper at the and routines have remained the foundation heart of our business enables us to drive for how we work and manage our business.
growth and commercial results, while making a sustainable and measurable difference to Throughout the period, we have continued the communities and ecosystems in which to reinforce our focus and priority on we operate.
More information is available on consumers and customers, and to delight pages 48 to 51, as well as in our 2016 them with our level of service and quality Sustainable Development Report.
An extremely important priority has been to maintain Our people employee engagement during the many Everyone should be able to return home from months between announcement of the work safely.
We continue striving to reduce transaction and completion, and to ensure or eliminate risks of harm to our employees, that our employees are as well-placed as contractors, and all others affected by our possible for their future careers.
Our global health and safety programme, Safety Around Beverages, It is a huge credit to all of our people that sets out the minimum standards to which they have not allowed the uncertainty and all businesses should adhere.
In addition, Powering successful prospective changes to distract them from our road safety campaigns across Africa innovation delivering a very strong performance, with and Latin America are making a difference, momentum increasing in the second half.
and we are committed to continuing to build Innovation is central to our strategy of This is testament to the strength and depth on this effort.
Health and safety remains making beer more appealing to more of talent across our workforce, and their a priority.
More information is available consumers on more occasions.
To deliver resilience and dedication.
on pages 52 and 53. bigger, better innovations that can succeed in more markets, we have integrated our Prosper: our strategy for Since the boards of SABMiller and AB InBev innovation expertise into three regional sustainable growth reached agreement in principle on the key centres.
These locations bring together We have a proud beer heritage that began terms of a recommended offer, looking after multidisciplinary teams, with expertise over 120 years ago in South Africa.
Since our people has been a priority.
To retain key ranging from marketing and brewing to then, our brewmasters around the world have people for business continuity, our focus packaging and procurement.
Located in made beers people love by understanding has been on ensuring our people are Bogota, Johannesburg and Woking, the local tastes.
We also aim to play a positive best-placed for their future careers: and three facilities serve, respectively, our role in the communities where we operate.
markets in Latin America, Africa and Europe.
Two of the years most successful launches, Aguila Cero in Colombia and Castle Milk Stout Chocolate Infused in South Africa, involved people from these teams.
8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT keeping employee motivation and business performance up during a prolonged period of uncertainty.
There were several executive moves during the year.
Domenic fide Lorenzo was appointed Chief Financial officer and joined the board in July 2015, following his appointment as Acting CFO in February 2015.
We announced in April that Tony van Kralingen intended to retire at the end of 2015, and that subsequently his role as Director of Integrated Supply and Human Resources would be split into two new positions on SABMillers executive committee, namely Group Director, Human Resources and Group Director, Integrated Supply.
Johann Nel rejoined SABMiller as Group Managing water and climate change risk Director, Human Resources in September 2015 and Philip Hodges was appointed Water scarcity is our most significant climate change-related challenge, with certain SABMiller Group Director, Integrated Supply.
He was breweries already facing significant risk.
We have completed water risk assessments for nearly due to join in December 2015, but in the light all our breweries and established plans to tackle the main issues, often with partners.
We are of the AB InBev offer, we agreed with Philip on track to meet our target of using 3.0 hectolitres hl of water for 1 hl of beer by 2020, having that there was no point in his taking up used an average of 3.2 hl hl during the year.
We have reduced carbon emissions from on-site his new position.
With this development, energy use by 36% in absolute terms between 2008 and 2016 and are on course to meet Tony van Kralingen agreed to postpone our 50% carbon efficiency target by 2020.
Within our cost saving programmes, we saved 1 his retirement, and is continuing to act as US$116 million in the year from water and energy initiatives, compared with 2010.
1 Reects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2016 volumes, exchange rates and energy prices.
Tom Long retired as CEO of MillerCoors on 30 June 2015.
He led MillerCoors as CEO Read more online www.
com prosper since 2011, having been president and chief commercial officer since the launch of the MillerCoors joint venture in 2008, and CEO of Miller Brewing Company before that.
In September, we and our joint venture partner, Molson Coors, announced that Gavin Hattersley had been appointed CEO of MillerCoors, following his tenure as interim CEO since July.
I would like to thank all of my executive team for driving our strong performance this year and their enormous efforts in keeping the business focused despite the potential Taking on spirits at their own game distraction from the AB InBev transaction.
When Castle Milk Stout was challenged in South Africa by the rise in popularity for spirits we evolved the brand to make it more attractive to spirits drinkers.
Castle Milk Stouts dark colour, complex taste and traditional image were off-putting for some people, but loved by devotees.
So we transformed Castle Milk Stouts pricing and packaging in South Africa from mainstream to premium, imitated spirit brands by communicating the products uniqueness, and introduced a chocolate variant, Castle Milk Stout Chocolate Infused.
This year volumes for Castle Milk Stout in South Africa, including the chocolate variant, were up by 14%.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives review continued | Fresh tank beer rejuvenates classic brands Addressing risks We place great emphasis on identifying, Our oldest, most revered brands are enjoying a fresh lease of life thanks to our tank monitoring, and mitigating risks to our concept.
During the year, Club Colombia became our latest brand to be available business and we have a well-developed risk on-premise from a gleaming 500 litre copper tank.
The Colombian beers tank debut management process which includes detailed means that consumers now have the opportunity to try nine of our premium brands as mitigating action plans.
In the year, the risk tank beer across 16 countries, including unpasteurised Pilsner Urquell in the UK and Castle management process was rened and further Lager in South Africa.
The great taste and novelty of fresh tank beer, which is delivered enhanced to ensure alignment with Financial direct from the brewery in branded trucks, is proving extremely popular with consumers.
Reporting Council FRC revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Clockwise from top left Carlton Draught, Castle 1895 Draught, Club Colombia and Pilsner Urquell The principal risks and uncertainties which the group faces have been updated and broadened to reect the changed situation as a result of the AB InBev offer and are set out on pages 16 and 17.
Two new transaction-related risks have been added: first, failure to comply with anti-trust legislation and the necessary information security protocols in place during the offer period, and, secondly, the impact on stakeholders if the transaction does not complete.
As a result of the most recent review completed by the board, three of the previous years principal risks relating to industry consolidation, delivering business 10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT transformation, and the acquisition of CUB are no longer considered as being principal Key strategic priorities risks of the group or are not currently relevant.
Management has dened robust mitigation Drive superior topline growth through strengthening actions and monitoring mechanisms supported by assurance processes for our brand portfolios and expanding the beer category all principal risks.
There has been good progress in respect of mitigation actions Strengthen our local and global brand portfolios to capture superior during the year.
Accelerate premium mix and the growth of our premium brands.
Outlook We expect to deliver good underlying Develop and expand the category to capture new consumers, performance in the year ahead.
Our cost new occasions and grow category share of value.
and efficiency programme is on track to reach Prioritise and focus investment and resources on revenue growth targeted annualised savings of US$1,050 in key markets and segments.
million per annum by the financial year ending 31 March 2020.
We anticipate that we will continue to face foreign exchange volatility Build a globally integrated organisation to optimise and the results of certain of our key operations will be impacted by currency resource, win in market and reduce costs depreciation against the US dollar.
Systematically build a high performance talent pool.
Conclusion Up-weight and right-size out of market structures to ensure optimum As this may be SABMillers final annual service delivery at an affordable cost.
report, it is worth reecting on what we have achieved.
We grew from small beginnings, Develop a commercial operating model that will facilitate winning brewing quality cold beer for thirsty miners in and across markets.
in the dusty streets of 19th century Reduce costs to drive growth and returns.
More than 120 years later, generations of incredibly talented people have built a highly-admired, high-performing, Actively shape our global mix to drive a superior global beer and beverage business.
growth profile We have always nurtured the art of brewing, which has given us a stable of locally-loved Focus resources on highest growth opportunities.
What Deliver superior performance in soft drinks operations.
has also made us special is our deep understanding of navigating different local Build material positions in new categories in attractive markets.
markets, catering for local tastes and helping Mergers and acquisitions to access new growth in attractive markets.
to build the communities around us.
Listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1999 was the launch pad for our global ambitions, leading to the creation of the number two global brewer and a FTSE-10 company.
Upon listing, the value of the business was 3.3 billion.
The 44 per share proposed by AB InBev values us at almost 70 billion.
This is an outstanding result by any measure.
The SABMiller story is a simply amazing achievement, and everyone who has been a part of it should feel immensely proud of the value they have helped to create.
I am sure the next chapter will bring new opportunities for exceptional success.
Alan Clark Chief Executive 10 June 2016 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 11
