GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW Implementing our clear strategy for growth Overview Clear strategy and delivery 3.
M aintaining our simple and In our second set of preliminary results, Everything we have achieved this year efficient operating model I am again pleased to be able to report has been a result of the successful Our model continues to generate that we have succeeded in delivering implementation of the clear strategy for strong cash flows.
on our objectives of growing customer growth we laid out in early 2015.
Put We have undertaken a review numbers and profits.
simply we have continued to grow our of the capital allocated to our core businesses and invest in future underwriting business.
Growing customer numbers across growth whilst maintaining our efficient We have disposed of a non-core all core areas of the business is a operating model.
key element in our long-term success.
Sustainable growth of our customer 1.
Unlocking growth in our core Generating additional free base enables us to build long-term businesses of insurance cash flow relationships and we know that the and travel During the year we carried out a full longer customers spend with us, the We have delivered customer growth review of our approach to pricing more they benefit from our growing across all of our key insurance underwriting risk and the deployment range of products and services.
lines, supported by our expanded of capital within our underwriter, AICL.
insurance footprint through the The review looked at pricing and capital Financially, we have grown Trading motor panel launch.
allocated to AICL when placed against Profit by 5.2% to 211.0m, profit before We have increased passengers the Groups ongoing aim of balancing tax by 54.8% to 176.2m and basic in our tour operating business short-term earnings growth, investment earnings per share by 54.7% to 13.3p.
and increased passenger days for future growth and generating Furthermore, our available operating on our ships.
additional free cash flow to enable cash flow is up by 9.3% to 178.1m We have put the right team in place enhanced returns to shareholders.
and our net debt to EBITDA ratio has to make more of our database and As a result of this, we: reduced to 2.3x.
deliver our multi-channel marketing launched a panel in our motor activities.
business to allow us to offer competitive products to a broader We have continued to grow our core range of customers without putting businesses and invest in future growth whilst additional capital at risk: entered into a quota share maintaining our efficient operating model.
arrangement with NewRe, a subsidiary of Munich Re, the worlds This performance, alongside our plans 2.
Investing in future growth biggest reinsurance group, to allow to generate additional free cash flow in We have announced our investment capital to be gradually released from the future, has enabled us to propose in new shipping capacity which will the underwriter: and a significant increase in the dividend significantly change the profit priced underwriting risk to better paid to shareholders and increased trajectory of our travel business reflect our excellent underwriting the range for future dividends.
performance, increasing is a meaningful change, and one that Our investment management joint competitiveness in our core market signals our commitment to driving venture, Saga Investment Services, and accelerating cash and profit shareholder returns through sustainable was up and running ahead of the key generation.
As a result of these changes we will We have successful pilots ongoing in new product areas.
generate additional free cash flow 08 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report in the future, enabling us to continue Lance Batchelor to deleverage and increase returns to Group Chief Executive Officer shareholders through dividends more quickly than we had previously indicated.
Strategic priorities for the coming year To deliver long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders we aim to achieve the right balance between short-term earnings growth, medium-term customer growth, capital allocation and returns to shareholders via dividends.
To continue to deliver this, our strategic objectives for the coming year are: 1.
Becoming an ever more customer-centric organisation Go to page 18 for more information.
Growing our insurance businesses Go to page 19 for more information.
Growing our travel businesses Go to page 20 for more information.
Investing for future growth Go to page 20 for more information.
Developing our people Go to page 21 for more information.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 09 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Strong senior team before the delivery of our new ship in EU referendum is unlikely to have During the year we completed a number 2019.
Additionally, as our model evolves, a material impact on the business.
of new senior hires including: Jonathan with increased free cash flow resulting We are, however, continuing to monitor Hill, Group Chief Financial Officer: from lower capital in our underwriter, the situation closely.
Matt Atkinson, Group Chief Marketing we expect to be able to pay higher Officer: Karen Caddick, Group Human dividends combined with ongoing We have a clear strategy in place to continue to grow our underlying Resources Director: and Nici Audhlamreductions in our leverage.
Gardiner, Managing Director of Saga businesses and we have made a The continued evolution of our model positive start to the current year.
will position us to generate high quality The skills brought to the business by and more resilient earnings, further these new team members, combined supporting our enhanced dividend with the existing talent across the policy going forward.
Group, have allowed us to apply new thinking to our operating model, look In light of the ongoing debate surrounding Lance Batchelor the result of the UKs forthcoming Group Chief Executive Officer for new opportunities and attain deeper customer understanding.
referendum on membership of the 18 April 2016 European Union, because of the Groups I welcome them all to the business and diverse nature, we believe the result of the I am confident that we now have in place the right team to delever our plans The right mix 5.
Jonathan Hill for future growth.
Introducing our Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Management Team Conclusion 6.
L ance Batchelor I am pleased that we have grown 1.
Karen Caddick Group Chief Executive Officer customer numbers, profits and Group HR Director 7.
M att Atkinson dividends whilst continuing to delever.
Jules Christmas Group Chief Marketing Officer Group IT Director 8.
N ici Audhlam-Gardiner With increasing insurance customer 3.
R oger Ramsden Managing Director, Saga numbers supported by the motor panel Chief Executive, Insurance InvestmentServices and the ongoing growth of our travel 4.
Andrew Strong businesses, we expect to continue to Chief Executive, AICL Chief Executive, Travel deliver steady growth in Group earnings and Wealth Management 2 9 4 3 8 7 6 1 5 10 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016
