Our strategy continued Winning in the market Transform Check and Balance Firm Growing our We are winning in the market marketshare with solutions that are built with a mobilefirst and sociallyOutpacing the competition to connected mindset.
gain market share and sustain our ambition to be the leader in Check and Balance is a tax preparation our chosen markets.
Our purpose and accounting rm that focuses on is to serve the worlds business Small & Medium Businesses.
Founder Ti any Wilson was looking for a mobile builders.
Providing the very accounting solution to service her clients best technology and services, exibly, on the move with her tablet when combined with an emotive brand she was introduced to SageOne.
strategy that puts people at the heart of our operations, will unlock huge opportunities for growth.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success We are winning in the market with our range of next-generation cloud Developing enhanced core product functionality, product integration accounting, payroll &HCM and payments products see page 10, and a compelling commercial proposition are all features which help to providing solutions that cater for all sizes of Small & Medium Businesses drive a competitive advantage but which present execution risks.
Read from start-up, through scale-up to enterprise.
These products will be more about our competitive positioning and product development, the default product choice for new customers unless their particular and market intelligence principal risks on pages 37 and 38. needs are bett er served by another of Sages products.
How we will measure our progress We aim to make the entire customer sales experience from enquiry to As wegrow market share, the primary measure for winning in the product deployment and customer success as seamless as possible.
market is the adoption of our cloud products.
Read more about our Our regional Customer Business Centres CBCs coordinate the sales KPIs on page 32 and see more about our progress in the CEO report of our cloud solutionsto new customers and maintain relationships onpage 30. with customers as they grow see page 24 for details.
Switching over to Sage One was the best We are also investing in an always-on, digital marketing platform to ensure decision I could have ever made for my a consistent, modern and user-friendly online presence across Sage.
Sage is really helping me to We are uniting all of our sales and marketing under one emotive brand innovate and grow with my business strategy.
This integrated approach will di erentiate us from the because Ive got everything in the cloud competition whilst creating deeper connections in the market that now.
Its been an awesome experience.
willincrease brand loyalty and advocacy.
Ti any Wilson Owner, Check and Balance Firm www.
com investors 20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21 Our strategy continued Revolutionise business Simplifying customers lives Innovation and exciting technology are at the heart of Sages strategy.
We deliver the latest solutions through our ecosystem of partners and thirdparty applications to our nations of business builders, giving them the technology they deserve so they canfocus on doing what they love.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success Revolutionising business at Sage means delivering our new, exciting Working collaboratively and with agility is key to ensuring our product solutions like Sage One, which can be accessed by smartphone, Sage development can outpace a rapidly evolving market.
We also need to Live, which won the Salesforce award for most innovative product of work tirelessly to support our ecosystem and partner network so that 2016, and X3 which we are launching in the cloud, but also revolutionising our customers can integrate our products with other solutions to suit.
our much-loved existing suite of products.
We are releasing hybrid Read more about our strategic partnerships and third party reliance on-premise cloud versions of Sage 50, 100 and 300, providing both principal risks at page 41. high-functionality and the exibility to work from multiple locations anddevices.
How we will measure our progress Revolutionise business strongly supports our business model growth In 2016 we announced a partnership of Sage 50 and O ce 365, bundling drivers of Activate and Grow see page 12 for the business model.
the two products to allow enhanced analytics, sharing of documents between colleagues and access to the business anywhere.
The lead indicator that we are delivering on our strategy is our annualised soft ware subscription base ASB, given that our very latest We also launched Pegg, the worlds first accountancy chatbot, in features are available on subscription.
Read more about our KPIs on July2016 see overleaf.
page 32 and see more about our progress in the CEO report on page 30.
We use the most appropriate, industry-leading development platforms for each of our products and select the latest applications to integrate with our soft ware to continue to evolve ourecosystem.
22 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Perform Meet Pegg, the worlds first accounting chatbot.
Pegg makes running your business as easy as texting.
Users can log an expense or income, add receipts and check their spending habits all without leaving their favourite messaging apps like Facebook and Slack.
Through Pegg, were making accounting almost invisible, so business builders can spend more time doing what they love.
1st accountancy chatbot developed in the world Over 3,800 users in 85 countries by year end Featured in over 300 media articles The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 See overleaf 23
