Strategic report Strategy and business review Group Chief Executives statement It is a privilege to have taken over In a recent employee survey, 94% of Peter Harrison responsibility as Group Chief Executive employees globally said that they were Group Chief Executive in April, having first joined Schroders as proud to be associated with Schroders, more a graduate trainee and having spent my information on which can found on page 30. whole career in the asset management industry.
I am grateful to both the Board Changing client demand and the senior management team in As our clients find it increasingly difficult to supporting a very smooth transition.
meet their financial objectives in a low return environment, we have seen a persistent shift Schroders had a good year in 2016, despite in product demand.
the headwinds the industry is facing.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased We see the opportunity to offer enhanced by 6% to 644.7 million and net operating value for money and more tailored solutions.
Assets We have adapted our business model to create under management and administration a distinct Product division.
This will help us reached a record level of 397.1 billion, to remain at the cutting edge of product up from 313.5 billion.
We have provided more information on Subdued market returns, low interest rates page 27. and volatile markets are difficult for our clients to navigate and delivering good We have also created a stand-alone Solutions outcomes for them is our key priority.
This business is asset class agnostic Investment performance continued and solely focused on building solutions to to be strong in 2016 with 74% of assets meet our clients changing investment goals.
outperforming their benchmark or peer group over a three-year period.
Over one Technology year, 75% of assets outperformed and over The use of technology has disrupted many five years, the figure was 85%.
We strongly industries, including within financial services, believe that active asset management adds and I strongly believe that it can transform real value to our clients portfolios and I am many aspects of asset management.
proud that we have managed this.
We believe there are significant opportunities I have taken on this role at an interesting time.
to enhance how we analyse investment data Aside from the remarkable developments in the and to provide better services for our clients.
political environments of both the UK and US, For Schroders to be at the leading edge of the asset management industry is changing these changes, we have been investing in rapidly.
Asset flows into active managers, like technology throughout the firm.
Schroders, were negative for the first time in eight years in 2016.
Despite this, we achieved We have continued to grow our Data Insights positive net inflows of 1.1 billion.
The rapid team with more people from data science growth of passive products and the continued backgrounds embedded amongst our derisking of pension funds will likely continue investment teams.
We have also been as will the widespread pressure on industry constructing a best-in-class technology pricing.
Regulation of the industry remains platform, most notably through the ongoing intense, while technological change offers implementation of a new front office the possibility of new opportunities and investment management system.
We also significant productivity improvements.
made a strategic investment in Benchmark Capital, a technology-led high quality adviser My priority has been to develop our strategy support business in the UK.
This relationship to meet these challenges.
We will continue has the potential to significantly enhance the to develop our business by both evolving service we provide to UK Intermediary and our structure and investing in a clear range Wealth Management clients.
I am fortunate to have inherited a diverse and talented group of employees across the world.
10 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Schroders had a good year in 2016, despite the headwinds the industry is facing.
Geographic diversification In 2016, we entered the direct lending Assets under management We are a globally diverse business, with market as we took a stake in NEOS Finance outperforming over three years 41 offices across 27 countries.
NEOS is a direct lending firm based opportunities across all the regions in which in the Netherlands that provides institutional we operate, we see good opportunities in investors with access to an alternative debt 74% North America.
It accounts for almost half financing platform for Dutch small and 2015: 72% of the worlds investible assets and there medium-sized enterprises.
is significant scope for us to grow the 49 billion of assets we manage on 2017 outlook behalf of our clients in the region.
In my first year as Group Chief Executive, the Basic earnings per share external environment has been dominated by pence per share In October, we established a strategic market uncertainty and industry challenges.
2012 104.7 relationship with Hartford Funds to further Although these look set to continue as we go 2013 149.9 develop our mutual fund presence in the into 2017, I believe Schroders is well placed 2014 166.8 US.
Through this relationship, we have to take advantage of these challenges.
2015 176.9 greatly increased our scope and reach 2016 186.3 in the US intermediary markets and we As I travelled between many of our global are already seeing the benefits through offices this year, I have been struck by the Before exceptional items.
depth of talent and the strength of the culture that we have in place across all the regions In the North American pensions market, in which we operate.
Protecting the integrity we believe there is a significant opportunity of this culture, which puts our clients at the as pension schemes in the US and Canada centre of everything we do, is critical to our embark upon the same derisking journey ongoing success.
In order to do this, retaining that we have seen in the UK.
With our long and developing our people is a key priority and and successful track record of providing there is more information on this on page 30. investment solutions for schemes in our home market, we are well placed to grow Throughout 2016, there has been much our business in other regions.
focus within Schroders on developing our collaboration across the firm and We have expanded our investment expertise on broadening our diversity of thought.
with the acquisition of an asset-backed This has been evident not just at senior securities team based in New York.
They have management level, where we have increased come with a strong track record and we are the scope and membership of the Group already seeing positive client momentum.
Management Committee GMC see page 48, but throughout all functions of the Group.
Private assets In the current environment of sustained With the support of the Board, we have made low interest rates, many of our clients are a number of decisions this year to strategically looking to invest beyond public markets.
develop our business, including the acquisition Private markets can, in some cases, offer of C. Hoare & Co. s wealth management higher returns than traditional asset classes.
We have a highly It is an area where we have been building diversified business model, a strong financial our business and expanding our position and we have demonstrated the investment capabilities.
willingness to invest in the future growth of the business.
We have a long-established Real Estate business with investment centres in 10 We see interesting long-term opportunities locations, managing 11 billion of assets for across the world, both organically in our our clients.
In 2016, we increased our stake core business and inorganically in new in Secquaero, a Swiss-based insurance-linked opportunities, and I look forward to securities business, whose assets have now leading Schroders continued growth.
Our Infrastructure Finance capability, which we established in late 2015, has seen strong growth this year and now manages assets of over Peter Harrison 700 million on behalf of our clients.
Group Chief Executive Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
