STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT AREAS OF STRATEGIC FOCUS The following six strategic priorities were identified as key elements of our business model, which will drive the creation of shareholder value.
They will receive specific attention and focus over the coming years.
ENHANCE SENIORS AUTONOMOUS FOCUS ON GROWTH INTRODUCE A HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPETITIVE COST CONSIDERED AND EFFECTIVE TALENT DEVELOPMENT 1 2 3 4 5 6 AND COLLABORATIVE BUSINESS OPERATING SYSTEM COUNTRY STRATEGY CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT MODEL Senior's business model is one of Seniors end markets grow naturally at Senior is implementing a high performance Enhance Seniors global footprint to Senior understands the importance of Senior has a skilled workforce and some empowering and holding accountable around 4% through the cycle.
We believe operating system of its own, drawing on ensure our businesses stay competitive considered and effective capital deployment highly experienced entrepreneurial business our businesses, operating within a clearly it is possible to outgrow our end markets the many excellent practices from across at a capability and cost level, with key in the interest of maximising the creation of leaders.
We are bringing renewed focus to defined divisional structure, to develop and we seek to do that both organically the Group.
The key elements of this investments in Thailand, Malaysia, China, shareholder value.
All significant investments further developing leadership talent and and deliver business plans in line with and through acquisition by: system include: India, Mexico and the Czech Republic to undertaken by Senior are assessed using a upgrading functional capability across the overall Group strategy.
Increasing help ensure we meet our customers cost rigorous investment appraisal process and are Group.
We are ensuring robust succession Growing market share, particularly An operational toolkit incorporating best collaboration amongst business in the and price challenges whilst protecting supported by a business case.
The Group has plans are in place across our businesses.
with key customers: practice processes such as lean and Group is a priority to ensure economies margins.
We are actively moving products a financial objective to maintain an overall We are working with capable external continuous improvement techniques: Focusing on innovation: of scale are realised whilst maintaining the and establishing increasingly sophisticated return on capital employed in excess of the partners to deliver tailored training and supplier management: new product Geographical expansion: and autonomous business structure.
Business capabilities in these competitive cost Groups cost of capital and to target a pre-tax development programmes for Seniors introduction: 5 6S methodology: factory Seeking out and exploiting adjacent leaders throughout Senior are actively economies to free up capacity in our return in excess of 15%.
visual management systems: risk and opportunities organically and embracing collaboration activities with European and North American factories, financial management: and through acquisition.
priorities set at Group level in consultation which is needed to satisfy anticipated A strengthened business review process with the businesses.
utilising a balanced scorecard incorporating KPIs with focus on performance, growth, operational excellence and talent development.
Implemented engagement guidelines Customer Relationship Managers Implemented a new and more intensive Opened new airframe structures facility Disposed loss making small commodity Jane Johnston joined Senior in May 2016 to help optimise the transfer of work appointed during the year for business review process: updated the in Thailand in June 2016: composites business based in Wichita: as Group HR Director, responsible for HR to cost competitive locations and to key customers: Groups reporting systems to strategy across the Group: Ramping up cooler and common rail Invested 52.8m in organic capital facilitate higher level solutions to meet incorporate best-in-class real-time Established a Group-wide technology production at our facilities in India and expenditure to support growth Continued to work with external partners customer needs: digital dashboard: and established council to focus on advanced engineering Mexico: and programmes: such as Ashridge, to deliver advanced Group-wide balanced scorecard Customer Relationship Managers and manufacturing methods such as leadership development for our top talent Approved the construction of a facility Dividend increased by 6% to 6.57 pence withKPIs: appointed during the year for additive manufacturing: from around the world: and expansion in the Czech Republic to per share total paid and proposed : and key customers: Established a procurement council to New production programmes were support new Flexonics programmes.
Working capital stabilised at 15.1% of leverage our global spend: initial focus Updated management incentive launched in India, Mexico, Malaysia revenue at the end of the year.
on consumables generating significant schemes to encourage greater and Thailand: and savings: and collaboration: all senior managers Steico successfully integrated into across the Company now have part Some progress made towards the Group.
of their incentive tied to Group introducing best practice operational performance as well as their business toolkit and processes, with plans unit: and to develop further in 2017.
Rolled out Spark, an online Groupwide interactive communication tool.
Focus front end collaboration efforts Extend successful Customer Introduce best practice lean Continue to ramp up new and transferred Continue to invest in organic capital Implement Group-wide Performance on multi-site business opportunities: Relationship Manager approach manufacturing processes and toolkit: Aerospace programmes in Thailand expenditure to support future growth: Development Review process to other customers: Deliver supply chain savings from Undertake targeted performance and Malaysia: for senior managers: and Continue to pay a progressive dividend Procurement Council collaboration: and Target growth in new orders from improvement workshops in Ramp up cooler production in Cape Town: reflecting earnings per share and free Collaborate across the Group specific key customers in support underperforming businesses: and Further improve safety practices across cash flow generation over the medium on recruitment and selection.
Transfer various fluid systems and of their cost down activities: the Group in line with 2020 objective Deliver savings on indirect and direct term: and structures work packages to Aerospace including the launch of a Senior Win more new business for our cost material through Group-wide Mexico: and Maintain the level of working capital behavioural safety standard.
competitive Asian businesses: and procurement council and by utilising as a percentage of revenue.
Expand facility in the Czech Republic Seniors cost competitive sources.
Further investments in 3D printing support new Flexonics programmes.
16 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 17 OUR PLANS FOR 2017 WHAT WEVE DONE WHAT IT IS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 2016 PERFORMANCE Around 9% of the Aerospace Divisions the year-on-year impact of lower revenue DIVISIONAL REVIEW DIVISIONAL REVIEW revenue was derived from other markets from fuel cell dielectrics.
Elsewhere, the Group The Aerospace Division represents 73% The Flexonics Division represents 27% such as space, non-military helicopters, benefited from higher sales to solar and other 2015 68% of Group revenue and consists 2015 32% of Group revenue and consists power and energy, medical and semirenewables markets.
These are located in North of 14 operations which are located in North conductor equipment, where the Group America ten, the United Kingdom four, America four, continental Europe three, The adjusted operating margin decreased to manufactures products using very similar 1 continental Europe three, Thailand and the United Kingdom two, South Africa, India, 8.2% 2015 14.4%.
On an organic basis, technology to that used for certain aerospace Malaysia.
The Divisions operating results on Brazil, Malaysia and China where the Group also excluding acquisition, the margin declined by products.
Excluding acquisition, revenue a constant currency basis are summarised left: has a 49% equity stake in a land vehicle joint 5.9 percentage points to 8.5% principally due derived from these markets decreased by venture.
The Divisions operating results on a to the market-led volume reductions in truck, 1 Divisional revenue increased by 35.3m 5.6% 8.1%, mainly due to weaker power and constant currency basis are summarised left: off-highway and oil and gas markets, the high 1 to 665.2m 2015 629.9m whilst adjusted energy markets, which also adversely margin sectors of the Division.
The Group operating profit decreased by 8.8m 10.5% Divisional revenue decreased by 50.3m impacted sales of non-military helicopters.
continues to focus on cost management 1 1 to 74.8m 2015 83.6m.
Excluding the 16.6% to 252.1m 2015 302.4m and The divisional adjusted operating margin and efficiency initiatives.
AEROSPACE incremental contribution of Steico, acquired in FLEXONICS adjusted operating profit declined by 22.8m declined by 2.1 percentage points to 11.2% 1 December 2015 revenue of 26.4m: adjusted 52.4% to 20.7m 2015 43.5m.
Production of North American heavy-duty 1 2015 13.3%.
Margins were impacted operating profit of 3.4m, organic revenue for Excluding the incremental contribution of diesel trucks is forecast to decline further by the year-on-year volume reductions on REVENUE REVENUE the Division increased by 8.9m 1.4% whilst Lymington Precision Engineers LPE, acquired in 2017, largely as a result of excess truck mature programmes such as the A330, adjusted operating profit decreased by 12.2m at the end of March 2015 revenue of 4.3m: capacity: however, market recovery is Global 5000 6000 and G550, the ramp-up 14.6% compared to 2015. adjusted operating loss of 0.3m, organic anticipated in 2018 as demand and capacity 665.2m of new aircraft production programmes such 252.1m revenue for the Division declined by 54.6m are expected to equalise towards the end of The Divisions most important market is large as the A320neo, A350 and CSeries and certain 1 1 18.1% and adjusted operating profit decreased 2015: 629.9m.
In the off-highway market, the Group commercial aircraft where Boeing and Airbus supplier issues that impacted some of our US by 22.5m 51.7%.
anticipates benefiting from new product collectively delivered 1,436 aircraft in 2016, and UK operations.
The previously reported launches in 2017, with volumes ramping up 2.8% more than the prior year.
Seniors sales Group sales to truck and off-highway markets ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT price increase negotiations were concluded by ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT over the coming years.
Whilst there has been 1 in the large commercial aircraft sector increased the end of 2016.
The Group remains focused decreased by 20.3%.
Seniors sales to the some stabilisation of the oil price in recent 1 by 11.9% during the year, with organic growth, North American truck and off-highway market on reducing costs, both internally and in our months, the pace and timing of recovery in 1 1 74.8m 20.7m excluding acquisition, being 9.3%.
The Group external supply chain, particularly on our decreased by 23.4m 28.5%, primarily due industrial markets, particularly oil and gas benefited from increased production of the to lower sales of EGR coolers for new vehicles 1 newer programmes.
related, is still somewhat uncertain as A350 and A320neo, which began customer as market production of Class 8 trucks declined During 2016, Senior successfully won additional investment in new capital projects is likely deliveries in January 2016: however, these 29.4% and off-highway sales were impacted content on A320neo, 737 MAX, A330neo and to remain subdued in 2017.
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN increases were partly offset by decreased by weaker demand for agricultural and mining A350, all of which are forecasting significant production of the 747, the comparative impact vehicles.
Sales to European truck and offLooking further ahead, global environmental increases in production over the coming years.
1 of the declines in A330 build rates from last highway markets grew by 0.9m 6.4%, legislation continues to tighten and, coupled Customer deliveries of the A320neo began 11.2% 8.2% year, and the planned reduction in work share in line with market production.
The Group also with projected increases in global energy in January 2016, whilst the 737 MAX and 1 1 1 on the Trent 1000 engine.
usage, will drive increased demand for many A330neo are scheduled to enter service in 2017 from new truck and off-highway programmes of the Flexonics Divisions products.
Senior The Divisions sales to the regional jet market, and 2018 respectively.
Meaningful content was in India and China.
is developing solutions for the next generation 1 excluding acquisition, increased by 24.1% also secured on the 777X, which is scheduled of diesel engines, as well as alternative energy in the year, mainly as a result of increased Group sales to passenger vehicle markets to enter service in 2020.
The Group will also applications.
As a result of its global footprint, 1 production of Bombardiers CSeries, which decreased by 10.7% in the year.
Seniors REVENUE RECONCILIATION benefit from the Joint Strike Fighter, which is REVENUE RECONCILIATION technical innovation and customer relationships, commenced customer deliveries in June 2016, sales to the European market decreased by scheduled to ramp up significantly between the Group remains well positioned for the future m m 1 and increased non-recurring engineering 1.8m 4.4% as growth in market production now and the end of the decade.
as new Flexonics programmes and products 34.4 7.5 26.4 665.2 revenue from the Mitsubishi Regional Jet levels was offset by some programmes coming 302.4 20.1 13.0 Overall, the future prospects for the Groups enter production.
5.8 5.0 programme, which is expected to commence to end of life.
Group sales to North American 29.2 638.8 629.9 Aerospace Division are visible and remain strong.
Revenue passenger vehicle markets decreased by 1 2015 results translated using 2016 average exchange 1 derived from the business jet sector declined 3.4m 60.7% as certain programmes also 1 rates constant currency.
2015 translated using 2016 average exchange rates 1 by 30.9%, on an organic basis, during the year constant currency.
Elsewhere, weaker market due to previously announced reductions in build demand in Brazil was offset by growth in India rates of Bombardiers Global 5000 6000 and from new programme launches.
In the Groups industrial markets, organic sales Excluding acquisition, organic revenue from excluding the incremental contribution from 1 the military and defence sector decreased by LPE were down 20.3%.
As anticipated, 1 10.2% in the year, primarily due to lower Joint organic sales to petrochemical markets were A B C D E F G H A B C D E F G H 1 Strike Fighter content as a work package was down 23.4m 34.9% due to lower demand dual sourced as previously noted, and the and the non-repeat of the large industrial 1 A 2015 revenue E Other A 2015 revenue E Other anticipated build rate reductions for Black Hawk, expansion joint orders for North American B Large commercial F 2016 organic B Truck and off-highway F 2016 organic C Regional & business jets G Acquisition V-22 and Eurofighter.
This was offset partially C Passenger vehicles G Acquisition and South Korean petrochemical projects D Military H 2016 revenue D Industrial H 2016 revenue by increases in production of the C-130, A400M from 2015.
Organic sales to power and energy 1 and P-8.
Including the contribution from the markets decreased by 9.4m 22.4% due acquisition of Steico, particularly on the Joint to continued weakness in North American coal Strike Fighter, total revenue from the military and and gas fired power generation markets and 1 defence sector decreased by 1.3% in the year.
18 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 19
