Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review The results for 2016 show that the execution of our five-year plan remains on track.
Trading in 2016 was better than we expected at the start of the year, although this was in large part due to the resolution of a number of commercial matters in the first half, which will not recur: trading in the second half was in line with the guidance we gave at the time of our half-year results.
4 Underlying EPS increased 20% to 4.13p, benefitting Operationally, we have had a busy year: from reduced finance costs and a lower effective across key contracts our service delivery taxrate.
has improved: we have reduced operating Reported Operating Profit up 46m, and EPS up costs by some 450m whilst improving 15.36p: operating exceptional charges on continuing employee engagement: at year-end, the operations were 56m 2015: 110m : including value of our pipeline of new opportunities discontinued operations, total exceptional charges was up 30%, notwithstanding a 40% net of tax were 68m 2015: 217m.
increase in order intake: and we have 5 Free Cash Flow was negative 33m, similar to 2015 cleanly exited the private sector BPO outflow of 36m.
These are the first fruits of the Closing Net Debt increased by 46m to 109m: 'transformation' phase of our plan, which however, Net Debt : EBITDA leverage of 0.7x, was we are now about half-way through.
similar to last year and below our medium term target of 12x.
Our view of likely performance in 2017 remains unchanged from previous Continued progress reducing burden of loss-making contracts: OCP utilisation of 84m in 2016, 30m guidance.
The road back to prosperity lower than 2015. was always going to be long and winding, Order intake increased by 40% with 2.5bn total value with many potholes and boulders, but we of signed contracts: including Sercos share of the are making good progress.
value of the AWE updated contract, order intake was 2 Revenue, including discontinued operations, 3.2bn, an increase of some 80% on the prior year: declined 13% to 3,048m, comprising an 11% 35contract awards were worth more than 10m each.
organic decline from net contract attrition and an Pipeline of larger new bid opportunities ended 8% reduction from disposals, partially offset by a 6% the year at 8.4bn, a year-on-year increase of 1.9bn currency benefit.
3 Underlying Trading Profit declined by 14m to 82m: Operating costs reduced by more than 450m, and discontinued operations the exit of private sector in proportion to the scale of revenue reduction: this BPO reduced profits by 19m: net currency benefits includes overheads and shared services savings of were 9m: allowing for these, the reduction was 4m.
3 Trading Profit was 18m higher than Underlying Guidance for 2017 unchanged at current Trading Profit due principally to 14m net reduction foreign exchange rates, we anticipate Revenue of in future liabilities and losses on onerous contracts.
approximately 3.1bn and Underlying Trading Profit of between 65m and 70m.
26 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements How we performed 1 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 2 Revenue continuing and discontinued operations 3,047.8m 3,514.6m Reported Revenue continuing operations only 3,011.0m 3,177.0m 3 Underlying Trading Profit 82.1m 95.9m Reported Operating Profit Loss after exceptional items: 42.2m 3.8m 3 continuing operations only 4 Underlying EPS, basic 4.13p 3.44p Reported EPS, basic after exceptional items: continuing 0.11p 15.47p and discontinued operations 5 Free Cash Flow 33.0m 35.5m Net Debt including that for assets and liabilities held for sale 109.3m 62.9m Notes to summary table of financial results: 1 The results for year ended 31 December 2015 have been restated for a change in accounting policy related to foreign exchange movements on investment and financing arrangements.
This provides more relevant information about the impact of underlying transactions and, within net debt, now takes account of the currency hedging in place.
This is particularly relevant at a time when we have had significant currency volatility, and, helpfully, more closely aligns our reported net debt with our debt covenant definitions.
This change in accounting policy has the following effects: reduces Trading and Operating Profit measures by 0.1m, with an equal and opposite impact recognised within Net Finance Costs: reduces Free Cash Flow FCF by 19.3m, with an equal and opposite impact recognised below FCF: and reduces closing net debt at 31 December 2015 by 14.6m, to reflect the hedging effect of derivative financial instruments designed to mitigate the effect of foreign exchange movements on our net debt.
Further detail on the restatement is included in the Finance Review on page 43.
2 Revenue is as defined under IFRS, which excludes Sercos share of revenue of its joint ventures and associates.
Revenue including that from discontinued operations is shown for consistency with previous guidance.
Reported Revenue excludes revenue from discontinued operations of 36.8m 2015: 337.6m.
Organic revenue growth is the change at constant currency in Revenue after adjusting to exclude the impact of acquisitions or disposals.
Change at constant currency is calculated by translating non-Sterling values for the year to 31 December 2016 into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 December 2015.
3 Trading Profit is defined as IFRS Operating Profit adjusted for i amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition and ii exceptional items: it includes the impact of discontinued operations.
Consistent with IFRS, it includes Sercos share of profit after interest and tax of its joint ventures and associates.
Underlying Trading Profit additionally excludes Contract and Balance Sheet Review adjustments principally Onerous Contract Provision OCP releases or charges, as well as the beneficial treatment of depreciation and amortisation of assets held for sale, and other material one-time items such as the pension scheme settlement in the first half of 2016 and the profit on early exit from a UK local authority contract that occurred in the second half of 2015.
A reconciliation of Underlying Trading Profit to Reported Operating Profit is as follows: Year ended 31 December m 2016 2015 Underlying Trading Profit 82.1 95.9 Include: non-underlying items Onerous contract and Balance Sheet Review adjustments 14.2 20.9 Benefit from non-depreciation and non-amortisation of assets held for sale 0.5 11.7 Other one-time items 3.5 9.0 Trading Profit 100.3 137.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 5.1 4.9 Operating Profit Before Exceptional Items continuing and discontinued operations 95.2 132.6 Exclude: Operating Loss Profit Before Exceptional Items from discontinued operations 3.3 26.5 Reported Operating Profit Before Exceptional Items continuing operations only 98.5 106.1 Operating Exceptional Items continuing operations only 56.3 109.9 Reported Operating Profit after exceptional items: continuing operations only 42.2 3.8 4 Underlying EPS reflects the Underlying Trading Profit measure after deducting pre-exceptional net finance costs including those for discontinued operations and related tax effects.
5 Free Cash Flow is the net cash flow from operating activities before exceptional items as shown on the face of the Groups Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, adding dividends we receive from joint ventures and associates, and deducting net interest paid and net capital expenditure on tangible and intangible assetpurchases.
Reconciliations and further detail of financial performance are included in the Finance Review on pages 42 to 63.
This includes full definitions and explanations of the purpose and usefulness of each non-IFRS Alternative Performance Measure APM used by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are on pages 139 to 207.
27 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Revenue and Trading Profit the start of the year, and was materially lower than the 114m utilised in 2015: again, this reflects progress at Reported Revenue was 3,011m 2015: 3,177m : this an operational level in reducing the level of losses on measure excludes Sercos share of revenue from joint onerous contracts.
The closing balance of OCPs now ventures and associates of 481m 2015: 737m and stands at 220m, versus the initial 447m charge two from discontinued operations our private sector BPO years ago.
Revenue including discontinued operations was 3,048m 2015: 3,515m.
The 14m reduction in Underlying Trading Profit reflects Net currency movements provided a 189m benefit.
the 19m reduction in profits related to the exit of our At constant currency and adjusting for disposals, the private sector BPO operations, partially offset by a organic revenue decline was 11%, driven by the phased favourable 9m currency movement.
Allowing for these transfer of contracts such as that for the Defence items, Underlying Trading Profit was similar to the prior Science and Technology Laboratory DSTL, and the year, decreasing by approximately 4m.
The profit end of contracts for Suffolk Community Healthcare, performance was stronger than we initially anticipated, the National Citizen Service, Thurrock Council BPO in large part due to the successful resolution of a services, US National Benefits Centre and the Virginia number of commercial matters in the first half of the Department of Transportation VDOT.
There was year that will not repeat.
limited growth elsewhere to offset these declines.
Reported Operating Profit, including discontinued Trading Profit was 100.3m 2015: 137.5m and operations, and before exceptional items, was Underlying Trading Profit was 82.1m 2015: 95.9m, 95.2m 2015: 132.6m, which reflects Trading Profit resulting in an Underlying Trading Profit margin of 2.7% as described above, after additionally charging 2015: 2.7%.
The 18.2m difference between Trading amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising Profit and Underlying Trading Profit is accounted for by on acquisition of 5.1m 2015: 4.9m.
First, we have excluded from Underlying Trading Profit the net release of 14.2m 2015: 20.9m Finance, tax and exceptional costs of future cost provisions identified in our regular review Pre-exceptional net finance costs, including of Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs and other discontinued operations, were 12.6m 2015: 31.9m.
Contract and Balance Sheet Review items.
This reflects The reduction in cost arises from average net debt the net effect of numerous charges and releases against being some 300m lower in 2016 than in 2015, as a result individual contracts and provisions: the only significant of the Rights Issue in April 2015 and the BPO disposal individual movements were an increased charge on proceeds received at the end of December 2015.
As the Ontario Driver Examination Services contract and a consequence of these two fund-raising activities, a net release on the COMPASS contract for UK asylum we were able to redeem early 225m of US Private seeker support services.
While the net 14.2m release Placement debt in 2015 and a further 117m in February is excluded from our underlying measures, it reflects 2016.
Cash net interest paid was 19.0m 2015: 32.7m.
continued good progress in reducing future liabilities, with a net 9.6m related to OCPs and a net 4.6m Within net finance costs is a net credit of 4.7m 2015: related to other Contract and Balance Sheet Review 4.9m related to the strong funding position of Sercos items.
The second item of difference is that we have pension schemes: the pension scheme net balance excluded from Underlying Trading Profit the benefit of sheet asset, before tax, increased to 133m 2015: a one-time pension settlement of 3.5m negotiated 116m : on an estimated actuarial basis, the main as part of the early exit from the Thurrock contract.
Group scheme has a deficit of 34m 2015: 28m.
Third, and in accordance with the statutory accounting Pre-exceptional tax costs, including discontinued treatment of assets held for sale, depreciation and amortisation charges related to assets held for sale are operations, were materially lower in the year at 15.9m 2015: 36.6m.
Excluding the tax credit on nonexcluded from the Group accounts: the positive impact of this accounting treatment of 0.5m 2015: 11.7m underlying items of 8.5m 2015: cost of 6.1m, the underlying effective tax cost was 24.4m 2015: 30.5m has therefore been excluded from our measure of Underlying Trading Profit.
implying an underlying effective rate of 35% 2015: 48% based upon 69.5m of Underlying Trading Profit less As with the comparable year, Underlying Trading Profit pre-exceptional net finance costs.
The rate reflects the benefited from the utilisation of OCPs, which have the tax charges at locally prevailing rates in the international effect of neutralising losses on previously identified divisions which tend to be higher than the UKs rate, onerous contracts: the 84m utilised in the year was while in the UK there was no deferred tax credit taken slightly lower than our expectations of around 90m at against losses made in the year: the resulting effective 28 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements rate was significantly lower than expectations at the Earnings Per Share EPS start of the year given the increased proportion of Underlying EPS, which reflects the Underlying Trading Sercos profit before tax generated by consolidating Profit measure after deducting pre-exceptional finance our share of joint venture and associate earnings which costs including those for discontinued operations have already been taxed.
Net cash tax paid was 5.6m and related tax effects, was 4.13p 2015: 3.44p.
increase reflects the reduction in Underlying Trading Profit being more than offset by the lower finance costs Whilst we expect our cash tax rate to be reasonably and tax charge.
There is a partial offset to these factors predictable in future periods, our underlying effective from the movement in the weighted average number of tax rate is likely to be volatile until we are able to show shares in issue which increased to 1,088.3m shares 2015: sufficient profitability in our UK business to be able to 986.5m shares as a consequence of the 2015 Rights recognise on our balance sheet the very significant UK Issue.
EPS before exceptional items, including those tax asset arising from losses in 2014 and 2015 principally for discontinued operations, were 6.12p 2015: 6.55p : as a result of the Contract and Balance Sheet Review.
including the impact of exceptional items, Reported For 2017, an underlying effective tax rate potentially EPS was loss per share of 0.11p 2015: loss per share reverting to approximately 50% is anticipated, reflecting of15.47p.
predominantly the smaller proportion of joint venture and associate earnings and relatively higher UK losses.
Cash Flow and Net Debt We expect future years effective tax rate will be high Free Cash Flow was negative 33.0m 2015: negative until UK tax losses can be recognised.
Cash generated from Underlying Trading Profit was largely offset by the outflows related to loss-making Including discontinued operations, the Group incurred contracts subject to Onerous Contract Provisions.
operating exceptional costs of 70.5m, exceptional These cash outflows lessened year-on-year, as reflected finance costs of 0.4m and tax credits on exceptional in the lower rate of OCP utilisation.
There was a working items of 3.1m: in aggregate, net exceptional costs capital outflow of 24m, largely due to a 22m reduction were therefore 67.8m 2015: 217.2m.
The principal in the utilisation of the Groups receivables financing exceptional items were goodwill impairment of 17.8m facility: at the end of 2015 the 30m facility was fully reflecting the liabilities taken on with the purchase of a utilised, compared to 8m utilisation at the end of 2016. subcontractor to the COMPASS operations, a 13.9m Capital expenditure was substantially lower at 32m impairment to the carrying value of a joint venture 2015: 73m, reflecting the benefit of the disposal of the investment, restructuring costs of 18.3m and a charge private sector BPO business, which was a substantial of 10.7m related to the transfer of employees from the consumer of capital investment.
Serco defined pension scheme back to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme PCSPS.
The balance Closing net debt at 31 December 2016 increased to of operating exceptional costs reflected losses on 109.3m, having been 62.9m at the start of the year: the disposals, together with the movement in the carrying increase includes the Free Cash outflow, together with a value of assets held for sale and for indemnities provided 40m cash outflow related to exceptional items, partially on prior business disposals.
The 217.2m of charges in offset by 19m of net receipts from disposals.
There 2015 included 168.3m impairment of goodwill and other was an adverse gross currency translation effect on net assets, and 32.8m of exceptional finance costs relating debt of 42m, predominantly reflecting the Groups US to the Rights Issueand debtrefinancing.
Private Placement debt, however this was offset by a 47m favourable movement on hedging instruments.
Reported Loss for the year The closing net debt of 109m compares to a daily The Reported Loss for the year, as presented at the average of 119m 2015: 444m and a peak net debt bottom of the Groups Consolidated Income Statement of 183m 2015: 859m.
This reflects the measures described above: Reported At the closing balance sheet date, our leverage for Operating Profit, including discontinued operations, covenant purposes was 0.7x EBITDA, which compares and before exceptional items, of 95.2m 2015: with the requirement in our debt covenants to be less 132.6m : pre-exceptional net finance costs, including than 3.5x.
Excluding from EBITDA non-underlying items, discontinued operations, of 12.6m 2015: 31.9m : predominantly the benefit of the net movement on pre-exceptional tax costs, including discontinued OCPs and other Contract and Balance Sheet Review operations, of 15.9m 2015: 36.6m : and exceptional items, the underlying leverage ratio was 0.8x EBITDA.
This is below our medium term target range of 12x, but at this stage in our strategy implementation, we are content for it to be so.
29 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Dividends Examination Services, Ontario Canada : on COMPASS, a 33.9m OCP release resulted from the latest estimates The Board is not recommending the payment of a of efficiencies, forecasts and contract terms, although dividend in respect of the 2016 financial year.
The this was partially offset by a 14.0m OCP recognised Boards appraisal of the appropriateness of dividend on acquisition of a subcontractor: on DES, there was payments takes into account the Groups underlying a 29.5m increase in estimates of the future costs earnings, cash flows and financial leverage, together associated with the IT system implementation and with the requirement to maintain an appropriate level ongoing management of this contract.
Our contract of dividend cover and the prevailing market outlook.
supporting Lincolnshire County Council is running Although the Board is committed to resuming dividend broadly in line with our expectations set when we took payments as soon as it believes it prudent to do so, a large additional provision in 2015, and the major in assessing whether we should resume dividend elements of this IT implementation are now in service.
payments in respect of 2016, we have been mindful Within the other smaller movements, although the of the fact that our forecasts for 2017 anticipate a in-year losses of the Prisoner Escort and Custody reduction in earnings, a free cash outflow and an Services PECS contract in the UK were reduced, we increase in net debt: furthermore, we are only parthave changed our view of the likely contract duration, way through our recovery.
In these circumstances, the and the future-years OCP balance has been increased: Board believes that it would not be prudent to resume OCPs with an improved view of future losses include the dividend payments in respect of 2016.
Armidale Class Patrol Boats ACPB contract in Australia, The Revenue and Trading Profit performances are and the contracts for HMP Ashfield and the Future described further in the Divisional Reviews.
More Provision of Marine Services FPMS in the UK.
detailed analysis of earnings, cash flow, financing Our joint venture with Abellio as operator of Northern and related matters are described further in the Rail ended smoothly with the transfer of the franchise FinanceReview.
to a new provider on 31 March 2016, and the winding Summary of operating performance and up of the joint venture produced a favourable financial strategy implementation outcome.
There were also several contracts that we had The better than anticipated financial performance in expected to end early in the year but ran on longer: 2016 has been accompanied by improving operational these included the VDOT and US Army transition delivery and good progress on implementing our assistance contracts.
We were delighted to announce that the UK With over 500 contracts worldwide, there are always Governments review of the arrangements for operating going to be some with operational issues: however, the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE concluded there are many fewer now than there were two years successfully during the year, and led to an updated ago, and relationships with customers, particularly in contract being agreed with the Ministry of Defence.
The the UK, have strengthened notably.
Good progress stronger performance outcome for the contract year to has been made on our loss-making contracts, with 31 March 2016 and later-than-expected timing of the improved operational delivery and reduced losses on change in joint venture shareholding arrangements also several important contracts, reflected both in lower improved the profit contribution received by Serco in in-year OCP utilisation 30m lower in 2016 than in the year.
2015 and a net reduction in anticipated future losses of We achieved our target for cost savings of over 9.6m.
We regard our OCPs as a portfolio of exposures, 50m in 2016 from central support functions and and at each period end each contract and provision other overheads.
The programme delivered savings is carefully assessed: some contracts need additional from reducing the number of management layers, provisions, others see releases if our assessment of implementing better procurement and driving greater future losses reduces.
In 2016 there were a number of efficiency in the operation of shared services.
Within our movements, both positive and negative, across the guidance for 2017 is the expectation that we can deliver contract base.
No new contracts have been judged around 20m of additional savings from the next set of to be materially onerous.
The only two significant transformation actions.
movements on pre-existing OCPs were on COMPASS UK asylum seeker support services and DES Driver 30 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Following the various disposals and transfers related Contract awards, order book, rebids and pipeline to Sercos exit of the private sector BPO market, there Contract awards were losses and stranded costs related to the residual As anticipated, the market was relatively quiet with few UK onshore private sector BPO contracts.
As a result major bidding outcomes announced.
Notwithstanding of good work to mitigate the financial impact of these this, the Group signed contracts with a total value of exits, the loss from discontinued operations at 4.6m 2.5bn during the year, an increase of 40% on 2015: as was approximately half our original expectations, and we do not consolidate our share of joint venture and we anticipate no material residual effect in 2017. associate revenue, this excludes the estimated 0.7bn value of Sercos share of the AWE updated contract for At the same time as we have been reducing operating the next three years.
There were 35 contract awards costs, we have been investing in building the worth more than 10m each.
The value of new business capability of the business.
As previously reported, won was approximately 40% of the total value signed, we are using Centres of Excellence CoEs to develop with the balance represented by securing extensions or Group-wide propositions and capabilities in our core successfully rebidding existing work.
markets, with an initial launch of CoEs in the Health, Justice & Immigration and Transport sectors which The largest new contract signed in 2016 was with Barts are improving the sharing of skills, best practice and Health NHS Trust for facilities management services to intellectual property across our businesses.
Whilst the value over the maximum 10- teams working directly and as part of the CoE virtual year term is approximately 600m, we have recognised network are reporting good early progress, particularly within Sercos wins and order book figures only the in strengthening our proposition development and estimated 450m value of our initial seven-year period.
bidding, and the largest contract award during the The second largest new contract was for the new year Barts Health NHS Trust drew heavily on CoE icebreaker Antarctic Supply and Research Vessel for capability and support.
the Australian Department of the Environment, where Serco will project manage the four-year design and We have continued to invest in IT systems build phase and then operate and maintain the vessel enhancements and improvements.
During the year, for an initial ten-year period: within our order book, and we rolled out our Success Factors recruitment system future revenues, we will not include the value of the ship which delivers world-class recruitment capability for itself.
The third largest new contract was to upgrade the the organisation: enhanced Finance management tools High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse HEMP Protection to improve balance sheet reconciliations and Treasury of Ballistic Missile Early Warnings Systems supporting management: implemented new Cyber Security the US Air Force at Thule Air Base in Greenland.
Of management systems to harden our IT networks: the other major new bids decided during the year, we launched a guided buying system that delivers best were unsuccessful in the tender to operate the Clyde pricing through a standardised catalogue: and we and Hebrides Ferry Services on behalf of Transport introduced internal collaboration tools which help our Scotland, in two bids to operate UK local authority newly formed CoEs share data and information globally.
environmental services and to provide processing Our next developments include further investments in services to two US Departments of State.
Smaller new IT security, payroll and workforce management systems.
bids won included two for the European Space Agency, transport operations support for the State of Louisiana, Serco employs 47,000 people, the vast majority numerous US Navy ship and shore defence equipment delivering services to customers.
It is often said that the modernisation task orders, and contracts for airport customer experience will never exceed the employees facilities management and defence base operational and attracting, motivating and engaging employees will support in the Middle East.
be central to our success.
We were therefore delighted to see the latest results of our global employee engagement survey, managed independently by Aon Hewitt, and which received over 30,000 responses.
Engagement scores increased for all categories employees, managers and leaders and stood at the highest level since we started to measure it in 2011 and is dramatically improved from the low in 2014.
It was particularly pleasing to note that the engagement score of the leadership population improved 17 percentage points year-on-year to over 70%.
31 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Of rebids and extensions secured, the largest was for Pipeline Acacia prison in Western Australia for a further five Our pipeline is defined as new bid opportunities with years, and the second largest was for two further years estimated Annual Contract Value ACV of at least 10m to continue providing defence base support services or a Total Contract Value TCV of at least 100m, and at Goose Bay, Canada.
Others included: the COMPASS which we expect to bid and to be adjudicated within extension for an additional 21 months: extending a rolling 24-month timeframe.
The TCV of individual our support to the UK military satellite network, the opportunities is capped at 1bn.
The definition does Anglia Support Partnership healthcare shared services not include rebids and extension opportunities.
It and several environmental services contracts: and is therefore a relatively small proportion of the total in the Middle East for our operations for Australian universe of opportunities, many of which either have Defence Force logistics and base support, healthcare annual revenues less than 10m, or are likely to be facilities management in Saudi Arabia and Baghdad Air decided beyond the next 24 months, or are rebids and Navigation Services.
It should also be remembered that in the Americas in particular, we have numerous arrangements Win rates by volume were over 50% for new bids and which are classed as IDIQ Indefinite Delivery over 90% for rebids and extensions.
Win rates by value Indefinite Quantity which are essentially framework saw some modest improvement to over 20% for new agreements under which the customer issues task work given the balance of outcomes on larger bids, orders one at a time: whilst the ultimate value of such a and approximately 80% for securing existing work.
contract may be very large and run over many years, the value is only recorded in our order book as individual Order book task orders are contracted, and few of them would The Groups order book, excluding the discontinued appear in the pipeline as they tend to be individually Global Services division, now stands at an estimated less than 10m and contracted on short lead times.
9.9bn, very similar to the 10.0bn reported at the end of 2015.
There is 2.5bn of revenue in the order book Following several years of decline in the value of the for 2017, equivalent to over 80% visibility of our 3.1bn bid pipeline, in 2015 it began to grow again from its revenue guidance.
The secured order book is 1.7bn nadir of around 5bn, increasing to 6.5bn at the end for 2018 and 1.3bn for 2019. of 2015, and stood at 8.4bn at the end of 2016.
During 2016, 3bn came out of the pipeline reflecting wins Rebids and losses during the year, but this has been more Through to the end of 2019, across the Group there than offset by adding new opportunities, particularly in are around 50 contracts in our order book with annual defence in the US and justice in Australia.
There are now revenue of over 5m where an extension or rebid will around 30 bids in the pipeline, with the ACV averaging be required, representing current annual revenue of approximately 30m and a contract length averaging over 1.3bn in aggregate or around 40% of the Groups close to 10 years.
Key opportunities in the pipeline are forecast revenue for 2017 of 3.1bn.
Contracts that described further in the Divisional Reviews.
could potentially end at some point by the end of 2017 have aggregate annual revenue of around 200m.
In While our pipeline definition reflects bid decisions 2018, this increases to around 400m, with the greater due over the next 24 months, it is important to note amount driven in particular by the US Affordable that over 80% of the current pipeline is expected to Care Act contract becoming due for full rebid in that have bids adjudicated within the next 12 months.
This year, and with the next largest being Northern Isles is an unusually high degree of front loading, and, if Ferries.
In 2019, it is around 700m, with Australian customers stick to their timescales, it is unlikely that we immigration services, COMPASS, PECS and the Dubai will be able to replace the around 7bn of bids that are Metro also all expected to become due for rebid or likely to drop out of the pipeline during the year.
therefore think it likely that the value of the reported pipeline will drop in 2017: provided we win some of the bids that are to be decided this year, this is not a matter of concern: progress on growing our pipeline should not be expected to be a smooth progression given the effects of individual timings and scales of major bids.
32 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Risks associated with the outcome of the The third area of possible impact would be in terms UKs referendum on EU membership of our labour costs.
Only 3% of our employees in the UK are Continental EU nationals, so the direct impact Serco reported a year ago on the potential risk to its should be minimal.
However, if there are severe business if Britain left the EU.
Following the outcome restrictions on EU citizens working in the UK, this may of the referendum we have further considered the risks have a wider impact on labour availability and cost.
and opportunities presented by Brexit.
Overall, we think that Brexit offers both risks and First, we currently have contracts worth over 100m a opportunities for Serco.
However, the picture is unlikely year with European public bodies such as the European to become clear in the short-term.
In the meantime, Commission, the European Space Agency and the our long-term contracts and our role in providing European Central Bank: many of these contracts are critical public services should give us some protection executed by our subsidiaries based in continental from short-term vicissitudes.
Most importantly, our Europe, and tenders are subject to strict European strong presence in North America, the Middle East competition and bidding rules which should give us and Australia diversify our risk and give us choices as protection against unfair discrimination.
So we think to where we invest our resources.
that these risks are likely to be capable of mitigation.
Guidance and outlook Secondly, we must consider how Brexit might affect our business with the British Central Government, In 2016, better trading performance and currency which accounts for about a quarter of our revenue.
movements in the first half of the year led us to Here, the picture is hard to discern.
The senior Civil increase full-year guidance in both our May and Service were, even before the Brexit vote, facing a major August updates.
This reflected primarily the successful challenge implementing an agenda of reform designed resolution of a number of commercial matters and to deliver the future efficiencies required to achieve other factors not expected to repeat in subsequent the Governments plans to balance expenditure with periods, together with the benefit of foreign income by the end of the decade.
In addition to these exchange movements.
In December 2016, having tasks, the Civil Service is facing what is probably the completed our budget review process, we updated most significant and wide-ranging changes in policy that our expectations for 2017 were unchanged on and delivery that it has seen since the post-war Atlee an underlying basis from those previously described, government, which created the NHS and nationalised though an adjustment was required for the potential swathes of UK industry.
At the moment, the focus is on benefit of foreign exchange movements.
supporting the Government in its Brexit negotiations, At current foreign exchange rates, our 2017 budget but very quickly attention will have to turn to designing implies revenue of approximately 3.1bn and Underlying and then implementing new policy across swathes Trading Profit of between 65m and 70m, and with a of British administration: Immigration, Customs, weighting to the second half.
Given that the first half Agriculture, Fisheries, Food, Research, Education, of 2016 benefitted from a number of non-recurring Energy, Environment, to name a few.
In addition, items, Underlying Trading Profit in the first half of equivalent European regulatory bodies will have to be 2017 is expected to be significantly lower than the created and staffed in the UK.
This is going to be a huge comparator period.
test for the Civil Service, and it is currently unclear how it will be delivered, or how much support they will want from the private sector in this task.
33 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued In regard to our budget and guidance, we reiterate that Regarding cash flows for 2017, we expect our Underlying the range of potential outcomes for 2017 is significantly Trading Profit forecast will be broadly offset by the cash wider, both to the upside and downside, given Sercos outflow on onerous contracts, given OCP utilisation low margins and the sensitivity of our profits to even budgeted of approximately 80m.
With cash outflows small changes in revenues or costs.
Furthermore, and as for interest and tax forecast to be broadly similar to described in more detail in the Divisional Reviews, the 2016, this would result in a Free Cash outflow at similar outcome of major bids in our pipeline, and the timing levels to the 33m seen in 2016, assuming all other cash and nature of arrangements made for the replacement effects are neutral such as the effect of joint ventures, of the Affordable Care Act in the US, could have a capital expenditure versus depreciation, and of course material impact on our business both in the immediate working capital.
The outcomes of new bids and rebids, and longer term.
and the associated timing of any change in operations, would impact these assumptions, particularly working The trading outlook for 2018 will clearly come more capital.
There will also continue to be a level of cash into focus as we progress through 2017 in terms of outflow on exceptional costs, potentially at a similar bid activity and our other transformation actions.
level to 2016, given further restructuring to support our Our guidance is for margins to reduce in 2017, but we transformation.
In all, we therefore estimate that closing would expect to show some modest improvement net debt at the end of 2017 could increase to between year-on-year in 2018.
Our path of margin improvement 150m and 200m, equivalent to leverage for covenant reflects the lag effect of delivering the net benefit of purposes of between 1.2x and 1.7x EBITDA.
transformation efficiencies and the time it takes for new work to begin and deliver operational leverage of the Concluding thoughts cost base.
We continue to make good progress implementing our strategy through the three stages of our plan to Although our cash tax rates are reasonably predictable, Stabilise Transform Grow which we set out in detail our accounting effective tax rates are likely to remain in early 2015.
Our overarching objective is to make volatile: in 2015 the accounting underlying effective tax Serco a world-class international supplier of services to rate was 48%, in 2016 35%, and we expect it could revert Government in our chosen sectors of Defence, Justice back to around 50% in 2017.
This will depend on the & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services.
precise mix of profits and losses we see by jurisdiction.
We completed the stabilisation of the business in 2014 Any increase in our accounting tax rates will of course and 2015.
Since then, we have been transforming the have an amplifying effect on the reduction in EPS business: reducing our operating costs, investing in caused by the lower Underlying Trading Profit systems, processes and people, building compelling expected in 2017. service propositions and improving the quality of our operational delivery to customers.
We start 2017 with a very healthy pipeline of new opportunities, but also with a lot of work yet to be done to successfully complete the Transform stage of our plan.
Armed with a strong balance sheet, skilled and committed colleagues, and a good track record of delivery against our objectives over the last two years, I remain confident that we are heading in the right direction.
Rupert Soames Group Chief Executive Serco and proud of it.
34 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
