16 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives review TRANSFORMING CUSTOMER SERVICES This has been a promising year at Severn Trent as we embrace the new regulatory environment.
However, there remains much to do to ensure that we are consistently delivering great service for our customers each and every day to achieve our vision of being the most trusted water company by 2020.
Embracing change I rmly believe that if you embrace change in a regulated business such as ours you will be a winner.
I also rmly believe that if you start with the customer and deliver a better service for them, you will drive improvements throughout the business and be rewarded for doing so.
The new regulatory emphasis that rewards companies for doing the right thing for customers, improving services and being more efficient ts exactly with our strategic framework.
Our framework outlines five areas of embedding customers at the heart of all we do: driving operational excellence and continued innovation: investing responsibly for sustainable growth: changing the market for the better: and creating an awesome place to work.
Focusing on these actions will, we believe, enable us to become the most trusted water company by 2020.
WATCH NOW Watch a video of Liv on our investor area of our site: ar2016.
com Liv Gareld Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 17 We planned and prepared well for these Making the business better for customers changes.
For example, we sought to embed the requires us to look at all parts of our business.
principle of performance commitments and With a new management team in place we have Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs across the been able to review our cost structures including business ahead of implementation, enabling how and where we spend our money.
This has us to assess what needed to be done to deliver not only enabled us to lock in our 372 million operational improvements and ultimately at 2012 13 prices efficiency target set by Ofwat, improved services for customers.
but also to map out an additional 260 million of efficiencies, at nominal prices, that we can This approach has enabled us to deliver some deliver over the course of the AMP.
About half significant milestones this year and make some of this we will re-invest back into the business great strides in operational improvements.
to improve water quality, security and service to For example, we have reduced the number Lowest average vulnerable customers.
These changes will not of sites with coliform failures by 62% and combined bill 2015 2016 only make the business better, but cost less to incidents of internal sewer ooding by 31%.
run for customers and easier to manage for our These improvements have been achieved colleagues.
We want to be leaders in our industry through a number of initiatives, such as pre- 329 and these improvements will serve us well on emptive work on known problem areas or by the journey towards maintaining our position at working with customers to reduce materials that Internal Sewer Flooding the frontier of efficiency of waste water and help cause blockages, such as fats being disposed us move closer to our ambition of upper quartile of in drains.
By being proactive in managing our efficiency in water when compared to other network we can prevent problems occurring -31% UK water and waste water companies.
In our in the first place, which improves services for Business Services division we continued to see customers as well as enabling us to operate growth in turnover and profits.
more cost-effectively and be rewarded for doing so.
This type of thinking has seen us exceed Our regulator has started to further utilise our initial expectations and earn a reward of markets in some downstream activities with the 23.2 million under the ODI mechanism this year.
introduction of non-household retail competition in England.
We think the best way to win in this That said, we still have much to do to improve market is to offer customers a cost-effective, the quality of our service for our customers.
service driven operation at scale and we have We had two significant unsatisfactory incidents created a joint venture with United Utilities to during the year.
In February, a burst water main achieve this.
Water Plus, the new operation is in Nottingham saw more than 7,000 customers based in Stoke-on-Trent and will combine the without water for over 12 hours.
In March, an complementary skills of both companies in incident at our Castle Donington reservoir customer service, billing and debt management affected 3,700 customers on the Derbyshire systems to deliver an outstanding customer and Leicestershire border, the majority of which service to non-household customers.
I am were able to use their water supply within 24 very excited by the opportunity this innovative hours.
These incidents show that there remains approach will bring for customers and much work to be done to consistently deliver the shareholders alike.
high quality levels of service that our customers rightly deserve.
All of this activity has been done against a backdrop of further reductions in customer bills Our aim is to lead our sector in how we manage with the average combined water and waste energy.
We aim to generate more renewables, water bill for our customers being 329 p. a. use less energy from the grid and pay the lowest onceagain the lowest in Britain.
Our customers prices where we are not generating our own.
pay less than 1 a day for all their clean and Over the last 12 months we have generated an waste water services.
Of course water is an extra 44GWh compared to 2014 15, which is an essential commodity and we must do all we increase of 17%.
We now generate an equivalent can to ensure that vulnerable customers have of 33% of our consumption.
access to all that we can offer.
So I am delighted that our Big Difference Scheme has doubled the number of vulnerable customers we have helped this year.
If everyone pays their fair share, then all customers get a better deal, so I am pleased to see that we have also further reduced bad debts again this year.
18 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives review Continuing our strong track record of delivery Delivering returns 1 from last year, we have achieved sector leading I am delighted that all of our hard work is environmental performance again, having been delivering for our investors.
We measure awarded a provisional Environment Agency ourselves against four key measures of 4 rating in their Environmental Performance potential outperformance, three of which I have Assessment, demonstrating that we continue discussed above: ODIs, Totex and Renewables.
2 to respect our environment and are viewed as James Bowling, our Chief Financial officer, industry leading when benchmarked against discusses the fourth, Financing, in more detail our peers.
in the Financial review, and through his careful stewardship I am pleased to see that we are on Engaged workforce track to deliver outperformance on this, too.
None of this intense activity would have been possible without the hard work and dedication of ODIs, Totex and Financing are key enablers for all of my colleagues across the business.
I could us to deliver outperformance on our allowed 1 Our Thinking Out Loud initiativ e not be more proud of the way they have risen to return on regulatory equity RoRE.
This year gives a voice to employees across all the challenges, embraced change and delivered we have achieved 8.4% RoRE.
We see this as an business areas, enabling them to share their awesome ideas and to make a a better service for our customers.
I thank them important measure of the quality of our earnings difference in company decisions.
as it reects not only regulatory requirements, 2 Severn Trent achieved sector leading but in our case, the significant improvements in I rmly believe that helping our colleagues to environmental performance again, underlying services provided to customers as having been awarded a provisional do their job more easily and effectively will not Environment Agency 4 rating for measured by ODIs.
This approach, we believe, only make their lives better, but also improve environmental performance.
holds us in good stead to deliver for all of our the service we deliver to our customers.
stakeholders in the years ahead.
So I am pleased that despite some tough choices, we instigated a number of initiatives to simplify processes and management, UPO EHOLHYH WKDW LI RX HPEUDFH structures.
By doing this we have empowered our colleagues to take the right action for our change in a regulated business such customers.
Deploying digital tools, such as DV RXUV RX ZLOO EH VXFFHVVIXO DQG smartphones and tablets, as well as introducing that if you start with the customer apps, helps speed up processes and reduce and deliver a better service for costs.
For example, a new app enables our WKHP RX ZLOO GULYH LPSURYHPHQWV teams out in the eld to photograph, map, spec and log work that needs doing in a fraction of the throughout the business and be time taken previously and improves scheduling rewarded for doing so.
We have also introduced new ways for our customers to interact with us, such as webchat with 100,000 chats this year already.
Improving the management of, and access to, supplies and assets means that our teams can more easily get hold of the materials they need to complete jobs in a more timely manner.
These are just a few of a number of changes we have introduced that are helping our colleagues do a better job for customers and there are many more that we will introduce in the years ahead.
Our colleagues health and safety H&S is an on-going priority and on H&S measures we have seen operational improvements with a reduction of 20% in accidents this year.
Alongside all this, we have aligned bonus structures across the business, with everyone rewarded for delivering the same three key metrics profit, customer service and operational performance, and health and safety.
This means that everyone is incentivised to work towards common goals, ensuring greater cohesion of objectives.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 19 Looking forward This has been a year with some significant Our long term strategy achievements for Severn Trent.
However there remains much to do.
We will continue to prioritise water quality.
We want to deliver is to transform customer the best quality possible to our customers.
This will require us to remain obsessive about the provision of wholesome water and deliver services today, drive continuous improvements.
We will continue to embrace regulatory change.
growth, and shape our We are well placed for the forthcoming changes to the non-household retail market and are engaging with Ofwat about the further opening industry for tomorrow, for up of competition in parts of our value chain, inparticular in relation to sludge trading.
We have one of our largest ever asset-creation the mutual benefit of our programmes underway for this AMP, which includes the Birmingham Resilience project, a major scheme that will secure the future customers, communities supply of water to Birmingham for many years to come.
Alongside this we will continue to invest and investors.
in maintaining and upgrading our network as well as delivering our renewables programme.
In fact, this is one of our largest investment periods in our history which will see us invest Read the following 3 billion, delivering one of the biggest increases in asset value across the sector.
pages to see how These ambitious plans of course require us to continue to invest in our colleagues.
We will invest further in digital technology for our teams we are doing it and to help make their jobs easier and more efficient.
Our apprenticeship and graduate schemes will increase in size this year, which alongside our the progress we have technical training schemes will ensure Severn Trent is equipped to serve the needs of our customers for the next generation and beyond.
Customers remain rmly at the heart of everything we do with a focus on doing the right thing for them each and every day.
I am extremely privileged to be a part of this great company, to work with such a fantastic team of people and to ensure the sustainability of such an important service for customers.
