10 Chief Executive Officers review Steve Pateman 2016 has been a year of considerable progress for Shawbrook.
We have articulated a clear ambition which reflects the opportunities that lie ahead in our three divisions, allowing us to diversify our risk and creating a sustainable momentum that underpins the vision we have set out for the period through to 2020.
2016 results On an underlying basis, and excluding the impact of the controls breach in the Business Finance Division see page 49 in the Risk management report for further details, we have achieved each of the financial objectives we set out for the year, notwithstanding some significant changes in our key markets.
Statutory profit before tax PBT amounted to 88.2 million 91.4 million on an underlying basis.
Our underlying PBT, excluding the costs of the controls breach in the Business Finance Division, rose by 29% to 103.4 million, supported by strong disciplines in costs, risk and yield management.
Net interest margin NIM reduced to 5.6% reflecting the impact of the c. 300 million property portfolio acquisition we made in December 2015 and has stabilised at 5.6% throughout 2016. Credit risk impairment continued at low levels with cost of risk, adjusted for the controls breach, at 35bps 64bps on a statutory basis.
The growth in revenues led to a reduction in our underlying cost to income ratio to 45.1% statutory: 46.3% notwithstanding continued investment in our distribution, risk and technology platforms and the absorption of 1.4 million of management exit costs relating to a number of Executive Committee members leaving the Group throughout 2016.
As a result, we have delivered a return on tangible equity RoTE of 22.0%, within our stated target range, excluding the impact of the controls breach in the Business Finance Division underlying: 19.4%, statutory 18.8%.
Read more about 02 Basis of preparation for financial impact Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 11 OUr SPECIALIST APPrOACh We are pleased to be recommending a maiden final dividend In 2016, we launched a range of personal and retail finance of 2.7p per share, equating to c. 10% of our post-tax profits, in line propositions across direct, broker and partnership channels with with the guidance set out at the IPO.
affinity partnerships agreed with Saga and RAC, initially in unsecured finance, but with the intention of broadening out into mortgages, These numbers reflect many aspects of our business but the holiday finance, motor finance and savings.
common theme that underpins our success is our ability to deliver solutions to the financing needs of individuals and businesses that Operational achievements many of the mainstream banks no longer offer.
We achieve this In addition to the considerable progress made in each of the through the combination of data and practical banking experience businesses, we have continued to strengthen our central functions which allow us to interpret the information we have on our and risk platforms.
Each business is now supported by dedicated customers and their markets and thus deliver specialist financing resource in risk, finance, HR and operations which includes IT, solutions based around good sense.
change, collections and recoveries and data management led by a strengthened executive team in each of these disciplines.
Business progress We are well placed to complete our IFRS 9 transition for January Our core focus remains on our lending businesses in Property 2018 and will use the data from this project to consider whether to Finance, Business Finance and Consumer, and we have continued progress with an application for Advanced Internal Risk Based AIRB to develop new products and distribution channels in each of permission for our balance sheet.
Our strengthened Risk Management Framework identified the Within Property Finance, we have built on our core propositions in controls breach in the Business Finance Division and, whilst it buy-to-let, commercial property, residential second charge and is disappointing to have taken a significant provision on the short-term lending by adding development finance, where we are impaired balances, the steps we have taken to strengthen our risk seeking to support small to medium-sized housebuilders, together controls, including the removal of certain delegated authorities with the development of a suite of residential lending solutions and appropriate segregation of origination and operations, should including interest-only extensions into retirement a market that minimise the risk of a further breach.
In addition, we are confident has been neglected for some time.
that we have fully identified the impaired portfolio of 14.7 million.
Our asset finance and working capital solutions invoice finance Maintaining effective governance and controls strengthens our businesses have been integrated and their product suite will be ability to innovate, provide solutions and be entrepreneurial, distributed primarily through a network of Regional Business thus meeting the needs of the growing markets that are open to Centres, which also provide a broader suite of lending solutions to us as the mainstream banks consolidate their core activities and small and medium-sized enterprises.
We will continue to provide risk appetite.
specialist asset finance solutions building on our expertise in the taxi, marine and aviation, professional services and healthcare sectors, Our approach focuses above all on quality and returns, consistent alongside growing our newer specialisms in agriculture, vendor with our risk profile, building our balance sheet with care and finance and technology, and establishing the Shawbrook business consideration for the broader economic environment so that we in Jersey.
can continue to maintain a RoTE within our target range.
We will rein back on markets where risk appetite and pricing levels are not Structured Finance, which includes our block finance proposition, consistent with our long-term return objectives and continue to grew its balance sheet to over 420 million and is now broadening look for adjacent new opportunities.
its offering so that it can support the Regional Business Centres and bring structured finance solutions to small and medium-sized We do however believe that old-fashioned practical banking has enterprises.
Commoditising risk, which arguably is a function of regulation tailored to correct the mistakes of large Whilst retaining its strong position in the home improvement high-street banks, creates marginalisation which in turn can impact market, Consumer lending has continued to diversify its product individual and business ambition.
Our role is to help our customers range allowing us to post year-on-year growth in balances of realise their ambitions in a way that also makes sense for us and 132 million despite a significantly smaller market for solar panels.
is attractive for all our stakeholders.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12 Chief Executive Officers review continued Divisional performance Business Finance Each of our divisions posted year-on-year growth as loans and Within Business Finance, the working capital solutions offering had advances grew to 4.1 billion whilst maintaining our NIM of 5.6% a much improved year growing balances by 38% to 253 million throughout 2016 despite some adverse mix impacts from the on new flows of 124 million and strong retention.
The Structured greater flows in buy-to-let, particularly in Q1 2016, and a slower Finance sub-division grew its customer balances to 425 million and performance in our asset finance business.
continues to produce strong returns through a low cost base and prudent risk management.
Property Finance Property Finance remained our largest division and a real engine of In contrast, the asset finance offering had a more challenging year growth.
Full-year originations totalled 1.0 billion which represented there was a slowdown in flows as businesses deferred investment a 20% increase on the prior year: buy-to-let flows were strong, plans and the impact of the changes we made following the particularly in Q1, whilst residential second charge originations identification of the controls breach in this business see page 49 were broadly flat reflecting the impact on the market of the in the Risk management report for further details.
transition from the Consumer Credit regime to the Mortgage Credit Directive.
Short-term property finance improved, although this can Originations across Business Finance grew despite a 28% reversal be a price-sensitive market and may be constrained by any adverse in asset finance direct and broker : gross asset yield saw a modest economic conditions flowing from the UKs decision to leave the EU.
dilution to 8.6% but with lower funding costs, NIM emerged at 6.6% Our development finance proposition came on line in Q3 and our supporting a 10% increase in divisional contribution excluding the lending into retirement proposition will launch in early 2017, with controls breach to 51.5 million 39.5 million on a statutory basis.
a complex mortgages product set to follow.
This diversification will underpin flows in what we expect to be a softer buy-to-let market Consumer going forward as tax changes and revised underwriting standards Consumer lending had a buoyant year, growing balances to take effect.
However, the need for manual underwriting of larger 0.5 billion despite a softer home improvement market reflecting portfolios will benefit specialist providers like Shawbrook.
changes in the solar market: there was significant growth in the Retail and Personal Loans sub-divisions.
Affinity partnerships were The portfolio acquisition in December 2015 completed in July 2016 agreed with Saga and RAC, which will underpin further growth.
and is now starting to yield direct opportunities.
We have also made significant progress in working with other NIM benefited from lower funding costs and a policy of holding strategic partners, such as ClearScore a customer credit-scoring pricing for much of the year, despite significant pricing pressures, business which helps consumers understand the best possible and with cost of risk of 0.09% the divisional contribution rose by loan for their individual circumstances.
Divisional contribution rose by 24% to 14.6 million, benefitting from revenue growth and a change in mix with NIM improving to 8.2%.
Cost of risk increased to 1.9%, reflecting a higher risk profile in Personal Loans and following some changes to our impairment methodologies to include customer-based probabilities of default.
All of our lending businesses are primarily funded by retail deposits.
In 2016, we developed shorter term products which, taken together with the impact of the interest rate changes in August following the decision to leave the EU, allowed us to reduce funding costs of retail deposits by 0.2% to 2.0%.
Whilst we would anticipate making further use of the Bank of Englands Term Funding Scheme, we will continue to offer relatively attractive rates to savers as we see this source of funding as key to our longer term funding and liquidity profile.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 13 Environment Our discipline on risk, returns, costs and optimal use of liquidity and The year 2016 was one of considerable volatility and uncertainty in capital is clear and reflected in our underlying performance in 2016. the political, economic and market environment and much of that As we move forward into what will be more challenging markets, uncertainty remains as we move into 2017.
Clearly the UKs future our guiding principle will be quality rather than quantity and this, relationship with Europe will continue to dominate economic and combined with practical banking and good sense, will create political sentiment which, in turn, will influence the confidence resilience, durability and sustainability.
and thus investment intentions of many of our customers.
Equally, our customers confidence will be influenced by world events In my first year as CEO, I have very much appreciated the support and how these impact our home markets, by way of either trade and commitment of the team around me in Shawbrook: they share or price inputs.
my view that treating customers well helping them achieve their ambitions but doing so in a way that is good for all stakeholders It is entirely appropriate to be conscious of the impact of these is the foundation upon which great banks are built.
I have equally factors on our future business prospects and the risk profile valued the support and encouragement from my colleagues on of our asset base.
However, with change comes opportunity the Board and, in particular, our Chairman.
and we continue to see the mainstream banks reorganise their business lines to improve their efficiency, which in turn creates Shawbrook enters 2017 with a clear strategy, solid foundations and opportunities for Shawbrook in terms of products and customers.
high levels of staff and customer engagement.
It is thus well placed We thus retain confidence in our longer term ambitions for the to continue its growth trajectory notwithstanding the uncertainties Group whilst being cognisant of the need for prudence in our that inevitably lie ahead.
lending standards, capital base and liquidity profile.
Conclusion and outlook Steve Pateman We laid out our strategy and 2020 vision at our Capital Markets Chief Executive Officer Day in May 2016 and, although there remains macroeconomic and regulatory uncertainty, the momentum we have seen in our results and the pipeline we continue to build for 2017 and beyond as we continue to invest in our platform gives confidence in our ability to continue to deliver strong and stable returns whilst we grow the business at a pace appropriate to market conditions as they unfold.
The rationale for Shawbrook is as clear as it was when the bank was first put together in 2011, and then subsequently listed on the London Stock Exchange in April 2015.
Whilst it is true that the journey since listing has been somewhat more challenging than anticipated, Shawbrook today has sound foundations and is well placed to take advantage of the opportunities that will continue to arise from the structural changes taking place in the UK banking market.
The management team has been strengthened, systems and infrastructure significantly improved new partnerships have been established and we are expanding our product capability in each of our three divisions.
These foundations allow us to execute key regulatory projects such as IFRS 9 and to consider how best to apply capital standards across the business, so that we can effectively manage whatever changes may emerge from the latest Basel consultations.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
