Chief Executive Officers review Sharp focus High impact Weve long believed we have a unique opportunity to champion underserved patient communities byplacing them at the center ofall we do.
2016 was a standout year asShire became the global leader inrare diseases a position we aredetermined to build on as we goforward.
Year in February review Shire partner, Shionogi, submits New Drug Application in Japan forADHD treatment for children 30th Anniversary with innovative global program to benefit children with Rare Diseases January Completion of acquisition ofDyax Shire moves up 10 positions on the Global 100Sustainability Index 6 Shire Annual Report 2016 A game changing year The launch of XIIDRA, the only These new therapies exemplify our 2016 was a transformational year for prescription eye drop approved in the commitment to new-to-class, potentially Shire.
We took a big step forward in U. S. for the treatment of signs and best-in-class, or novel treatments for servingpeople with rare diseases with the symptoms of dry eye disease, was rarediseases.
acquisition of Baxalta, which added three another big success.
We had an All in all, 2016 was a standout year where we new therapeutic areas includingcategory exceptional new drug launch, achieved our goal of becoming the leading leadership in hematology and immunology demonstrating our strength in biotech company focused on rare diseases.
and a growing franchise in oncology.
commercial excellence and capturing Today, 75percent of our pipeline and Asaresult of the acquisition and strong 19percent of market share within four 65percent of oursales are in rare diseases.
performance across our combined months.
This marks an outstanding entry portfolio, we achieved record revenue into ophthalmics and we aim to further A unique need and model of$11.4 billion, almost double 2015s build aleadership position in this forbiotechinnovation $6.4billion.
Rare diseases, most of which are genetic and are present throughout a persons Since successfully navigating and finalizing We launched CUVITRU in the U. S. entire life, pose a significant medical and the Baxalta acquisition, we are ahead of aconvenient at-home, subcutaneous economic burden for patients, communities plan on the massive task of integration and treatment for primary immunodeficiency.
There are more delivering promised synergies.
We are now Convenience is important to our patients than 7,000 known rare diseases impacting approximately 24,000 people strong and and their families because many of our 350 million people worldwide.
Millions more are bringing our products to patients in over medicines are given as infusions or have specialized conditions.
injections, through various devices and figures do not reflect are the untold number delivery methods.
We also completed the $6 billion of mothers, fathers, friends and family who acquisition of Dyax to expand our industryOutside the U. S. we gained EU watch a loved one struggle with health leading portfolio in Hereditary Angioedema Marketing Authorization of ONIVYDE challenges that, in many cases, cannot HAE and we in-licensed from Pfizer a forthe treatment of metastatic beadequately addressed today.
Nearly very promising candidate for Crohns adenocarcinoma of the pancreas in adult 50percent ofthe time these loved ones disease and ulcerative colitis.
ONIVYDE is the first and Our employees did an outstanding job Whats more, delays to diagnosis are only approved treatment option for this staying focused and delivering for patients commonly experienced by patients with patient population.
during a time of significant change.
In 2016, rare diseases, and can lead to serious we also launched truly innovative products consequences for their health, as well to address high unmet medical needs.
May June Positive CHMP opinion in Europe for Top-line results for Phase 2 trial of SHP607 in extremely REVESTIVE Teduglutide for pediatric premature infants patients with Short Bowel Syndrome Positive topline results of SHP465 efficacy and safety study in Campaign to support international adults with ADHD  MPS Shire and Kamada announce FDA approval of expanded label awarenessday for self-infusion of GLASSIA for the treatment of emphysema due to severe AAT deficiency Launch of 2016 excellence in ADHD patient group awards April June Submits NDA to FDA for License SHP647 from Pfizer, adding to established and newformulation of VYVANSE  portfolio lisdexamfetamine dimesylate FDA breakthrough therapy designation for SHP621 and SHP625, CIIas chewable tablets investigational products for rare gastrointestinal conditions Positive results of SHP465 safety Completion of decentralized procedure in Europe for immunoglobulin and efficacy study in children and treatment CUVITRU adolescents withADHD Completion of combination with Baxalta creating the global leader inRare Diseases Shire Annual Report 2016 7 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued These facts are what drive our unique SHP643, recently granted breakthrough With approximately 40 programs in the model for biotech innovation.
It is a mix therapy designation by the U. S. FDA for clinic and about 20 in the later stages of ofinternal knowledge, capabilities and hereditary angioedema HAE.
If we are development, we now have the deepest, research, combined with collaborations able to replicate the clinical data we saw and most innovative, pipeline in our with external partners, and supplemented in earlier trials and if SHP643 is 30-yearhistory.
We approved, we believe this product has A commitment to doing the right thing are very flexible in our approach, combining the potential to be an advancement in Our employees lead the way in ensuring internal and external to create the best theway HAE patients are treated, offer wehave a positive impact on society.
significant benefit to patients, and serve addition to their day-to-day focus on as a key growth driver for Shires patients and a commitment to doing the At the same time, we are extremely focused business.
right thing at work, they are also involved in on growing and leading in our chosen SHP607, our treatment for neonatal our communities.
We see our patient communities as key partners in innovation.
complications, has had positive Phase 2 6,500 employees participated in our Global Close, long-term relationships with patients, results and is now going into Phase 3, Day of Service in 150 locations around the their doctors and caregivers make all the with the potential to significantly impact world.
Together, they donated over 25,000 difference in finding solutions for the the health of premature infants.
challenges of their often-lifetime conditions.
We know our people and teams are We have also significantly expanded our dedicated to helping others throughout the support services in helping patients gain year and also to using our resources in a access to and stay on our medicines.
Infact, the company has We want to be received awards and recognition for our An exciting late-stage clinical portfolio responsibility efforts and I encourage you knownfor our focus Our pipeline has transformed in recent toread on in this report to learn more.
years, and now includes compounds with onunderserved patient potential rare disease indications at all It is an honor to work alongside our stages of development.
Most of the talented and dedicated employees and Im communities and our products are new-to-class, potentially thrilled that Shire is a place where people ability to be a high best-in-class or novel.
We have 17 Phase 3 like to work, where we not only attract the programs and most are expected to best at all levels but also invest in their growth company that launchby the end of 2020, if approved.
These include: Wesaw a surge in job applications in isrun very efficiently, 2016, also mirroring the greater SHP465, the first new treatment in and has a laser recognitionwe have gained in our almost a decade for Attention Deficit industryas a biotech leader.
focuson innovation Building on our leading position SHP621, recently granted breakthrough inaselect area of We have a strong track record of excellent therapy designation by the U. S. FDA for commercial execution and delivering on eosinophilic esophagitis, a serious, rarediseases.
short and medium-term financial promises chronic rare disease.
Gail Fosler, July August appointed as NonSHP626 Volixibat receives FDA Fast First prescription eye drop, XIIDRA launched Executive Track designation for an investigational  solution 5percent is now Director treatment for adultswho have available intheU.
S. in June Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis NASH VONVENDI, the first and only recombinant treatment withliverfibrosis for adults affected by von Willebrand disease, launches ADYNOVATE phase 3 efficacy and safety in the U. S. data in children to be showcased during FDA approval of ADYNOVATE with BAXJECT III International Congress of the World reconstitution system Federation of Hemophilia Albert Stroucken, July September appointed as Non-Executive Director in June Launch of pediatric indication for immunodeficiency treatment Shire closes public offering HYQVIA inEurope of $12.1 billion senior notes FDA approves XIIDRA lifitegrast ophthalmic solution 5percent Theonly treatment indicated for the signs and U. S. FDA approval of symptoms of DryEye Disease CUVITRU [immune globulin subcutaneous Extension of market authorization in Europe for REVESTIVE human, 20percent teduglutide for the treatment of pediatric patients with solution] treatment for ShortBowel Syndrome SBS Primary Immunodeficiency 8 Shire Annual Report 2016 to our shareholders.
We like to set stretch goals and the integration of Baxalta has notdistracted us from this focus.
It has been a banner As we grow, we want to retain the touch and feel of a small biotech so we have the year for us and we benefits both of scale and agility.
Its about were pleased to see very simple, very flat and rapid decisionmaking.
We support this through innovation our performance and operational excellence, through the interplay between our key strategic centers honored by our peers in Zug, Boston and Dublin, and through our when Shire was In-line, Pipeline and Corporate Committees.
Speed matters, especially to the patients namedScrips Pharma who are waiting for treatments, and thats Company of the Year why weve built a fast-paced, entrepreneurial, international culture where we give people in2016.
freedom and opportunity to excel while alsosetting a high bar for being ethical andresponsible.
Our teams will continue to support people large rare disease population in need of with rare diseases through every step of solutions.
Shire is in a leading position to their journey.
This includes targeted provide these solutions on a global scale, diagnostic approaches to help improve the enabling more patients and families around pathway todiagnosis, assistance programs the world to live their lives to the fullest.
for thosewith limited financial resources and personalized life-long programs that Thank you for your continued support.
support on-going treatment and enhance quality of life.
We also remain committed toworking alongside partners, doctors, patient advocacy organizations, governments and payers to deliver value and meaningful outcomes that help ease the long-term economic burden of these diseases for patients, communities and healthcare systems.
While each rare disease community is Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH smallon its own: together they make one Chief Executive Officer October November Granted EU marketing authorization of Shire to establish rare disease innovation hub in ONIVYDE, in combination with Cambridge, Mass.
5-fluorouracil 5-FU and leucovorin CUVITRU launches in the U. S. forPrimary LV, for the treatment of Metastatic Immunodeficiency Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas inadult patients who have progressed 2016 Global day of service following gemcitabine-based therapy Investor day showcases strength of rare disease pipeline and commercial portfolio October December Shire named Pharma Company ofthe Update to VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine Year by Scrip dimesylate U. S. labeling to include new longer-term maintenance of efficacy data in adults with moderate to severe Binge Eating Disorder Patent trial and appeal board upholds the validity of LIALDA patent Shire Annual Report 2016 9 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
