Group Chief Executives statement Jeremy Darroch Group Chief Executive 2016 has been another excellent year for Sky, as we build on our leading position in Europe, working to achieve our ambition of being the best customer-led entertainment and communications company in the world.
Two years on from the creation of the enlarged Sky group Strong performance across the group we have successfully broadened our business and expanded As an enlarged group operating across territories at different into new markets and customer segments.
stages of development and in markets and segments with I am delighted that the benefits of our acquisitions of different structures, we measure our success by how the Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia are not only evident, but group comes together to deliver consistent long-term growth.
We are sharing resources, expertise This year we have achieved another very strong performance and innovation across all our markets, applying our proven across all of our markets, which has enabled us to close strategy right across the group at pace.
And we are the year with group revenues up 7% to 11,965 million and leveraging the opportunities of scale, as we create even a 12% increase in operating profit to 1,558 million.
better programmes and as we build group-wide campaigns We also delivered strong customer growth across the group, two of the many ways in which we are becoming more adding 808,000 customers in the year.
Our customers efficient and more effective.
continue to respond to the service we provide and chose Each of our markets has great potential and we are working to take more entertainment and communication products together to build a bigger and stronger business for the long from our trusted brand.
This year, we added 3.3 million new term.
We are investing in world-class entertainment in every products, taking our total product base to over 57 million.
market, distributed across an unrivalled choice of marketThis years strong performance is a continuation of the leading platforms and supported by brilliant service, because momentum we have built in our business.
In the last five these are the things that really matter to customers.
years we have added 5.4 billion of revenue and attracted Our deep insights into the changing needs of our customers, 11.5 million new customers as we continued to invest along with our investments in technology, our strong in our market-leading propositions.
relationships with our partners and above all our ability to adapt to and embrace change, means that we continue to push ourselves forward.
We have the group structures and talented leadership in place to enable us to make the right decisions and invest for the future, for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Sky plc 6 Strategic report Sustained strong performance in the UK and Ireland The UK and Ireland is our largest and most profitable business, with an established customer-centric strategy for growth and a very strong consumer brand.
Our approach of segmenting the market with a choice of outstanding products and services to suit the different needs of each customer has enabled us to exceed revenue of 8 billion for the first time this year.
We attracted 445,000 new customers, taking our customer base to 12.4 million and sold a further 2.3 million products, passing the major milestone of 40 million products in UK and Irish households.
Significant progress in Germany and Austria We have made excellent progress in Germany and Austria this year, as we apply our successful group approach with focus and pace.
This is significantly improving the Sky proposition for customers, as we move from a business The Last Panthers built on a strong and distinct sports and movie offering, to a much more broad entertainment offer, packaged flexibly for customers.
With the business now in growth, the impact of World-class content this transition is clear.
We closed the year with our highest 2016 has been an outstanding year for our entertainment, ever quarterly profit, having added 346,000 new customers sport and movies.
Weve extended our position as a European and a further 909,000 products.
Our strategy of securing long-term, Momentum in Italy strategic rights deals to complement our growing investment in Sky original programming is paying dividends, ensuring that In Italy, our focus is on increasing quality and choice for we offer exclusive, world-class content in each of our markets.
customers, while extending our reach across multiple platforms.
This is transforming the potential of our business In entertainment, we have enhanced our growing reputation and we are already seeing the positive effect of our approach.
for creating high-quality original programming, led by the very Our customer base returned to growth for the first time in best talent.
Following the success of Fortitude last year, Sky five years and we added 26,000 new products.
This has all Atlantic launched the gripping crime drama, The Last Panthers, been achieved in a competitive environment and against to critical acclaim across all five markets.
The second series of a continued difficult economic backdrop, underlining the our award-winning Italian crime drama, Gomorrah, also aired resilience of our customer-centric approach.
There will be much more to come as more Sky original dramas enter development or production across the group than ever before.
Sky Atlantic continues to build its position as the destination for the worlds best storytelling, with HBOs phenomenally successful Game of Thrones generating record audiences across the group once again.
This year we welcomed Showtime to the channel one of the worlds most acclaimed networks in a long-term deal across the group.
This has secured more award-winning shows for customers such as Billions, The Affair and the return of Twin Peaks.
Weve taken huge strides in the service we offer to families, with the expansion of our kids service.
This year we launched a brand new Sky Kids app, offering a fun and safe way for children to enjoy the widest range of popular shows as well as exclusive programmes.
Launching first in the UK and Ireland, the app is launching in Germany this summer, followed by Italy later in the year.
In June, we announced the rebranding of our movies service in the UK to Sky Cinema, as we significantly improve the proposition for customers and align the brand across the group.
During the year, we also secured our first pan-European deal for movies with Sony Pictures.
Thierry Henry, Sky Academy Ambassador Annual Report 2016 7 Group Chief Executives statement continued 25 years of Sky Sports In sport, we celebrated the tremendous milestone of the 25th It was also a big year for our streaming service, NOW TV, anniversary of Sky Sports in the UK and Ireland and delivered with the launch of the unique NOW TV Combo, the UKs first record viewing right across the group.
We also secured a no-contract triple play offering, giving customers complete plethora of brilliant rights: from becoming the exclusive home flexibility over their TV, broadband and calls.
This was of Formula 1 in the UK and Ireland from 2019, to securing all accompanied by the launch of a brand new NOW TV Smart four golf majors, as well as the Ryder Cup for the first time.
Box, giving seamless access to over 60 free-to-air channels In Germany, we were confirmed as the undisputed home alongside the best of pay TV.
We also launched NOW TV of football with rights to 93% of all Bundesliga matches in Italy, giving customers contract-free and flexible access to 2021, while in Italy, we acquired exclusive rights to the to our great content.
English Premier League for the next three seasons.
Our connected home strategy is aligned with our customer Our ambition for Sky News is to create the best mobile and needs.
We now have 11 million customers who have chosen to TV service in the UK.
Our coverage of major news events during connect their boxes to the internet, up 2 million year on year.
the year was widely acclaimed, including the Queens 90th This has led to almost 3.6 billion views across our connected birthday and the EU Referendum campaign at home.
Sky News services in the past year, up over 40% year on year, as received five Royal Television Society Awards including News customers continue to value the greater choice and flexibility Channel of the Year for a record tenth time.
More than five this offers.
In both Germany and Italy, we launched our full million people a week watched Sky News across the year On Demand service, including Sky Box Sets, to a fantastic with a similar number using our website and mobile apps.
Innovation Best in class customer service 2016 has been a very strong year for our product innovation, With the customer at the heart of everything we do, Im proud with the introduction of industry-leading technology right that the Sky brand continues to be trusted by customers.
We continue to transform the viewing The way in which many customers want to interact with us experience for all our customers, making it even easier for is changing and we have responded by making sure we are them to access our great content, wherever and whenever available both at the right time and via the right channels, they like.
to offer the best possible service.
In February, we had our most successful TV product launch More than one-third of our customer service interactions in ever as we introduced Sky Q in its first markets, the UK the UK are now made on our digital channels, reflecting the and Ireland.
The groundbreaking, next generation home changing preferences of our customers.
This has reduced calls entertainment system is changing the way customers watch per customer by 10% year on year the equivalent of 2.4 million TV.
In July, we announced our comprehensive Ultra HD service, fewer calls per year and over 50% of our UK sales are now giving Sky Q customers an even richer viewing experience.
This increased digital interaction is leading to improved customer satisfaction, with net promoters scores at an all-time high.
And I am extremely pleased that in the UK we achieved the highest customer satisfaction levels in the industry, as ranked in Ofcoms customer service report.
Sky plc 8 Strategic report We continue to improve our performance as we share best Sky Central practice across the group.
In Italy, our commitment to a one call solution and the optimisation of our digital channels has contributed to a 6.3% year-on-year reduction in calls.
In November, we launched our innovative Extra loyalty scheme based on the tenure of our customers.
Over one million customers have signed up to the initiative, driving a 9% improvement in customer satisfaction scores year on year to record levels.
How we do business At Sky, we understand that our success is based not just on what we do, but how we go about it.
Our responsible business strategy is deeply embedded across the group, focused on the areas that we know matter to our customers: providing safe and sustainable products that are accessible for everyone: The opening of a new technology centre of excellence at Leeds managing our environmental impacts across our business: Dock in the UK has created 400 new jobs in the north of strengthening our work with suppliers and keeping our England and marks another milestone in our plans to further customers data safe.
Were also working hard to champion expand our capabilities and welcome a new talent pool into diversity on screen and throughout our business.
As Europes leading entertainment and communications With the opening of the new Sky Central building in the Sky company, we also have the opportunity to reach beyond campus, our group headquarters in Osterley, well develop our business to make a positive impact on society.
We use new and better ways of working that will transform the Sky our strengths and passion for TV, creativity and sport to experience for our employees.
This modern campus will help help young people unlock their potential.
us continue to cultivate our forward-thinking mindset, to create an even more appealing place to work and better Through Sky Academy in the UK and Ireland more than 140,000 enable us to recruit and retain the very best talent.
additional young people have had the opportunity to develop their skills and confidence through our programmes this year.
Outlook We are applying this successful approach in Germany and Italy, building on the programmes in place through Sky TG24 and Im extremely proud of the business we have built today.
the Sky Foundation, both of which focus on supporting young But more than that I am excited about the future, as we people in our communities.
continue to create and grasp opportunities to better serve our customers and grow our business.
This year, we also focused on playing a meaningful role in improving diversity in important areas like technology.
We launched a bespoke Get into Tech training programme to provide free specialist training for women seeking careers in technology at Sky or anywhere else.
And in the UK we launched a Women in Leadership initiative which is focused Jeremy Darroch on achieving an equal gender balance in our top 400 senior management.
We believe this will positively impact our whole organisation in many ways.
Our people Our culture and our people are fundamental to Skys sustained success.
Our people want to do their best and be their best, Sky Kids app and we want to support them in doing so, creating an inclusive and creative workplace that facilitates the flow of brilliant ideas and creativity.
We have invested in training, capability development and our own facilities to support this ambition.
