SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 CEO REVIEW OF STRATEGY DEAR SHAREHOLDER, In 2016 I was pleased with our performance in areas such as Sports Medicine and Knee Innovative products and Implants, where we maintained strong momentum.
However, whilst we delivered growth in 2016, it was not at the level we had deep customer relationships wanted.
Market conditions in China and the Gulf States together shaved more than a percentage point of growth off the Group in the year.
As we enter 2017, I am confident we now have We now have the right the right structure and capability in place and are focused on improving execution across the structure and capability Group, with a clear set of actions underway.
As a result, I expect us to deliver a stronger performance in 2017.
LQSODFHDQG DUH IRFXVHG COMMERCIAL PROGRESS In our Established Markets, 2016 highlights RQLPSURYLQJ H[HFXWLRQ included the performance across Sports Medicine, where we continue to reap the benefits of the acquisition of ArthroCare.
PICO, DFURVVWKH URXS our novel single-use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT system, is transforming the use of this therapy option.
Our world class Knee Implant portfolio was further strengthened by the acquisition of NAVIO, an exciting robotics-assisted surgery platform, from which ZH GHOLYHUHG PRUH WKDQ UHYHQXH JURZWK in 2016.
We have spent the last five years UHVKDSLQJ 6PLWK 1HSKHZ WR PDNH the Company more agile, stronger, PRUH HIILFLHQW DQGVLPSOHU :H DUH proud of what we have done.
Directors Biographies start on page 48 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 CEO REVIEW OF STRATEGY Most of our Emerging Markets businesses FOCUSED ON EXECUTION generated double-digit growth as we benefited Over the last few years we have undertaken We are well set to deliver from our investments in recent years.
In China, a fundamental restructuring of Smith & a stronger performance, the slow-down in end-markets seen since Nephew to improve both our ability to serve generating higher revenue mid-2015 was compounded by destocking in the our customers in market, and our efficiency.
growth and a better trading distributor channel.
By the end of the year most This has included changing the management profit margin in the future.
franchises had returned to positive growth as structure and teams in every market to bring the level of stock in the channel was adjusted.
them under a single country managing director, In the oil-dependent Gulf States we also saw a process we completed in 2016.
This has not difficult trading conditions.
As a matter of course been without disruption, partly caused by some we expect to see some volatility in the Emerging THANK YOU office re-locations, but now the new teams Markets, but we continue to see significant are bedding into their new roles.
We now have As you know I undertook medical treatment long-term growth potential and are very well the appropriate structure to succeed and are during 2016 and I want to thank shareholders positioned in our chosen markets.
focused on serving our customers without any and employees who sent me their best wishes distractions in 2017. during this time.
Moreover, I want to thank all of DELIVERING INNOVATION our employees who continue to strive to deliver We are also developing the tools to support We continue to innovate for value with new on our commitments, embodying a Smith & better execution.
In 2016 we strengthened product launches and disruptive business Nephew culture immersed in our values of our commercial platform by creating a global models.
A number of important new platforms innovation, trust and performance.
It is good commercial organisation under a newly created were introduced in 2016.
In Sports Medicine to be back at work full-time amongst such role of Chief Commercial Officer.
Tasked with we successfully launched our new LENS inspiring people.
driving commercial performance across Surgical Imaging System and the WEREWOLF the Group, this organisation includes our We have spent the last five years reshaping COBLATION System for resecting soft tissue.
commercial regions and the global marketing Smith & Nephew to make the Company We also introduced the ULTRABUTTON teams for our product franchises.
It also includes more agile, stronger, more efficient and Adjustable Fixation Device which provides a Commercial Excellence team which is focused simpler.
We are proud of what we have done.
advanced fixation strength for soft tissue to bone on bringing material improvements in areas such 2017 will see a strong emphasis on execution.
fixation in ACL PCL repair and reconstruction.
as pricing strategy and sales force excellence Beyond this, with our innovative products and In Knee Implants we began limited market across the Group, starting in 2017. deep customer relationships, we are well set release of our JOURNEY II XR, an innovative to deliver a stronger performance, generating We are targeting an increase in disruptive bi-cruciate retaining knee and the newest higher revenue growth and a better trading profit innovation.
In 2016 I appointed a President of addition to the JOURNEY II Active Knee margin in the future.
Research and Development, reporting directly family.
We also conducted the first total knee to me, to lead a newly formed single global I am energised by our prospects and I look procedures on the NAVIO platform in 2016.
In addition to executing forward to updating you on our progress during In Hip Implants we added to the REDAPT our technology pipeline, this leader will be the year.
Revision System with a new Acetabular responsible for driving breakthrough innovation Fully Porous Cup designed for cases where Yours sincerely, and defining a clear path from concept compromised bone makes implant fixation and to market.
In 2017 the team is focused on stability more difficult.
increasing productivity, improving processes and In 2016 we also delivered significant efficiencies.
better leveraging our resources and expertise.
Our Group Optimisation programme realised the A more aligned organisation has also allowed expected $120 million of savings one year ahead us to centralise our approach to developing of schedule.
evidence that demonstrates the clinical and Olivier Bohuon And we created compelling value when economic benefits of our products, supporting &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHU we divested our Gynaecology business for our commercial teams in positioning our $350 million.
We returned the proceeds to products more effectively.
shareholders through a $300 million share Finally, we will continue to drive efficiency, with buy-back.
programmes underway to optimise global manufacturing, strengthen our supply chain, upgrade our IT infrastructure and deliver shared business services across the Group.
See our strategic update on the following pages
