Chief Executives review In my first year as CEO, my aim has been to lay the foundations for future value creation through stronger growth, improved competitiveness, more robust and consistent execution and a better focused portfolio.
Group results overview The Group delivered an improvement in cash Outlook 1 Group revenue fell 2% on an underlying generation with a cash conversion rate of We anticipate a broad continuation of the basis, a robust performance highlighting 102%.
We have made progress in improving trends experienced in 2016, with ongoing thebenefits of our broad range of end stock turns this year, with 30m cash inflow challenges in John Cranes end markets market exposures.
Good growth was from inventory reductions.
Headline free being more than offset by moderate 1 reported in Smiths Medical and Smiths cash-flow of 400m increased 18%.
Net debt underlying revenue growth in our other Detection.
John Crane experienced tough of 978m reduced by 23m on an underlying divisions.
As is typically the case, Group trading conditions as volatility in the global basis, despite a significantly higher pension performance in 2017 is expected to be energy markets continued to reduce contribution in the year.
weighted towards the second half.
Revenue in Smiths Interconnect cash conversion to continue to be strong in Dividend and Flex-Tek was slightly down on the prior the coming year and the recent depreciation The Board has a progressive dividend policy 1 year on an underlying basis.
On a reported of sterling is expected to provide a tailwind for future payouts, with the aim of increasing basis, Group revenue grew 2%, benefitting to reported revenue and operating profit, dividends in line with the long-term from foreign exchange, and in particular should current rates prevail.
This policy thestrength of the US dollar.
will enable us to retain sufficient cash-flow Reported Group headline operating profit to finance our investment in the drivers of of 510m was in line with the prior year, growth and to meet our financial obligations.
although on an underlying basis this fell In setting the level of dividend payments, 4%.
The Groups operating profit margin the Board will take into account prevailing fell 40 basis points on an underlying basis.
economic conditions and future investment Margin expansion in Smiths Medical, Smiths plans, along with the objective to maintain Detection and Smiths Interconnect reflected minimum dividend cover of around 2.0. strong trading performance in addition to The Board is recommending a final cost control and restructuring activities, dividend per share of 28.75 pence, giving butwas offset by weakness in John Cranes a total dividend for the year of 42 pence, endmarkets.
The final dividend will be paid on 18 November to 1 Underlying excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestments, and the effects of foreign shareholders registered at close of business exchangetranslation on 21October.
I am confident that, over the long-term, our strategy will drive Smiths to become one of the worlds leading technologycompanies.
Andy Reynolds Smith Chief Executive 10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strategy update Outperforming our chosen markets Headline earnings per share Introduction the Growth Framework Everything I felt about Smiths Group on In order to achieve sustainable growth, myfirst day as Chief Executive strength in itis important to target the right segments 85.2p depth but great opportunity for improvement within markets, the right geographies I now believe even more passionately.
The and the right customers, and to increase Group has a number of businesses, grouped the value of the content we have with into five high-quality divisions.
Many of the our customers.
All of these, of course, businesses occupy leading positions in should be underpinned by world-class the markets they serve.
We call this our Growth platform, and provides a clear opportunity Framework.
As a result of our strategic to build on the Groups innate DNA to take reviews detailed assessment of our divisions Read more on pages 25-31 us to the next level of growth, innovation by market sub-segment, we now have a and in note 5 on page 151 andcompetitive differentiation.
much more granular understanding of the growth characteristics of the markets that In my first few months, I set up a strategic each of our divisions serves.
For example: Cash conversion review of our businesses to identify the drivers for future growth and value John Crane creation, with a particular focus on market John Cranes performance this year 102% attractiveness and our competitiveness has demonstrated the importance of essentially asking the question How maintaining exposure to a broad range good can it be?
The review has provided of end markets.
While oil and gas capital clarity on the doability the risks, costs expenditure has been a catalyst for growth and time required and we have aligned and margin expansion over the past decade, its findings with a more robust capital and this segment accounted for 57% of allocation process.
As a result of our detailed John Cranes revenues in 2016, we will knowledge of our businesses and the do more to expand into non-oil and gas actions we have taken to date, our ambitions verticals which make up the remaining Read more in note 26 for Smiths Group are well-founded.
43%, such as the chemical, pharmaceutical, on page 182 and pulp and paper industries.
We will also Vision consider organic and inorganic means My vision is to establish Smiths as one of the Headline free cash-flow to expand into adjacent mission-critical worlds leading technology companies, with products and components with similar sustainable outperformance in our chosen business characteristics to our current markets.
We will achieve this by focusing 400m offering, as well as investing in digital onour two strategic priorities: solutions such as predictive diagnostics and Outperforming our chosen markets reviewing potential breakthrough disruptive the Growth Framework technologies, particularly in the field of advanced materials and 3D printing.
We will Achieving world-class competitiveness do more to improve our market positioning the Smiths Excellence system in key geographies, such as China, and John As we target leadership positions in our Crane must also position itself better to take chosen markets, everything we do in pursuit advantage of the long-term implications Read more on pages 26-31 and in note 26 on page 182 of these priorities will be based on the of increasing environmental regulations quality of our people, doing the right thing and the drive towards lower emissions and the rigour of our financial discipline.
Many of our products, including dry gas seals, have demonstrable benefits in this regard.
With 59% of revenue derived from aftermarket products and services, we view John Crane as a 20% marginbusiness.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 11 Chief Executives review Continued Smiths Medical Smiths Detection Smiths Interconnect Smiths Medicals portfolio incorporates Smiths Interconnect provides high reliability Smiths Detections strong revenue growth several strong brands and market and margin expansion this year comes from electronic components to multiple leadership positions, particularly within industries, including the defence, telecoms, high new business wins, increasing initiatives Infusion Systems, Vascular Access and Vital to capture aftermarket service revenues, aerospace and medical end verticals.
Our market sub-segmentation review Ourreview has given us clarity on the and sustained management action to has led us to identify with more precision the improve productivity and operations.
With a most attractive customer segments within areas that are growing and those that are these verticals, and led us to conclude that broad portfolio in a global homeland security not, so that we can focus our significantly market which we estimate will grow at a Smiths Interconnect is better positioned increased investment in higher-growth to serve those customers who seek more mid-single digits CAGR to 2021, the business categories.
We will position ourselves benefits from a global reach and strong sophisticated and differentiated technology solutions.
We will therefore focus better to address key global trends, such existing relationships with some customers.
asincreasing digitalisation and the growth We view Smiths Detection as a mid-teens increasingly on select customer types in the most attractive verticals, and align our of alternate sites of care, which we expect to margin business.
In April, I announced do by strengthening our category leadership that we had agreed to purchase Morpho investment in new product development accordingly to meet electronics industry positions through greater innovation and Detection from Safran S. A. for an enterprise competitive differentiation and by building value of $710m.
Morpho Detection is a high trends such as miniaturisation, power efficiency and processing speed.
Weview our pump to patient strategy and quality business, with a strong management beyond.
We view Smiths Medical as a 20% team, and this combination provides a Smiths Interconnect as a mid-teens marginbusiness.
compelling competitive platform for product, service and technology leadership.
The Flex-Tek acquisition will better position us to meet Flex-Tek provides a range of engineered customer requirements for high-technology, components for the aerospace, medical, cost-efficient solutions and services, industrial, construction and domestic including software.
We continue to anticipate appliance end markets.
With a more completion of the acquisition to take place in in-depth understanding of the relative early 2017, subject to regulatory clearances.
attractiveness of these end markets, we will prioritise areas of faster growth and where Flex-Tek can deliver competitive differentiation, including in technology expertise and customer service.
We view Flex-Tek as a mid-teens margin business.
We have undertaken a strategic review across the Group to examine in detail the growth characteristics of the markets we serve and our competitive positioning within those markets.
We start from a solid base with a Group of well-run and well-positioned businesses.
12 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Achieving world-class competitiveness Technology Excellence Conclusion the Smiths Excellence system To build a culture of innovation, we are As we take action to develop market A key conclusion of our strategic review is investing in a Group-wide New Product leadership positions and to improve our that there is material opportunity to improve Innovation process that will ensure our own competitiveness, we will continue competitiveness by ensuring robust and product and service vitality is strong and to take a disciplined approach to balance consistent execution across Smiths Group willsharpen our focus on commercialisation.
We have increased achieving excellence.
We have defined We are reviewing the efficiency and quantum the focus on cash generation as a primary six core pillars of Excellence at Smiths, of total R&D spend and I am also leading measure of performance, and have taken which will be leveraged across the Group: the implementation of the Group-wide steps to improve inventory management 3 Customer, People, Technology, Production, i innovation forum.
We plan to invest in across our businesses which will ultimately Programme and Supply Chain.
Each pillar building digital capabilities in the coming improve working capital.
By adopting a has an Executive Committee sponsor.
year through a central Innovation Fund Group-wide approach to capital allocation Employees throughout the organisation and expect to invest increasingly in this in order to maximise risk-adjusted returns, have been engaged in how they can play areaovertime.
we will apply strong financial discipline to their role in this agenda, and in April we acquisition and disposal activities where Production Excellence held the inaugural Smiths Excellence opportunities present a compelling strategic Developing a culture of Continuous Awards to recognise outstanding examples rationale, aligned with our focus on investing Improvement and lean enterprise, supported of initiatives and behaviours in each of the in attractive technology-led areas.
by the correct structures, processes, Excellencecategories.
enablers, measures, and people capabilities As we position Smiths Group for long-term The Smiths Excellence System will drive and skills.
growth, we will target organic and inorganic continuous improvement and consistent opportunities that offer the best levels of Programme Excellence execution across our businesses, focused sustainable growth and value creation.
Executing complex programmes is critical on speed and efficiency.
Key priorities over We will build market-leading positions in to our customer relationships, andweare thenext year include: our chosen markets with a more focused developing a gated programme management portfolio of businesses that embody the Customer Excellence process and an ever-increasing focus on essential characteristics of where Smiths Increasing our service offering through rigorous contract management.
initiatives on pricing and channel Supply Chain Excellence management.
These characteristics include having: Improving the speed of flow through the People Excellence business from the supplier through to our good competitive positioning in attractive Recognising that people are our one true plants and the customer will reduce lead growth markets: source of sustainable competitive advantage, times, reduce working capital and ensure strength in technology differentiation, we are implementing a People Plan along customers get what they want when they including digital capabilities: with culture change initiatives to build a want it.
learning organisation that attracts, retains, asset-light operations: and develops, engages and inspires the very a high proportion of aftermarket bestpeople.
By pursuing this strategy, I am confident that over the long-term Smiths can outperform our chosen markets and achieve world-class competitiveness as we realise our vision of becoming one of the worlds We will increase expenditure leading technologycompanies.
Andy Reynolds Smith on research and development Chief Executive by around 20m in the coming year to invest in future growth opportunities.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 13
