16 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT We are pleased with our strong performance during our first year as a public company.
The year has been marked by sustained strength across all major regions and product categories, with our financial and operational performance exceeding the Boards expectations set at the start of the year and at the upper-end of our revised outlook.
Our leading product portfolio, innovation to drive our strategy of synchronized security, commitment to security made simple and channel first sales strategy enabled us to grow our billings and revenue across both new and existing customers.
Sophos had a successful inaugural year as a We continue to make steady, consistent the new XG Firewall, our future public company, as we continued to benefit progress in fulfilling our mission to be the direction in UTM and next-generation from strong underlying fundamentals in best in the world at delivering complete firewalls, featuring synchronized the cybersecurity market, a unique and IT security to mid-market enterprises and security through the Sophos Security TM compelling strategy and consistent, solid the channel that serves them.
IT security Heartbeat technology: operational execution.
continues to be the top priority for IT next-generation endpoint capabilities administrators at organisations of every size, such as malicious traffic detection and In FY16 we outperformed the Boards as threats continue to grow in both volume download reputation: expectations for both top-line billings and and sophistication, driving a $38 billion profitability, and produced a result at the one-click server lockdown, providing market growing at 7 percent.
Meanwhile, the upper end of our revised expectations, which advanced and integrated application vendor community continues to be complex we increased at the time of our interim whitelisting and anti-malware, with and fragmented, with numerous overlapping results in November 2015.
We grew billings unprecedented ease of deployment: products, mostly designed for large 19.7 percent year-over-year YOY on a enterprises, and conflicting claims about the launch of a new cloud-based email like-for-like basis and we grew cash EBITDA by which proven and new techniques are security offering, through the acquisition 31.6 percent at constant currency, resulting most effective: it is against this backdrop that of Reflexion Networks: and in a cash EBITDA margin of 22.6 percent.
We Sophos vision of complete security made the introduction of a new cloud-based remain confident that we will continue to simple is proving both differentiated and web security offering, integrated deliver strong FY17 growth in billings, strong highly effective.
into Sophos Central, our cloud-based profitability with a modest cash EBITDA management console.
margin expansion and an approximate At the heart of any technology companys doubling in unlevered free cash flow.
success is product delivery and in FY16 In addition to organic development, Sophos Sophos delivered a robust set of new continues to take advantage of focused, and enhanced offerings.
We also made disciplined M&A activity to enhance and substantial progress in our strategy to deepen our existing offerings, or to enter new deliver synchronized security and establish a markets that we feel fit well with our mission, cloud-enabled platform through which all our our strategy, and our product portfolio.
products can be managed in a single pane of glass, and through which all our products Sophos is the only IT security vendor in the can actively communicate with each other world that is a proven, balanced leader in and share and act on security intelligence.
both the enduser and network security markets.
We are also driving a new wave of Highlights in product delivery included: security innovation through our strategy of a new version of our SG UTM featuring synchronized security.
Sophos Sandstorm, a cloud-based sandboxing service: OUR DIFFERENTIATED MISSION AND STRATEGY CONTINUE TO RESONATE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS AND ARE AT THE CORE OF OUR GROWING MOMENTUM.
WE CONTINUE TO GAIN SHARE, AS WE OUTPERFORM MARKET GROWTH RATES IN BOTH OF OUR CORE SEGMENTS, NETWORK SECURITY AND ENDUSER SECURITY.
WE BELIEVE WE ALSO HAVE PLENTY OF ADDITIONAL RUNNING ROOM, AS WE ONLY HAVE ABOUT 5% SHARE IN EACH OF THESEMARKETS.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 We began by linking our Endpoint and nextWe are driving greater brand awareness in generation firewall products.
But our vision our key markets and will remain focused Billings $M extends far beyond that as, over time, we on this effort during FY17 with creative 16 534.9 look to integrate our entire product portfolio and innovative marketing such as IT-centric into a single platform, all managed in a single social media campaigns, an expansion of 15 476.0 console, available either in the cloud or our free tools and a continued focus on 14 388.1 on-premise.
providing clear and practical IT security advice for businesses.
One notable 13 371.6 We believe this approach has numerous advance in our free tools during the year benefits to our customers, to our partners was the introduction of Sophos Home, a and to our business model, including: cloud-managed, easy-to-use anti-malware and web filtering solution for PCs and differentiation versus other Macs in the home.
Although there are security vendors: many free antivirus tools for home users 12.9% enhanced and more proactive security, available on the market, ours is designed CAGR by generating actionable, detailed for the modern household, supports both intelligence and addressing the vulnerable the Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac white spaces that exist between isolated operating environments, is completely products from multiple vendors that do cloud-enabled and is differentiated Security remains a top priority for not communicate with each other: in its simplicity, ease of use and unorganisations of all sizes and continues to annoying user design.
Sophos Home is easier deployment, management, be a truly mission critical investment area.
now generating thousands of new users and use: I continue to hear from our customers that every day for Sophos, providing a positive they struggle to find the personnel and enhanced ability for partners to introduction to Sophos and enhancing our budget resources to effectively protect cross-sell and up-sell, to grow their brand visibility and awareness, which in their organisations.
They are looking for top-line billings: and turn makes it easier for our sales teams and vendors who can help them stay secure, channel partners to sell our products to improvement in partner profitability cost effectively, and also who can help enterprises of all sizes.
as they can manage across multiple them simplify their infrastructure, rather customers, remotely, providing more than make it more complex and more During FY16 Sophos continued to receive effective utilisation of their valuable difficult to manage.
positive recognition and endorsement technical staff.
from industry analysts, such as Gartner and We believe we are uniquely positioned in the Our differentiated mission and strategy Forrester for key products in our network and industry to meet this demand and I remain continue to resonate with our customers and enduser portfolio.
Sophos has also continued extremely confident in our future prospects.
partners and are at the core of our growing to be recognised during the financial year as momentum.
We continue to gain share, as a leader by industry publications such as SC I would like to add my personal thanks we outperform market growth rates in both Magazine and Channel Reseller News CRN.
to every Sophos employee, partner and of our core segments, network security and supporter whose hard work and commitment enduser security.
We believe we also have We are particularly pleased that Sophos are so pivotal to our success, and whose plenty of additional running room, as we continued to gain recognition in the actions help protect hundreds of thousands only have about 5 percent share in each of industry as a great place to work, which of organisations all over the world, every day.
supports our ability to attract and retain world-class talent.
Sophos was rated as one We posted significant growth in both of the Top 30 medium sized businesses existing customer billings and new customer to work for undergraduates in the UK by billings in each of our major regions.
com and in the Top 100 Kris Hagerman retention rate for our existing customers Places to Work for Graduates in the UK by Chief Executive Officer also improved, as they responded positively The Job Crowd.
Sophos was also named as to the enhancements we made across our 25 May 2016 a Dream Company to Work For by World product portfolio.
We added over 5,000 HRD Congress in India.
Our people drive new partners and our total is now in excess our success and as we continue to grow our of 20,000.
Within our partner base we have business we constantly look for new ways grown our strongest and most active Blue to enhance our work environment, so our Chip partners, those who conduct more team members can do the very best work than five transactions in the prior six-month of their careers here at Sophos and feel period, by 38 percent to approximately 4,700. excited and fulfilled about doing so.
The number of our Blue Chip partners that sell both Enduser and Network products increased by 37 percent YOY.
We will continue to develop our partner base to deliver sustainable billings and growth at an efficient sales expense.
