Chief Ex Chief Executive ecutive s statement s statement WE ARE A RESELLER AND PROUD OF THAT Its been an excellent year.
Business performance has been strong.
Martin Hellawell, Chief Executive Officer 6 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report View our KPIs on page 21 & Q A with Martin Hellawell In summary, how has employees for the fantastic accolade we received this the year been for you?
year, being named as the No.
1 Best Workplace in the UK 1 2,200 by the Great Place to Work Institute.
Its been an excellent year.
Business performance CUSTOMERS hasbeen strong and the Company has continued We believe that the result of recruiting the right people toshowgood growth and has executed well on our and striving to be the best place to work we possibly strategic objectives.
canbe results in a highly talented, engaged andfocused team who relish in providing outstanding service and will The Company went public in November happily go the extra mile for our customers.
In a fiercely 2015 tell us about that experience 9.9k competitive market, we believe that consistent quality While there was a lot of work involved in taking the ofservice is absolutely paramount toour success and is GP PER CUSTOMER Company public, it was actually a very straightforward the key reason behind our growthand financial results.
We were fortunate with the timing: the market Again, we are not perfect and strive to continually was very much open for IPOs when we launched.
improve all aspects of our customer service.
In our Wewere pleased with the reception we received from annual customer satisfaction survey, which was carried investors and the resulting supportive shareholder out in June 2016, 99.1% of customers reported an overall basewe now have in Softcat.
level of satisfaction of good or very good 2015: 99.1%.
We tried very hard not to let the process distract employees Id like to take this opportunity to thank both our new or affect the way we run the business and I think we and long-standing customers for their business and succeeded in achieving those objectives.
How well have you executed against Are you pleased with this years your business model this year?
Most things about Softcat are simple and that includes Im sure Graham will go through these in more detail the business model.
We continue to grow the business inthe Financial Review, so Ill be brief.
Overall, yes, and to do that we need more people.
We have now delivered 44 consecutive to succeed we need very special people: people who quarters of revenue, gross profit and adjusted operating have a strong work ethic and are passionate, resilient profit growth.
This includes both the third and fourth quarters and real team players.
They are very difficult people to of our financial year when demand from our customers find and we spend an inordinate amount oftime scouring remained solid despite the distraction of the referendum the market for great talent to join our organisation.
A lot and subsequent political developments.
In fact, the Company of new team members join us straight from university or grew at an even faster rate during the second half.
On all at an early stage of their career: that model has served three measures, we delivered gooddouble-digit growth us well.
for the full year with revenue growth of 13%, gross profit growth of 17% and adjusted operating profit growth of 15%.
To satisfy the future growth ambitions of the Company we have pushed the recruitment accelerator this year The shape of the results was slightly different this year.
and increased headcount from 794 to 927.
Over the previous three to four years particularly with our very strong growth in public sector, we have seen The second strand of our business model is to strive to revenue growing faster than gross profit and operating be a great place to work for Softcat people.
This year we saw the opposite.
This was partly employees to be fully engaged with our Company and due to a combination of one-off benefits and a change motivated to give their all and we want their contribution inthe mix ofour business.
to be recognised and rewarded.
Softcat is well known for its vibrant culture and Im sure this has always been In line with the rest of the market, we saw less demand absolutely key to our success.
We are far from perfect for the more commodity, high revenue, lower margin end and ensuring we are constantly evolving with an ever of our business particularly due to a slower PC market larger and geographically more disparate workforce and stronger demand for higher margin solutions, notably isahuge challenge, but one that is very much at the in networking and security, datacentre infrastructure and forefront of our minds.
We believe the Company excels in these added-value areas so the shifts in customer requirements The leadership of the organisation has a pivotal role to play largely played to our strengths and our gross profit and in this, but I think this works because all our employees operating profit benefited accordingly.
accept and share the responsibility of making Softcat thebest possible place to work.
I therefore thank all our Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Chief Executives statement continued Are you pleased with this years financial results?
continued 17% Its been an excellent I think its important to note that our public sector GROSS PROFIT GROWTH business recorded another very strong year of growth year.
Business and once again exceeded our expectations.
This was performance has been achieved despite us deciding not to compete at negative margins to win some very large revenue flagship strong and the Company software deals in the sector.
has executed well on 15% We were very pleased that these results were achieved our strategic objectives.
while investing significantly in both capability and sales ADJUSTED OPERATING power, which we will benefit from in future years.
PROFIT GROWTH what benefits it brings, how it might fit into their existing The Company maintained focus on disciplined infrastructure, what the technical challenges are and management of working capital and delivered another how best to procure it.
Once they have purchased year of strong cash conversion.
ittheyneed ongoing support and customer care, leadingat some point to a technology refresh or renewal.
How well are you delivering Softcat has established an enviable position in the market on your strategic objectives?
with one of, if not the, largest account management In simple terms, our strategic objective is to sell more team addressing a very large customer base, and often toexisting customers and to win new customers.
with aposition of trusted adviser status with them, which Grossprofit per customer increased 9% and we saw we have earned through many years of working with them.
anincrease in the rate of new customer acquisitions.
The relevance and need for the roleSoftcat plays is as Webelieve we have performed well ahead of the strong today as ever, perhaps even more so as vendors marketand taken market share, further consolidating increasingly look to the channel to serve Softcats core our position as one of the leading value-added resellers mid-market customer base.
Customers are faced with VARs in the UK.
increasingly complex technology choices and need a trusted adviser that iseasy to do business with to help How is the market developing and how them navigate theirchallenges.
are you adapting to those changes?
The IT market is a fast moving market.
It always has Customer requirements are constantly evolving.
been and it always will be.
I think its fair to say that Increasingly, organisations want the IT function to thepace of change only accelerates.
Its very important focusless on running operations and more on providing that we stay close to our customers and ensure we incremental added value driven by technology.
Thats continually evolve our offering to meet customers easier said than done and isnot done overnight, but theres changing requirements.
I think thats one of our strengths.
a definite trend in that direction.
Cloud computing can help organisations with this ambition and we are enjoying a We are extremely well placed.
No matter what the continued rise in business from cloud-related technologies.
technology is or how it is provided, customers need to be informed about that technology.
They need to know 8 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 7.5% increase in customer numbers As always, the devil is in thedetail.
Established Any other highlights of the year?
With the development of our apprentice scheme organisations are finding that moving certain critical we also expect to see increased penetration of the We were pleased to fill up a few more shelves with legacy applications tothe public cloud is not feasible.
The Best Workplace ones are the That results inorganisations moving to a hybrid ones that matter most to us but it was very pleasing Our growth to date has been purely organic and cloud environment, which in many ways further to be awarded Partner of the Year by two of our this will continue to be the main focus.
Acquisitions, complicates the IT estate and how it is managed.
close partners who also successfully IPOd over while not our main focus, remain apossibility and Once workloads are in the public cloud they still the last year Sophos and Mimecast.
We received we always keep a watchful eye onpotential need managing and supporting.
These new types similar awards from a number of great and interesting opportunities in the market.
of infrastructure provision, coupled with an ever technology providers such as Cisco Systems Inc. increasing need for true mobility, drive further Brexit brings with it challenges to economic confidence and VMware Inc. and were delighted to be named considerations around security, connectivity, which may result in less overall market growth.
the HP Enterprise Partner of the Year shortly after networking, software management and end-user Whatever the impact is, we still have a small year end.
The support and encouragement we computing to name but a few.
The degree of help percentage of the market and our capacity to have received from all our key partners this year and support our customers require is increasing, grow and take market share is proven and that has been phenomenal and I would like to take not decreasing, and these are the areas in which iswhat we will focus on.
this opportunity to thank them for that.
After opening a Leeds branch the previous year, Most importantly we have to stay very focused Softcat is adapting to these changes.
In addition which is now firmly established on the Softcat map, onbringing the right talent into Softcat and having to our reselling business which will remain a core we were delighted to finally go international and the most engaged, focused and motivated team requirement for our customers, those same customers open up in Glasgow!
We are encouraged with the in the market.
May I take this opportunity to thank want us to have deeper technical skills to help them early signs from that office.
my outstanding colleagues for the fantastic work with their new challenges.
They want us to help they do, for the manner in which they do it and for them manage their journey to the cloud.
They And moving forward, the extraordinary results they have achieved.
want us to provide more managed and support whats the outlook?
services to them to help provide what they need As usual with Softcat it will be a year of continual in this new style of IT without having to do everything development and evolution.
We will continue to themselves.
Weare delighted to accompany our focus on the core business model and strategy.
Martin Hellawell We are now very firmly established in the mid-market and the public sector and will continue to strive Chief Executive Officer That is the direction we are evolving in.
We continue totake market share in those sectors as well as 19 October 2016 to provide our core reseller services and, on top expand further into the large account market.
ofthat, we further develop the technical and other services we provide to our customers to adapt totheir changing requirements.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
