Strategic Report Chief Executives Review In 2016, we made good strategic progress, adding further software, service and testing capability and launched Project Uplift, a new Group-wide productivity improvement programme.
John OHiggins Chief Executive Although reported sales increased by 13% for the year, 2016 the year and Germany recorded LFL sales growth for the year.
proved to be a challenging year for the most part.
We did, Asia saw sales growth, particularly in China.
Sales to the Rest however, end the year on a more positive stance and the LFL ofthe world continued to decline, driven by the economic sales decline of 4% in the first ten months contracted to 2% recession in Brazil.
From an end-market perspective, there was forthe full year.
Constant currency sales increased by 1%.
good growth in the electronics, pharmaceuticals and web and Giventhe environment, we remain focused on self-help actions converting industries.
There was also good growth to the tissue to better align cost growth to sales growth.
LFL sales to energy and utilities continued to decline and we also saw lower sales to metals, minerals and mining and We took important steps forward in the development of the aerospace after a good performance in the previous year.
Groups strategy this year as we transition our customer offering towards the provision of solutions encompassing hardware, Adjusted operating profit increased 11% to 200.8 million software and services.
In this context, the acquisition of andreported operating profit declined to 38.3 million.
Millbrook is an important addition to our portfolio of a high Thereported operating profit included a non-cash impairment quality automotive test service platform, which enables us to charge of 115.3 million pre-tax relating to a write-down of expand our offering to automotive customers.
We launched thebalance sheet goodwill and other intangibles associated Project Uplift, a Group-wide productivity improvement withOmega Engineering Omega and ESG Solutions ESG.
programme, a key enabler for delivering our strategy and aimed Theimpairment charge arose from the recent weaker trading at reducing complexity to facilitate the delivery of growth, whilst performance due to the challenging conditions experienced, also improving efficiency and effectiveness.
And we took the particularly in North America, and ongoing process improvement decision to merge two of our larger operating companies, requirements at Omega and for ESG, the continued weakness Malvern Instruments and PANalytical, enabling a more inthe global oil and gas markets.
On a LFLbasis, adjusted operating collaborative approach across the customers served by both profit decreased 6%, reflecting the effects of the lower sales companies.
As customers increasingly require an integrated volumes and a particularly weak performance byIndustrial solution, we are strategically positioning Spectris to align with Controls, mainly driven by working capital write-downs in Omega.
their needs and this is transforming our business.
In response to the weaker than expected trading environment, 2016 operational performance we continued our programme of restructuring measures The current demand backdrop has been one of lower growth introduced in 2015.
They delivered a benefit of 11.7 million 1 and this is reflected in the 2% decline in LFL sales.
The in2016, ahead of our initial expectations, and were mainly performance varied notably across the segments.
Materials targeted at rationalisation of our footprint in certain locations, Analysis was the only segment delivering LFL sales growth at with the bulk of the benefits arising in Materials Analysis and 2% reported sales growth 15%, with LFL declines of 4% in In-line Instrumentation.
We also continued to deploy lean both Test and Measurement reported 15% and In-line techniques to areas such as innovation and sales and marketing Instrumentation reported 8% and of 2% in Industrial Controls across the Group.
On a regional basis, we experienced further The Groups cash conversion remains strong with 113% of declines in industrial investment and production in North ouradjusted operating profit being converted into cash and America and business performance weakened through the year, wemaintain a robust financial position with net debt at picking up slightly towards the end.
In Europe, sales declined, 150.9 million, around 0.7 times the full year EBITDA.
although the rate of decline eased thanks to a strong close to 4 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic progress in transition to Another strategic focus area for us is the industrial connectivity customer-focused, solutions strategy market and this growing area has presented a significant Our strategy is evolving from being the supplier of products opportunity for product development for us, focused on towards the provision of complete solutions a combination of simplifying the integration of customer-generated data with hardware, software and services to our customers, based on remote data analytics services.
Here, too, we are also looking our deep application and technical expertise.
As our customers more closely at cross-group solutions, by leveraging existing focus on their core activities and seek to reduce cost and operating company technologies and competencies to more complexity, they have a greater need to outsource services to broadly serve our customers needs.
atrusted, reliable partner who is able to deliver high quality Project Uplift enables our strategy technical solutions.
During the year, we have undertaken a Project Uplift is a new productivity improvement programme number of strategic initiatives to ensure we align our customer which we launched during the year.
Over the medium term, this offering to their evolving requirements and this is resulting in a will deliver improvements in productivity, both within and across number of transformational changes within Spectris.
our operating companies, reducing complexity and identifying During the course of 2016, we made six acquisitions and these operational efficiencies whilst preserving the entrepreneurial have added test service and further software and services spirit within our businesses.
We have now identified total capabilities.
The key acquisition was Millbrook, one of Europe's potential annualised recurring savings of 35 million by 2019. leading independent test, validation and engineering service The majority of these savings will be derived from leveraging providers, primarily for the automotive and related markets.
It is theGroups scale through, for example, combining back-office closely related to our existing test and measurement businesses functions such as IT and by securing improved terms for and, as such, the acquisition is an important step forward in the procurement of goods and services, both direct and indirect.
realisation of our strategy to provide our automotive customers It will also be delivered by a focus on business process excellence with differentiated solutions as we combine the Millbrook in our R&D and sales and marketing activities, which will testing service with products, technology, services and customer standardise some of the processes across our operating contacts from other Spectris companies, such as HBM and companies and improve our effectiveness.
This will further Brel& Kjr Sound & Vibration.
This collaboration, in combination support our solutions, customer-focused strategy, freeing up with the notable pipeline of organic investment opportunities resources to facilitate the delivery of our strategy by identifying atMillbrook, means that automotive test services will be a key and capitalising on cross-group opportunities and making it focus area for Spectris going forwards.
easier for our customers to do business with us.
The total We also made a number of bolt-on acquisitions.
The acquisition P&Lcost to achieve these savings is currently estimated at of CAS Clean Air Service brought a high quality clean-room 45 million over the same period, with the majority of the costs services business which we have integrated into our Particle incurred by the end of 2018.
In 2017, we expect there to be a Measuring Systems operating company in order to provide an recurring benefit of 6 million at a one-off cost of 20 million.
enhanced offering to our customers from the combined product Our people help deliver the strategy and service portfolios.
The combination of Capstones software Ensuring we have the right people in place to deliver the tools with BTGs instruments enables us to provide marketstrategy will also continue to be a key focus for us.
In January leading solutions for process control and optimisation across 2017, our new Group HR Director joined the Company.
Our ourglobal pulp, tissue and packaging markets, and into other talent management programme will be a key focus for him as process industries and we have now built an extensive pipeline well as promoting the strong ethical culture and values we have.
SVT brings software solutions and noise, I was delighted to participate in the selection process to identify vibration and harshness NVH engineering services targeted the first winner of our Absolute Integrity Award in December ata wide spectrum of industry including automotive, aerospace from a shortlist of six finalists and was pleased to see an and defence customers.
SVT and DISCOM, which we acquired outstanding commitment to our value of Absolute Integrity inJuly, have both been integrated into Brel & Kjr Sound & being demonstrated across the business.
Vibration, accelerating the transition to becoming a single-stop solutions provider for our automotive customers.
Priorities for 2017 and beyond The two key priorities in the coming years are continued In addition to M&A, we will deploy our solutions strategy implementation of the strategy to provide solutions-oriented inother ways, for example through the merger of Malvern offerings to our customers, as well as a focus on driving Instruments and PANalytical which became effective at the start productivity and reducing complexity under Project Uplift to of 2017.
The companies are both leading suppliers of analytical improve the financial performance of the Group.
On the former, instrumentation and the combined entity is a larger and stronger we will continue to use our robust financial position to make player in the materials characterisation market.
The merger is acquisitions to accelerate our strategic development, both in terms being undertaken as there are benefits through this collaborative of our offering to customers and our geographical coverage.
relationship, leveraging the very strong brands and highly-skilled On the latter, implementing the Project Uplift initiatives will be a employees of the two companies, in order to deliver a more key focus in order to optimise efficiency and effectiveness, and complete range of products, solutions and services to a broader consequently capture savings across our operating companies.
set of markets and customers.
John OHiggins 1 Adjusted performance measures represent the statutory results excluding certain non-operational items.
Like-for-like LFL measures include revenue and profit at Chief Executive constant exchange rates and exclude the impact of acquisitions.
For a definition ofthe item and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS equivalent, see Note 2.
