Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BY IMPLEMENTING OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH As we implement our strategy we self-generate growth, making us less reliant on our markets for growth opportunities.
Nicholas Anderson, Group Chief Executive Q&A with the Group Chief Executive Q: Why are global industrial production Q: How does the Group strategy help you achieve growth in these market growth rates important?
A: Steam and pumps are widely used in To deliver self-generated many applications across industry and A: In the current low growth environment, the growth that outperforms our customers are geographically and implementation of our strategy is helping industrially diverse.
Due to this diversity us achieve growth that outperforms our our markets of end users, our markets tend to reflect markets as we focus on our six strategic Our strategic focus: changes in global economic conditions themes.
As we implement our strategy and, in particular, movements in global we increase the effectiveness of our direct Doing better what we industrial production growth rates.
sales organisation, leverage our strength already do well Industrial production growth rates thus in key sectors, identify and take advantage act as a barometer for the economic of attractive opportunities, expand our Our six strategic themes: conditions within our markets.
addressable markets and align and direct our resources more effectively to improve Q: Do you expect industrial production 1.
Increase direct sales business performance.
effectiveness through growth rates to improve?
Read more The six Group strategic themes, outlined sector focus on page 20.
A: Following a strong declining trend in 2014 on the following pages, reflect the key and 2015, driven by slowing emerging elements of the business strategies of the economies, global industrial production Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business 2.
Develop the growth stabilised around zero percent in knowledge and skills and the Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Read more the first half of 2016 before experiencing of our expert sales Group, underpinned by our Group on page 21. and service teams a recovery in some emerging economies acquisitions strategy that aims to create in the second half of the year.
Overall, shareholder value through supplementing global industrial production growth in organic growth with targeted and returns- 2016 averaged 0.5%, the same very low focused strategic acquisitions.
Broaden our Read more levels of 2015, but exited the year with global presence on page 22.
Q: How confident are you of achieving an annualised growth rate below 2%, future growth?
which is predicted to continue in the first half of 2017.
While the growth rates at the A: Our direct sales approach is highly end of 2016 suggest an improvement for 4.
L everage our effective in uncovering opportunities Read more R&D investments 2017, we remain cautious in predicting a to improve customers steam systems on page 23. market upturn and continue to focus on and fluid path processes.
Our ability to the implementation of our strategy, with self-generate revenue, combined with a its emphasis on self-generated growth.
high proportion of sales that derive from Source: CHR Economics 5.
Optimise supply end-users maintenance and operating Read more chain effectiveness budgets and the diversity of the markets on page 24. that we serve, makes our business highly resilient.
As we consistently put the needs 6.
Operate sustainably of our customers first, develop the skills of and help improve our people and focus on implementing our Read more our customers strategy for growth, we remain well-placed on page 25. sustainability to achieve growth and continue to deliver value to our stakeholders.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 19
