STRATEGIC REPORT: CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS STATEMENT Customer focus We continue to seek ways in which we can improve operational efficiency safely delivering outstanding healthcare to our patients while never forgetting that the safety, comfort and wellbeing of our customers is paramount.
Consultant satisfaction also remained high, with 77% rating our quality of service either Excellent or Very good 2015: 79%.
The proportion of consultants who believe that our hospitals go out of their way to make a difference to their working relationship was 95% 2015: 96%, and those who would be Certain or Very likely to recommend a Spire Healthcare hospital to their friends and family was 81%.
While there are always areas for improvement, taken overall, we are pleased with a good performance for the year.
Regulatory compliance It is a similar story in our compliance with regulatory standards.
As at 28 February 2017, all of our hospitals in England have now had full Care Quality Commission CQC inspection visits.
More information on our CQC inspections can be found on pages 36 to 39.
The CQC inspection regime is welcome and necessary, but imposes a considerable burden on everybody involved, including the In my first three months I have visited CQC itself.
hospitals across the country the commitment, care and efficiency shown Our staff have worked extremely hard, Catherine Mason by everyone I have met is a testament to preparing for inspections, sharing best Chief Operating Officer Andrews leadership as the previous Chief practice and making improvements in Operating Officer and to the strong culture response to CQC reports and all this while that runs through Spire Healthcare.
continuing their day job, delivering outstanding care to our patients.
We are very pleased with the way the business has 2016 performance responded, and with the results achieved.
We judge our operational performance using 98% a range of metrics and key performance Patients rating overall Our hospitals are in the main Good, and indicators KPIs on a balanced scorecard quality of service either Outstanding in some areas, putting us well that covers service quality, people and Excellent or Very good ahead of the NHS average.
engagement, reputation, and shareholder However, there are always areas which can value.
We also track our engagement and be improved and, where these have been reputation through regular surveys.
77% identified by CQC, we have addressed all such Overall, results during the year were good.
Consultants rating our areas as a matter of urgency, drawing up and quality of service either following through on detailed improvement Patient satisfaction continued to be high.
Excellent or Very good plans addressing all areas highlighted by Our Net Promoter Score NPS, a measure the inspections.
which aligns our reporting with the NHS and other providers, improved to 83 out of a possible 100 2015: 82.
Patient satisfaction with overall care remained high, with 98% of our patients rating overall quality of service either Excellent or Very good 2015: 98%.
20 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our hospitals in Wales are regulated by LOOKING AFTER YOU Spire Parkway Hospital Healthcare Inspectorate Wales HIW and those in Scotland by Healthcare Improvement Scotland HIS.
There was one inspection in 2016 by HIW at Spire Cardiff Hospital, and one in January 2017 by HIS at Shawfair Park Investment in Hospital in Edinburgh.
No ratings are applied by HIW following inspections, but feedback was very positive and only one minor action was required following a two-day review.
cancer services The rating for Shawfair Park was Very good for all five quality themes.
Major investment in cancer Continued investment We continue to invest both to expand services at Spire Parkway Hospital capacity and to improve our existing facilities.
in East Midlands In August 2016, we opened a new 27 million purpose-built complex at St Anthonys, In June, the Mayor of Solihull, Councillor increasing capacity to six theatres from four.
Mike Robinson, performed the official Other investments in capacity and enhanced opening of a new 1.3 million cancer care across the network in 2016 included: treatment centre at the Spire Spire Parkway Hospital the completion Parkway Hospital.
of a theatre expansion and chemotherapy The centre offers treatment for a wide development with endoscopy unit range of cancers with specialist nursing Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital a and medical staff as well as some of development comprising a purpose-built the regions top oncology consultants.
outpatient clinic and new MRI CT provision It has six individual treatment pods Spire Southampton Hospital a project to for the administration of systemic enlarge an existing ward and the creation anti-cancer therapy chemotherapy, of a robotics theatre and installation of a immunotherapy and biological da Vinci surgical robot see further details therapies and supportive treatments.
on pages 34 and 35 Spire Clare Park Hospital a JAG accredited Before cutting the ribbon at the endoscopy unit Specialist Cancer Centre in the The cancer journey is Spire Cheshire Hospital a JAG accredited grounds of the hospital on Damson endoscopy unit Parkway, Councillor Robinson said, a tough and emotional I know the heartache that cancer Further enhancements are underway, one for everyone can cause and I am delighted that this including a considerable refurbishment excellent facility is now open to the project at Spire Cambridge Lea Hospital, involved including people of this region.
comprising the expansion and refurbishment family and friends of the daycase unit: a new JAG accredited Macmillan Cancer Services Manager, endoscopy suite: and the upgrade of the Level but I think we have Elisa Follen, said she felt the centre 1 Critical Care extended recovery area.
The represented a major boost to what we need to development of a medical centre based in cancer services in the Solihull area.
Elstree, Hertfordshire, is in the planning make that journey We have a fantastic team with phase.
Designed as a satellite centre to in-depth specialist knowledge along as comfortable and Spire Bushey Hospital, Spire Bushey Medical with some experienced and very well Centre will increase our capacity to see respected consultants.
patients for diagnostic and outpatient appointments.
Completion of these projects Elisa Follen is expected in 2018.
Macmillan Cancer Services Manager Spire Manchester and Nottingham Our largest developments during the year were the new hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham.
Developing state-of-the-art hospitals, from the ground up, presents a range of 1.3m challenges unique to the sector from the Investment demands of the most modern healthcare technology to optimising the patient experience, and from building project management to the recruitment and training of caring hospital teams.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 21 STRATEGIC REPORT: CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS STATEMENT Spire Manchester Hospital is the largest The Spire National Distribution Centre Operational development new-site, in-patient hospital that we have NDC operates to the highest quality and During 2016, we continued to develop our built.
Successful project management, CQC compliance standards, underpinned by cancer services.
While growth in our two certification and commissioning of Spire ISO 14001 and ISO 18001 accreditations.
Specialist Cancer Care Centres has been Manchester Hospital is a testament to our The medical consumable kitting assembly building gradually, we are now focused on development team, contractors, Hospital service continued to be rolled out to the establishing better alignment with local Director and staff.
network, providing hospitals with a more hospitals and improving referral relationships efficient and effective service.
During 2016, with local consultants and oncologists.
The hospital offers six theatres, 76 beds, the NDC produced internal sales of medical a 150-seat education centre, and an ITU, In line with the strategic refocus on our core consumables to its hospital customers of replacing our older four-theatre hospital, but customer proposition through our hospital circa 54 million.
in a location that offers more convenient operations, we decided to exit two of our travel, better parking and room for further Our Supply Chain continues to create value ancillary services.
After three years of planning, from the expertise within its teams by We took advantage of a five-year contract building, training and testing, first patients reducing costs and increasing efficiency.
A break option to serve notice that we intend were treated in the new hospital in January number of supply chain staff achieved Black to cease providing Perform services at St 2017 after a seamless transfer of operations Belts in LEAN Six Sigma across purchasing, Georges Park from September 2017.
More detail on Spire warehousing and distribution, medical fixed rents and a revenue sharing agreement Manchester Hospital can be found on records archiving, stock, and management were producing lower than expected returns, pages 24 and 25. teams.
Looking ahead, this internal capability without clear or significant revenue growth will further improve services and the Spire Nottingham Hospital is expected to opportunities.
Despite this disappointment, efficiency of our hospitals.
open around Easter 2017: it is not only a we are exploring proposals to continue new-build, but also in a new operational area We also made progress in applying working with the Football Association, for Spire Healthcare.
Before commissioning, performance management disciplines given that an excellent working relationship we will recruit and train an entirely new consistently across the network.
While has been created, based on high levels clinical, nursing and administrative team.
central management facilitates, it is the of customer satisfaction with our clinical The recruitment and staffing of our two leadership of our Hospital Directors and performance.
new hospitals requires in excess of 180 new the teams behind them that is crucial in Following a strategic review of the business, positions to be filled, a number which will delivering consistent performance and we made the decision to withdraw the grow significantly throughout 2017. quality.
Every month, we share the same Lifescan product from the market and to performance metrics across all our hospitals, Both hospitals, in their individual ways, close the Lifescan operational business unit.
and across the whole patient pathway demonstrate Spire Healthcares approach and customer journey.
We look both for We continued to expand our pathology to satisfying patient demand and examples of best practice to share and service.
The focus in the year was on building businesses.
for outliers or trends where we need to further exploiting capabilities within the intervene appropriately.
In this way, Spire Healthcare network and developing using peer review and peer support, opportunities in the wider pathology we continue to develop best practice, market by bringing tests in-house from codifying, where appropriate, into Spire third-party providers, as well as developing Healthcares methodologies and processes.
new laboratories at Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital, and our two new hospitals Theatre utilisation is a key performance in Manchester and Nottingham.
Over the previous two years, average utilisation has Our pathology laboratories undertook remained between 63% and 64% across 2.3 million tests and showed a 6.5% O ur staff have worked our hospitals.
In 2016, the figure remained improvement in operational efficiency extremely hard, preparing the same at 63% despite an additional five cost per test.
Seven of our 22 laboratories theatres opening during the year.
have now successfully completed the for inspections, sharing transition from CPA to ISO accreditation.
We are evolving tools within the business to best practice and enable more efficient theatre list planning, Optimising efficiency making improvements in to ensure that we are making best use of not The third of our strategic pillars is to drive only the physical asset, but also the clinical response to CQC reports efficiency and improve productivity.
staff we have at our disposal.
By joining together the various data points that exist all this while continuing Hospital leadership teams are empowered within the business we have been able to to develop services tailored to the needs their day job, delivering create a management system that provides of local patients and consultants whilst an effective framework for hospitals to outstanding care to working within Spire Healthcares operating improve their forward planning.
Maintaining the right balance of central protocols, requirements and quality standards, with local circumstances so as to drive growth and performance, remains a key aspect of operational management.
22 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Results from our hospitals that have fully Priorities for 2017 include the continued adopted and embedded the new tools maintenance and enhancement of the indicate higher utilisation rates, however, existing estate: continued compliance Operating efficiency elsewhere performance remains static, often with NHS Information Governance Toolkit impacted by agency staffing requirements.
and ISO Standards: a focus on IT Security to How we constantly drive combat the increased level of threat from By being more proactive in planning our efficiency in our hospitals Ransomware and other malicious attacks: theatre lists we can ensure a better patient continued implementation of regulatory experience, for instance by scheduling projects such as PHIN and NHS e-discharge: daycase procedures at times that give the Deploy available asset capacity and a programme of replacement and patient the best chance of being able to Utilise diagnostic facilities, surgical upgrades of Pathology, Imaging and get home the same day.
theatres and beds to optimal effect.
Utilisation is only part of the story.
Last year we highlighted our desire to move beyond 2017 theatre utilisation, to theatre optimisation Our staff are the heart of our service and our Demand side in other words, ensuring that the right teams success.
It is they that deliver outstanding Maximise geographic reach of are in the right theatres at the right time, care for our customers both our patients facilities and ensure service with the appropriate skill mix and and the consultants that choose to work proposition represents highest quality consumable packs for the procedures with us.
During 2016, our staff continued and best available value for money.
This is an ongoing to deliver on all fronts, contributing above process getting it right will make the and beyond when faced by extra demands journey faster and smoother for our such as regulatory inspections or the Clinical supply patients and better for our consultants.
Attract and retain the best available In the face of the UKs well documented clinical talent, build flexibility into Digital development shortage of trained nurses, clinicians the skill base of the clinical team and We believe there is an opportunity to lead and allied healthcare professionals, the deliver continuous improvement in the UK Private Healthcare market through recruitment, development and retention clinical care pathways and manpower our digital distribution and customer of outstanding staff is critical to our future.
A key component of this strategy During 2016, we did much to develop our sufficiently large pool of high-quality was the successful launch of a new recruitment and retention strategies.
In 2017, clinicians to optimise the supply of responsive website with enhanced search we will be going further in the development clinical services and match it to functionality at the end of last year.
of a compelling employer brand proposition available asset capacity.
We will be delivering a number of key aimed at attracting and retaining the enhancements to the website to help outstanding people we need for future patients self-serve in the coming months, success.
Further details can be found in Supply chain and will also be upgrading our partner-facing the section, Group HR Directors review Continuously improve clinical care digital propositions.
In addition, we will Our people, that follows this review on pathways to provide scope to further continue to strengthen our online marketing pages 42 to 45. reduce costs, consolidate purchasing capability to support patients in choosing Elsewhere in this report we have outlined and standardise delivery.
In-source Spire Healthcare by providing key the development of our strategy and, clinical supply capability e. g. information from which they can make in particular, the increase in focus we are pathology, sterilisation services informed decisions regarding their placing on the customers experience in where opportunities exists to deliver healthcare needs.
all aspects of our service.
highest quality service at lowest We continue to invest in our Customer available unit cost.
The contribution that operational efficiency Relationship Management CRM and linked can make to customers spans the full patient SAP systems.
The CRM system, covering journey from diagnostics and links to areas such as enquiry management and primary care to admissions forecasting, Administration conversion, call handling and direct patient enquiry conversion, admission processing Improve administration process to bookings for insurers and GPs, is a key and treatment, through to timeliness, deliver best customer experience enabler not only of operational efficiency, quality of discharge and post-operative at lowest transaction costs.
Use but also for our customers, helping them to rehabilitation.
Linking all aspects of a information technology solutions have the best experience throughout their customers journey seamlessly and doing to improve workflow and reduce care pathway from reception to discharge it well will have a direct impact on safety, information handling costs.
quality and, ultimately, patient satisfaction.
The dynamic nature of our business requires a proactive approach to IT network Catherine Mason Management information integration.
For instance, our new hospitals Chief Operating Officer Invest in best in class management in Manchester and Nottingham, together 1 March 2017 information systems to allow with new theatre builds and other expansion for effective monitoring and projects, all require our IT team to deploy and management decision-making.
support the appropriate systems to ensure the businesses operate effectively and Read more in our Clinical Review on efficiently from the moment we open our pages 36 to 38 doors to first patients.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 23 STRATEGIC REPORT: CASE STUDY New hospitals, new services, new capacity.
Same high levels of clinical care excellence for our patients.
LOOKING AFTER YOU State-of the-art treatment in Manchester Designed with extensive input from Opened in January 2017 consultants, staff and patients, the hospital in Princess Parkway, our offers highly complex surgery and medicine through a large Intensive Therapy Unit ITU, new 63 million flagship together with state-of-the-art diagnostic Spire Manchester Hospital and imaging equipment from Siemens.
New services include hydrotherapy, a hybrid replaces the previous facility theatre and a 150 seat education centre.
in Whalley Range, offering Designed with the environment and local more patients a significantly residents in mind, the new facility also features a range of carbon reducing features enhanced range of services, such as solar panels and living roofs.
Fast track development February 2015: Planning permission granted for new hospital April 2015: Ground broken December 2016: Build and fit out completed January 2017: First patients treated 24 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING AFTER YOU From strength to strength 6 Operating theatres Manchesters larger capacity and state-of-the- 44 art facilities will allow In-patient beds Professor Max Fehilys successful specialist 27 orthopaedic service to Daycase beds treat even more patients.
Max Fehily is a consultant orthopaedic surgeon at Spire Manchester, 5 specialising in hip surgery.
He joined Were supported at every level Level 3 Critical Spire Healthcares previous Manchester Care beds from management through hospital at Whalley Range five years ago ward, theatre and radiology to establish a young adult hip service, staff.
Everyone worked round specialising in keyhole surgery and 23 the clock to complete the move soft-tissue hip injuries associated with Out-patient athletes in a range of top level sports.
and open the new hospital on consulting and time.
It was very much a joint The service proved highly successful.
treatment rooms effort, with all the levels of As Professor Fehily recounts, Weve a mix of private and NHS work across staff up through to the the whole of the north of England Hospital Director.
150 working with some 22 Clinical Seat education Commissioning Groups and covering Max Fehily centre a range of elite and Olympic sports, Consultant at Spire including taekwondo, swimming, Manchester Hospital squash and various rugby clubs, like Sale Sharks, and lots of rugby league clubs.
I was Chairman of the Medical Advisory Committee while we were planning the new hospital.
Spires been very supportive in developing the young adult hip service and now with the new hospital obviously even more so.
With state-of-the-art theatre suites, diagnostic imaging and out-patient facilities, were now able to develop it further in Greater Manchester, nationally and internationally as well.
I believe it is the best private hospital in the UK right now.
All our staff from Whalley Range transferred to the new site in a carefully planned phased programme.
Over 30 new posts have been created in the new, larger facility.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 25
