Strategic Report Embedding responsibility Stakeholders questions to the Chief Executive Alistair Phillips-Davies Institute of Working constructively Business Ethics The Institute of Business Ethics was established and collaboratively with in 1986 to encourage high standards of business behaviour based on ethical values.
Philippa Foster Back CBE, Director our stakeholders Q: How is SSE ensuring that its values are SSE believes that its ability to manage risks, create value and fulfil lived every day by all employees?
its core purpose depends on working constructively with the wide Alistair: The SSE SET of values has guided range of organisations with an interest in energy provision in the actions and decisions in SSE since 2006.
For values to remain relevant they must be UK and Ireland.
It seeks to engage constructively to understand constantly reinforced so a new Guide to their points of view, factor them into decision-making where it can ethical business conduct will be launched and maintain a positive dialogue, even where views differ.
It outlines the principles of ethical business conduct that everyone in SSE is expected to meet and explains what to do if they spot something wrong.
It is vital that employees of SSE know, understand and follow the rules that apply to the business, but it is the combination of values and rules that means we have the best chance of doing the right thing throughout SSE.
Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association PLSA is the national association helping pension professionals run better pension schemes.
Luke Hildyard, Policy Lead: Stewardship and Corporate Governance Q: SSE seems to be trying to differentiate by positioning itself as a responsible and ethical business, through initiatives such as the fair tax mark and detailed reporting of your human capital.
What evidence has so far emerged of the financial benefits of this approach?
Alistair: There is an expectation that Companies go beyond compliance with the rules.
We believe that acting responsibly is expected for a utility and we think it makes business sense.
In the case of human capital we wanted to assess our peoples true value as they are our biggest asset.
Well see more expectations on listed Companies on issues such as people, pay, tax and political advocacy and our response is to embed responsible practices into our business.
We do this by signing up to industry standards, for example our voluntary membership of the UK Lobbying Register, and, where we can, lead the industry, such as being the only FTSE-listed company awarded the Fair Tax Mark.
Glasgow National Skills Committee on City Council Academy for Power Fuel Poverty Glasgow City Council provides The National Skills Academy for Power sits at The Committee on Fuel Poverty advises the UK services to 600,000 customers the heart of the Power Sector, driving excellence Government on the effectiveness of policies aimed in Scotlands largest city.
in skills and bringing together employers, skills at reducing fuel poverty in England, and encourages organisations and stakeholders.
greater co-ordination across the organisations Kevin Rush, Head of Economic Development working to reduce fuel poverty.
Nick Ellins, Chief Executive, National Skills Academy for Power Tom Wright, Chairman Q: Glasgow wants to see lower carbon Q: How will SSE approach workforce Q: What are SSEs initiatives for tackling energy systems here in the city that renewal across its UK operations, fuel poverty and who does SSE work with can deliver affordable warmth for our and what do you see as the main in implementing these?
residents and ensure security of supply skills challenge?
Alistair: Tackling fuel poverty is a critical for our businesses.
What can SSE do to Alistair: The retiral of a large proportion of challenge.
SSE does its bit through both our help deliver these objectives?
both SSE and the wider energy industrys Distribution and Supply businesses which Alistair: The move to a more distributed workforce is, by far, the greatest skills have a range of initiatives.
These include energy system is happening and SSE is part challenge facing SSE.
A collective response improving the insulation of over 35,000 of it.
Were working closely with Glasgow across industries is required but our first UK homes last year, maintaining a Priority and other councils to help them meet response to this challenge is through Service Register to provide bespoke support their energy objectives.
A great example is SSEs own training pipelines, focussed to vulnerable customers during power cuts our Enterprise businesses award winning on apprentices, engineer training and and pioneering initiatives targeting those in retrofit district heating scheme for 1,800 graduates.
In 2015 16 875 individuals were need, such as providing emergency credit homes at the Wyndford Housing Estate.
participating in one of these programmes top-ups to SSE Paygo customers at a Its a project that provides secure lower within SSE.
At the same time as developing Perthshire foodbank.
Theres always more carbon energy, tackles fuel poverty and these pipelines of fresh talent, SSE is to do and we work with a range of local and improves residents comfort.
working to attract greater diversity of national partners to support our customers.
Ibec Institution of Carbon Disclosure Civil Engineers Project Ibec represents the interests The ICE supports civil engineers and technicians CDP is an independent not-for-profit organization of business in Ireland.
by awarding professional qualifications, ensuring holding the largest database of primary corporate they work to high standards, and helping them to climate change information in the world.
CDP works Danny McCoy, CEO, Ibec develop their careers.
to transform the way the world does business to prevent dangerous climate change and protect our Mac West, Chair of the Institution natural resources.
of Civil Engineers Scotland Daniel Turner, Head of Disclosure Q: Global leaders in the Irish services Q: 2016 is being predicted as a Q: How is SSE responding to the far sector have cited Irelands green energy breakthrough year for electricity reaching commitments made at the as an important element in the economic storage.
What barriers remain to further historic COP 21 in Paris and what is the recovery and informing investment deployment and what can be done to potential for the UK energy industry to decisions.
What recommendations would remove them?
switch to majority renewables and make you have for policy makers to maintain Alistair: Storage offers a range of benefits a significant impact in contributing to the these levels of investment?
to the UK electricity system.
The challenge global needs for a low carbon future?
Alistair: Since 2008 Ireland is a major part is that the market framework doesnt Alistair: SSE supports the agreements of SSEs growth strategy.
Weve invested currently support investment and the reached in Paris.
The outcomes are bold 2 billion into the Irish economy which regulator is considering what changes may and industry and governments now need to has helped to underpin Irelands green be required to bring forward new storage collaborate to fulfill them.
SSE continues to credentials and induced further investment deployment.
Each technology is different reduce its carbon emissions.
We invested across the economy.
I try and stay out of and to get maximum benefits different well over 1bn this year alone in low carbon politics but as an investor I believe that types of storage, at different scales, will be energy and infrastructure and for 2015 16 policymakers must do everything they required.
Im optimistic about the role of our total carbon emissions fell from 474 kg can to provide stability.
Ultimately this storage in a more flexible system and the CO MWh to 397 kg CO e MWh compared 2 2 helps the confidence of investors and benefits for the market and customers.
Were committed to further enables cost-efficient delivery of low investment and our target to reduce by 50% carbon and secure energy.
the carbon intensity of electricity generation output by 2020, based on 2006 data.
