Strategic Report Our business and performance Chief Executives statement Maintaining a clearly-defined strategic framework Delivering a long-term SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
It operates under a clearly-defined strategic strategic framework with framework consisting of: - Efficient and safe core operations to help meet customers long-term energy needs a clear financial objective and earn the profit that allows it to give a return to investors: - Disciplined investments that are governed, developed and executed efficiently and In 2015 16 SSE again delivered what it said it would in an operating in line with SSEs commitment to strong environment that presented a number of complex issues.
SSE financial management and the dividend: and - The maintenance of a balanced business continues to operate within a long-term strategic framework based so that SSE has a broad platform from which on efficient operations, disciplined investment and the maintenance to deliver long-term value and does not of a balanced range of energy businesses.
This positions the become over-exposed to any one part of the energy sector.
business well for future evolution and change in energy provision while also enabling it to identify opportunities for growth as the The energy markets in GB and Ireland are overall operating environment continues to become clearer.
undergoing technological, regulatory and demographic changes, yet SSE believes that its strategic framework provides the foundations and the flexibility to successfully navigate through a changing market.
Its focus is to provide customers and shareholders with long-term value.
The fundamental strength of the business is its focus on efficiency, strong financial management and the maintenance of a balanced range of businesses in the energy sector.
Operating within a clearly-defined financial framework The financial objective of this strategic framework is to increase annually the dividend payable to shareholders by at least RPI inflation.
This is because shareholders have either invested Delivering the core directly in SSE or, as owners of the company, have purpose in 2016 17 enabled it to borrow money from debt investors SSEs strategic priorities for to finance investment that will help to meet the 2016 17 include: needs of energy customers in the UK and Ireland - The safe and efficient over the long term.
In the five years since 1 April management of assets: 2011, this investment totalled almost 8bn.
- The delivery of high quality customer service and propositions SSEs clearly-defined financial framework has to meet the increasingly changing three features: needs of customers: - Dividend: SSEs financial objective is to deliver - The efficient and disciplined annual increases in the dividend of at least RPI investment in new assets or the inflation.
This means it is able to look beyond upgrading of existing assets: short-term value and profit maximisation - Taking further steps to increase the in any one year and maintain a disciplined, agility, efficiency and flexibility of responsible and long-term approach to the business segments: the management of, and investment in, - Constructive engagement with its business activities.
regulators and legislators as the - Dividend cover: SSE believes that its dividend operating environment evolves: and per share should be covered by adjusted - The delivery of a full-year dividend earnings per share at a level that is sustainable increase that at least keeps pace over the medium term.
It has updated with RPI inflation.
its three-year view of the probable range of dividend cover, despite the general uncertainties that prevail in a sector like energy.
As a result of its investment over the last five years, the majority of SSEs asset base and operating profit now relates to  Networks and government-mandated renewable sources of energy.
Over the three years to 2018 19, 6 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
SSE expects its dividend cover could range Transmission and Distribution allow opportunities 4.1% in April 2015 and 5.3% in March 2016 from around 1.2 times to around 1.4 times, for fair returns.
In 2015 16 there was significant as savings from a sustained fall in the based on dividend increases that at least keep growth in Transmission operating profits, due to wholesale price of gas were passed through pace with RPI inflation.
SSE maintains a the delivery of a major programme of capital to customers.
In electricity the situation is long-term target for dividend cover of above investment.
This was offset by the expected more complicated due to cumulative costs 1.4 times and closer to 1.5 times, based on reduction in base revenues for Electricity associated with the long-term upgrade of the dividend increases which at least keep pace Distribution under the first year of the RIIO ED1 countrys electricity system.
In SSEs Wholesale with RPI inflation.
In making this assessment, Price Control and a slight reduction in the business the reduction in wholesale prices led SSE has considered its current and projected profitability of SGN.
to lower earnings for SSEs Gas Production and dividend resources in the period to March electricity generation businesses which in turn Retail including Enterprise : SSEs Retail 2019, the principal risks facing the business contributed to the significant Wholesale asset business supplies electricity and gas, and other and the control measures in place to impairments taken in the year.
energy-related services, to customers across mitigate those risks.
- The design of the GB Capacity Market: the UK and Ireland.
In 2015 16, Energy Supply - Balance sheet: As a long-term business, Through the two Capacity Market Auctions operating profit increased by 8.2% to 398.9m SSE believes that it should maintain a strong since 2014 SSE has secured agreements reflecting growth from business energy supply, balance sheet, illustrated by its commitment to provide fide-rated electricity generation especially from the I&C sector, in which the to the current criteria for a single A credit capacity to help the UK Government, National number of customer accounts increased.
SSE believes that a strong balance Grid and Ofgem, to deliver their responsibilities This offset the decline in operating profit in sheet enables it to secure funding from debt for security of supply.
The UK Government is household energy caused by declining customer investors at competitive and efficient rates planning changes to the way the auction numbers and lower energy consumption.
Over and take decisions that are focused on the functions which should, over time, lead to the year SSEs annual profit margin per dual fuel long term all of which support the delivery a more effective mechanism.
household in GB was around 6.2%.
There were of annual increases in the dividend of at least - The evolution of the regulatory framework lower profits in SSEs Enterprise business, as the RPI inflation and the maintenance of an for energy networks: During the course of previous financial year included the 15.3m profit appropriate level of dividend cover.
the year there were notable developments from the disposal of SSEs gas pipelines business in the regulatory framework for networks.
Earning profits in a responsible way and there have been a number of revisions to the The conclusion, in September 2015, of the SSE provides people with an essential service overall structure of SSE Enterprise.
CMAs consideration of the concurrent British and therefore has embedded a responsible Gas Trading BGT and Northern Powergrids Providing greater transparency approach into its business operations, set out in NPg appeals on the RIIO-ED1 price control in reporting detail on pages 20 to 29 of this Report.
SSEs resulted in it being largely upheld, SSE In March 2014 SSE announced that it would responsible approach to its business conduct welcomes Ofgems recent decision that it begin a process of business separation to helps to ensure it is able to fulfil its core purpose would not conduct a mid-period review into provide greater transparency and clarity in its over the long-term.
In summary, SSE seeks to SHE Transmissions RIIO T1 price control and reporting.
There is now a subsidiary company maintain a responsible approach to business to remains committed to delivering against its for energy portfolio management, SSE EPM help ensure it is able to fulfil its core purpose, outputs while ensuring value for money for Limited, which sits alongside the separately execute its strategy and achieve its financial the remainder of RIIO T1.
disclosed Energy Supply and Generation objectives over the long term.
- The publication by the Competition and activities of the SSE Group.
The presentation of Markets Authority of its Provisional Performance of the three the results for SSEs businesses in its Financial Decision on Remedies: The CMAs business segments Statements continues to be kept under review.
announcement of their Provisional Decision There are three reportable segments that make on Remedies in March 2016 marked the This separation should increase transparency and up the SSE Group: Wholesale, Networks and near-culmination of a two year investigation accountability in the performance management Retail including Enterprise.
It is this balance of into the supply and acquisition of energy in and the regulatory and financial reporting of businesses across the energy sector that enables GB.
The proposed remedies focus towards each business.
Whilst there is a general drive SSE to pursue opportunities and manage risks.
engaging customers in the energy retail within SSE to improve accountability for the market.
SSE supports many of the remedies, Wholesale: SSEs Wholesale business includes individual business segments, each reportable but there are unfortunate shortcomings in the Generation and EPM, Gas Storage and Gas business segment works within SSEs strategic CMAs figures around the degree of consumer Production.
In 2015 16 there was a slight rise framework and it is their combined performance detriment and some of the remedies in operating profit in EPM and Generation, as a that enables it to meet its financial objective.
proposed require consideration as to their result of a 11.5% increase in output of electricity Managing energy sector issues practical and cost-effective implementation.
However, overall As energy is an issue of societal importance operating profit fell by 6.6% due to a 94% Furthermore, SSE provided a view on the risks political, legislative and regulatory change will reduction in Gas Production profits, reflecting posed by the forthcoming referendum on the continue to be an inherent feature of SSEs the very challenging market conditions, and a UKs continued membership of the European operating environment and is acknowledged continuing low contribution from Gas Storage.
Union in its Notification of Close Period as a principal risk.
The energy sector issues SSE The operating environment for Gas Production, Statement on 24 March 2016. continues to manage include: thermal generation plant and Gas Storage - A sustained fall in commodity prices: remains persistently challenging due primarily SSE believes that it has a duty to shareholders Commodity prices have an inherent influence to changes in commodity prices.
and customers to maintain a constructive on SSEs business.
Whilst the fall in commodity approach to its engagement with political Networks: SSE wholly owns three electricity prices over the 18 months to March 2016 has parties, regulators and governments within networks businesses and has a 50% share in had implications across the SSE Group, the the jurisdictions in which it operates.
the SGN gas distribution networks.
These balance of the business and the long-term well-managed,  energy nature of its assets and investments, mean that Alistair Phillips-Davies network companies provide a relatively stable it is well-placed to manage this risk.
In SSEs Chief Executive revenue flow for SSE and its future plans in both Retail business gas tariffs were reduced by 7
