SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Overview The Group delivered a good performance, driven by another year of like-for-like sales growth, new contract openings across the world and the continued successful implementation of our programme of strategic initiatives.
We are continuing to invest in the growth and development of the business and to bring exciting new brands and concepts to our clients and customers.
We are particularly pleased by the pace of development in North America and Asia Pacific, and the good progress of our strategic initiatives in the UK.
Whilst the picture in Continental Europe remains mixed, we have managed the cost base effectively and are encouraged by the improved operational performance in many of our larger countries.
Strong financial results The financial performance of the Group is explained on an underlying basis, which is based on the statutory reported results adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange and excluding the amortisation of intangible assets created on the acquisition of the SSP business in 2006.
The statutory reported performance of the Group is explained in the financial review, with a detailed reconciliation between statutory and underlying performance provided on page15.
The Group delivered a strong financial performance in 2016, with underlying operating profit increasing by 18.2% on a constant currency basis to 121.4m, and with an increase in the Significant structural operating margin of 70 bps to 6.1%.
growth opportunities Total revenue increased by 5.0% on a constant currency basis, including like-for-like sales growth of 3.0%, net contract gains of 1.7% and a further 0.3% arising from the additional and our programme leap year day.
Overall, like-for-like sales in the air sector grew more strongly than in rail, driven by the continued increase in passenger numbers throughout the year.
Following the terrorist to deliver operational incidents in France and Brussels in the first half, trading across our UK and Continental European rail operations remained slightly softer, particularly in the major capital cities.
excellence leave Overall net contract gains were up 1.7% in the full year, a significant increase from last years growth of 0.6%.
Over the year we saw very strong contributions from North America and the us well placed to Rest of the World, reporting net gains of c. 13% and 14% respectively, including from new outlets at airports in Houston, Orlando and Montreal in North America, and in Dubai, Beijing continue to deliver and Bangkok in the Restof the World.
We continue to focus on retaining profitable contracts and our contract renewal rate in 2016 was in line with our plans and slightly ahead of the both to our customers historical average.
The pipeline of new contracts is encouraging and during the year we won a number of and shareholders.
significant new contracts, including at airports in Newark, Los Angeles, Vancouver, Helsinki, Frankfurt, Dsseldorf, Shanghai, Bangkok, Hong Kong and Phuket.
We expect to begin operating these contracts progressively over the next three years.
The strong profit and margin growth reflects the like-for-like sales growth and further encouraging progress on our strategic programmes.
We have made good progress on our gross margin initiatives across the regions, as well as in our multi-year programme to improve operating efficiency, with further advances in our management of labour and overheads.
We delivered strong free cash flow of 65.0m, after investing 95.9m in capital expenditure, which was a 15.2m increase on the prior year.
The increase in capital expenditure reflects the higher number of new units opening in the year.
The reduction in reported net debt of 2.4m to 317.4m masked a good underlying performance with net debt reducing by 41.5m ona constant currency basis.
Summary and outlook The Group delivered a strong financial performance in the year with good like-for-like sales growth, higher net contract gains and an improvement in operating margin.
The new financial year has started in line with our expectations and the pipeline of new contracts is encouraging.
Looking forward we face a higher level of general economic uncertainty, but the significant structural growth opportunities and our programme to deliver operational excellence leave us well placed to continue to deliver both to our customers and our shareholders.
Kate Swann Chief Executive Officer 28 November 2016 3
