CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REPORT ST. JAMESS PLACE ONCE AGAIN ACHIEVED STRONG GROWTH ACROSS ALL KEY ASPECTS OF THE BUSINESS 2016 was an extraordinary year when market participants, most commentators and the public were surprised by how events unfolded.
First it was the vote to leave the EU in June and then it was the outcome of the US Presidential election.
Both seemed to defy the pollsters predictions and both have impacted stock markets in a somewhat unexpected way.
If they teach us one thing again its to avoid trying to predict the future!
Despite this political uncertainty St. Jamess Place once again achieved strong growth across all key aspects of the business.
Gross inflows were David Bellamy 23% higher at a record 11.4 billion which, together with Chief Executive characteristically high retention of client funds, resulted in record net inflows in the twelve months of 6.8 billion.
These net inflows, together with the strong investment returns our clients enjoyed, gave rise to 28% growth in funds under management to 75.3 billion.
At the heart of our sustained growth is our commitment to achieving good Gross inflows outcomes for our clients and the importance we place on building long-term relationships and serving them well.
That very nearly 90% of new investments come from existing clients, referrals and introductions and 99% 11.35bn 2015: 9.24bn of our clients, who responded to our recent survey, feel our proposition offers value for money, is testament to the fact that we are doing this.
For most people, their finances and wealth are personal and they want Funds under management to be treated in a highly personalised way and by someone they trust.
Indeed, we see a growing demand for sound, personal financial planning advice as individuals begin to fully comprehend, amongst other things, 75.3bn 2015: 58.6bn the financial implication of increased life expectancy whilst being faced with increasingly complex options in respect of their pension arrangements, supporting their offspring and other family matters.
The scale and quality of the Companys relationship based approach to wealth Full year dividend management, twinned with our distinctive investment management proposition, which has been positioned to serve this market, is doing so.
33.0p 2015: 27.96p per share We work to offer a consistent service to our Partners, and through them to their clients who do not have the time, expertise, inclination or confidence to look after their own affairs and we recognise that, for most of them, their main priority is to keep their money safe, ensure it is invested efficiently and at the very least realise a decent return.
Our portfolio approach, which gives access to a globally diversified range of assets, the holistic advice available from our Partners on everything from tax to intergenerational planning, is designed with this objective in mind.
2 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
