STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REVIEW Group Chief Risk Officers review Mark Smith on the risks that could impact our strategic objectives 2016 has been a year of progress on manyfronts from a risk and compliance perspective.
We ended the year with a balance sheet that is less concentrated, with 1 more granular risk appetite levels that have broader coverage, and a risk governance structure that is better aligned to support the execution of the Groups strategy.
Despite this progress there is more we cando.
Loan impairment is at an elevated level in our corporate portfolio and we remain focused on executing our multiyearFinancial Crime Compliance and Operational Risk Framework programmes.
It is imperative that risks are identified, measured and managed in a holistic manner and that the risk and compliance function supports and enables sustainable performance for the Group despite the uncertainties in the external environment.
Risk management approach The risk and compliance function is anintegral part of the Groups strategic decision-making process and plays a key role in building a stronger and more efficient business with the potential to produce better returns.
The Groups business plans to execute our strategy are fully aligned with our tightened risk appetite and both have appropriate Board level oversight.
We have a strong capital and liquidity position and a robust risk governance structure managed by an experienced senior team which enables the support ofour clients.
Action taken to reduce our concentrations ismaking the Group less sensitive to idiosyncratic impairment volatility.
Good risk management is not just about reducing exposures and we have selectively Risk is a shared responsibility increased exposures in certain sectors and locations, further diversifying our portfolio.
ofeveryonein the Group and We are focused on ensuring that risk and compliance work effectively as control isanintrinsic part of good 1.
In 2016 our risk tolerance and risk appetite definitions were updated.
Risk appetite is defined by the Group and commercialdecision making approved by the Board.
It is the maximum amount and type of risk that the Group is willing to assume in pursuit ofits strategy.
The management monitors against a risk tolerance that is within the Board approved risk appetite, in order to provide a buffer.
com 21 GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICERS REVIEW Further details of our risk management functions to holistically identify and business objectives and to facilitate safe approach are set out on pages 139 to 149 managerisks.
A healthy risk culture owned and sustainable growth.
collectively by everyone within the Group The table below shows the Groups iscritical to the successful delivery of our principal risks and how they are managed.
Principal risks Our approach Credit risk and country The Group manages its credit and country cross-border exposures following the principle of diversification cross-border risk across products, regions, client segments and industry sectors Market risk The Group controls its trading portfolio and activities to ensure that market risk losses financial or reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise Liquidity and funding risk The Group should be able to manage its portfolio to meet its payment and collateral obligations under extreme but plausible liquidity stress scenarios without recourse to extraordinary central bank support Capital risk The Group maintains a strong capital position including the maintenance of management buffers sufficientto support its strategic aims Operational risk including, The Group aims to control operational risks to ensure that operational losses financial or among others, financial reputational, including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause material damage crime, regulatory compliance totheGroups franchise and cyber risk Strategic risk The Group reviews its strategy on an annual basis to take account of external and internal developments and monitors execution of strategic plans to ensure their effective implementation Reputational risk The Group will protect its reputation to ensure that there is no material damage to the Groups franchise Risk profile and performance in 2016 has improved to 62 per cent from Build on the Groups risk culture 47 per cent through 2016 We made good progress in embedding Overall, the credit quality for the Group has accountability and end-to-end ownership improved in 2016, although stresses remain Commercial Banking loan impairment of risk within the business teams.
This reflects significant remained elevated but improved Wecontinue to set the tone from the exits within the liquidation portfolio and significantly across all regions benefitting topto build a strong first line of defence arepositioning of the corporate portfolio from improvements in credit and inline with our new granular risk appetite accountmanagement.
The cover ratio Proactive portfolio management levels.
The Group continues to take action increased from 70 per cent in 2015 We worked closely in the year with the to improve returns safely and sustainably.
to75 per cent in 2016 credit portfolio management team within In2016, the Group disclosed its decision to Corporate & Institutional Banking to Retail Banking loan impairment continued reduce balance sheet exposure to Principal reshape the segments risk appetite, to benefit from actions taken to reduce Finance by streamlining the business over ensuring pricing discipline and improved higher risk unsecured portfolios, and time.
As a non-strategic business, the distribution.
We continue to enhance therollout of a new Retail decisioning Group will exit Principal Finance and future ourstress-testing capability and build framework in 11 markets to target gains and losses will be treated as ourenterprise-wide risk management highquality originations restructuring and excluded from the function so that we can better manage underlying results of the Group.
The Groups The Groups gross non-performing loans the boundaries within which the client exposures remain short tenor and NPLs fell year-on-year, mainly due to Groupoperates ourportfolio is increasingly well diversified progress on the liquidation portfolio.
Right-size our risk appetite across various dimensions as we manage GrossNPLs in the ongoing business The Board approved more granular within the Groups tighter risk appetite.
increased, driven by a small number of riskappetite levels to avoid the build-up exposures in the Corporate & Institutional Conditions remain challenging in our ofconcentrations.
We have actively Banking segment.
Loan impairment in the reduced exposures in key areas such as Groups ongoing business was broadly NPL inflows, credit grade 12 inflows and commodity producers and in higher risk stable compared tolast year, representing accounts on early alert fell in the second sectors in China.
We will continue to an historically elevated level.
However, it is likely that the identify and manage risks as they emerge challenging conditions in our markets Risk performance by client segment Exit the liquidation portfolio and willpersist into 2017 and therefore we isasfollows: learn the lessons remainvigilant.
We exited more than 80 per cent of Corporate & Institutional Banking loan Further details of the 2016 risk performance RWAs in the liquidation portfolio with impairment remains elevated compared are set out in the Chief Financial Officers limited additional impairment.
The hard review on pages 24 to 29 and the Risk profile to long run historical levels.
Economic section on pages 150 to 181 lessons learnt from this exercise influence conditions in certain sectors remained our approach to addressing the challenging, notably in the oil and gas Update on key risk priorities preceding three priorities support services and diamond and In the Groups 2016 half year report and jewellery sector, although exposures to Enhance our compliance risk accounts I described the priorities that we these sectors are not material in the management framework were focused on in 2016.
We still have more context of the Group.
Conditions also We are making progress to implement work to do on many of these objectives remain stressed in certain countries our multi-year programme to upgrade butI can report the following progress impacted by sustained low commodities systems.
Weare investing in best-in-class oneachpriority: prices.
The cover ratio for the Corporate systems and are committed to achieving & Institutional Banking ongoing business the highest possible standards of 22 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION conduct from all employees under information and cyber security ICS risk Principal uncertainties ourfirm-wide conduct programme has led to enhanced focus by the Group.
We are in the business of taking selected While much progress has been made, Mitigating financial crime risks risks to generate shareholder value, wewill continue to assess and invest in Our investment in control systems and and we seek to contain and mitigate these our ICS risk capability data analytics is improving our ability to risks to ensure they remain within our risk fight financial crime.
We are committed to Improve risk infrastructure appetite and are adequately compensated.
being a leader in fighting financial crime We have multiple initiatives to improve The table below shows the Groups infrastructure for exposure management, principal uncertainties and how we are Strengthen the management of data quality, stress-testing, operational managing them.
information and cyber security risks risk management and reporting The evolving threat landscape and increased focus by regulators on Further details on principal uncertainties are set out in the Risk review on pages 136 to 138 Change Risk heightened in 2016 from prior Principal uncertainties year How this is mitigated Risk remained consistent with 2015 levels Deteriorating macroeconomic We have a framework that provides a 12 to 18 month forward view of theeconomic, conditions including continuing business and credit conditions across our key markets, enabling us to take slow growth in the eurozone, proactive action moderation of growth in China We monitor economic trends and geo-political events and conduct stresstests and and asset price correction portfolio reviews at a Group, country and business level to assess the impact of extreme but plausible events Geo-political uncertainties, We ensure that there is regular senior level oversight, through the GroupRisk including increasing protectionist Committee, of work undertaken to assess and manage geo-political risk policies following the US We continue to proactively assess and where appropriate, manage the impact to the Presidential elections and the UK Group and our exposures to clients, taking account of geo-political risks referendum decision to leave the European Union Brexit and the impact on world trade Evolving financial crime, fraud We continue to execute the Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme and cybercrime A Global Fraud Risk Management Group has been instituted to augment our fraud riskstandards The Group has implemented a range of cyber crime defences to protect from hacking, misuse, malware, errors, social engineering and physical threats in recognition of heightened risk of cyber security Operational performance eroding The Group has a clear strategy, consistent with the risk appetite and financial external confidence in the Group objectives that are agreed with the Board from time to time.
The strategy is reviewed and challenged regularly at the Board level, witha focus onexecution We update our equity and debt providers and rating agencies regularly to ensure they understand our progress against strategy Exchange rate movements We monitor movements closely and adjust our exposures accordingly.
We hedge our exposures to protect our capital ratios where practicable Evolving impact of regulatory We have implemented Group-wide policies and procedures to compliance manage the risks associated with managing regulatory change and toinform behaviour across the organisation with clear accountability andresponsibilities We are closely monitoring the discussions of the Basel Committee of Banking Services on the standards for the calibration and implementation of capital floors Regulatory investigations, We have invested in improving compliance controls, including increasing the capacity reviews and legal proceedings and capability of compliance resources, enhancing systems and controls, and implementing remediation programmes We are cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, requests for information and investigations and we actively manage legal proceedings, including in respect of legacy issues.
We are restructuring or otherwise mitigating higher-risk business activities Conclusion The Group has considerable opportunities The economic landscape remains to add value to our clients in our footprint.
challenging inmany of our markets and We are pursuing this objective putting we continue totake assertive actions their interests at the heart of everything where required.
Mark Smith we do while aligning our portfolio to our Group Chief Risk Officer more granular risk appetite thresholds.
