GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group Chief Executives review Bill Winters on a year of progress and a future of sustainable growth This time last year I set out what we needed to deliver in order for Standard Chartered to fulfil its true potential.
We have cleaned up our balance sheet and fortified our capital position.
We are attacking our cost base, reinvesting significantly to strengthen the Groups competitive advantages, and continuing to enhance our financial crime controls.
2016 proved to be a stern test of our strategy and our business plans and has shown them to be the right ones for the environment in which we are operating.
If those conditions change and require us to adapt, we will.
We have many challenges still, but we have the resources, the capability and the will to overcome them.
Our financial returns are not yet where they need to be and do not reflect the earnings capability we believe we possess.
Having worked hard to secure our foundations, we are now focused on realising this earnings potential.
We will do this by fully re-engaging with our clients, improving productivity and investing in our people and culture.
I am delighted that we are joined on this journey by our new Chairman, Jos Vials, who brings deep and extensive experience of the economic, political and regulatory environment in our markets and an exceptional grasp and understanding oftheinternational financial system.
Josisaproven leader, truly global inhisperspective and I am very glad thatwe areworking together.
Securing our foundations Among the many positive steps taken in thepast year to secure our foundations: We made substantial progress in exiting exposures beyond our tightened risk appetite, reducing risk-weighted assets inour liquidation portfolio by over Having worked hard to secure our 80 per cent foundations we are focused now on Our business in Korea returned to a small underlying profit for the year as a result ofsome tough decisions and a lot of realising the Groups earnings potential hardwork As part of our commitment to divest peripheral businesses we have signed 12 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION orcompleted 12 transactions since the benefits of our network to our clients Torry Berntsen, who took over as CEO in November 2015 in the region India and the Americas, respectively: Paul Skelton, our new Global Head of Banking We have taken steps to address the We have made good progress for Corporate & Institutional Banking: and verypoor performance of our Principal positioning ourselves as a leader in the Vivian Chan, who joined as Head of Private Finance business, putting the right team internationalisation of the renminbi and the Banking in Greater China & North Asia, in place to reduce our exposure over the opening up of capital markets in China.
each of whom brings over 25 years course of2017 We believe the mediumto long-term experience and will enhance our ability trend towards internationalisation remains tocapture growth opportunities.
We are addressing credit issues in and we are committed to providing PTBank Permata, a joint venture cutting-edge services to our clients Outlook inIndonesia in which we hold a 44.6 per cent stake, bolstering its You can read more about how we are We expect operating conditions in and management team and risk discipline.
getting more lean and focused and are between the markets in which the Group This will allow us to progress strategic investing and innovating in the Client operates to remain challenging.
There have options in the coming year segment and Regional review sections been some improvements: growth in China ofthis report, starting on page 30. has stabilised at a lower level, interest rates We will approach the remaining areat the early stage of normalisation restructuring issues with a view to getting Continuing to focus on conduct andcommodity prices have increased the best value for the Groups investors, moderately.
There are some new onthe shortest timeframe necessary.
We are passionate about advancing the uncertainties ahead, including threats to Groups conduct agenda.
We have made a open trade and globalisation, the impact Getting lean and focused lot of progress in 2016 and invested heavily ofregulation and loose monetary policy.
to build effective and sustainable systems The Group delivered its commitment Weare now better positioned to weather and infrastructure to ensure we canplay a togenerate over $1 billion of gross cost these challenges.
leading role in discovering and disrupting efficiencies in the year producing the financial crime.
We have created a new While the intensity of some headwinds has second successive year-on-year reduction platform at sc.
com  eased it will take time to fully capitalise on in net expenses and we remain on track todemonstrate the contribution that we the opportunities that a better environment tobring total costs in 2018 below the level andothers are making.
Having worked quickly last year incurred in 2015. to secure our foundations we are now We have sharpened our focus on all We have implemented significant building deliberately and patiently to deliver aspects of conduct, not simply on improvements to our client coverage model safe business growth.
combating financial crime, and have taken in Corporate & Institutional Banking and are appropriate action where we find conduct When I look back at the Groups long transforming our Retail Banking business to inconsistent with our standards.
We are history it is clear that periods of heightened a more digital delivery model.
Both sets of focusing on the behaviours, values and uncertainty can create opportunities for initiatives make us more efficient and easier principles that we follow as individuals to ourclients and for the Group.
We have made good progress enable us each to make the right decisions we have taken in 2016 are making us fitter, repositioning our Commercial Banking and exercise good judgement.
Wedo this nimbler and better able to find and execute business for longer-term sustainable because it is the right thing to do, and those opportunities.
because it makes us stronger and more The refreshed organisational structure sustainable, as well as reinforcing Summary oftheGroup is now firmly embedded, stakeholder confidence.
I am proud of the efforts made by the withlocal management now better able We announced recently that Tracey Groups employees in 2016 to secure our toinfluence the delivery of the Groups McDermott will be joining the Group, having foundations.
The pace and scale of those products and services while leveraging previously held a number of senior roles changes many of which were done in ourstrong central capabilities.
atthe Financial Conduct Authority with parallel and required intense periods of responsibility for the conduct regulation adjustment for employees undoubtedly Investing and innovating ofthe UKs financial services sector.
Tracey impacted someelements of the Groups The cost efficiencies we achieved in 2016 brings a wealth of leadership experience, financial performance in the period.
But created capacity for us to invest significantly huge knowledge of the industry and they were the right things to do.
to reinforce the Groups competitive in-depth bank supervision, regulatory and 2017 needs to be the year we demonstrate advantages.
These investments will enhance policy expertise to our Management Team.
we have the capacity to grow safely and the quality of service that we can provide sustainably.
We are using a number of toclients, improve our ability to capture Clients at the heart of our business measures to track progress in that regard, profitable and safe growth opportunities Most clients I meet have enormous affection some of which are included on pages 18 and differentiate us from ourcompetitors.
for Standard Chartered and value our to20.
We are increasingly recognised as an product capability and our presence in We operate in economies that are growing innovator and are confident we can leverage themarkets we serve.
Some have been and we serve clients whose wealth and this to generate higher returns over the clear though that we have become more businesses are growing.
While 2017 will coming years: difficult to deal with.
We have restructured undoubtedly have its share of challenges our organisation to address this, putting In Private Banking we have made and uncertainty, we are determined to clients rather than products at the core of significant investments in people and deliver on our promises.
our coverage and they are responding well technology.
It is still early days but we toour renewed focus.
areencouraged that our capabilities and potential are attracting first rate talent The quality of the Groups client base enabled us to attract an impressive array We see significant opportunities in Africa ofsenior talent in the year.
Out of the many for safe and profitable growth as other examples I would highlight Simon Cooper, international banks pull back.
Conditions Bill Winters who has already made a big difference to remain volatile but we are strengthening Group Chief Executive how the Corporate & Institutional Banking our position on the ground and delivering business operates: Zarin Daruwala and 24 February 2017 www.
