SUPERGROUP PLC SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 T 2016 Chief Executives Review.
The brand innovation through launching the Superdry Sport collection has been received positively by our customers and delivered immediate incremental sales, with extensive opportunities for the future.
Insight tells us that sportswear and ath-leisure fits perfectly with our brand image and is a future worldwide growth market for both the mens and womens sectors.
Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer 13 July 2016 www www.
co. uk 14 14 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The following describes the highlights for the year under FY16 delivered a consistent trading Strategic each of the four pillars of our strategy: Our focus is performance Report Read more on to execute our This has been a successful year that has seen, on a comparable Our Embed on pages 16 to 17 52-week basis, Group sales grow by 21% and underlying profit Governance strategy so that before tax increase by 16%.
Read more on Our sales performance has been consistently strong throughout Financial we deliver longStatements the year with similar levels of sales growth in both of the first and Enable on pages 18 to 19 second halves of the year, reflecting consistent growth from new stores and a strong e-commerce performance.
Evidencing the term sustainable progress we have made in delivering our strategy, all channels: Read more on Retail, E-commerce and Wholesale, delivered positive like-forgrowth.
Extend on pages 20 to 21 like growth.
The Retail division delivered a robust sales performance Read more on driven by: strong like-for-like sales, against weak prior year comparatives in the first half-year, and the opening of new Execute on pages 22 to 25 stores that saw average new space grow by 23%.
Our Wholesale division performance benefitted from the introduction of improved processes and range enhancements that have driven strong in-season sales.
co. uk 15 SUPERGROUP PLC SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 T 2016 Embed.
Our brand values for long-term sustainable growth.
People Product Progression Passion Doing the right The ongoing Stay grounded Always keep the thing for our creation of perfect and innovate passion, energy and Superdry family products like mad enthusiasm that customers and created the brand team www www.
co. uk 16 16 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Embedding our brand values is a key element to realising our With extending category and product ranges we have to ambition to become a global lifestyle brand.
This focus ensures consider how best to merchandise and create a store layout Innovative, British, Financial that all SuperGroup colleagues across the world have a real that maximises our customers shopping experience.
During Statements understanding and appreciation for what our brand stands for.
the year a store environment trial was commissioned.
Our first premium lifestyle This understanding, based on an extensive customer insight store to be re-fitted was opened in May 2016 in White City programme over the past two years, allowed us to structure, and a second at Manchesters Arndale centre which opened brand with global during this year, a brand purpose for all colleagues and business on 8 July 2016.
These trial stores introduce a number of new partners that: concepts to the store designed to project better the wider product offer, particularly in womenswear, increase range appeal.
intensity while increasing circulation space, and use technology defines the brand and reason for being: to enhance the shopping experience.
The learning from this 1 trial will inform the approach to a store re-fit programme which we anticipate will roll-out in calendar year 2017. creates one clear and concise brand story for all markets: and 2 To ensure that our colleagues have a real appreciation and understanding of our brand and that we can create a more positive working environment and strengthen our employment delivers a brand strategy that is relevant and brand, we conducted our first engagement survey during actionable for all parts of the business.
From this study we have developed an action plan both at the corporate and local level, to take us from being We have extended our customer insight programme, which we a good to being a great company to work for.
started in the UK last year, to Germany, USA and to key product areas.
Through collecting customer and market data we are able to improve the customer experience by embedding this insight into our ongoing product innovation programme.
This has been particularly successful in developing the sportswear range and in developing our premium product range, both of which have been well received by our customers.
co. uk 17 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Enable.
Future growth through investment in people, systems and infrastructure.
co. uk 18 18 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Strengthening our teams Infrastructure development The design to Acknowledging that the loss of key colleagues is one of our Investment in infrastructure to support the growth and Financial Statements biggest potential risks, we have invested in our design and development of the business will continue over the mediumbuying departments, established category management and term as we introduce developments to both our systems and customer process further developed our merchandising capability.
We now have physical infrastructure to benefit the Group.
This programme a strong team with a breadth of capabilities enabling our two will centre on executing one significant change per year in order will improve our founders to be focused entirely on design and new product to protect the quality of execution.
The key system investments and improvements we have made speed to market, During the year, the senior management team was further this year include the following: strengthened by the appointment of Nick Tatum as Global Retail a redesign of the look and feel of our e-commerce site: eliminate wastage Director, with responsibility for the Groups retail operations improving the web hosting architecture to improve the delivery and logistics.
speed of content and checkout optimisation: and and reduce our Optimising the design to customer process the merchandising team have been utilising a new As we optimise the design to customer process, we will merchandise planning system which complements Mercatus, operating costs.
improve our speed to market, eliminate wastage and reduce our existing merchandising management system.
During the year we undertook an endhas provided an effective set of tools that has facilitated to-end review of this key process to identify its strengths, an improvement in planning, monitoring forecasting and limitations and weaknesses, led by our teams and supported reporting, which has contributed to improvements in range by a global consultancy practice.
This review identified a multiplanning and stock allocation.
year business change programme that will introduce processes more appropriate to a business of our envisaged scale and In the current financial year we will focus on the introduction business model complexity, while retaining the entrepreneurial of new distribution facilities in Europe and USA, with known art that is pivotal to ensure the ongoing success of the business.
developments for future years including the re-platforming of our Consistent with our approach to any significant change, we e-commerce operations and the consolidation of inventory into will adopt a measured stance, introducing initiatives and a single flexible pool of stock.
working practices progressively so as not to create any risk to The harmonisation of our inventory into a single stock pool is the underlying business.
We are confident that the changes we part of a clear supply chain strategy to establish zonal fulfilment are planning are well proven, best practice in the retail sector in each of our key operating regions being able to fulfil Retail, suitably adapted to our business model.
E-commerce and Wholesale from a single distribution facility.
This development will balance better our stock to support Direct sourcing business growth by holding inventory closer to the end Having established our own quality assurance teams in India customer.
and China, this year we will continue to drive efficiencies through increasing our direct sourcing, which now stands at c. 60%.
People Doing the right thing for our Superdry family customers and team www.
co. uk 19 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Extend.
Our key categories to achieve our brand growth potential.
co. uk 20 20 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Our product opportunities Focusing on the opportunity in Significant Significant opportunities exist for Superdry as we look to Financial womenswear Statements continually extend into adjacent product categories and ranges Our strategy to grow the womenswear participation towards that are natural extension for the brand.
Led by womenswear, parity with menswear has shown great traction over the past opportunities exist which represents our most significant opportunity, denim, ski year with womenswear representing the fastest growth category.
and footwear also continue to gain traction with our customers.
Our recently established category and design teams are focused for Superdry as we The brand innovation through launching Superdry Sport has on putting the female customer at the heart of our decision been received positively by customers and delivered immediate making process, designing styles that our customers want to incremental sales, with extensive opportunities for the future.
look to extend into buy, and selling in a way that engages and inspires women.
Insight tells us that sportswear and ath-leisure fits perfectly The key to the evolution of the womenswear range has been to with our brand image and is a future worldwide growth market take a more feminine direction, including displaying products as naturally adjacent for both the mens and womens sectors.
We launched a complete looks in-store, offering regular newness to encourage premium range, collaborating with Idris Elba, ahead of peak repeat purchases, brand loyalty and broadening appeal of our product categories.
Christmas trade which provided a strong addition to our price core range to better match our identified customer profiles.
The autumn winter collection performed in line with Having, in the past two years, developed the capacity and our expectations and the insight gained from our customers has capability of our design team, the business is now well placed to been used to design the spring summer range.
Both Superdry continue its planned programme of core product development.
Sport and our premium range provide meaningful opportunities This programme will be complemented by the creation, in the for 2016 and beyond.
current year, of the SuperDesign Lab which, led by James Holder, will focus on the creation of further extensions of the Superdry brand into adjacent lifestyle categories.
Passion Always keep the passion, energy and enthusiasm that created the brand www.
co. uk 21 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Execute.
Growth opportunities in new and existing markets and online.
co. uk 22 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Our partner programme, where we offer our product for sale Expanding our retail estate in on third party retailer sites, is another important driver generating Forming a multiFinancial mainland Europe incremental growth.
This route to the customer provides us Statements A key driver of our growth strategy is the expansion of our with access to a new customer base and allows us to expand retail estate which is, as mentioned on pages 7 and 38, channel relationship where we already have a presence whilst controlling the brand predominantly focused in mainland Europe.
We have seven partner sites currently, including estate targets stores between 4,000 to 6,000 square feet in with our customers Zalando, La Redoute, and The Iconic.
The partner programme major city locations or prime locations in shopping malls.
We has seen good growth during the year and now represents continued to make good progress in FY16 and opened 119,000 12% of our e-commerce business.
square feet of new space in continental Europe, including a 20,000 square foot store in Cologne and an 11,000 square Improving our Wholesale operation foot store in Gothenburg.
New stores opened in mainland The Wholesale division continues to represent a significant part Europe represented 88% of the total net new space and we of our business and provides good growth opportunities.
Over now operate from 87 owned stores: 26 in Germany, 20 in the past few years the performance of our Wholesale channel Belgium, 11 in France, 9 in the Netherlands, 7 in Austria, 7 in has been restricted by limited investment, an unnecessarily Scandinavia, 5 in Italy and 2 in Spain.
Mainland Europe owned complex business model which did not leverage the retail offer, stores at the year-end comprised 281,000 square feet of trading and some consolidation in the marketplace resulting in the loss space, an increase of 73% during the year, and represents 31% of key accounts.
During the year there has been a focus on of our total retail estate.
simplifying and standardising our processes and contractual arrangements to enable us to develop stronger relationships Our European stores continue to deliver excellent returns on with existing customers as well as identifying new ones.
These capital with, on average, a 23-month post-tax payback against improvements have to date been implemented for our European a target of 30 months.
Looking at Germany in particular, we operations, but will be extended to our rest of world partners are pleased with the overall performance of the store portfolio in 2016.
With Wholesale now being integrated better into the especially given how young most of our stores are.
Since we rest of our business planning and processes, there are many opened our first store in November 2012 we have grown our opportunities to achieve closer alignment between Retail and presence to 26 owned stores and 11 franchises and we plan to Wholesale so that, in time, we will have a single optimised have 50 owned stores in Germany in the next five years.
structure for all routes to market.
Increasing e-commerce penetration During FY16 we have seen strong in-season sales as well as Strong growth in e-commerce continued during FY16 with double-digit growth in our order books reflecting the progress internet participation increasing to 23.1% of total Retail sales.
we have made in our renewed focus on the Wholesale business.
During the year this growth, which was stronger than many pure Europe has seen the fastest sales growth and Germany play operators, reflects our continued investment to improve overtook the UK to become our largest wholesale market.
the customer on-line experience, the introduction of iKiosks to We opened a net 48 franchise stores in the financial year owned and franchised stores and the significant improvement in including our first stores in Iceland, Iran, Oman and Poland, on-line availability following the consolidation of retail stock prior adding 93,000 square feet to the franchised store estate.
The bespoke iKiosk App gives customers instore access to the full product range from www.
com Progression helping us to build transactions with customers and capture Stay grounded potentially lost sales.
and innovate like mad www.
co. uk 23 SUPERGROUP PLC SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 T 2016 Execute.
We will continue to invest in our infrastructure, product, processes and colleagues to deliver long-term, sustainable growth and create a global lifestyle brand.
co. uk 24 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Group Trendy.
The day-to-day business operations will be Developing new markets managed by Trendy, whilst our involvement will be focused Looking to the long-term we are developing two markets that Financial 5 Trial Stores on strategic direction, brand support, design services and Statements represent significant future growth opportunities.
The operation will North America be funded by a combined investment of up to 18m though Planned for North Establishing a successful presence in North America is an we anticipate that the joint venture will be self-funding in the important and natural step to realising our global ambition.
We remain on track to open three trial stores America in 2016 North America provides us with the opportunity to enhance during 2016 and, if successful, will undertake a measured rollour brand and build significantly the long-term value of our out programme using a combination of owned and franchised business.
Progress has been made during the year in restores.
setting the USA e-commerce and wholesale routes to market 3 Trial Stores In conclusion, we have made good progress against our four and we are starting to see a positive customer response from strategic objectives this year.
Delivering these objectives will the remedial actions we have taken in the stores that we build both our international scale, primarily through opening Planned for China inherited.
Store trading improvements have been seen as a new stores in Europe and further global e-commerce growth, result of the introduction of a broader product range, better while also improving efficiency across the business.
We will in 2016 price architecture and more capable store colleagues.
During continue to invest in our infrastructure, product, processes and 2016 we plan to open five trial stores which will enable us to colleagues to deliver long-term, sustainable growth and create a experiment with different store formats.
These stores will be global lifestyle brand.
predominantly located in the North-East and will reflect a full up to 18m Superdry offer, representative of that seen in Europe.
We are Read more about Our Performance on pages 32 to 42 confident that we have secured good locations at appropriate rents and will use the learning to develop a new store opening combined programme.
investment in China China China is an exciting market and is forecast to overtake the through joint venture USA as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world.
Customer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned to be successful.
We have a 10-year minimum 50:50 joint venture agreement with Trendy International www.
