10 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives statement US, changed as the year progressed.
We made one new commitment in the Our investment portfolio has After asustained period of declining year, a $100 million commitment to reported a total return of 9% in the nancing costs on increasingly attractive leading US mid-market private equity year, with performance driven by terms for borrowers, the fall in the oil manager AEA Investors.
AEAs strategy post-2012 and non-core investments, price has proved to be the catalyst for a is to make control investments in global, which generated returns of 19% and rapid reversal of this trend in the US credit mid-market companies, primarily 24% respectively.
Along with rising equity market headquartered in the United States, valuations, declining nancing costs have within their core sectors of value-added Within the post-2012 investment portfolio contributed to rising valuations in recent industrials, specialty chemicals, consumer we have been encouraged by the early years, which reached record levels in the retail and business services.
AEA target strong performance of the investments second half of 2015. well-positioned companies with good free and the two realisations to date.
cash ow generation where significant The portfolio of 45 companies has a bias Against this backdrop and an increase in operational change, led by their operating towards more defensive, structural growth strategic buying activity, we have seen a partners and network of senior business sectors, mainly the Healthcare, TMT and significant decline in investment activity executives, can accelerate growth and Business Services and has resulted in the in our portfolio, in particular in the second profitability.
We believe the US mid-market investments delivering strong weighted half of the year, as our managers have is an attractive area for investment and average LTM earnings and revenue growth shown strong investment discipline in AEAs deep sector knowledge coupled with of 10% and 11% respectively over the year.
We believe that current their network of senior business executives, In particular, we have seen very strong market conditions, and in particular the active operational involvement and focus growth from our underlying companies reversal in debt market trends, will in time on free cash ow allow the rm to deliver inthe Healthcare and TMT sectors and our lead to an increasingly attractive equity strong and consistent returns across co-investment in TeamViewer has been investment environment as transaction the cycle.
written up to 25 million, or 1.4x cost.
In the shorter Looking at the wider environment, financial term, we are beginning to see some Within our non-core investments, market conditions changed signicantly as compelling investment opportunities performance has again been driven 2015 progressed.
The correlation between inprivate equity related debt.
by our holdings in the Diamond fund successive monetary and quantitative of funds programme, with the strong Our latest commitment to AEA takes our easing programmes and rising risk asset exit environment enabling the funds to uncalled commitments to 332 million.
prices which had characterised markets deleverage signicantly and towards the We have a robust pipeline of investment in previous years, has broken down.
end of the year, commence distributions opportunities in both Europe and the US The effectiveness of central banks policies to shareholders.
We expect distributions and expect to make a number of new is being questioned with the realisation from these funds to accelerate over the commitments and investments during that more creative scal policy and coming years.
We have a strong structural reforms are also required to balance sheet, which is well positioned to The portfolios weighting to pre-2012 generate a sustainable improvement in meet our uncalled commitments and to investments fell from 61% to 32% with a real growth.
In addition, markets are also support our future investment programme.
number of the more mature investments having to digest the impacts of divergent having been sold into a favourable exit monetary policy between the US and the environment.
The remaining larger other major central banks.
Lynn Fordham assets in the pre-2012 portfolio, NXP Within private equity, the first half of Chief Executive Semiconductors and Platform Specialty 2015 saw a continuation of the trends Products are expected to be fully realised 22 March 2016 experienced in recent periods: favourable indue course.
nancing markets: rising valuations: robust new deal activity: high levels of distributions: and a strong fundraising environment.
With the increase in volatility across financial markets building through the year, the environment for new private equity transactions, most notably in the Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 11 We have a strong balance sheet, which is well positioned to meet our uncalled commitments andsupport our future investment programme.
% 9 Total return on the net investment portfolio
