STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS DELIVERING Delivering strong organic earnings growth First acquisition under new management team completed, TODAY, INVESTING integration on schedule with synergies accruing as expected Achieving 20% sales from products launched in the last five years in legacy business, underscores the importance of FOR TOMORROW ourR&D investment Approved investment in our Worms, Germany and PasirGudang, Malaysia sites to drive future growth Investment in people and processes surrounding manufacturing excellence, procurement and businessdevelopment 2016 has been a consecutive year of record profitability with strong Our strategy of driving both an improved performance from our existing business as well as inorganic growth delivered excellent growth in our core business results in 2016.
Our two reporting segments generated increased profitability and our first bolt on acquisition, PAC, made a strong alongside significant investment contribution in the second half of the year.
tostrengthen our platform for The Underlying profit before tax increased by 28.2% from 95.3m to122.2m.
The substantial improvement in profitability reflects: future growth.
improved trading activity of all our existing businesses driven by ourstrong focus on innovation, margins, utilisation and costs: our acquisition of PAC which completed on 30 June and added 6.4m tooperating profit in the second half: and favourable foreign currency translation due to the depreciation in Sterling, which added a further 11.5m to profits.
The IFRS profit before tax increased by88.6% from Calum MacLean 72.5m to 136.7m, including the profits on the Malaysian land sales Chief Executive Officer 33.2m and the disposal of our South Africanbusiness 4.7m.
Net cash inflow from operating activities was strong at 136.6m 2015: 96.8m and the cash flows were again robust with good conversion of EBITDA to cash.
In addition, the cash flow benefitted from the Malaysian land sales receipts 33.8m and the sale of our South African business 12.8m.
The cash performance of the business over the year has resulted in the Groups leverage at the yearend to be below 1 times net debt:EBITDA, after paying 165.8m for PAC in the middle of the year.
This gives us a strong position from which to consider options for both organic and inorganic investment to support future growth.
CONTINUED FOCUS ON INNOVATION The Group made further progress in the year on new product sales, akey measure of our capacity to innovate and bring new value enhancing products to the market and our customers.
In 2016, sales of new products launched in the last five years was 20%, an increase on the prior year 18%, and meeting our stated target of 20% for the first time since the metric was introduced in 2013.
Although this is an important milestone for our business, as outlined at our Capital Markets Day in December, we fully intend to continue to focus on our innovation pipeline to maintain the momentum seen over the last few years.
PAC HAS ENHANCED SYNTHOMERS PLATFORM FOR FUTURE GROWTH The acquisition of PAC for $221m on 30 June represented a milestone for our new team, and reinforced a key part of our strategy for growth.
The acquisition brought seven new sites, 760 employees and was bought on an EBITDA multiple of 7.5 times pre synergies and 5.5 times post synergies.
Furthermore, PAC has brought us our first manufacturing site in the US, and extended our product range to include powder coatings and redispersible powders.
SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT The Group sets high standards in relation to safety, health and environment which are rigorously assured through a multi-tiered approach under the governance and supervision of our Group SHE team, and reported on at each executive team and Board meetings.
6 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Undertaken asset profitability benchmarking and performed gap analysis to explore incremental opportunities to drive further efficiencies: Developed plans to fully utilise existing plants and to debottleneck Q&A plants where we are capacity constrained and: Redesigned the Group bonus schemes to ensure that the bonus targets are more aligned to the activities of employees, to drive behaviour and value.
As a speciality chemicals company, our Research and Development W hy are you investing in the manufacturing Q centres are fundamental to our reputation, strength and growth, excellenceand procurement functions?
andaccordingly we have taken steps to: Invest in new facilities at our Harlow site, and in upgrading our Driving organic growth in our existing business is underpinned A Customer Relationship Management systems to capture and by 1 improving our manufacturing performance and develop business opportunities: manufacturing products more efficiently, and 2 effective procurement Leverage customer lead development initiatives, ensuring the recognising the Groups raw material spend is approximately 700m closeworking relationships with the Business Development teams: per annum.
Optimising these two functions is fundamental to the Be disciplined on project prioritisation and stage gate scrutiny to growth of ourbusiness.
optimise our return from the investment in development projects.
Q W hat is behind the significant risein capital Whilst these Group-wide initiatives are supporting our organic growth ?
strategy, we see significant opportunities to drive further growth in our ENA and ARW segments through investment.
Accordingly we have We have approved large expansion projects in our Nitrile latex A approved capital expenditure to invest in significant plant expansions plant in PasirGudang, Malaysia 45m and Worms, Germany atour ENA Worms dispersions plant, and our ARW Pasir Gudang 17m to capture strong market growth opportunities.
Additionally we Nitrile latex plant.
Both these investments will substantially increase arecommitted to debottlenecking and integrating our newly acquired manufacturing capability in our water based polymers.
Similarly we PAC sites inRoebuck, USA: Sant Albano, Italy andChonburi, Thailand.
willalso be enhancing and integrating the ARW Chonburi dispersions plant into our Asian plant network to provide needed capacity to meetgrowing market demand.
We expect that all these capacity investmentsto be delivered in mid 2018 to capture market growth.
As outlined earlier in 2016, these significant strategic investments Significant investment has been made during 2016 to further enhance incapacity expansion projects coupled with our ongoing SHE and the Groups performance, instilling the importance of compliance with sustenance programmes and the integration costs associated with the safety standards set, and individual employee responsibility.
The the PAC acquisition will, as set out at the Capital Markets Day, lead Group SHE team introduced the SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules to a step up in the annual capital spend of the Group to circa targeting the safety of our employees and our plants and sites, across 40-60m in 2017 and 2018. existing and newly acquired PAC sites, with employees certifying thatthey had read and were committed to the principles.
Our key DELIVERING M&A GROWTH performance measures highlight the step change in performance Today we have announced another bolt-on acquisition, Perstorp delivered in the current year, and in particular the significant reduction Belgium, for a total enterprise value of 78m.
Acquisitions remain a key inthe reportable injuries to our employees and contractors.
part of our growth strategy for the Group and we are highly active in targeting and reviewing speciality chemical acquisition opportunities.
DELIVERING ORGANIC GROWTH Weare looking at both bolt-on acquisitions, similar to PAC, as well as We have continued to focus on driving an improved performance from more transformational step change transactions in adjacent chemistries.
our underlying business, an important aspect of our strategy.
At our We have assembled an experienced M&A and due diligence team to Capital Markets Day in December, we provided insight on how we are review the acquisition opportunities as and when sale mandates are building growth momentum.
Whilst the organic growth strategies for issued.
As we have previously commented, we will be opportunistic but ourENA and ARW segments have bespoke elements, there are a disciplined in our approach to acquisitions and we will not be limited by number of common attributes such as optimising the organisational geography or chemistry.
structure, driving greater efficiencies from the existing operations and manufacturing, and investment in Research and Development to OUTLOOK provideproduct differentiation and improve margin performance.
At this early stage of the year, we still expect to see resilient tradingin Europe, although the raw material and macroeconomic We have invested in our organisational structure to create environments remain volatile.
Whilst we also expect our Asian Nitrile functionalexcellence to better capture value including establishing: business to befurther impacted by the introduction of the additional An Operational and Manufacturing Excellence team to drive cost industry capacity in 2016, this will be partially offset by a full year performance and asset utilisation across the manufacturing sites: ofPAC andten months of Perstorp Belgium being included in the A specialist procurement function with significant experience Groups results.
inbuying raw materials for the European asset base and: Business Development teams to coordinate and generate Despite these uncertainties and challenges, the Boards newbusiness leads for existing and new products, to drive expectations remain unchanged from the trading update on volume growth.
20January and we remain confident in delivering long term growthin profitability and shareholder value.
In optimising the existing operations, we have: Driven a significantly improved Safety, Health and Environmental CALUM MACLEAN SHE performance: Chief Executive Officer Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 7 6 March 2017
