Chief Executive Officers review FY16 business review Mobile We made considerable progress during the year towards our strategic Fast growing quad play penetration: ambition of becoming the UKs leading value for money quad play 13.5% share of SIM-only marketin the year operator and delivered FY revenue growth of 2.4% and Headline The mobile base grew strongly in FY16 with 235k net adds taking the EBITDA in line with our revised guidance of 260m.
total base to 699k customers, 19% of the base compared to 12% a year ago.
We saw strong take-up of bundled SIMs by our PlusTV The cyber attack in Q3 drove elevated churn for a short period.
customers, and further strong growth across our other value for money Anextended period through which we were unable to trade effectively SIMs including over the summer, our Unlimited SIM.
We also launched, also led to delays inimplementing a number of initiatives in the Making inTalkTalk Business, our new O2 mobile proposition for business TalkTalk Simpler Programme MTTS.
However, as expected, H2 still customers.
In aggregate these value for money propositions helped showed a strong step up in profitability with Headline EBITDA margin drive our share of the new acquisitions SIM-only market to 13.5% in of18.4% H1: 9.9%, helped by the benefits of MTTS coming through theyear FY15: 10.3%, second only to the market leader EE.
strongly, and lower SAC and marketing costs.
We have a defined three stage plan to build out our mobile business The actions we took following the cyber attack to focus on our which will see further expansion of the base, growing revenues existingcustomers and to restore normality have more than mitigated andprofitability.
any lasting impact on the business.
This focus, together with the Phase 1 FY16 17 customer experience benefits of MTTS, helped us to stabilise the We began the build of our new billing system and other associated broadband base in Q4: drive strong growth in Revenue Generating functionalities such as CRM and network migration development Units RGUs : and deliver the lowest ever churn in our history 1.3%.
On completion of the new systems we will be able to launch Equally the learnings from our detailed review of systems and 4G and national roaming services on our new MVNO agreement with processes following the cyber attack have helped us to prioritise Telefnica UK O2 and extend our full mobile proposition to business elements of our trading approach and strategy, which will help us customers.
The new system suite will allow us to manage our own deliver material improvements in profitability in FY17.
number range with TalkTalk SIMs, offer mobile sales and service The Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.58p taking the capability through multiple channels, and provide increased self fullyear dividend to 15.87p, 15% higher year on year, and in line with service capability for customers.
We will complete billing and CRM ourcommitment.
migration in H2 FY17, andbegin customer migration from Vodafone toTelefnica UK.
Thisprocess will involve a SIM swap and we will Broadband takeacareful approach tothe planning of this transfer in order Base stabilised and significant improvement in churn in Q4 tominimise customer disruption.
We ended FY16 with an On-net base of 3,996k customers taking The economics of our mobile proposition are expected to improve ourcore phone and broadband service FY15: 4,177k.
materially as we move customers from Vodafone to O2, with the full The change in the base reflects two principal effects: benefit being seen in FY18.
an adjustment arising from a change in credit terms from 180 days Phase 2 FY17 18 to the industry standard of 90 days, which resulted in 72k non-paying Our MVNO agreement with O2 also provides an opportunity to move customers being disconnected during H1: and to a deeper integration with O2s radio access network through the building of a thick core system.
This will allow us to control much a 95k impact in Q3 resulting from the cyber attack, reflecting churn more of our customers mobile experience including real time in the immediate aftermath of the attack and much lower additions management of traffic, alignment with our converged fixed and activity as it took longer than expected to return the business to mobile infrastructure for creating truly integrated quad play normal sales effectiveness.
propositions, and work with other network providers e. g. for national The balance of the fall of 14k reflects underlying activity of -8k in H1 roaming.
We have begun to develop our plans for the thick core, and -6k in Q3, with Q4 net adds flat.
We also completed the migration including some early testing of the necessary hardware equipment.
of Tesco broadband customers, and saw continuing growth in our We shall continue detailed planning and testing through FY17 with profitable B2B wholesale broadband base to 830k FY15: 737k.
aview towards full implementation in early FY18.
While average churn across the year was 1.6% including the cyber Moving our customers onto the thick core will further improve the related churn, we saw a significant improvement in Q4 to 1.3%.
economics of our mobile business.
05 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued Mobile continued opportunity to build a mass market, value for money proposition that Phase 3 FY18 delivers value for consumers and shareholders through keen pricing Our thick core will also enable us to roll out femto cells across our and rapid scaling.
We expect to review progress and decide on the fixed line base, thus creating an inside-out fixed-mobile network that next phase of development later in the year.
will leverage our Guard band spectrum.
Ofcom is currently consulting the industry on our request to vary the Guard band licence for 4G TV usage and we expect a resolution in the summer.
Femto cells on 4G Over one-third of base taking TV: growing engagement with product spectrum will vastly improve customers in-home mobile experience, The TV base declined modestly during the year by 25k to 1,389k as we especially in areas with poor radio network coverage, and will allow us focused on deepening the engagement with our existing TV customers.
to offload mobile traffic onto our fixed line network, thus delivering With over a third of our base now taking TV the product has been savings on MVNO costs.
We began laboratory testing of femto cells aremarkable success story for us in driving triple play growth with during FY16, and have seen encouraging results on off-load capability 1.4million customers 38% of our phone and broadband base from and service quality.
We expect roll-out to commence once the thick launch four years ago.
Customers genuinely value the YouView core is fully functional.
experience that integrates free, Pay, OTT, and premium channels, andwe see benefits to engagement, NPS, and churn.
In addition, Over time there will be further opportunities to drive down data costs wehave seen growing purchases of transactional video as customers across this inside-out network, potentially by building a larger small-cell become more comfortable and knowledgeable with the range of network combined with suitable high frequency spectrum.
content on offer, with on-demand usage growing 20% year on year.
Fibre We are now evolving the proposition for the future, based on what our Continuing strong growth with 225k net adds in year value conscious customers want, which is access to the widest range andimprovedcustomer experience of content, on flexible terms and on multiple devices.
Amongst other We added 225k net new fibre customers during the year, taking the developments, TalkTalk TV customers can now sign up and pay for base to 704k, 19% of the broadband base compared to 13% a year ago.
Netflix on their TalkTalk bill, and from June 2016, will be able to Demand has been helped by customers growing recognition of the subscribe to BT Sport channels in addition to our existing portfolio benefits of higher speeds and bandwidths, and the availability of ofall Sky Sports channels.
ourself-install option which is used by over 90% of customers.
In April we launched the TalkTalk TV store, which enables all of our Fibrecustomers are amongst our most satisfied customers with customers, including broadband only customers, to access pay TV strong net promoter scores and significantly lower propensity to call, content on multiple devices.
This is an important development on our which is driving lower churn compared to broadband customers.
TV journey, using the technology we acquired from blinkbox, as a set We have continued to improve our customers experience of top box will no longer be the only way to gain access to a broad range fibrebyinvesting in our backhaul network and ended the year with of TalkTalk TV content.
significant improvements in network performance.
Over the next twoyears we will invest further in enhancing the capability of our TalkTalk Business nextgeneration access and edge networks, which will drive significant Delivering high margin growth through data further improvements in customer satisfaction and reduce our TalkTalk Business revenues account for over 30% of the Group and operating costs.
grew by over 5% during the year.
It is a significant, profitable and fast We are making significant progress meeting the key operating metrics growing part of the Group and our ambition is to double its size over cost per home passed, customer experience and penetration in the medium term driven by continuing growth in data products, next Ultra Fibre Optic UFO, our fibre to the premise FTTP trial in York.
generation voice services and broadband customer base growth We completed the build of the first 8,000 homes at a cost of under delivered via our direct and partner wholesale channels.
500 per home and are now testing penetration.
Customer trials The On-net wholesale base TTB is one of only two national ended at the end of March, when we launched the proposition wholesalers of broadband and fibre to the cabinet, comprising commercially.
Over 90% of the trial participants have chosen to retain theretail customers of businesses such as the Post Office and the service and pay 21.70 per month which is particularly notable, UtilityWarehouse, was not directly affected by the cyber attack and asthe vast majority were not existing TalkTalk customers.
After two therefore grew year on year, as did TTBs Direct channel On-net base.
months TalkTalk UFO penetration stands at 7% of homes passed andcontinues to accelerate.
Feedback from the first customers has Corporate revenues within TTB were up 2.4% against a strong prior been extremely positive and we are polling customers in other York year comparative FY15: 10.3%, with compound annual growth neighbourhoods to establish interest for the next phase of building.
Based on these experiences, we remain confident about the potential Data revenues once again grew strongly 23.7%, with over to roll out FTTP at scale.
At a build cost of under 500 per premise 9,000new high speed data lines connected and a strong pipeline passed and 30%40% take-up, we believe it will be possible to build oforders at the year end.
High speed data now accounts for 31% of our ac.
10 million household network across the UK.
We see UFO as an Corporate revenue.
Business demand for high speed data is growing 06 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 fast and TalkTalk Business is well placed to provide value for money The exchanges are connected via collector nodes that aggregate high speed connectivity that is margin accretive.
The main constraint allofthe 3,000 exchanges and connect these to the core network.
to this growth continues to be BT Openreachs inability to provision The equipment in these locations a mixture of BT Openreach exchanges orders on time.
and our own data centres is owned by TalkTalk.
The nodes are connected by 10 Gigabits per second circuits to the core network for delivery of Carrier revenues grew strongly in H1 34.1% but as expected, were voice and data services.
These circuits are either leased bandwidth flat year on year in H2, with full year growth at 13.3%, and are expected orleased dark fibre, both of which are well-served markets.
to remain broadly stable in FY17.
Voice revenues continued to decline -16.2% in line with market trends.
During the year we acquired and Our dark fibre core optical network is the fundamental underlay of the integrated tIPicall, a leader in Next Generation Voice services.
Customer network a high speed, high-capacity all-IP national backbone that reception to the new products launched on the back of this acquisition enables efficient and flexible routing of voice and data traffic.
The size has been very positive, and we expect the rate of decline in total voice and all-IP nature of this network allow it to be scaled very efficiently to moderate as this business grows.
for growing usage, enabling it to support growing customer demand for high speeds and greater data consumption.
Making TalkTalk Simpler We have a defined programme of investment in the network to improve MTTS is our wide ranging transformation programme that is delivering capacity and efficiency in line with the expected growth in demand material improvements to our customers experience, driving operating for high speeds and data consumption.
In FY16 we completed the first cost savings, and reducing subscriber acquisition costs SAC through phase of our backhaul upgrade to deliver significant improvements lower churn and costs per add CPA.
innetwork performance for fibre customers.
Over the next two years We made significant progress in FY16, achieving 21m of cost savings we will invest further in enhancing the capability of our next generation in the year through, amongst other things: access and edge networks, which will reduce our costs to serve for all our customers, and drive significant further improvements in customer better network performance from improved traffic management satisfaction.
In addition we have designed the investments in the and the deployment of faster backhaul circuits: network to future proof three priority areas: the growth in fibre from fewer missed engineer appointments and improved resolution FTTC to FTTP, the best Ethernet business network of choice, and ofproblem orders through case management: mobile expansion.
We expect these investments to fall within our capex envelope of 6%7% of revenues.
the implementation of live chat and voice biometrics: and Overall, as we continue to reduce the marginal cost of capacity improved fault diagnosis and resolution, reducing engineering ofournetwork, we will be able to sustain a cost advantage that costand unnecessary customer contacts.
wecantranslate into compelling value for money propositions.
The cyber attack in Q3 highlighted the need to put our existing customers first and to accelerate the development of even more FY17 guidance secure, simplified and resilient processes.
MTTS is at the heart of this Revenue and EBITDA process and whilst we had to reprioritise some work-streams as a We expect FY17 revenues to grow modestly, driven by a broadly result of redirecting online resources to addressing the cyber attack, stablebroadband base and continued growth in TalkTalk Business: we exited the year on track to deliver 35m40m incremental and Headline EBITDA of 320m 360m.
Consistent with the trends benefits in FY17.
In total therefore, we expect cumulative benefits seen in Q4, we expect to see Headline revenue decline in H12017, from the start of the programme in FY13, to reach c. 90m by the reflecting the smaller On-net base, and return to growth in H2 as endof FY17.
With considerable further benefits to come from the comparatives ease.
programme, savings beyond FY17 are expected to annualise at a In line with this, we expect EBITDA to reflect an H2 bias, with an H1:H2 substantially higher level.
weighting of broadly one third:two thirds.
TalkTalk network Net debt Leveraging our capability and enhancing customers experience We expect Net debt EBITDA to fall towards our target leverage of 2x Our network gives us a significant competitive advantage as we look by the end of FY17.
With capex planned at 6%7% of revenues and a towards building upon our value for money positioning.
At the heart material reduction in cash exceptional costs we expect year end net ofour network, is the unbundling equipment digital subscriber line debt to be broadly similar to that at the end of FY16.
access multiplexers, multi-service access nodes and Ethernet switches Dividend that we have installed in over 3,000 BT exchanges, giving us c. 96% We expect the FY17 dividend to be at least in line with that of FY16 coverage of the UK the largest such deployment in the UK and a andcovered by free cash flow.
This allows us to take control of the copper line that connects customer premises to the exchange, at a regulated cost that has fallen over time.
Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer 12 May 2016 07 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
