Strategic Report Chief Executives Review We delivered improved quality of earnings and executed an extensive programme to strengthen the business Javed Ahmed, Chief Executive Speciality Food Ingredients performed 1% lower at 1,458 million 6% lower in 1 KEY HEADLINES well, benefiting from improved mix, good constant currency.
Margins grew strongly Group performed solidly with volume growth in the Asia Pacific and before the impact of Commodities, and adjusted profit before tax up 5% Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA adjusted operating profit was 2% higher 1% in constant currency, in line regions, and improved SPLENDA at 188 million 4% lower in constant with expectations Sucralose performance.
Adjusted operating profit in Major structural change initiatives Products launched from the innovation Speciality Food Ingredients grew 10% successfully executed, significantly pipeline continued to grow strongly.
to 150 million 5% higher in constant strengthening the business currency, and in Bulk Ingredients was Bulk Ingredients core business delivered Eaststarch joint venture 1% higher at 84 million 3% lower in re-aligned to increase speciality strong performance.
Central costs significantly as US corn wet milling focus and reduce exposure to increased by 11million to 46 million regulated markets industry dynamics remained wellprimarily reflecting the re-instatement balanced, and we also delivered SPLENDA Sucralose restructured of Group-wide employee incentive awards.
and repositioned as a more manufacturing efficiency improvements.
This strength in the core business largely Adjusted profit before tax for continuing focused, low cost and sustainable business offset the performance of Commodities operations at 193 million was 5% higher which deteriorated sharply in the face of 1% higher in constant currency and Capacity expansion projects for Speciality Food Ingredients extremely challenging market conditions, included the Groups share of profits from especially in US ethanol.
joint ventures at 28 million, 5 million completed as planned Stronger supply chain performance higher.
Adjusted profit before tax was During the year, we successfully 67million higher than the statutory as operational disciplines continue completed a number of major structural to strengthen reported profit before tax of 126 million, change initiatives including the largely as a result of net exceptional costs Early progress against each element re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint of 2020 Ambition in the year of 50 million.
Exceptional items venture in Europe, the restructuring of include costs relating to the restructuring the SPLENDA Sucralose business, and of the SPLENDA Sucralose and European the expansion of capacity for Speciality businesses totalling 48million 2015 Overview of Group performance Food Ingredients.
Taken together, 118 million, US litigation costs of 15 The Group made solid progress during these initiatives further re-shape and million, and a net gain of 7 million in the the year delivering improved earnings.
significantly strengthen the business Tate&Lyle Ventures fund.
While we expect A number of major structural change in support of our 2020 Ambition.
to recognise further modest exceptional initiatives were also completed to further Financial summary costs in relation to the completion of the strengthen the business, drive higher Group sales were 2,355 million, 1% Groups restructuring in the 2017 financial quality earnings, and position the Group higher than the prior year 3% lower in year, we now expect the total cost to be for long-term growth.
constant currency reflecting the pass below the level of 185 million announced through of lower corn prices.
The effect of exchange Food Ingredients sales were up 4% at translation was to increase adjusted profit 897million 2%higher in constant before tax by 8 million.
currency and Bulk Ingredients sales were 1 Changes in constant currency calculated by retranslating comparative period results at current period exchange rates.
06 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Chief Executives Review Adjusted diluted earnings per share for Sucralose Re-positioning SPLENDA continuing operations were 2.5p higher as a more focused, low-cost and OUR VISION AND at 34.5p, also benefiting from a lower sustainable business effective tax rate of 16.5% 2015 18.4%.
In April 2015, we announced our decision STRATEGY REMAIN Sucralose to re-focus the SPLENDA Net debt at 31 March 2016 was 434 million, UNCHANGED business in two ways to maximise returns.
Adjusted free Firstly, by implementing a rigorous cash flow was slightly lower than the prior value-based approach to secure volume year at 53 million 2015 54 million.
The Our vision is to become a leading by focusing on those customers who fully reduction in net debt was primarily driven global provider of speciality food value the benefits of our SPLENDA by the receipt of 254 million with respect ingredients and solutions.
Sucralose product including its quality, to the Eaststarch re-alignment comprising provenance, food safety and responsible Our strategy is to deliver this 240 million 173 million in cash proceeds, manufacturing and environmental vision through: dividends from Eaststarch of 94 million practices.
Secondly, by lowering the 68 million as well as 13 million in A disciplined focus on growing our manufacturing cost base of the business respect of completion adjustments.
Speciality Food Ingredients business by consolidating production into a single Together these exceeded the Groups deeper customer understanding facility in the US, and closing the facility dividend payments of 130 million.
Net continuous innovation in Singapore in Spring 2016. debt increased by 15 million driven by the stronger positions in higher increase in the value of dollar-denominated Customers responded positively with growth markets debt as a result of the strengthening of the volume ahead of the prior year, and the D riving Bulk Ingredients for US dollar against sterling.
customer transition was efficiently sustained cash generation managed.
Production at the facility in As announced in October 2015, following to fuel this growth.
Singapore was gradually reduced over the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint the course of the year as certain assets venture, the Group adopted equity were transferred to our facility in accounting for joint ventures in the The separation of the integrated Eaststarch McIntosh, Alabama.
Then, as scheduled, presentation of its adjusted performance business has been a complex process the Singapore facility was closed on measures, having previously used including IS IT infrastructure, sales, supply 31 March 2016, having generated strong proportionate consolidation see Note 1. chain and other support functions.
This returns over its life-cycle well in excess The commentary in respect of the adjusted has been achieved while maintaining high of the Groups cost of capital.
McIntosh now full-year results is therefore based on levels of customer service.
operating at a higher scale and utilisation equity accounting for joint ventures.
levels, provides a materially lower-cost Following the re-alignment, our business However, for comparison, using manufacturing position.
in Europe is now predominantly focused on proportionate consolidation for the Speciality Food Ingredients.
The facility in continuing operations, adjusted operating The fundamental changes we have made Slovakia provides a solid base from which profit for the year to 31 March 2016 would to how we approach this market and to our to grow our speciality business in Europe have been 226 million 2015 214 million manufacturing footprint have been very and our intention is to increase production an increase of 6% 2% in constant efficiently executed.
SPLENDA Sucralose of speciality food ingredients at the facility is now a more focused, low-cost and currency and adjusted profit before tax over time.
Concurrently, the re-alignment would have been 203 million 2015 sustainable business, and generated higher has reduced our exposure to more profitability in the year than we anticipated.
191million an increase of 6% 3% in regulated European commodity markets, constant currency.
For more information Re-shaping our European business and focused the Bulk Ingredients division see Note 4. to strengthen our speciality focus on the North American market where we The results for the year ended 31 March On 31 October 2015, we completed the have strong market positions and efficient, 2016 have been adjusted to exclude re-alignment of our Eaststarch joint scale assets.
Around 90% of our bulk exceptional items, net retirement benefit venture corn wet milling business in sweetener and industrial starch business interest and amortisation of acquired Europe with Archer Daniels Midland ADM. is now in the larger and relatively more intangible assets and any tax on those stable North American market, supporting Under the re-alignment, we strengthened items.
The Groups statutory results are our ambition for steady earnings from the our Speciality Food Ingredients business presented in accordance with International core business of Bulk Ingredients.
by acquiring full ownership of the more Financial Reporting Standards as adopted speciality-focused facility in Slovakia, and In February 2016, we also signed an by the European Union.
Except where substantially reduced our European Bulk agreement with ADM to sell our small, specifically stated to the contrary, this Ingredients footprint by exiting the wholly-owned and predominantly bulk commentary relates only to the adjusted predominantly Bulk Ingredients facilities ingredients corn wet mill in Casablanca, results of continuing operations.
in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary.
Completion is expected to occur A reconciliation between statutory and long-term distribution agreements were in the first half of the 2017 financial year.
adjusted information is included in Note 4. also established, under which Tate&Lyle Following the completion of the Eaststarch Completion of major structural distributes crystalline fructose, a re-alignment, we commenced a change initiatives speciality sweetener, produced in Turkey, restructuring of our European operations A number of major structural change and ADM acts as exclusive distributor for to reset the cost base and improve initiatives were successfully completed bulk ingredients produced at our two corn operating margins over time.
to further re-shape and significantly wet mills in Europe.
strengthen the business in support of the Groups 2020 Ambition.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 07 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued Building a stronger business Delivering our 2020 Ambition will result Increasing capacity for Speciality Food Ingredients Execution of these important and complex in a materially re-shaped Speciality Food structural initiatives has been a major Ingredients focused business.
During the year, we completed the projects we announced in May 2014 to expand undertaking.
As a result, the business is Key performance indicators KPIs capacity for Speciality Food Ingredients, now significantly stronger and more able Our KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2016 with the incremental capacity coming on to progress towards its 2020 Ambition.
are detailed on pages 14 and 15. stream over the course of the second half Progress against 2020 Ambition of the year.
We have expanded capacity Looking forward, the Group will continue to In November 2015, we announced our review whether its current key performance for Speciality Food Ingredients at our ambition to further strengthen the corn wet mills in Europe and the US, indicators remain the most appropriate business by 2020 with three key outcomes.
at our PromOat Beta Glucan plant in in light of the 2020 Ambition, changes to During the year, early progress has been Sweden, and added capacity to support management incentive structures and made in relation to each element of our growth in New Products.
other changes the Group has made in 2020 Ambition.
Operational and supply chain 1 from 1.
G enerate 70% of Group profits process enhancements People Speciality Food Ingredients: increased We have continued to enhance the Groups I would like to thank all our employees in the year by 50 bps to 60%.
operational and supply chain processes, across Tate&Lyle for their continued hard capabilities and disciplines.
B roaden the geographic mix of work and dedication over the last year and 2 Operations, which is responsible for all Speciality Food Ingredients sales I look forward to working alongside them manufacturing and supply chain aspects of with 30% coming from Asia Pacific and in the next financial year as we continue the business, implemented improvements Latin America: increased in the year to deliver on our objectives.
to the demand and supply planning by 60bps to 21%.
Sales in Asia Pacific Summary process by establishing a common grew strongly but weaker economic This has been a year of solid financial process embedded in each region.
Global conditions and softer consumer demand performance and strong project delivery.
Operations remains focused on cost and in Latin America held back growth in Both business divisions delivered margin productivity improvements with major the combined region.
Our belief in the expansion and we completed the major projects such as the new combined heat longer-term growth potential of these structural change initiatives needed to and power plant at our Loudon facility.
further strengthen the business and drive During the year, it also established a new, 3.
Generate sales of US$200 million higher quality earnings.
We also made dedicated Continuous Improvement team from New Products: sales grew by good progress against the 2020 Ambition to enhance efficiency in our plant network 34% in constant currency to $86 million we outlined in November 2015. over time.
The momentum of Outlook We have also made improvements to the previous years continued with volume For the 2017 financial year, subject to monthly performance management cycle, growth across each of our three currency movements, we are confident driving improved forecasting and decisionplatforms.
We continue to build strong the Group will continue to make progress making.
These actions and the utilisation customer interest across our new in line with our plan and towards our of the Groups new common IS IT product portfolio and to strengthen 2020 Ambition.
infrastructure are materially improving the quality of our pipeline.
the effectiveness of our operational Javed Ahmed decision-making.
Chief Executive 25 May 2016 2020 AMBITION Mix of Group profits Geographic spread of Speciality Food Ingredients sales Contribution from New Products 2 3 ADJUSTED OPERATING SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS SALES NEW PRODUCTS SALES 1 PROFIT Broaden geographical sales mix $200m 70% FROM NEW PRODUCTS FROM SFI $200m 3 2 1 1 2 $69m 1 Speciality Food 1 North America 50% Ingredients 70% 2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 20% 2 Bulk Ingredients 30% 3 Asia Pacific and Latin America 30% 4 2015 2020 1 Speciality Food Ingredients SFI profit includes SFI share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates, Group profit is before Central costs and interest, but includes share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates.
2 Percentage of sales excluding SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Systems.
3 New Products are products in the first seven years after launch.
Figures are denominated in US dollar.
08 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016
