Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT WORKING TOGETHER TO DELIVER QUALITY PETE REDFERN Chief Executive 18 Taylor Wimpey plc 2016 market and summary 2016 was a record year for Taylor Wimpey and our aim for 2017 and As part of our strategy review beyond is to ensure we provide our shareholders with sustainable levels of returns across the cycle.
process, we took the opportunity Despite the wider uncertainty following the UKs vote to leave the to challenge our thinking on brand European Union EU, there was strong demand throughout 2016 in our core geographies and the UK housing market remained resilient.
to ensure it fully reects As previously highlighted, whilst the wider London market remained robust our culture today as well as our and in line with the rest of the UK, the central London market slowed aspirations for the future.
During 2016 during 2016 at the upper end of the market, with prices softening slightly in the second half of the year.
We traded on an average of eight Central we worked with employees across London schemes in 2016, of which the average size was 126 plots.
the business, customers and other The land market continues to be positive.
We continue to believe that the land market is structurally different in the current housing market cycle, stakeholders to determine our new: evidenced by a land market which has remained historically benign despite house price growth.
This has enabled us to continue to buy high-quality land at investment operating profit margins which are historically high.
VISION UK operational performance summary Working together to In 2016, total UK home completions excluding joint ventures increased by 4.5% to 13,808 2015: 13,219.
During 2016, we delivered 2,663 build your dreams.
affordable homes 2015: 2,509, equating to 19.3% of total completions 2015: 19.0%.
Our net private reservation rate for the year was 0.72 homes per outlet per week 2015: 0.73.
MISSION Whilst we saw a small increase in the average cancellation rate immediately following the EU Referendum, this remained low compared To create great places to live to long term historic norms and quickly returned to pre-Referendum levels.
Overall cancellation rates for the year as a whole remained low at 13% and deliver excellent service which 2015: 12%.
inspires and delights our customers, Average selling prices on private completions increased by 12.6% to 286k 2015: 254k, once again benefitting from our focus on better our people and our shareholders.
quality locations and the improvement of specication in line with product and location.
Our total average selling price increased by 10.9% to 255k 2015: 230k.
We estimate that market-led house price growth for our regional mix was c. 5% in the 12 months to 31 December 2016 CORE VALUES AND CULTURAL PRINCIPLES 2015: 6%.
These are the Taylor Wimpey values that will First time buyers accounted for 38% of total sales in 2016 2015: 36%.
help us achieve our vision and mission, and Investor sales continued to be at a very low level versus historic norms at 3% 2015: 7%.
the cultural principles that underpin them: Help to Buy continued to be a differentiator for new build housing, and Be respectful, fair and deliver together remained popular with our customers.
During 2016 approximately c. 39% Communicate well and collaborate of total sales used the Help to Buy scheme, and we worked with c. 5,393 households to take the first step to home ownership or to move up the Encourage and embrace diversity housing ladder 2015: c. 37% and c. 5,200.
Approximately 77% of sales Set clear professional standards through Help to Buy in 2016 were to first time buyers 2015: 77%.
During Develop good relations and behave with integrity the year c. 14% of sales in the London market used Help to Buy London, which launched in February 2016.
Continuously improve and innovate We believe that quality of location is a key determinant of a home purchase Be future-focused and drive change and that this remains true through all market conditions.
During 2016 we Find solutions and dont accept second best opened 105 new high-quality outlets 2015: 123 in locations in villages, Make informed decisions towns and cities where people want to live, and which are supported by strong demographics and local economies.
As at 31 December 2016 we Be well planned and organised were operating from 285 outlets 31 December 2015: 297.
Build a proud legacy As at 31 December 2016 our order book represented 7,567 homes Never compromise on safety 31 December 2015: 7,484 homes with a value of 1,682 million Be passionate about customers 31 December 2015: 1,779 million, excluding joint ventures.
Deliver right first time and keep promises Denitions can be found in the Group financial review on page 50 Commit to a sustainable future 19 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Q&A During 2016, we reviewed our strategy as part of a wider process and confirmed that it remains the right one for the future.
Given the strength of the business, we believe we can deliver further continual improvement in every area of the business particularly in long term value added What is a brand and why programmes from employee recruitment, development and engagement through to investment in research and development, customer service and does it matter?
As part of our thorough strategy review process, during 2016 we We are confident that because of this strategy, alongside a strong, invested the time to properly define what our brand means to us well-capitalised balance sheet and strategic land pipeline, Taylor Wimpey internally and how we should use it.
is optimally positioned for the future, enabling us to perform well through This wasnt about questioning whether we should be changing our all market conditions and take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
All credible brands are grown from within Brand and are built on the people and processes inside a business.
Our Taylor Wimpey brand denition is built on a combination of who we As part of our strategy review process, we took the opportunity to are and what we want to be.
We put some structure on this by challenge our thinking on brand to ensure it fully reects our culture today looking at our vision, mission, core values and cultural principles as well as aspirations for the future.
which are outlined on page 19.
These are simply an evolution of During 2016 we worked with employees across the business, customers the principles that have guided our business over the last five years and other stakeholders to determine our new vision of: Working together but together they set a clear ambition for the future.
If all our people clearly understand what Taylor Wimpey stands for, We believe that this resonates strongly with our customers as it recognises we will all work much more effectively and collaboratively as one that we are building them more than just a house or apartment: we are business, and this clearly has a fundamental link to our strategy building them a home.
For our employees we want to be the employer of and success.
choice: to support ambitions, development and progress.
For local authorities, landowners, communities, investors and others our vision is PETE REDFERN one of reassurance, showing our commitment to delivering what we have Chief Executive set out to achieve.
This Working Together approach is fully aligned to our strategy and underpinned by our values as it challenges us to drive continual Group strategy and returns improvement in all of our business areas by creating great places which We operate in a cyclical market, where factors such as customer inspire and delight.
Importantly, it also addresses our key stakeholders.
confidence and mortgage cost inevitably have a direct impact on the short We believe this approach will continue to strengthen Taylor Wimpeys term outlook.
We believe that a long term view and a proactive and exible reputation as a Company which people want to buy a home from, work approach is needed to manage through the cycle.
Our strategy is built on for, partner with and invest in.
this and so seeks to protect shareholder value whilst mitigating future downside risk and affords us exibility to take advantages of opportunities Medium term targets and drive further value from the business.
We are pleased to report good progress against each of the enhanced medium term targets announced in May 2016 in their first year of Our ability to buy good quality land, at the right time in the cycle, enhance operation.
These targets sit within our long term strategy, ensuring we are it through planning, and realise value through building and selling homes, focused on operational efficiency as well as strategic investments.
Whilst remains the biggest value driver for the business, despite the relatively the targets are stretching, we believe these to be the best medium term positive land market of the last six years.
We have been very successful in measures of performance for our business, and they remain appropriate this area building and optimising a short term landbank of 76,234 plots, management goals, targeting further improvement across three key areas of which 65% is strategically sourced.
This has given us the exibility to in the period from 2016 to 2018: be very selective when purchasing land and focus on delivery through increased cash generation.
An average annual return on net operating assets of 30% An average operating profit margin of c. 22% A total of 1.3 billion of dividends to be paid in cash to shareholders over the period More information on our medium term targets and how they link through to our longer term strategy can be found on pages 26 and 27.
20 Taylor Wimpey plc Dividends Management changes A key part of our investment proposition is our commitment to a reliable After 28 years of outstanding service to the Company, Fergus McConnell, dividend stream for our investors through the cycle.
We remain confident Divisional Chairman North, retired from the business at the end of 2016. that we can continue to be signicantly cash generative, enabling Fergus has been replaced by Daniel McGowan, previously Divisional shareholders to benefit from the success of our strategy in all stages of Managing Director DMD of the Midlands.
Daniel joined the Company in the cycle by sustaining a significant ordinary dividend to shareholders on 1999 as Sales and Marketing Director, before moving into a strategic role an annual basis, including through a normal downturn, and an additional at Head Ofce.
Daniel was then promoted to the role of Managing Director special dividend to be paid at appropriate times in the cycle.
MD at our North Midlands regional business, a position he held for two years, before the role of DMD.
During 2016, we signicantly enhanced our ordinary dividend and announced further special dividends.
Therefore, subject to shareholder We would like to take the opportunity to thank Fergus for his commitment approval each year, the Company will pay an ordinary dividend of and contribution to the North Division over the years, as well as his approximately 5% of Group net assets and which will be at least contribution to the wider business.
This is intended to provide a reliable minimum Ingrid Osborne, MD of our Central London regional business, was also annual return to shareholders throughout the cycle.
This Ordinary Dividend promoted to the new post of DMD for Central and East London in 2017.
Policy was subject to prudent and comprehensive stress testing against various downside scenarios, which also included a reduction of 20% Further information on the Group Management Team can be found on in average selling prices and a 30% reduction in volumes.
After the pages 22 and 23. economic uncertainty of the latter half of 2016, we remain very confident Leasehold review in this policy.
In the final quarter of 2016, concern was expressed by some customers The payment of ordinary dividends will continue to be supplemented by about certain leasehold houses and apartments which are subject additional significant special dividends at appropriate times in the cycle.
to leases with doubling ground rent clauses used on some of our Our Special Dividend Policy will pay out to shareholders the free cash developments started between 2007 and 2011.
Whilst the clauses are generated by the Group after land investment, all working capital, taxation clearly outlined in the lease and customers received independent legal and other cash requirements of the business in executing our strategy advice, we note the reports of the potential impact of these clauses for our in the medium term, and once the Groups ordinary dividends have customers.
We are therefore in the process of reviewing this matter been met.
and working with these customers.
In 2016, shareholders received total dividends including ordinary and special dividends of 355.9 million or 10.91 pence per share.
Sustainability We are committed to being a responsible homebuilder and to making As previously announced, and subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 sustainability part of how we work.
This is both the right thing to do and Annual General Meeting AGM, we intend to pay c. 300 million to helps us to create better homes and communities and a stronger business shareholders in July 2017 by way of a special dividend.
Accordingly, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, in 2017 To portray a more holistic picture of how we create value for our shareholders will receive a total dividend of c. 450 million c. 13.8 pence stakeholders and of the external drivers that could impact our Business per share, comprising an ordinary dividend of c. 150 million c. 4.6 pence Model now and in the medium to long term, in this years report we have per share and a special dividend of c. 300 million 9.2 pence per share.
made further strides towards a more integrated approach.
This includes interlinking reporting on our financial performance with our non-financial Our people metrics both within this report, and within our Sustainability Report, which I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Kevins words of thanks will be published on our website in March 2017. to the teams and the individuals across our business.
I believe we have the best people in the industry, and we want to make Taylor Wimpey the We strive to be an open, transparent and responsive company for all our employer of choice and establish a culture where individuals from all stakeholders and to work with them to understand and address the wider backgrounds can reach their full potential.
I am particularly pleased to social, economic and environmental impacts resulting from our operations.
report the progress we have made in this area, following the feedback from During 2016 we carried out a materiality assessment to review our current our strategy roadshows conducted in 2016 and from the 2015 employee priorities, to help us better understand stakeholder views on key topics survey.
A particular highlight for employees was the enhancement of and to identify emerging risks and opportunities.
This has shown us that maternity, paternity and adoption policies and the introduction of a new we are largely focused on the right issues but there are also opportunities Volunteering Framework.
More information on these areas can be found on to do more in key areas and to continue to play an active part in pages 26 and 41 and within our Sustainability Report 2016. addressing major challenges like access to housing and climate change.
We will be using the findings to review and strengthen our approach to sustainability in the year ahead.
More information can be found within our Sustainability Report 2016.
co. uk Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED UK current trading and outlook We continue to focus on building a strong order book for the future.
As at 19 February 2017, we were c. 49% forward sold for private completions We have made a very good start to 2017 and are encouraged by robust for 2017, with a total order book value of 1,978 million 2016 equivalent trading and levels of demand.
The UK housing market fundamentals period: 2,030 million, excluding joint ventures.
This order book represents remain good with strong customer confidence in our core geographies.
58% of Central London The market is underpinned by a competitive mortgage market and private completions for 2017 are forward sold, as at 19 February 2017 low interest rates.
Customer interest remains high, with website visits 2016 equivalent period: 76%.
solid and customers continuing to register interest in forthcoming We expect underlying build cost increases during 2017 to be at a similar developments and progress their home purchase plans.
Whilst the level to 2016, at around 3-4%.
wider London market remains robust, prime central London is softer, as previously highlighted, however house prices are stable, and there The publication of the Housing White Paper in February 2017 recognises are good levels of underlying demand.
the importance of housing to the UK and the part all housebuilders can play in the economy.
Whilst some of the detail is of course to be nalised, The net private sales rate for the year to date w e 19 February 2017 we welcome the measures set out in the White Paper which are balanced has increased to a very strong 0.91 2016 equivalent period: 0.77. and aim to sustainably increase the delivery of much needed homes.
THE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM GMT PETE REDFERN RYAN MANGOLD JAMES JORDAN ANNE BILLSON-ROSS JENNIE DALY Group Finance Director Group Legal Director and Group Human UK Land Director Chief Executive Company Secretary Resources Director Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the GMT, my Ryans role covers James is responsible Anne has responsibility Jennies role focuses responsibilities include key all areas of finance, for our Company for all areas of human on our land and strategic and operational including tax, treasury Secretariat department, resources, including planning strategy, decisions, sustainability, and managing the as well as overseeing recruitment, benets, with responsibility for customer service and Groups dened benefit all legal matters from talent and performance and oversight on wider health and safety.
pension scheme, plot conveyancing management.
planning matters, leading as well as overall to landbuying.
our response to the responsibility for our evolving UK planning commercial and system.
Jennie also information technology oversees our Sustainability, functions.
Ryan Technical and Design, also plays an active Land and Planning Teams, part in our investor and has responsibility for relations programme.
our production and procurement functions.
22 Taylor Wimpey plc The early signs of stability and resilience of the market following the EU Referendum, which were encouraging, continued and we believe the risk of material impact from this in the short term has signicantly reduced.
In line with our strategy, we will continue to closely monitor market risks, particularly around long term mortgage cost.
However we believe that a cautiously regulated market and low interest rate environment is likely to prolong the period of stability that we are seeing in the UK housing market.
We have a clear strategy and a strong focus on where we can add further value to the business.
In this way, we are confident that we can adapt to all market conditions from a position of strength and perform well, underpinning our value proposition to shareholders and other stakeholders.
We remain fully committed to the Dividend Policy set out in May 2016 and our objective to provide a consistent and reliable income stream for investors.
Our focus remains on adding value and steady, sustainable growth as we maximise efficiency through operational excellence and discipline on our sites and throughout our business.
NIGEL HOLLAND CHRIS CARNEY DANIEL MCGOWAN INGRID OSBORNE LEE BISHOP Divisional Chairman, Divisional Chairman, Divisional Chairman, Divisional Managing Major Developments Central and South West London and South East North Director, Central and Director East London Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Nigel oversees our Chris oversees our Daniel oversees our Ingrid oversees the Lee manages our Central and South London and South North Division which Central London and Major Developments West Division, covering East Division, which covers our East and East London regional business which has our East Midlands, South includes our East West Scotland, North businesses and also been specically created Midlands, East Anglia, London, Central London, East, North Yorkshire, has responsibility to secure and project Oxfordshire, South Wales, North Thames, South Yorkshire, North West, for the integrated manage large scale Bristol, Southern East, South Thames and Manchester, North London strategy.
Counties and Exeter West London regional Midlands, Midlands regional businesses and businesses.
and West Midlands our Spanish business.
