CEOs statement A year of significant progress Dave Lewis As a result, we have stabilised the business In October 2015, we became the first Group Chief and we are on track with where we expected andstill only retailer in the UK to offer Executive to be.
Of course there is still more to do customers an immediate price match but we are on the road to recovery and atthe till with Brand Guarantee, so they momentum is building across the business.
never pay more for their branded shop if its cheaper at Asda, Morrisons or Our business has always been at its Sainsburys when they buy 10 or more bestwhen weve made customers our different products.
Over the past year, wehave restored our total commitment And just two months ago, we launched togiving the best possible service to our a range of exclusive new fresh food brands, This has been a significant year for Tesco.
This is reflected in the new which are available only at Tesco and at We have delivered unprecedented change purpose we have set out for the business: great prices.
These are allowing us to over the past 12 months as we have begun serving shoppers a little better every day.
giveour customers even more choice in to transform our business.
This isguiding every action we are taking great value, fresh food all under one roof.
andhasbeen instrumental in making We have taken decisive, immediate action theUK business competitive again.
International sales have also strengthened on the challenges we faced.
In a very despite trading in challenging markets, deliberate way we have made the changes As well as investing in lower, more driven by improvements across our offer.
needed to re-energise the operation.
We stablepricing and improved service We have built up strong positive sales have guided our efforts with the three andavailability, we have reviewed and momentum throughout the year in both priorities we set out in October 2014: simplified every one of our food ranges Europe and Asia.
Our largest international andadded thousands ofextra colleague business, in Thailand, performed particularly 1. to regain competitiveness in the core hours on the shop floor to improve customer well, culminating in its highest-ever market UKbusiness: service.
On-shelf availability has reached share.
Our transformation programme 2. to protect and strengthen the balance record levels, ensuring customers can get inEuropehas accelerated growth and sheet: and what they want, when they want it.
3. to rebuild trust and transparency.
Elsewhere in the Group, Tesco Bank continues to give customers a unique banking offer.
And in Tesco Mobile, our joint venture with O, we have a successful 2 brand and a business recognised for delivering outstanding customer service.
com ar2016 to hear more from Dave Lewis 04 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information By focusing on fixing the fundamentals Our progress towards rebuilding trust in our Our charity partnership with Diabetes of theshopping trip for customers, we brand has been led by the commitment and UKand the British Heart Foundation is the have seenimproving like-for-like trends passion demonstrated by our colleagues.
firstof its kind and on its way to raising in all our markets and positive like-for-like Wherever I travel in our business, I see ourtarget of 30m to promote healthy growth for the Group as a whole in the uplifting evidence of this.
And customers have chosen specific fourth quarter.
Volumes and transactions at the lengths so many colleagues go to in community projects to receive 11.5m are increasing across the Group as order to help others.
Over the past year, Ive raised from the sale of Tesco bagsin the UK customers are buying more of what spent a lot of time with colleagues in our stores since October 2015, donated through Bags they need at Tesco.
We are rebuilding and seen the commitment to serving our of Help one of thebiggest environmental profitability whilst continuing to invest in customers.
Be it on the shop floor or behind improvement drives the UKhas ever seen.
our offer for customers and have delivered the scenes, there are so many examples where 1 Group operating profit of 944m this colleagues are goingthe extra mile to serve As this report describes, we have made year, in line with expectations.
shoppers a little better every day.
Colleagues significant progress from where we were a have faced unprecedented change, yet the year ago.
The actions weve taken to reaffirm The long-term health of our balance sheet resilience and empathy shown to customers our competitiveness in the UK, protect will be determined by our continued ability and each other is unwavering.
thebalance sheet, and rebuild trust and to improve profitability and generate cash, transparency have stabilised ourbusiness.
and I am pleased to say thatwe generated The examples are limitless: from the 2 2.6bn of cash this year before taking tiny things that make customers smile As a team, we are committed to serving into account the Korean sale proceeds to the thoughtful acts that make their day.
shoppers a little better every day, in what asignificant improvement on last year.
We One of my favourite examples of dedication remains a challenging, deflationary and have also taken some important decisions toour customers is the colleague who uncertain market.
We are confident that the that whilst difficult have enabled us to spent hours navigating heavy snowfall investments we are making are leading to move more quickly towards protecting and tohand-deliver shopping toa 96-year-old sustainable improvements for customers whilst strengthening our balance sheet.
These unable to receive her usual online delivery creating long-term valuefor our shareholders.
include the transition from a defined benefit or to leave her house for groceries.
pension scheme toa defined contribution I am sure that it will be another busy year scheme.
We have also carefully negotiated And there are the community and charity and Im confident that with the customer the buy-back of 70 stores out ofsale and projects wecan really be proud of too.
Weve at the heart of everything we do, we will leaseback structures, removing some of made anew commitment to ensure all surplus continue to rebuild our fortunes as a business.
the burden of increased lease commitments foodfrom Tesco stores in the UK goes to and rental inflation.
Our work with Community Food Connection continues to redistribute surplus food from our stores to local charities to help feed those most inneed and we have extended it to over 100 large stores, with plans to roll out Dave Lewis to all large stores by the end of 2016.
Group Chief Executive 1 Group operating profit is shown before exceptional items.
2 Cash generated from retail operations.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 05
