6 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PETER FANKHAUSER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Customer at our heart is the cornerstone of our strategy for profitable growth.
We know that happy customers are morelikely to come back to ThomasCook for their next holiday and recommend us totheir friends.
"C 4 C @ : C 4 4, 5 :, : 4 A 5I: "" J : I, "" I A 5 J : % : :8 8: QUALITY SERVICE RELIABILITY We are passionate travel experts Well be there whenever We care."
You can trust us and have been creatinggreat you needus.
Our teams are to always be open and holiday memories since 1841. available around the world, 24 7. honest with you.
We share customer reviews before We are here to make you happy We always give you all you book to help you choose the andwe promise to put you at the information you need perfect trip for you.
the heart of everything we do.
to make your time away stress-free.
We listen and act on your Your holiday means the world feedback.
Wed love to welcome Your moneys safe partners we work with are always you again and are committed when booking withus.
looking to improve to make your to sending you home with Were ATOL protected next holiday even better.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 7 2016 has presented considerable To reflect the importance of customer RELIABILITY challenges to Thomas Cook with satisfaction to the health of our business, Of course, we know that in these uncertain repeateddisruption in both our source this year we introduced for the first time times, customers value the security and anddestination markets.
The actions that the Net Promoter Score or NPS as one protection that they get from travelling with we took to shift our holiday programme of the core metrics of performance across the most experienced operator in the travel into the Western Mediterranean helped the Group.
It is early days but I am delighted industry.
Its a role we take very seriously, us mitigate the impact of the decline in that we have reported a total increase of now more than ever.
I am proud of the way in demand for Turkey, maintaining revenue sixpoints for summer 16, reflecting progress which our people have worked tirelessly to and delivering underlying operating profit in every one of our source markets.
support our customers in times of crisis over of 308 million, marginally down on the the past 12 months.
That reliability and trust prior year.
SERVICE is a key differentiator for our business.
Key to the improvement in NPS has been the Looking beneath the headlines, this has launch of our 24-hour satisfaction promise in CONTACT also been a year of considerable strategic 1,600 of our most popular hotels this summer.
I believe Thomas Cook ends 2016 In a market where customer behaviour is By making sure customers are happy at avery different business compared with continually evolving, putting our customers the start of their holiday, we have more thesame time 12 months ago.
at the heart of the business also means opportunity to make sure they have the best ensuring that were building direct contact Underpinning that progress has been a experience of Thomas Cook, leading to higher with customers, whenever and wherever fundamental change in our approach to customer satisfaction.
Its already been a big they want us.
175 years after our founder success with customers and net promoter invented package travel with a 12-mile train We are developing rich web content scores in participating hotels are 9 points journey from Loughborough to Leicester, and improving customer relationship higher than in the rest of the portfolio.
wehave reinvigorated his core belief: to management so were better able to stay Other initiatives weve launched in the past ensure that we put our customer first in in contact with our customers and build year to improve our service to customers everything that we do.
These direct personal include the introduction of comprehensive engagements help us to understand our We learned the hard way what happens new training for all our customer service and customers better so that we can offer when we dont focus on whats best for in-resort staff.
Weve also introduced a new more personalised holidays which drive ourcustomers and I am proud of the way in target to resolve the majority of customer loyalty and keep customers coming back which each and every one of our people in issues while on holiday rather than after a toThomas Cook.
the past year has embraced the challenge customer has returned home, reflecting our in spite of the tough market environment.
Weve made good progress in the year, focus to be there in destination so more of delivering a step change in our web our customers go home happy.
CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART performance with online sales in the UK and Germany up 9 and 13 per cent respectively.
Customer at our heart is the cornerstone QUALITY A recent survey, conducted by eDigital of our strategy for profitable growth.
In parallel to our work on service, weve Research, ranked Thomas Cook number We know that happy customers are more taken huge strides to strengthen the quality one tour operator website in the UK and likely to come back to Thomas Cook for of our offering, taking hotels that dont meet among the top three mobile websites their next holiday and to recommend our standards out of the portfolio.
A great demonstrating how far we have come.
Unlocking the value example of our commitment to quality is our from that increased customer loyalty and new Sunny Heart Academy of Excellence, recommendation will secure a sustainable which draws on external experts in areas future for our business.
like food hygiene and housekeeping to create tailor-made support for hotel partners with impressive results.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 8 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Elsewhere, our airlines businesses had a OUR FOCUS EFFICIENCIES AND difficult year as a result of the decline in STREAMLINING That absolute focus on the customer shapes demand to Turkey and overcapacity in the our approach in all that we do, as we seek to Underpinning all that we do is a rigorous short and medium haul market.
However, differentiate our brand in a crowded market.
focus on operational efficiencies, removing the team has continued to strengthen our duplication and simplifying our organisational First and foremost this is about providing offering in the leisure market, delivering a structure.
This year weve strengthened our customers with unique holidays that four point increase in NPS and a 21 per cent matrix structure by integrating functions they can only get from Thomas Cook.
increase in long haul bookings for summer like finance, digital and marketing across The development of a strong portfolio 2016, thanks to the launch of new routes the Group.
Weve also launched a major of own-brand hotels is fundamental to such as Manchester to Los Angeles and efficiencies programme in Continental Europe our strategy.
It enables us to provide Frankfurt to Austin.
with the aim of becoming more agile and a consistent, high-quality, exclusive reducing operating costs from next year.
experience and to capture more margin.
ADDED-VALUE SERVICES To achieve this we are building a hotel To supplement the value that we create in CONCLUSION management division which franchises our holidays, we are widening the choice of 2016 has presented many challenges, but andmanages our own-brand hotels.
additional travel-related services available to Ibelieve we have come out of it a stronger, The successful launch in May of our first our customers, including seat sales, meals more resilient business.
Casa Cook in Rhodes shows the scale of on board, transfers and excursions in resort.
Of course, none of what we have achieved the opportunity.
A design-led hotel aimed These give customers more opportunity to would have been possible without the hard at independent travellers, Casa Cook has personalise their holiday.
In the past year, work and commitment of our thousands of widened our appeal with 90 per cent of its we have increased sales of these ancillary colleagues across the globe.
Time and again, customers this summer new to Thomas products by nine per cent.
Looking ahead, Ihave witnessed the way they work Cook.
I look forward to the opening of two its clear to me that we have an opportunity tirelessly for our customers.
I am proud of new Casa Cooks in the next two years to offer new holiday-related products and the way they have taken Customer at our alongside a new Sunwing Ocean Beach Club, services to customers who value the trust Heart to their hearts.
What they have one of our hugely successful family brands.
and heritage that comes with our brand.
Packaged Accompanying our own-brand hotels, travel has come a long way in the 175 years PARTNERSHIPS we are increasingly focusing sales on a since that first train journey from Outside of our focus on offering holidays streamlined portfolio of selected high-quality Loughborough to Leicester.
We must unique to Thomas Cook, we will continue to partner hotels where we can have a greater continue to innovate and change, offering seek new opportunities where they make influence on quality and service.
Our plan is holidays that inspire and delight our sense through strategic partnerships.
to have a portfolio of 2,900 hotels by 2019, customers.
Our progress in the last sharing those hotels more effectively across To widen the choice to customers, this year 12 months gives me the confidence that we our source markets for higher returns.
are doing all the right things to position us we agreed a new hotel sourcing agreement with Webjet.
Under the terms of the for many years to come, to the benefit of our A big part of our commitment to quality in customers, our people and our Shareholders.
agreement, Webjet will contract the majority these properties is the promise we make of our so-called complementary sun to our customers on health and safety.
and beach hotels those hotels which sit Following a review of all our policies and PETER FANKHAUSER outside of our core portfolio helping us to procedures this year, we agreed to double CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER deliver significant economies of scale while our spend on health and safety by summer we focus on the holiday experience in our 2017, including the introduction of annual 22 November 2016 own-brand and partner hotels.
Webjet has physical audits across every hotel in this also committed to managing an improved core portfolio.
health and safety audit process which We know we have more to do in this area.
ensures greater certainty and consistency As well as the actions that we are taking across our customer offering.
ourselves as a business, we are supporting In addition, this year saw the full launch the Safer Tourism Foundation which we have of Thomas Cook China, our joint venture in set up with Sharon Wood, the mother of partnership with Fosun.
By combining our Bobbi and Christi Shepherd.
experience in travel and 175-year brand with Fosuns fantastic local knowledge, we believe we can drive growth by offering something different in this exciting and dynamic market.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 9 Photo: Casa Cook, Rhodes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
