Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We are now just past the mid-way point of the five-year investment and growth programme we set out in December 2013.
This investment programme focused on four key strands that would strengthen our competitive position and underpin our ability to outperform the markets in which we compete and grow returns to shareholders on a sustainable basis over the medium term.
In order to achieve this we had to increase the pace of investing The four strands of our strategy remain unchanged and we are your capital in your businesses.
In the last three years we have committed to making further improvements in our customer invested nearly 700 million.
The majority of this investment has propositions, optimising our branch and store networks, further been to expand and modernise the branch and store network, leveraging our position as the largest distributor of building which is a central enabler to sustainable revenue growth over the materials in the UK and further refining our Group operatingmodel.
Having the best located and most efficient We have made good progress on all of these tenets of our sites for our distribution and retail businesses is of paramount strategy over the last three years in our Consumer, Contracts importance in providing our customers with convenience and our and General Merchanting divisions.
We have however businesses with a mechanism to deliver products effectively.
experienced a changing competitor and customer landscape in We have also created the only nationwide distribution centre our Plumbing&Heating division and we are not satisfied with our network for building materials.
We believe this provides us performance.
We are reviewing all of our plans in this area of the with a significant long term structural advantage to ensure our business and will update the market and our shareholders on our customers are able to get the right materials, in the right place, plans at the 2017 interim results announcement.
at the right time at a competitive price.
Our customers demands for access to broader ranges, shorter lead times and more convenience is accelerating all of the time as they respond to the demands placed on them.
Our distribution infrastructure provides us with the capability to service these requirements both now and as we increasingly provide customers with multichannel ordering capabilities in the future.
16 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Our markets Contracts Keyline, BSS and CFF within our Contracts division delivered The outcome of the EU Referendum in June has undoubtedly another strong year and remain the relatively unsung heroes caused significant economic uncertainty, for the country of our Group.
Whilst BSS has faced tougher market conditions, as a whole and for the markets in which our businesses compete.
Keyline and CCF have continued to gain market share.
It has proven difficult in recent months to accurately predict Although it is difficult to predict demand for infrastructure, the demand for building materials, something which we have commercial and industrial project spend in 2017, I have complete proven to be relatively adept at doing.
Given this lack of clarity faith that our Contracts businesses will continue to significantly of demand we have to ensure that our businesses remain outperform the market.
agile in order react to and take advantage of whatever conditionsprevail.
Consumer Whilst the year ahead may prove challenging to predict with Wickes continued the transformation it began in 2014 with certainty, I remain confident in the long term growth opportunity another very strong year of growth.
The team led by Simon King within UK building materials distribution markets for a few has made wide reaching improvements in the product range, keyreasons: the store formats and both absolute prices and the perception of our prices.
Wickes also launched deliveries with guaranteed We compete in fragmented market structures 1-hour delivery slots, which can be available same-day.
We have and are extending significant structural advantages TheWickes online store is now amongst the best performing through our supply chain, branch network and system capability amongst its global peers.
Toolstation also had another strong year of growth with a further 36 new UK stores added, bringing We are developing superior customer propositions through the total to 267. the right product range, innovative formats in both physical and virtual stores and better value The years ahead Our performance I am truly privileged to say that this is now my 39th year with this amazing company.
During this time I have seen many Whilst the first five months of 2016 were strong for all of our different market conditions, from the low growth but chronically businesses, the second half of the year has been more mixed.
high inflation of 1980 to the unprecedented deflationary environment of the last few years.
During these changing General Merchanting market conditions, our businesses have consistently performed Travis Perkins has performed well throughout the year and better than their peers and I have no doubt this will continue.
in line with my expectations.
During 2014 and 2015 we created Unfortunately we cannot control the markets, but through unique supply chain infrastructure with the ability to deliver selective investments to improve each of our businesses we an extended range of over 30,000 products the next day, will always aim to perform better than our competitors.
which is still unmatched in the UK.
These investments are now only in their second year and are performing well.
In 2016 we John Carter also began making some improvement to our pricing structures Chief Executive to provide customers with greater clarity and certainty.
14 March 2017 Our kitchen distribution business, Benchmarx, continued its strong growth with a further 18 branches opened in the year.
Plumbing & Heating In January 2016 we completed what has been the biggest transformation programme I have seen in our sector.
Thisinvolved the conversion of more than 160 branches in 18months and training of over 1,000 colleagues in a different operating model.
Whilst this programme was delivered successfully, the plumbing and heating markets have deteriorated further and faster than Iexpected, leading to performance in 2016 significantly below my expectations.
Tony Buffin has recently become Group COO with operational responsibility for the Plumbing & Heating division and we will update you in due course on our plans to improveperformance.
