STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW POSITIONED TO THRIVE IN ANEWINDUSTRY REALITY Over the last two years we have moved quickly to make significant changes to our business andasaresult we are a far better business than we were in 2014.
Over the past year staff, investors, additional production from TEN, we are industry partners and friends have all now generating free cash flow for the first time in some years and we have asked me the same question.
How does begun the process of steadily paying this industry downturn compare to all down our debt.
This has been the worst slump that the industry The Jubilee field is also a low-cost has faced in the 31years since I founded oil-producing asset and, with TEN now Tullow and, although it does seem that upand running, we believe that we can the worst has passed, the collapse in the achieve operating expenditure of around oil price leaves behind it an oil and gas $8 barrel in Ghana which, in a world of sector that has changed permanently.
But Jubilee has had its Critically, there appears to be no own challenges this year with problems consensus over the future of the sector: with the turret on the FPSO, which was there is no settled view about how oil handled expertly by teams across the prices will behave over the next ten Group.
Those teams worked tirelessly years, when peak demand or supply throughout the year looking at the willarrive, or how serious the threat solution to the problem, ongoing tooil and gas from newtechnology and production operations, insurance, carbon-focused legislation really is.
financing and other critical functions and Asaresult, oil and gas companies will I thank them for all that they have done probably be forced to assume that oil in dealing with this highly complex issue.
prices will remain low in the short to We now have a clear plan of action and medium term, permanently placing an are working closely with the Government emphasis on efficient exploration and Through the work Tullow of Ghana and our partners to make sure low-cost production.
Through the work the issue is dealt with professionally and has done over the past two Tullow hasdone over the past two years, safely.
Importantly, our costs and years, I believe that the Ibelieve that the Group is very well production losses associated with this Group is very well placed to placed to cope with and thrive in this issue are covered by our insurance.
cope with and thrive in this Exciting East Africa developments new industry reality.
West Africa production Progress on our East Africa projects Aidan Heavey We have low-cost oil-producing assets gained momentum in 2016 with the Chief Executive Officer in West Africa.
The highlight of 2016 decision by the Government of Uganda was, of course, first oil from the TEN on its pipeline routing through Tanzania, oilfields in August.
This project was necessitating a standalone Kenyan exceptionally well executed and on time pipeline: the granting of our long-awaited and on budget and I sincerely thank all Uganda production licences: and, in colleagues and partners involved with January 2017, agreeing to farm-down this project for their hard work and a21.57 per cent interest in the Uganda dedication.
To deliver a complex project project to Total.
The deal with Total of this nature on time is a stunning delivers on our longstanding commitment achievement.
But first oil from TEN has to reduce our equity in Uganda and wider significance for Tullow in terms aligns the Joint Venture partnership ofcash flow and debt.
Due to the onthe upstream, accelerating progress 8 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 towards Final Investment Decision which We are now in a position where we are we anticipate at the end of 2017 and first beginning the process of deleveraging THANKS TO oil three years later.
On completion of through free cash flow from our SIMONTHOMPSON the deal, our 11.76 per cent interest in producing assets, by constraining our Simon Thompson will be stepping the upstream and pipeline, which is capital investment while oil prices down from the Board at Tullows expected to reduce to 10 per cent in the remain low, potentially farming down 2017 Annual General Meeting in upstream when the government exercises assets in West and East Africa where April, after five years as Tullow's its back-in rights, is expected to provide wehave significant equity and other Chairman and six years on the the Company with around 23,000 bopd options available to the Group.
I would like to thank Simon when the project achieves plateau for his significant contribution to production, at no further cost to Board changes theBoard during this time and theCompany.
It also underpins the 31 years after founding andrunning the wishhimevery success in his commercial nature of ourEast Africa Company, I will be stepping down as nextendeavours.
He has been portfolio and allows ustofocus on our Chief Executive at the nextAGM.
Paul aremarkable Chairman and has Kenyan operated exploration and McDade, who has run our business as provided excellent leadership, development assets.
ChiefOperating Officer for the last 12 particularly in the last few years years, will succeed me.
SimonThompson, We expect to reach FID for the Full where the Board has had to the Company's Chairman, will step down FieldDevelopment in Kenya in 2018. makesome difficult decisions.
after six yearson the Board and I will Both developments in East Africa have Hisdirection has taken us through become Chairman for a transitional changed over the past year as falling some of our most exciting but also period ofupto two years, bywhich time I industry costs, new technology and new some of our most challenging years will have fully transitioned my approaches to these fields have shown and the Board and I are grateful for responsibilities toPaul and worked with that we can produce these resources the help, guidance and advice he has the Nominations Committee to find significantly below the cost levels provided throughout his tenure.
These forecast before the oil price fell.
changes bring a balance between continuity and fresh thinking and Im High impact exploration confident that Paul is the right candidate We have an exploration team that is to lead the Company during what we wellpositioned in this environment.
intend to be a period of growth.
Weremain focused on Africa and South America and on geologies that we know Conclusion well and have developed a strategic Tullows repositioning has involved a long approach that ensures we carefully period of hard work and restructuring manage our technical and financial that began in the autumn of 2014 as the riskin new licences.
This new approach oil price began to fall from $100 per means that our team can make progress barrel.
We moved quickly and made huge Simon Thompson visiting the Jubilee even with highly constrained budgets changes to our business.
Many of those FPSO, Kwame Nkrumah, offshore Ghana and are well prepared for when market changes were very painful but we are a conditions change.
Angus McCoss, far better business than we were in 2014: ourExploration Director, sets out we are more efficient, focused and moreinformation on our exploration strategy on pages 26 leaner than we have been for many years and I thank all the and 27. staff of Tullow for their hard work in making these changes Even if oil prices do not change significantly in the short to happen in very difficult times.
medium term, Tullow remains well placed having gone into the slump with a strong set of licences, substantial technical expertise and 31 years of experience and contacts across Africa, which we believe is unrivalled amongst our peers.
Aidan Heavey Wecontinue to look at opportunities and data rooms across Chief Executive Officer Africa and South America.
The oil that we are developing in West and East Africa is oil that Tullow found and I remain 7 February 2017 convinced thatorganic growth through the drill bit is the best way to growour Company.
Starting the deleveraging process The Groups net debt at the end of 2016 was almost $5 billion.
While it was not the Boards intention for our debt to be so high, the combination of continued low oil prices and our Our strategy 14 commitment to develop TEN made this unavoidable.
Organisation & Culture 54 Shared Prosperity 56 www.
