14 Strategic report Chief Executives review T ullett Prebon entered 2017 as TP ICAP, a better, stronger and greater company, and the biggest interdealer broker in the world.
We are ready to embrace the opportunities ahead with confidence andoptimism.
John Phizackerley Chief Executive This year has been a busy and eventful one We achieved underlying operating profit of for us and I am pleased to report progress 132m, an increase of 22% and underlying on many fronts.
Tullett Prebon entered 2017 earnings of 103m, an increase of 31%.
as TP ICAP, a better, stronger and greater Reported operating profit of 73m was 40% company and the biggest interdealer lower than in 2015 which included the net broker in the world.
We are ready to embrace settlement of 64m from BGC, and reported the opportunities ahead with confidence operating margin of 8.2% is 7.1% points and optimism.
Financial performance We have continued to make progress on our While 2016 was dominated by the successful strategic goal to diversify our sources of D uring 2016 we improved closing of the acquisition of ICAP, the second revenue.
More than a quarter of our total our client service and half of the year also witnessed an improved revenues now comes from our Energy & operational excellence.
performance in our heritage businesses, in Commodities business reflecting investments particular interest rates, credit and FX which we have made in this division, which include have been subdued for some time.
In our successful acquisitions of PVM and MOAB.
addition, Energy & Commodities, Equities Our geographic mix of revenue is also and Information Sales recorded strong year changing with the Americas now contributing on year revenue growth.
over 30% of our total, as we reap the These factors were reflected in the Groups benefits of rebuilding that business over underlying financial performance.
revenue in 2016 was 892m, on a constant In the future, we expect to benefit further currency basis, an increase of 4% 12% on from economies of scale inherent in the a reported basis compared with 2015. combination with ICAP.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 15 Operating model The security of our information and We entered into a partnership with a technology infrastructure is crucial for specialist listed futures and options broker, maintaining our applications and protecting Coex, which has a varied and diverse client TP ICAP will operate the Tullett Prebon our customers and brands.
During 2016 we base, and an offering which is based on andICAP brands separately.
The Global reviewed and assessed our resilience to and creative trading idea generation.
Executive Committee GEC of TP ICAP is ability to recover from cyber attacks.
We made up of senior professionals from both We acquired a long term licence for strengthened our ability to prevent, detect Tullett Prebon and ICAP.
From 1 January a hybrid trading technology which we and respond to this threat by enhancing our 2017 the Group now operates across four renamed Nova.
It will enable us to develop governance and control frameworks so that global business lines Global Broking, Energy in-house proprietary, bespoke capabilities, they are now an integral part of our systems & Commodities, Data & Analytics, and and will allow us to build venue functionality and processes.
While we can never Institutional Services in a matrix with which meets the requirements of MiFID II guarantee that we are immune from such regional management.
The TP ICAP regulations which are timetabled to come threats, we will continue to examine, invest Corporate Services division will provide a into force in January 2018. inand strengthen our defences.
single, efficient, technology centric support function for the Group.
In October we signed an agreement We have started a programme of smarter with Brave New Coin to distribute digital procurement which will rationalise our panel During 2016 we improved our client service currency data, which gives our customers of suppliers.
This programme will continue and operational excellence.
transparency on intraday pricing from more during 2017, and will be extended across the than 50 digital currencies including Bitcoin, supplier base we have inherited with ICAP.
We use a sales management tool, which has Ethereum and Ripple.
improved the visibility and management of New hires, acquisitions and partnerships our client interaction.
We expect it will grow In November 2016 we partnered with revenues in existing accounts and drive new Quarternion Risk Management, a leading revenues from additional ones.
We recruited a high quality team of 14 risk analytics firm, to launch an innovative specialist brokers in theUSA who are open source risk project in collaboration In August we announced the establishment leaders in Credit Default Swaps CDS.
of a new technology nearshore centre in They use our tpCreditdeal platform to Belfast, Northern Ireland which will play provide an enriched and truly hybrid apivotal role in the delivery of our global offering for our clients.
By the end of 2019, weintend to have at least 300 employees atthis site.
com 16 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Culture and conduct In the future, we will likely manage instruments to be effected on a multilateral moreclient relationships from within the trading facility MTF or an organised Eurozone, where we already have a network trading facility OTF, the latter being a new At TP ICAP, we are fully aware that the of offices in Paris, Frankfurt, Madrid and type of trading venue covering voice and markets that we intermediate are in the real inother locations.
As a result of our position in economy.
We are active across a broad range these markets we aspire to be a leader in the of products, and we believe that what we We have a strategic planning workstream operation of a range of OTF and MTF venues doand how we do it matters profoundly to which examines the various Brexit scenarios and provision of broking services throughout market integrity and the wider population.
and how we might want to adapt our the EU in the new regulatory regime.
We take that responsibility seriously and it business accordingly.
underpins our culture and how we conduct Looking ahead ourselves as a firm and as individuals.
Awards We achieved a great deal in 2016 and We were delighted to win a number of I am confident that our progress to date In 2016 we continued to drive home awards during 2016, including taking first will help us deliver our long-term goals.
our key message on conduct and culture and place in five out of seven categories from We are now in a position to capitalise on continued to train our employees about our Global Capital: Interdealer Broker of the these achievements and pursue our strategy standards and required behaviours.
Year, Interest Derivatives Broker of the Year, for growth as the larger TP ICAP Group.
Swap Execution Facility of the Year, New talent recruitment Data and Analytics Vendor of the Year, Political and economic uncertainty is likely to and FX Broker of the Year.
These awards persist during 2017 as the debate continues are an endorsement of the strength of our on the shape the UKs exit from the EU and Hiring the next generation of employees is offering and testament to our commitment because national elections take place akey ten arrows objective see page 8. to excellent client service.
in a number of countries on the Continent.
We made material progress during 2016 on Tensions in Russia, China and North Korea Acquisition of ICAPs Global Broking our objective to recruit, train and develop could add to a heightened sense of andInformation Business new talent.
We successfully launched our uncertainty compared with the recent early talent recruitment drive in September political order.
In the USA there is potential 2016 and received 2,000 applications within for regulatory reform that could impact Much time and energy was invested in two weeks.
We have hired more than 45 markets.
However, with a clear strategy and finalising the acquisition of ICAP which we employees on this programme so far.
sustained focus on operational excellence, I signed in November 2015.
We obtained all am confident that TP ICAP will continue to the necessary approvals and closed the People be resilient and successful.
A lot of our upside transaction on 30 December 2016. is in our hands.
Between signing and completion we carried We continue to invest in the development The re-emergence of the yield curve and out extensive integration planning across all of the Groups employees.
We now have returning market volatility contributed to functions of the Group, so that we have a agroup-wide programme of learning improved market conditions.
Should such detailed route-map which we are now and training to ensure our employees factors persist there is cause for optimism implementing, extracting the considerable are equipped with the appropriate skills.
that market conditions for interdealer benefits of the combination.
I have been brokers such as TP ICAP will continue impressed by the quality of ICAP employees As part of the drive to engage with to improve.
and their leadership team now that we are employees, understand their needs, and TP ICAP colleagues.
In addition the business ultimately improve performance, we Our employees work in fast-moving is delivering on the breadth and scale we conducted our first employee Pulse environments and provide diverse and envisaged during the due diligence process.
engagement survey, covering a broad complex services to a demanding and rangeof subjects.
We were delighted that sophisticated client base.
The results we Rebranding as TP ICAP more than 67% responded and provided have delivered are a testament to the valuable feedback on how they perceive quality, dedication and creativity of theGroup and where we can improve.
On completion of our acquisition of ICAP our people.
welaunched a rebranding of our Group as Brexit I would like to take this opportunity to TP ICAP plc, reflecting the strength of our The announcement of the result of the Brexit thank my colleagues across the TP ICAP respective heritages.
referendum that took place on 23 June Group for their positive approach and their caused a period of heightened activity Regulatory changes service to our clients.
I am extremely grateful andinstils market uncertainty between During 2017, we will prepare for the for their hard work and continuing thetriggering of Article 50 and the final forthcoming market structure reforms being commitment.
state ofthe UK negotiation with the EU.
implemented as a result of MiFID II.
They will There are material implications for financial John Phizackerley have a fundamental impact on trading in markets between the so called softor hard Chief Executive OTC markets in the EU, requiring the Brexit outcomes.
14 March 2017 multilateral trading of OTC financial TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 17 Case study Strategic acquisitions The successful acquisition of PVM established TullettPrebon as a leading oil broker, and immediately added a large and diverse customer base.
Link to our strategy on page 8 In November 2014, we completed the The deal also enabled Tullett Prebon acquisition of PVM, a leading independent Information TPI to expand its data oil brokerage firm, along with its subsidiaries.
offering to a broader set of customers, The transaction added 33 new broking expanding its suite of energy products to desksto the Group, as well as significantly deepen its global crude, refined and middle increasing our coverage of oil products in distillates coverage.
Adding 350 brokerage customers, the deal increased thediversity of the Groups revenue and client base.
Alongside PVMs main broking activities in crude oil and petroleum products, the acquisition also brought a global oil futures business, Singapore distillates and Urals to the Group.
