UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review In 2016 we took further steps to focus UBM on the B2B events sector and to implement our Events First strategy at an operational level.
The benefits are now increasingly evident in our financial performance and during 2016 this contributed towards creating good value for shareholders.
Looking ahead, we see excellent opportunities for further meaningful and sustainable performance improvement and value creation.
Tim Cobbold Chief Executive Officer Living Events The worlds leading B2B events company First Growth Attractive margin Best platform Events First Our vision is to be the leading global B2B events business.
Our strategy is to focus UBM on this attractive sector on a global basis, Agile Customer Operational Standardised High drive industry-leading returns and growth insight excellence technology performance experiences for our customers and and and data culture deliver superior returns for our innovation shareholders.
See page 28 See page 30 See page 32 See page 34 See page 26 In order to communicate the strategy internally and to organise our actions we pursue five strategic priorities Attractive market and strong UBM position as illustrated here : See page 11 The UBM Commitments and sustainability agenda See page 36-39 14 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 2016 was another very significant year On 13 December 2016 we announced for Events First.
There was further the acquisition of Allworld for $485m.
Through our strategic progress in focusing the Allworld, which generated revenues and business on the events sector and in operating profits of $97.2m and $37.6m Events First implementing the strategy at an respectively in the year to 30 June operational level.
2016, is a pure-play events business strategy we see focused in Asia and the Middle East, This strategy is now showing real with a record of strong organic growth, the opportunity benefits and UBM delivered a strong averaging c. 7% CAGR over the last ten to accelerate financial performance ahead of market years.
This is an important acquisition expectations.
In the favourable FX for UBM as it reinforces our marketgrowth, improve environment reported revenues grew leading position in Asia and secures a 12.1%.
At constant currency revenue was leadership position in the high-growth the margin and broadly flat despite continued portfolio ASEAN region as well as improving the rationalisation and lower even-year growth profile of the Events portfolio.
The operating margin was Additionally, it provides useful market 1.6% points higher at 27.2% and the access to the Middle East, a region platform earnings per share were up 31.0%.
where UBM had only a small presence.
in the industry Living Events First The UBM and Allworld portfolios In line with the strategy a number of are highly complementary, both important and significant steps were geographically and sectorally and, taken in 2016 in refocusing the Group over the next two-three years there on the Events sector.
The disposal of are significant and exciting revenue PRN coupled with the acquisition of synergy opportunities available.
Allworld and four small bolt-ons have Examples include, co-locating adjacent significantly increased UBMs focus on shows, cross-marketing between the the attractive, higher-margin, highertwo portfolios, introducing value based growth events sector.
On a pro forma pricing and moving to operate some basis, 84% of UBMs continuing biennial shows annually.
Integration revenues and 92% of operating profits plans are already being implemented are now derived from the Events sector.
and we expect that in 2019 the This proportion will increase further as acquisition will deliver a return on more bolt-on acquisitions are made and investment greater than our weighted the alignment of OMS activities to the average cost of capital.
We also enhanced the portfolio by On 15 December 2015 we announced the spending a further 82.7m on four disposal of PRN for $841m comprising attractive bolt-on acquisitions.
On $810m cash and $31m preferred 21 April 2016 we acquired Business equity.
Following anti-trust clearance Journals Inc BJI, a New York-based in the US, the transaction completed on portfolio of Fashion events and related 16 June 2016 and in July we returned media activities, for $69m in cash.
This 243.7m of the cash proceeds to business complements UBMs existing shareholders via a special dividend with Fashion portfolio exceptionally well, an accompanying share consolidation.
offering very significant cost synergies relative to its size.
15 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued BJI is being integrated and is 19.2m, the remaining investment in performing in line with the business the Light Reading business for 16.1m, Operationally, case with synergies coming through and some other small events and media sooner than expected.
In December, we sold Events First Ecobuild to its management for a On 31 May 2016 we purchased Content nominal sum, incurring a total loss on implementation Marketing Institute CMI, the marketdisposal of 35.1m principally relating leading Content Marketing World to the write-off of goodwill.
remains the event, conference and media business, priority and based in Cleveland, Ohio for an initial 2016 was the second year of a consideration of $17.6m.
CMI operates three-year programme of portfolio the focus in a high-growth market segment and rationalisation and although it subdued uses a format and approach to serving growth, it increased the operating its community that has proven very profit and operating margin in 2016. successful in our existing technology Furthermore, once the rationalisation shows.
CMI is operating in line with the has been completed in 2017 the revenue business plan.
In addition, we acquired growth in the business will strengthen.
The Battery Show in Novi, Michigan for 14.3m and Secon in Korea for 2.2m.
Operationally, Events First implementation remains the priority The integration of Advanstar, which and the focus.
The roll-out of a common was acquired in late December 2014, sales model and supporting CRM continues to plan and will be concluded platform is largely complete in EMEA, during 2017.
Total synergies generated where approximately 76% of event by the end of 2016 were $17.0m and revenues are operating the new sales a further $3m have been identified processes.
The preparation phase is and will be realised in 2017.
Despite well advanced in Asia, with roll-out some weakness in Fashion markets, commencing before the end of the first Advanstar continues to deliver well half, and has begun in the Americas.
ahead of the business plan established The utilisation of Orbit and Touchplan, when it was acquired.
The 2016 return both of which improve the onsite on investment for the transaction is rebooking experience, is increasing and 10.7%.
For all acquisitions made in the the value-based pricing process has last three years the total return on begun at MAGIC and Black Hat.
progress has been made on the procurement programme with This refocusing on events is aggregate annualised savings of 6.6m complemented by the disposal and secured including synergies.
Full year rationalisation of smaller, lowersavings under this programme are now margin, lower-growth events and of expected to be 8m p. a. by the end of OMS activities that are not well aligned 2017.
Event plans are becoming a key to events, in line with our strategy.
mechanism for the ongoing operational In 2016, 27 events and eight OMS management of the business and have properties, with revenues in 2015 of significantly improved the long term 11.7m and 3.8m respectively, were planning process for the Group.
We disposed of the US long-term incentives, which incorporate Electronics and eMedia business for organic revenue growth targets 16 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements underpinned by profit-based incentives, Financial performance in 2016 have been implemented at the The 2016 results reflect the excellent The programme event leadership level and for senior progress in the implementation of divisional management.
Events First, and also benefit of strategic significantly from the favourable In the year to 31 December 2016 foreign exchange rate movement, the investment has strategic expenditure, which result of the depreciation of sterling includes the costs of portfolio following the vote in the UK to leave already delivered rationalisation, restructuring, strategy the European Union.
annualised savings implementation and development of the common Sales, Marketing and Data Continuing reported revenue was of 11.5m, well platform, was 10.8m.
The Events was capital expenditure and 7.2m business grew organically, the bolt-on ahead of what had opex of which 6.1m was in Events acquisitions contributed, and the and 1.1m in OMS.
In aggregate the favourable FX movement more than been anticipated Events First programme has delivered offset the impact of a biennial downsavings of 9.2m in 2016 at an year, a small decline in the OMS when the strategy annualized run rate of 11.5m p. a. business and the portfolio rationalisation.
already well ahead of what had been On an underlying basis, adjusting for was launched in anticipated when the strategy was rationalisation, continuing revenues 2014 launched in 2014.
These increased and accelerated The continuing adjusted operating savings reflect the continuing good margin increased by 1.6%pts to 27.2% progress in implementing the initiatives with the impact of the favourable FX within each of the Events First movement and the benefits of Events strategic priorities.
First operational initiatives more than offsetting the biennial down-year The Events First investment was impact.
The Annual Events operating originally estimated at 30m-35m margin increased by 0.9%pts to 32.3% split between strategic opex and and the OMS margin by 3.3%pts to 16.0%.
capital expenditure over the period 2015 to 2017.
Overall savings were Adjusted cash generated from expected to be 10m p. a. building from operations was strong at 2016.
Savings have been realised 252.9m, with a cash conversion significantly faster than was originally of 96%.
expected and we see further opportunities with the overall level of The Groups continuing adjusted annual savings now expected to operating profit, rose 19.2% to increase to 20m p. a. by the end of 234.8m 2015: 197.1m.
Commensurate with this, the level continuing diluted adjusted EPS of investment will increase to increased by 31.0% to 39.7p.
40m-45m with a greater proportion of the total expenditure being opex in nature.
Post 2017 we will regard such as expenditure as business as usual.
17 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued Outlook While remaining conscious of the global In 2017 the Board macro and geopolitical uncertainties, in 2017 the Board expects to see expects to see higher underlying revenue growth excluding the impact of portfolio higher growth, rationalisation, enhanced by the consolidation of Allworld for the first further margin time and the positive impact of oddimprovement and year biennials.
This growth coupled with Events First initiatives will drive continued strong further improvement in the margin and continued strong cash generation.
cash generation Assuming current FX rates prevail, the performance will also benefit from a continued FX tailwind.
Tim Cobbold Chief Executive Officer 18 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The Executive Committee ExCo On 14 November 2016, Simon Our experienced UBM has a strong, experienced and Foster resigned as CEO of UBM committed senior management team EMEA.
In his absence, Tim Cobbold Executive Committee that share a common belief in what can has taken responsibility for UBM provides strategic be achieved through the Events First EMEA, supported by its strong strategy.
During the year the team was management team.
A full-time and operational strengthened with Scott Schulman successor is expected to be leadership across joining as CEO of UBM Americas, John appointed in the first half of 2017.
Petevinos as Group Strategy Director the Group.
and Simon Hollins as Group CIO.
com Tim Cobbold Marina Wyatt Eleanor Phillips Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO Group Human Resources Director Jane Risby-Rose Jim Essink John Petevinos Global EVP UBM Events Chief Executive Officer, UBM Asia Group Strategy Director Mark Peters Scott Schulman Simon Hollins Group Company Secretary Chief Executive Officer, UBM Americas Group Chief Information Officer 19
