Chief Executives review 04 Chief Executives review We are well prepared to exploit the challenges and opportunities in our market and return Ultra to growth.
Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive The US election provided the second major A year of surprises shock of the year with the full implications yet to be realised.
However, there is now a and opportunities strong expectation in the market of a return 2016 will be remembered as a year of shocks to growth of about 3% in the defence sector, and surprises.
The UK electorates surprise fuelled by increased US defence spending.
decision to exit the European Union BREXIT This will need to be enabled by the expected was a result that continues to cause UK early repeal of the Budget Control Act and businesses uncertainty.
Despite having a less action to achieve an agreed defence budget immediate impact on the national economy, for FY17.
President Trump is also insistent concerns remain regarding long-term UK that those allies living under a US defence umbrella pay their way, implying increased ination and currency instability as the details defence expenditure in those nations.
Ultra is largely signs of the new Administrations insulated from the direct impacts of BREXIT, commitment to closer working with the UK, with exports from the UK to mainland Europe on both trade and defence, are also positive contributing just 7% of Group revenue, and indicators for Ultra given that they represent minimal dependency on the free movement Ultras two largest markets.
Indeed, our much greater exposure to the US should provide reassurance to our investors during a period of such uncertainty.
Chief Executives review 05 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Group order book 6.0% In the UK, major programmes are on a Increasing efficiency sounder footing after the comprehensive There is a general consensus that the 799.3m 2015: 753.8m Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR commercial aerospace market has peaked in 2016, but budgets remain taut.
This orders and is approaching a manufacturing 2016 799.3 budgetary pressure can translate into cash highpoint.
Ultra has already responded to this 2015 753.8 ow constraints at the mid-tier of the supply expected change by signicantly reducing its chain as the Government and primes attempt investment in development of new 2014 787.3 to control spending.
We have seen a growing capabilities, choosing instead to focus 2013 781.2 trend of limited funding approvals and delays resources on production efficiency.
That being said, our key positions on many aircraft types, now 2012 905.0 positions on major platforms, such stepping up production rates to meet existing as the Joint Strike Fighter JSF and the orders, will underpin performance for several Dreadnought submarine, underpin our years.
Where we are able to readily adapt our Underlying earnings per share 8.6% longer-term performance.
existing technologies for new opportunities, we will do so.
China will become an Globally, the range of conicts and tensions KPI 134.6p 2015: 123.9p increasingly important market for commercial in Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East aviation and our long-established joint 2016 134.6 are expected to result in increased defence venture partnership with Top-scientific Inc. spending in these regions: more so as oil 2015 123.9 will allow us good access to these large prices recover.
Many nations are already commercial opportunities.
The year saw some 2014 123.1 upgrading their military and security important decisions made on the future of capabilities, providing opportunities for Ultra 2013 127.1 the UK nuclear electricity generation in our areas of strength: communications, programme: we continue to work with the 2012 125.5 ISTAR and cyber protection.
Competition in UK Government and major industrial these markets is erce and procurement participants to demonstrate how Ultra can processes extended, so contract awards are provide a significant, UK-based contribution less predictable than in our core markets.
Dividend per share 3.7% to these long-term projects.
Our relationship Extensive delays in order intake are not with EDF remains excellent, culminating in the unusual and can disrupt short-term 47.8p 2015: 46.1p award of EDF Energys UK Supplier of the performance.
To mitigate this uncertainty our 2016 47.8 Year award.
I am also very pleased by our efforts remain focused, selecting target partnership with NuScale, which will see Ultra programmes and in-country partners with 2015 46.1 responsible for developing the safety and great care.
Currently, we see India, Australia, 2014 44.3 sensor suites for the first Small Modular Japan, the Middle East, and for non-defence Reactors SMRs to seek regulatory approval.
products China as important regions to 2013 42.2 prioritise marketing efforts.
2012 40.0 Our relationship with EDF remains excellent, culminating in the award of EDF Energys UK Supplier of the Yearaward.
Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition and Reconnaissance see footnote on page 144 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report.
Chief Executives review 06 Chief Executives review continued Delivering excellence In 2016 we made our first significant We will continue During our annual Business Leaders disposal, with the sale of the ID Card Conference, I sought my senior team's view business for 22m.
This important exercise to retain a core of on the core question of why we do what do, of discipline demonstrates the greater as more important than who we are and attention we are paying to the development capability at Tiers 3 what we do.
The Whywe developed from of our capability portfolio across the Group, and 4, with most Ultra our own discussions is set out on the front as we reposition to achieve long-term cover of this report and neatly captures growth.
Acceleration of the integration of businesses reecting Ultras fundamental culture see also page 1.
Herley and an excellent cash conversion rate We are disruptors in the marketplace.
Simply has quickly reduced the Groups leverage to this focus.
put, this means that Ultra is always looking a point where we can actively consider our for a new approach or a new method that next significant acquisition.
utilises our technology to displace the Our Standardisation & Shared Services S3 incumbent supplier, through innovative and workstreams continue to make good progress adaptive solutions.
Importantly, this Achieving this still depends upon the programme does not reduce business innovation and agility of our businesses, which autonomy but instead brings together nonstems from their autonomy.
Ultra businesses differentiating activities including HR, finance retain great freedom to make decisions and and IT into a single hub and service provider.
react quickly to market opportunities, while Individual businesses retain expert roles in meeting their budget goals.
Over the past two order to support managerial decisions and to years, we have enhanced this responsiveness be demanding customers for S3 services.
by restructuring into three Divisions pages 30- 35 which reect the eight market segments we face.
This structure has increased the level of collaboration across the Group, improving shared understanding of Ultras capabilities and the market as a whole, resulting in greater opportunities to provide well-matched solutions to customer needs.
This approach has led to some further consolidation, from 24 businesses in 2015 to the current 19, where businesses face a similar customer set and have complementary capabilities.
An additional benefit to these selective In 2016 I was delighted to welcome the return consolidations is the generation of a small of Amitabh Sharma to the Head Ofce, where number of larger businesses that are capable he succeeded Mary Waldner as Group Finance of taking on larger opportunities at a Tier 2 Director.
When he was with Ultra previously, level dened on page 8, with the greater Amitabh was formative in the development of depth, experience and skill set that a many of Ultras financial control systems, so his larger-scale business allows us to attract transition into the lead financial role has been into our management teams.
He brings an important insight, continue to retain a core of capability at rigour and discipline to our financial processes Tiers 3 and 4, with most Ultra businesses and is leading the S3 programme.
In 2016 we made our first significant disposal.
Chief Executives review 07 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Return to growth None of this happens without immense effort In such a turbulent year in terms of global from across the entire workforce.
2016 has Operational highlights surprises, I am pleased to report these sound been another challenging year for all our The award of an $18m contract to results which reect the disciplined approach businesses and the positive results reect a provide Electronic Warfare equipment we have taken to the restructuring of the huge amount of hard work and commitment to a NATO country for use in Group and control of our costs.
Through our by every one of the Groups 4,466 employees.
focused approach to the market, continuing In all the disciplines of the Group Securing a 16m programme for the investment in developing  management, engineering, production, continued support of our world-leading technology capabilities and further renement marketing, HR and finance people continue software-dened encryption device of our portfolio, we are well prepared to to improvise, adapt and overcome.
No one is ECU RP for the UK Ministry of exploit the challenges and opportunities in standing still or taking their revenue or market Defence MoD.
our markets and return Ultra to growth.
It is that strength in people that prevailing markets the Executive Team will gives me the confidence that we will return to A $34.6m award for the critical maintain a careful balance between growth and ensure the Groups continuing infrastructure protection and cyber performance during the year and investing success for the future.
security for US naval bases.
and positioning for longer-term growth.
Our Securing a $27m contract with Lockheed recent restructuring provides us with a much Martin for the development and better framework within which to make these production of an acoustic nose array for judgements, while the S3 programme and Rakesh Sharma the US Navy MK 48 torpedo programme.
continuing discipline within businesses Chief Executive ensures we control our costs effectively.
Successful delivery of a ship ret and modernisation upgrade of a Fatahillahclass corvette for the Indonesian Navy, and award of a contract for the restoration and sustainment of two Philippines Jacinto-class Patrol Vessels.
Ultras track record of delivering A multi-year agreement for supply of above-average shareholder returns pence Canadian sonobuoys to the South 250 Korean P-3C maritime patrol aircraft, worth Canadian $14.9m.
200 150 100 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc KPI FTSE all share price index 50 FTSE 100 price index FTSE 250 price index FTSE all share aerospace defence 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 KPI Key Performance Indicator, see pages 28-29 for details Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
