CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW It has been a busy start to 2017.
While the proposed bid for the Group In addition to driving our core business, it is also important that we from the Kraft Heinz Company was without financial and strategic continue to experiment with new models, channels and innovative merit and quickly seen as such we are using it as an opportunity to approaches.
That is why we took the opportunity in 2016 to strengthen review the options open to us to accelerate the delivery of value to the business further by acquiring a number of attractive businesses shareholders.
Our aim is to build on the strong track record we have in fast-growing segments of the market and with a strong appeal built up of long-term value creation, which has seen a total among Millennials.
Seventh Generation, Blueair and the Dollar Shave shareholder return of 190% since 2009.
Club all joined the Unilever family and are proving to be great additions.
Since the beginning of 2017 we have also been delighted to We will be saying more about this after the review is completed.
the moment, let me focus on the purpose of this report a review of 2016.
There is no doubt it was another difficult year for the global This consistent evolution of the portfolio means that over the last eight economy, characterised by low growth and slowing consumer demand.
years we have disposed of 2.8 billion of turnover in non-strategic We also saw a significant backlash against the forces of globalisation, businesses and acquired 4 billion in faster growing areas of the with all the related challenges around political polarisation and market, notably Personal Care, which today accounts for 38% of our economic uncertainty.
total business, up from 28% only eight years ago.
We have also invested a total of 3.4 billion in increasing our participation in While a more globalised and digitally-connected world has undoubtedly countries where we do not own 100% of our subsidiaries, most recently brought vast social and economic benefits, helping to lift millions out of in Egypt and China.
poverty, it is equally clear that many people now feel left behind, detached from a system that they perceive no longer works in their The relevance and importance of the Unilever Sustainable Living interests.
Brexit in the UK and the US Presidential election were clear Plan USLP in driving a responsible business model, and in helping manifestations of this desire on the part of many to see our political and to accelerate the growth and profitability of Unilever, was economic systems evolve in a way that benefits more people.
Our leadership was also recognized externally.
We were industry group leader in the prestigious Dow These political developments and the rise of populism associated with Jones Sustainability Index, for example, and for the sixth consecutive them added to a growing sense of unease and uncertainty on the year we topped the Globescan SustainAbility survey of experts on worlds markets, calling into question the shape of future trading leadership in sustainability.
relationships and in particular the unwelcome prospect of a return to protectionism.
This comes at a time when trade is already slowing as a The alignment of our USLP objectives to the 17 Global Goals for proportion of global GDP itself one of the clear symptoms of a Sustainable Development, set out by the United Nations to eradicate stuttering world economy.
poverty in a sustainable and equitable way by 2030, further highlights the relevance of our approach in helping to address some of todays While economic growth may be slowing there is no let-up in the pace most urgent global challenges.
As the recent report from the Business of scientific and technological change.
The advent of what has been & Sustainable Development Commission also makes clear, addressing termed a fourth industrial revolution is already disrupting whole these challenges can generate significant economic opportunities for industry sectors, including our own, not least by increasing the enlightened businesses, possibly adding as much as 12 trillion to the opportunities for new and mostly local entrants.
now coming from many, varied directions, making it more important than ever to stay ahead of fast-moving trends and to ensure our As we look ahead it is clear that the world around us is changing at an business remains relevant for the future.
Digital technology in particular is transforming every aspect of the way we live, work and shop.
Despite this turbulent and challenging backdrop, 2016 was another year of solid progress and achievement for Unilever.
Guided by our Companies that thrive in this increasingly dynamic environment will be model of consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible growth, those best able to respond quickly and innovatively to rapidly changing we once again out-performed our markets, with 60% of the business consumer preferences and market conditions, able to display agility on gaining share.
the one hand and resilience on the other.
This calls for faster, simpler and more agile organisational models, as well as cost structures that We believe that this model of consistency, particularly at times of reflect only the costs that consumers are willing to bear.
uncertainty, is in the best long-term interests of Unilever and a good indication of a robust strategy.
Good quality top and bottom line growth We have been answering this call with a major change programme has now been delivered over the last eight years, a rare achievement one of the biggest in Unilevers history.
Connected 4 Growth C4G will in todays volatile and unpredictable markets and a clear sign of the simplify the way we are organised, freeing up time, resource and progress we have made.
most importantly the entrepreneurial instinct needed to seize the opportunities that a more digitally connected world provides.
The Underlying sales growth of 3.7% in 2016 was a good performance in changes, which have been developed thoroughly over the last two both absolute and relative terms and would have been higher but for years, will touch all elements of Unilever and will help to sharpen even the impact of demonetisation in India and the economic crisis in Brazil, further the strong performance culture we have built up at Unilever.
two major markets for Unilever.
On the bottom line, profitability stepped-up as a result of our organisational change programmes We will complete the implementation of the C4G programme in 2017. and the returns we are now getting on the significant investments Together with related savings programmes like Zero-Based we have made in modernising our industrial base and in upgrading Budgeting it will release funds to support our growth ambitions and our in-house capabilities.
Furthermore, we continue to exert tight accelerate margin improvement, despite what we expect to be a discipline in capital spending and in working capital, with both continuation of the very tough trading environment.
Unilevers strong performance in 2016 and the further steps we took to Importantly, growth was broad-based across our four major strengthen the fundamental pillars of the business could not have categories.
This reflects the sharper and more differentiated been achieved without the 169,000 wonderful men and women of strategies we have put in place, as well as our ability to roll-out Unilever, as well as the many thousands more who work with us bigger and stronger innovations to even more markets.
Examples throughout the value chain.
I thank all of them for their leadership, from 2016 included two of our thirteen 1 billion plus brands: integrity and dedication.
Rexona Antibacterial deodorant, which helps eliminate over 90% of odour-causing bacteria, was introduced to more than 40 countries: and Omo, with its enhanced formulation and cleaning technology, PAUL POLMAN has now successfully been rolled-out across 27 markets.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 4 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016
