CEOS STATEMENT Q Having reviewed the Companys business and strategy, what were yourkey findings and what changes will you be making?
A We have reaffirmed our commitment tofocus in the inhaled airways diseases segment.
As a company with limited size and scale today, it is important to focus and prioritise our investment capability and build in-depth expertise.
We have the opportunity to help transform the lives of airways disease patients through our applied insight and excellence in with Chief Executive Officer James Ward-Lilley inhaled device and formulation.
We will continue to build on our industry-leading device and formulation capabilities to maximise the value from partnerships and progressively develop our own pipeline which will, in the future, be commercialised with a team focused My first six months as Vecturas CEO.
CEO James Ward-Lilley answers the key questions about We have a great opportunity to build Vecturas business and performance and outlines his onthe strengths Vectura has developed over several years and to lead the vision for thefuture and why he joined Vectura.
industry through our ability to formulate drugs, apply these formulations in relevant devices and then industrialise and scalethem for regulatory approval James Ward-Lilley andcommercialisation.
This can be Chief Executive Officer developed further with both existing drugs, including generics, andinnovative approaches and with a partnered and owned portfolio approach.
Does Vectura have the capabilities Q toexecute ontheseopportunities?
A The business has a strong track record of device and formulation development that has been validated through regulatory approvals and in-market revenues from partners.
Vectura has anumber of capabilities to maximise value from these opportunities.
These include its strong dry powder formulation capability, which is 8 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT being applied to small and large molecules, The level of innovation in this therapy area Q What made you join Vectura afterwhat as well as its device capabilities seen in was clearly a long career at AstraZeneca?
is potentially very important for physicians the approved and marketed DPI GyroHaler and patients in the future and isalso a A I had a long, successful and enjoyable device and the AKITA JET and FOX smart fantastic opportunity for us.
Vectura is career at AstraZeneca.
Alongside the technology ideally placed to be a partner ofchoice to contact with Vectura through a number platforms, Vectura has a strong team help enable other companies to progress of interactions whilst working as the with deep insight in formulation science their developments as well asto selectively Head of the Commercial Franchise, leading and development, which is being develop its own specialist assets products.
AstraZeneca's global commercial strategy complemented with increased expertise The importance of effective and proven team for respiratory, inflammation being developed in regulatory, medical device and formulation development, andautoimmune therapy area.
providing a platform that can be leveraged aware that Vectura had a compelling with large, mid-cap and small pharma, combination of formulation expertise The proposed merger with Skyepharma andwith biotech companies, is a great anddevice capabilities with the dry will, bring together the two companies position forVectura to be in.
powder inhalers which hadbeen complementary inhaled formulation and recently augmented with theacquisition device expertise.
This will provide a series Q How do you feel now you have of the Activaero smart nebuliser platform.
of enhanced platforms to accelerate growth beenCEO for six months?
in the inhaled respiratory market.
What was also clear to me was that Vectura A I am very pleased and proud to be seemed to be at an inflection point, Vecturas CEO.
I believe it is a strong Q What do you see as the main opportunity withthe prospect of strong financial business with great prospects and I am in the inhaled respiratory market?
performance and the opportunity to excited about leading it.
In my first few develop its capabilities and pipeline built A This is a large market with significant months as CEO I have led a review of on firm foundations.
The business was unmet medical need in both large and Vecturas business and strategy and starting to see accelerating growth from niche diseases.
There is an unprecedented started to get to know the team and recurring revenue streams of recently transformation underway within the inhaled meet with our key business partners launched products and had become therapies market with the emergence of andshareholders.
As announced in our profitable for the first time last year.
new therapies, including novel products, results we have delivered a strong set TheCompany had seen a significant generics and combination approaches, offinancial results and made important evolution in its broad pipeline of both that present more opportunities to pipeline progress.
Vectura has solid partnered and wholly owned assets, which partner, co-develop and ultimately technology foundations which we will reflected a spread of risk and innovation self-commercialise.
Device choice and aim to build on and I am looking forward including small and large new molecular formulation is increasingly important in to the challenges and opportunities entities NME, known generic molecules amarket which is fragmenting in terms ahead aswe deliver on the execution of and complex combinations.
of patient sub-groups and delivery systems, the strategy.
The proposed merger with including DPIs, pressurised metered dose As someone who has worked in the Skyepharma has been a major area of inhalers pMDIs, nebulisers and injectables focus and I believe this deal will give respiratory space for many years I am well biologics.
The emergence ofnew biologic aware ofthe high unmet medical need Vectura the opportunity to build a treatments reflects the increased stronger scaled business and allow us to in this therapy area and the opportunities phenotyping of meaningful patient thatare developing fast as we better accelerate our plans further seepage 11 segments and offers further potential for further details.
understand the biology of the immune forinhaled opportunities.
There is, I believe, something of wellplaced to capture value from these arenaissance in this therapy area which, opportunities though our business after a period of limited innovation and model seepage 14 and our innovative lack of new approved therapies, we proprietary formulation capabilities.
arenow seeing many new drug and therapeutic approaches being developed, including monotherapies, combinations, biologics and immunomodulators.
This is certainly at alevel far higher thanI have Read more about our governance on pages 51 to 88 seen at any time since Ijoined the industry.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 9 CEOS STATEMENT continued Q What are the prospects for the have included a 70m maximum partial FOX, AKITA and DPI platforms: Groupgoing forward?
cashalternative element in the proposed : andthe further Skyepharma merger deal which will be development of key capabilities in A The outlook for the coming year is funded from the Companys existing theclinical, medical, regulatory and dominated with the exciting prospect cash resources, together with the funds commercial planning teams in particular.
ofthe proposed merger for the Enlarged from a five-year 50m revolving Group.
As we bring together the two creditfacility.
Q What other things will be important businesses we will focus on reviewing toyou under yourleadership?
the potential acceleration opportunities Beyond this, our focus is on growth for enhanced revenues based on further A Vectura has a clear strategy, strong andour first call for investment is in financial performance, broad pipeline device, product and partnering initiatives.
developing our business and progressing In addition we will complete a review of and strong technology platforms.
We will also look to Vectura also has some very good, the existing portfolios and align all these accelerate our growth through further elements with a review of the financial experienced and hardworking teams.
selective business development and Aswe move forward and grow the outlook, capacity and synergies.
This will M&A, particularly focusing on building form the basis of the future guidance for business further it will becritical to ourspecialist commercial presence.
develop these capabilities and ensure the Enlarged Group.
Vectura has not paid dividends in the past.
weharness the collective skills of our On a standalone basis this is a The declaration andpayment ofany teams across locations and add new transitional year.
dividends in the future and the amount skills as we develop our own specialist ofany future dividends will depend on the commercial capabilities.
Vectura can We anticipate that total royalty income, results of operations, financial conditions, although driven by the growth of recently become known as a stimulating cash requirements, future prospects, andrewarding place towork with launched inhaled products, will be impacted profits available for distribution and other by the loss of patent for ADVATE which acontinued reputation for performance factors deemed by the Vectura Board to took place at the end of January 2016 and development.
With the VR315 Read more on our pipeline Vectura Board does not expect to pay any FDA action date set at May 2017 we now products onpages 34 and 35 dividend in the near-to-medium term, expect disclosed milestones for FY 2016 17 although the Board will continue to assess to be lower than those in FY 2014 15. the position.
Q If you look forward five years, There have been a significant number of whatwould you like to see?
leads that have converted into feasibility Q What are your priorities for the A studies across both our smart nebuliser My vision is quite simple.
I see the business forthe coming year?
and DPI platforms which could potentially opportunity to accelerate our growth have a positive impact on revenues and A 2016 17 promises to be a very exciting and leverage our existing business the possibility of additional upside if year for the business.
A first priority is, model tobecome an industry-leading converted into deals.
However the size, subject to deal closure, the fast and inhaled device, formulation, product value and timing of these potential effective integration of Skyepharma.
development and specialty commercial dealsare uncertain.
Weare committed to move fast on this business.
This includes leading in device in order to minimise disruption and and formulation innovation and partnering, There is a robust balance sheet in place uncertainty for employees and projects significantly expanding our clinical Q with c. 100m in cash: do you expect to and also to allow us to progress the development partnerships, including pay a dividend or look at M&A?
previously communicated pre-tax generics, and developing our specialist synergies of approximately 10m pipeline and in-market commercial activity Vectura has enjoyed, and continues to see, A perannum which are expected to be with the priority being in the US.
As we strong revenue and EBITDA growth fully realised by the 2018 calendar year.
dothis we will be aiming to maximise resulting from the delivery of R&D shareholder returns, create an exciting milestones, reflecting pipeline progress, Beyond the integration activities and andmeaningful place to work and develop and significant in-market royalty revenue financial performance delivery, priorities and, ultimately, helptransform the lives of growth from our partners.
As a result, are focused on progressing our own and patients with respiratory diseases through Vectura has a strong balance sheet and co-developed pipeline: progressing our our own and partnered programmes.
this is a good position for the business partnered assets, generics and novels: tobe in.
As shareholders are aware, we further business development of 10 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Merger announcement This section should be read in conjunction with the Rule 2.7 announcement andProspectus, which can be accessed at www.
com What is the background to, and strategic rationale for, the Merger?
The Vectura Board and the Skyepharma Board both believe this is a compelling transaction that willcombine the complementary Vectura and Skyepharma businesses tocreate an industry-leading, airways-related specialty business.
Bringing together the two companies complementary inhaled formulation, development, regulatory and device expertise DPI, pMDI and smart nebulisers provides aseries of enhanced platforms to accelerate growth in the inhaled respiratory market, along with providing shareholders with a broaderproduct and development portfolio.
The merger of Vectura and Skyepharma is a key milestone intheexecution of our strategy to become a leading specialty pharmaceutical company, focusing on airways-related diseases.
The addition of Skyepharmas pMDI technology will allow the Enlarged Group to access the inhaled product market in its entirety and the Enlarged Groups enhanced cash flow will better position it to consider attractive strategic opportunities which may emerge in the future.
The highly qualified management team, under the leadership of James Ward-Lilley, has the skills, experience and commitment to deliver the Enlarged Groups significant potential.
The Vectura Board strongly believes that the merger with Skyepharma will create a business with the technology, capabilities and financial profile to maximise returns to shareholders.
Bruno Angelici Chairman of Vectura Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 11 OUR MARKETS AND OPPORTUNITIES LARGE ADDRESSABLE MARKETS INFAST GROWING SEGMENTS Global inhalation market The main market for inhaled therapies is to treat respiratory diseases, especially asthma and COPD.
3m Inhalation products are complex fixed dosage forms deaths in 2012 were due to that are challenging to develop within the global COPD: the WHOpredicts it will regulatory environment.
Volume growth isexpected to become the third biggest continue as demand in the developing world expands.
cause of death by 2030 While volume growth is expected, overall sales growth is expected to be modest in these two disease areas due to a number of market factors.
In the asthma therapy market, generic erosion oftwo market-leading products, GSKs salmeterol fluticasone propionate Advair Seretide Adoair and AstraZeneca Astellas formoterol budesonide Symbicort, is expected to constrain value growth.
The decline ofsales of these market leaders is expected to be counterbalanced by theentry of emerging innovator products, mainly novelanticytokine agents for the treatment ofsevere asthma.
In COPD, generic erosion of salmeterol fluticasone and formoterol budesonide will also have put downward pressure on overall sales prices.
However, an increase Global inhaled respiratory market in the drug-treated population for COPD and the growth revenue in 2015: of LABA LAMA combination products are expected to provide growth in sales revenues.
US$35bn The WHO estimates that the number of people currently suffering from COPD is: 64m Our strategic response Vectura is well placed to address these challenges through: Proprietary formulation Multiple device platforms Vectura has a number of proprietary formulation capabilities Vectura has a number of patent-protected technology platforms TM TM PowderHale, PowderMax and ParticleMax which enable with which to generate future income streams: ittoformulate for inhalation a wide variety of molecules including devices DPI and nebuliser delivery systems : and smallmolecules and biologics.
Furthermore, these technical TM capabilities can be applied to both generic and new molecular inhalation technologies FAVORITE.
entities thereby enhancing the commercial prospects of the Group.
12 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Macro economic andsocialtrends World population by 2050 expected to reach: Population growth, ageingpopulations andlifestyle changes 9.6bn Long-term economic growth in emerging markets Rapid scientific and technological advances Downward pressure on healthcare costs 235m people are estimated by the WHO to beaffected by asthma globally.
Asthmaisthe most common chronic disease inchildren Pricing pressure Hybrid business model Vecturas business model exposes the Company to the anticipated A key element of Vecturas strategy is to grow its revenues from volume growth of increasing generic drug usage through leveraging products focused on the treatment of airways diseases, leveraging Vecturas formulation and device expertise, Vectura and its partners theexperience in research, development and commercialisation are developing generic versions of GSKs Advair Flovent as well through implementation of a hybrid business model: asAstraZenecas Symbicort.
The former programme is partnered a Partnering: to capture value from larger, commercially attractive with Hikma through its wholly owned subsidiary, West-Ward indications that require large sales forces and high marketing spend: Pharmaceuticals and is undergoing regulatory review.
b Co-development with partners: to capture and retain greater economics and source new innovative assets without undertaking exploratory research: c : for products that require a focused sales force i. e. specialty or hospital focus.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 13
