Vesuvius plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review Despite this backdrop, we have continued to During another year of consolidate our positions in China, India and South mixed market conditions, America, our three strategic areas of development.
we delivered an encouraging The transformation of the Chinese economy from an investment-driven growth economy to one result in 2016 and made that is consumer-driven is under way.
This further important strategic transformation induces a shift in steel demand, and operational progress.
from the less sophisticated long products used for construction towards the high-quality at products used in consumer goods and the car industry.
This at steel segment is the largest customer for our high-technology products and solutions.
India, where we enjoy high sales and penetration Franois Wanecq Chief Executive rates, was the fastest growing steel market in 2016, con rming the transition into urbanisation and industrialisation, which is expected to have Introduction a substantial effect on steel production.
In 2016, Vesuvius continued to progress in line Revenue Foreign exchange movements had a signi cant with its objectives and strategy despite subdued impact on our customers competitive positions conditions persisting in our key end-markets of 1,401m in some regions, mostly related to their steel and foundry.
The second half of the year manufacturing costs and their exposure to cheap showed some signs of market stabilisation, albeit Trading pro t imports.
Whilst Brexit did not affect our business at reduced levels.
Our resilient performance re ects materially, broader based market concerns drove the strength of the customer relationships that 133m a weaker sterling, which had a signi cant we have created over the years, our progress in translation impact on our results.
These implementing self-help initiatives and ongoing movements, accentuated by the US presidential restructuring programmes, the quality of our election, have created a new element of product and service offerings and, critically, our uncertainty in the evolution of our markets.
ability to directly enable our customers to improve As a consequence, global economic activity was their own ef ciency, thereby adding measurable slightly below last year but our efforts to reduce value to their businesses.
our cost base have led to a signi cant increase in The year began at the bottom of an economic our margins versus the second half of 2015. downturn which had started at the beginning of 2015 with the steel and foundry markets In 2015 we initiated restructuring plans throughout continuing to be affected by Chinese exports and the Group to adapt our business and our cost base by a substantial reduction in activity in the US and to the changing trading environment.
The situation improved slightly during the year we have reduced our overall manufacturing with tariff measures imposed in the US and, more footprint and overhead structure in the mature recently, in Europe with worldwide markets markets where we believe the production decline signalling a progressively more protectionist to be structural and permanent.
Brazilian economic contraction and Flow Control plants in Europe in 2016.
Over the political instability dominated the already dif cult course of 2016 we incurred restructuring costs market in South America.
We saw reduced of 28.5m and recorded 16.6m of savings.
foundry investment worldwide and reduced The earlier than anticipated progress has allowed demand for foundry castings for the agriculture, us to increase the full bene ts of the programme construction and mining industries.
Our Business 13 In line with our strategy, we continue to focus the supply chain for steel customers.
This situation on R&D and to invest in solutions that will enable began to alleviate in the second half, supported by further automation of our customers production our continued focus on our customer base in processes.
Over recent times our Technical Services developing markets.
solutions have been signi cantly enhanced by Our Markets Strategic pillars the acquisitions of AVEMIS, ECIL Met Tec, Process Since 2013, your Board Metrix and Sidermes.
In addition, in 2016 we According to the World Steel Association, has pursued a consistent strengthened our core activities with the bolt-on global steel production in 2016 increased by strategy for pro table growth, focused on acquisition of the mould and tundish ux business approximately 0.7% compared with the previous five strategic priorities of Carboox.
Whilst steel markets remained broadly at, the market improvement was driven mainly by Reinforce our Our overall management focus is on continuing an increase in steel production of 1.2% in China, technology to build and implement an Excellence plan in the and 7.4% in India, which was the fastest growing leadership management of our operations to reach the status market in 2016 as it has been for several years.
This has involved the Increase India is now the third largest producer in the world entire population of our employees focusing on penetration of and is catching up with Japan whose volumes six key areas: customers, innovation, strategy, value-creating saw a 0.3% decline in 2016.
NAFTA steel volumes business support, supply chain agility and solutions improved marginally 0.7% after a disappointing talent management.
Capture growth With the ongoing development of innovative in developing The foundry market continued to be affected by solutions that create value for our customers, markets lower demand within the agriculture, construction, supported by the effective execution of our power and mining industries, which resulted from Improve cost self-help initiatives and restructuring programmes, the general decline in commodity and precious leadership we are con dent that we can continue to deliver metal prices, with reduced investment and activity and margins increasing value to our shareholders.
However, both global light vehicle Performance Overview i. e. passenger cars and light trucks industry Build a Technical Services business production and heavy truck worldwide output Foreign exchange rates had a considerable were up 3.9% and 2.5% respectively year-on-year, translational impact on our results, with Vesuvius primarily from increases in China and India.
achieving global sales in 2016 of 1,401m, an increase of 6% 2015: 1,322m on a reported More generally, the engineering sector was basis despite the ongoing decline in mature sluggish with industrial investment remaining at a global steel and foundry markets and currency low level as a result of the general under-utilisation uctuations.
At constant currency and adjusted of production capacity and the slowdown of for the effects of acquisitions and disposals, Chinese industrial growth.
Additionally, some underlying revenue was down 4% compared markets where we traditionally experienced good with 2015.
Reported trading pro t in 2016 was volumes and margins have faced challenges from 133.3m, an increase of 7.5% 2015: 124.0m, political and economic instability.
but a decrease of 1.5% over the previous year on Our Strategy an underlying basis.
However, thanks to the first effects of our restructuring measures, our margin The strategy we developed when we launched increased from 9.4% to 9.5%.
Vesuvius on the market is articulated around five pillars designed to ensure long-term revenue Our full year performance was hampered by the growth, improved pro tability and sustained conditions in the core Vesuvius markets of Europe cash generation.
and NAFTA in the first half of the year, where the effects of the 2015 decline continued to be felt in Vesuvius plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Reinforce our technology leadership Capture growth in developing markets Vesuvius was built and grew on technology Building on our long-lasting presence in all breakthroughs that enabled the steel continuous markets, we can leverage the high growth casting and foundry industries to improve enjoyed by our customers industries in emerging their ef ciency substantially.
This technology markets which are large consumers of steel leadership drives our unique value proposition goods and foundry castings as well as bene ting and underpins our ability to deliver value from their competitiveness on the global enhancement to our customers.
We invest stage, driving export demand.
nearly twice as much in R&D, as a percentage Improve cost leadership and margins of revenue, as our main competitors.
Our supply chain ef ciency drives our ability to Increase penetration of value-creating solutions deliver products and services to our customers Our technology has been widely adopted by at the right price whilst maintaining our margins.
the most sophisticated producers in the most We apply the principles of Lean manufacturing developed markets.
However, there are still marked across all our sites to improve our quality and differences in the penetration of our solutions productivity continuously.
In addition, our global within the industry and consequently there is presence and leadership allow us to bene t from a wider audience of customers whom we believe economies of scale and deliver excellent service can bene t from them.
Build a Technical Services business Foundry and Steel businesses are experiencing an Our customers processes require increasing levels increased level of competition throughout the of engineering services to reach the demanding world from both producers and alternative levels of safety, accuracy and consistency required materials.
As steel and foundry businesses grow by their end-customers quality speci cations.
in new areas, they will require higher levels of We created Technical Services as a new business quality and performance as well as lower costs.
line for the Group to address this growing market We will dedicate our technical marketing efforts demand.
It will complement existing product lines to help these customers develop.
with new services to our customers providing Serving customers: Flow Control Full conversion of 2 slab casters with new Mould Level Control, Tube Changer and associated Refractories.
By focusing on the customers needs, Vesuvius delivered an integrated solution to improve quality and productivity.
Emanuele Boccalatte Commercial Director, Flow Control, South Europe Right: Electric Stopper Rigging, Mould Sensor, Advanced Controller, Tube Changer and refractories Our Business 15 New Product Sales as % of Total Sales 25 20 15 10 5 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FC FDY AR Total Technical Services continuous data capture and interpretation of As a new business line for the Group, the key key process parameters.
We will then leverage challenge for Technical Services is seeking to Vesuvius strong presence and expertise in metal establish a presence independent from our other casting to create new technologies and integrate businesses, and to integrate new acquisitions.
them into expert process management systems.
Operationally its focus is to develop Our Businesses complementary solutions for our customers, Steel Flow Control re ecting their demand for further automation and Reported revenue in Steel Flow Control was up monitoring of their production processes.
In 2016, 3.9% compared to 2015, although revenues were Technical Services generated revenues of 36.9m.
down 5.3% on an underlying basis.
Revenue Through the Technical Services business the Group decline in NAFTA and EMEA was due primarily to continues to invest in solutions that will enable the closure of steel plants in the region.
It is our customers to have further control of their expectation that steel production will not recover production processes in line with this strategy.
to the previous levels in these mature economies Foundry division where the nature of economic growth requires less Reported revenue in Foundry increased by 8.3% steel than in the past.
However, for Vesuvius this but decreased by 2.5% on an underlying basis was partially offset by increased revenue and sales as a result of the more dif cult end market penetration in India.
conditions, particularly in agriculture, construction Advanced Refractories and mining.
However, underlying trading pro t Reported revenue in Advanced Refractories was improved by 7.3% and underlying return on sales up 5.3% but decreased by 3.3% on an underlying increased by 110 basis points as a result of the basis compared with 2015, due to the poorer global effects of an earlier commencement of market conditions experienced in the second half of restructuring measures implemented in 2015.
Underlying trading pro t bene ted from self-help actions in our mature markets and increased sales in the expanding markets of India, North Asia and South Asia.
The Challenge Our Solution The Bene ts Our customer, part of a leading Vesuvius supplied and commissioned This project brought improved worldwide steel production group a fully integrated mould level control performance to the user, resulting making at products, has been using solution, which included eddy-current in an increase in the percentage tundish slide-gates since the start-up mould level sensors, our advanced of slabs classi ed within the required of its two continuous casting machines.
auto-adaptive controller, and an speci cations, together with In 2014, in order to increase the electric stopper valve with tube higher productivity.
production of slabs that were right first changing mechanism.
This equipment For Vesuvius, it created a new time, it made the decision to convert was supplied with associated refractory sales opportunity through these casters to a modern automatic refractories, based on a multi-year a global customer needs approach.
mould level control solution, including refractory contract.
conversion from tundish slide-gates to a stopper ow control mechanism, converting the tundishes to support automatic mould tube changing.
Vesuvius plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Innovation as Our Foundation launches and in the market development of our Vesuvius has a proud heritage of bringing new solutions.
innovation to the markets it serves.
Delivering solutions Our developments in VISO isostatic pressing Vesuvius solutions and products can greatly technology and in slide-gate systems were in uence the quality of our customers products key enablers of the continuous casting process and the ef ciency of their processes.
All our now deployed throughout the whole of the steel new products and solutions are developed with industry.
Our innovations in molten metal ltration value creation for our customers in mind and and casting feeding systems have been used the innovation process begins with a clear extensively to improve the quality of cast products understanding of their needs.
We have more in the foundry market.
Maintaining that than 200 technical experts supported by local technology leadership is a central objective of development teams on all continents to ensure our strategy, and the spirit of innovation is at we meet our customers needs.
These local the core of all our activities.
development laboratories play a lead role in Turning innovation into results customising products for customers, and Innovation is all about translating an idea into qualifying new sources of key raw materials.
In 2016, we maintained our Six of our local development laboratories are level of R&D expenditure at 28.6m, representing equipped with facilities for physical and approx.
We currently have 159 patent computational uid dynamics studies.
They allow families, and 1,695 patents granted worldwide, us to develop solutions that regulate the ow of with 579 patent applications pending.
In 2016, metal and guarantee the most adapted laminar we estimate that 14% of our revenues came from pattern to avoid metal pollution and turbulence products launched within the past five years, affecting the solidi cation process.
We also place a progression of 6% over three years.
Our goal is experienced scientists and engineers at our local to reach 20% over the next three years.
With the development laboratories to enable us to analyse new stage-gating process launched last year, the complex interactions between refractory we have seen an acceleration in our new product materials and molten metal arising in our Serving customers: Advanced Refractories Endless strip production: a refractory design breakthrough and partnership with customers.
Local manufacturing of our global high technology solutions enables Vesuvius to respond to customer needs.
Roy Phillips Marketing & Technology Director, Steel, China North Asia Right: Arvedi Vesuvius ESP Shroud Our Business 17 Quality and reliability customers operations.
These modelling facilities Reliability in quality and delivery is vital to our and local development laboratories work hand-incustomers as they use Vesuvius products in hand with our five global research centres to stay critical areas of their own processes.
The level constantly updated with information on the latest of risk to people and equipment attached to a technological developments.
We regularly conduct catastrophic failure is such that no compromise customer seminars and training sessions to ensure can be accepted.
Reliability therefore is a that the full range of Vesuvius products and primary commitment of Vesuvius.
solutions are known, properly used and informed by our customers experience.
We strive to deliver this reliability and consistency Next generation product development through best-in-class quality management at Our five global research centres focus on the all of our 66 production sites and 91 major development of the next generation of products customer locations.
and technologies in partnership with strategic Lean and Industrial Excellence customers and leading universities.
These Cost leadership and margin improvement are two laboratories are staffed with scientists and engineers of our strategic priorities, and in a business where possessing advanced degrees in various disciplines we need to manage the challenges presented and are equipped with highly specialised equipment.
by the volatility in our end-markets, a focus on process ef ciency and quality is fundamental.
We have made signi cant progress on the construction of our new global centre of excellence Our Lean programme started in 2008 with for Advanced Refractories in Visakhapatnam the belief that: Vizag, India, which will be commissioned in 2017, Standardisation of tasks and processes is the and continue to make progress with our plans to cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity develop our centre of excellence for steelmaking and continuous improvement and foundry refractories in Pittsburgh US.
Employee motivation and customer satisfaction are critical foundations for the long-term success of the Group The Challenge Our Solution The Bene ts Endless Strip Production ESP In partnership with Arvedi, Vesuvius For Rizhao, local refractory production technology is a major innovation in initially used its extensive ow improved the delivery time and the production of at steel, developed modelling capability and its refractory local support capability.
It enables the production production skills to develop a speci c manufacturing presence enables of super thin hot strips in a continuous shroud for the first ESP facility built in Vesuvius to ne tune the refractory and uninterrupted process using Italy, able to meet the necessary quality speci cations and performance to signi cantly less energy than and sequence duration requirements.
During ESP, When subsequently Rizhao started With three ESP facilities successfully the liquid steel mould ow is critical using ESP technology in China, commissioned in China and two and a very speci c refractory shroud Vesuvius imported the refractory that more planned, Vesuvius has has to be used.
it had successfully been using in the become a key refractory supplier Rizhao was the first steel plant in original Italian facility.
Then, once for this breakthrough steel China to install this technology, and the new technology was operating as production technology.
a subsequent challenge was to source desired, Vesuvius established local a local supplier for this refractory part.
Trademark s of the Vesuvius group of companies, some of which are registered in certain countries Vesuvius plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Improving information ow is instrumental Sustainability in guaranteeing fast and effective crossDuring 2016, we continued our efforts to reduce functional processes plant energy consumption and environmental In 2016, we continued to apply the Lean principles impact.
Some impressive improvements have been as we deployed our Excellence Roadmap to deliver achieved in China where environmental protection a highly competitive manufacturing footprint.
The has become a key topic.
We also continue to action plans driven by our Excellence programme develop and promote solutions that allow have provided considerable results in terms of our customers to reduce their waste, energy cost reductions, Lean savings, safety, quality, consumption and CO emissions.
Total energy 2 productivity and lead time reduction.
These action costs are less than 3% of revenue.
plans and further initiatives are ongoing in 2017.
Management Focus Portfolio Management and Capital Allocation We further strengthened our senior management Our investment in 2016 amounted to 43.2m, team in the year, with a new appointment and an 8.0m of which was for the acquisition of the internal promotion.
Patrick Andr assumed the role mould and tundish uxes business of Carboox in of President, Flow Control, following Chris Abbots Brazil broadening the Steel Flow Control offering departure.
Patrick was previously CEO of both the in an important line for the Group.
The remaining Nickel and Manganese divisions of Eramet Group.
35.2m was invested in plant and equipment, Alexander Laugier-Werth, previously Vice President, an 18% reduction on 2015.
Operations Foundry, was appointed President, Technical Services, following Luis Reyess move Trade working capital increased on a constant within the Company.
In their new roles, Patrick and currency basis by 12.9m largely as a result of Alexander joined our Group Executive Committee.
safety stock being built in preparation for the changes to the manufacturing footprint as well Outlook as pressure on payment terms in China and India.
Whilst the global market environment is broadly However, cash conversion remained high at 94%.
stable at relatively low levels, in recent months we Overall, our net debt increased by 28.7m, have seen some encouraging early signs of with cash acquisition costs of 7.7m, the cost of improvement.
Vesuvius remains well placed to restructuring activities 16.8m, and a 30.3m bene t from a recovery in end markets, and we foreign exchange translational impact masking will continue our initiatives to create shareholder a robust 125.0m of underlying operating cash value.
We remain con dent in our ability to improve Health and Safety trading margins and working capital performance, In 2016 our lost time injury frequency rate reduce net debt, and capitalise where there is LTIFR remained broadly stable at 1.6. further growth in our addressable markets in the Senior management continues to lead by the near and medium-term.
We will continue to assess performance of executive safety tours and an acquisition opportunities where we believe increased focus has been brought to our work material shareholder value can be created.
Franois Wanecq, Chief Executive In 2016, 76% of all our working population 2 March 2017 was involved in safety audits to increase safety awareness and behaviours.
More speci cally, we have developed new initiatives to improve road safety and machinery safety, two areas in which we have suffered too many severe incidents.
