18 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Chief Executives review Results overview Delivering Growth, Quality and Returns The strong performance of the business in uncertain and challenging conditions demonstrates the strength of the business and the benefits of our customer-focused strategy of growth, quality and returns, which continues to deliver excellent financial performance.
Against the backdrop of the UKs decision to leave the European Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive Union and the resulting economic and political uncertainty, we continued to focus on providing outstanding service to our customers and intermediaries, growing our balance sheet carefully, protecting asset quality and delivering solid doubledigit shareholder returns.
Our underlying profit before tax Our customer focused strategy increased by 33 per cent to 213.3 million.
continues to deliver excellent financial We protect our unique position as a low risk UK retail bank, performance.
We delivered record unburdened by legacy conduct issues, with a far-sighted and data driven approach to risk management and asset lending in 2016, a 33 per cent increase quality.
Ourlow cost of risk at 13 basis points was supported in underlying profit before tax to by our prudent risk appetite, consistent underwriting and 213.3million and our returnon rigorous use of credit data analytics as well as the benign tangible equity strengthened from economic environment.
Growth in mortgage and credit card lending was delivered without compromising asset quality, which remained within our Underpinned by our commitment to risk appetite.
Total customer loan balances grew by 19 per cent and our portfolios demonstrated stable or improving trends responsible and prudent lending, we across a variety of credit metrics year-on-year.
have grown our mortgages and credit Looking ahead, we believe our low-risk business model and cards businesses successfully and strong balance sheet, combined with a continued focus without compromising asset quality.
on operational excellence, including strong cost and risk management, means we remain well positioned to continue to Our continued focus on delivering grow in a wide range of market conditions.
excellent customer service led to new highs in customer satisfaction and supported growth in customer numbers across every product category.
Our overall Net Promoter Score NPS improved from 19 in 2015 to 29 in 2016.
We will continue to put EBO at the heartof everything we do and remain on track to sustain a double-digit return onequityin 2017.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 19 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 As a responsible lender we apply strict affordability criteria, Delivering high-quality growth combined with prudent and consistent underwriting, to Mortgages deliver growth and returns without compromising the UK mortgage market activity remained strong in 2016, with quality of our book.
gross lending of 245 billion, 11 per cent higher than in 2015.
While housing market activity slowed slightly following the EU We remain focused primarily on residential mortgages and the referendum, demand returned strongly to the market in the portfolio is comprised of 82 per cent residential and 18 per cent second half of the year and there was an increase in remortgage buy-to-let mortgages, in line with the market.
Prudent activity following the reduction in Bank Base Rate in August.
underwriting and a focus on non-portfolio landlords continued to drive the quality of the buy-to-let portfolio.
Despite a highly competitive market, we were able to take a The average loan-to-value LTV of the mortgage book was 55.4 gross lending market share of 3.4 per cent, protect spreads and per cent, flat year-on-year.
The average LTV of new residential maintain our excellent asset quality.
lending was 69.8 per cent and the LTV of new buy-to-let lending We delivered gross mortgage lending of 8.4 billion, 12 per was 60.5 per cent.
This was driven by the strength of our intermediary relationships and our ongoing focus on developing As a result of the high-quality mortgage assets acquired from and improving our mortgage proposition.
We remained strong Northern Rock in 2012 and our subsequent focus on maintaining in the remortgage market and expanded our New Build purchase excellent asset quality, our arrears levels of 0.15 per cent are lending to 7 per cent of completions.
significantly below the CML industry average of 1.00 per cent.
The consistent application of our lending criteria and robust We improved our overall completion spread to 187 basis points, underwriting give us confidence that our mortgage book would up from 186 basis points in 2015, despite competitive pressure be highly resilient in the event of a downturn.
This was achieved without venturing up the risk curve and all new mortgage business was written within our Our mortgage expertise and dynamic commercial management risk appetite.
give us confidence that we can continue to optimise our lending mix within our risk appetite to drive strong risk adjusted returns Net mortgage lending increased to 4.3 billion, a market in a range of market conditions.
share of almost 11 per cent, as a result of strong gross lending and improved customer retention.
Our improved retention Credit cards performance was driven by a new retention platform for We continued to make significant progress with our intermediaries, delivered by our innovative Mortgage Lab, as credit card business in 2016, the first full year operating well as investment in our retention capability for our direct from our own platform.
Our customer-focused approach mortgage customers.
and proposition resulted in card balances increasing to 2.4 billion, 55 per cent higher than 2015.
This growth The combination of strong new lending and significantly represented a 3.5 per cent share of the 68 billion market.
improved retention allowed us to grow the mortgage book Robust underwriting principles and credit management, to 29.7 billion.
Balance growth of 17 per cent significantly aligned to our overall strategy, improved the excellent asset outpaced the market.
Intermediary partnerships remain a key part of our strategy.
Although the market remained competitive, we did not need This channel continues to deliver high credit quality mortgage to maintain best buy pricing during the year to deliver volume.
customers with higher than average loan sizes.
The quality We continued to operate in the prime segment of the market, of the service we provide to intermediaries was recognised offering a mix of balance transfer and retail spending cards to by winning numerous awards, including receiving 'Five Stars' high-quality applicants.
We broadened our card proposition at the Financial Adviser Service Awards and the prestigious and launched our new Manchester United Football Club Best Lender for Partnership award from the Legal & General branded cards.
20 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Chief Executives review New lending during the year was strong and we opened We delivered 12 per cent growth in retail deposit balances 295,000 customer accounts in 2016, a 7 per cent share of to 28.1 billion, exceeding market growth of 3 per cent.
This new account sales with retail cards making up 30 per cent of was achieved through 4.8 billion of new customer deposits our new accounts.
Retail spend increased by just under 40 and was supported by strong retention of maturing fixed rate per cent during the year, supported by a fourfold increase in bonds and ISAs, which improved to 89 per cent from 85 per contactless usage.
The potential for further growth, without cent in 2015. compromising quality, is significant.
As a result of the strength of our ISA proposition, we achieved a share of over 30 per cent of net market inflows and balances We have a prime customer base with no credit builder increased to 13.1 billion.
We enjoy a stable retail funding products in the portfolio.
During the year, a downward trend in base with ISA balances comprising 47 per cent and fixed rate the standard of UK wide credit card lending was evident, with deposits almost 45 per cent of our overall savings balances, lower credit scores being accepted.
We deliberately avoided this and maintained the application of strict underwriting further strengthening our liquidity positioning.
standards to protect asset quality as we progressed towards The number of customers increased by 5 per cent year-onour target of 3 billion balances by the end of 2017. year to 1.45 million.
This growth was supported by competitive Our diligent approach means that we continue to target and pricing, where we are consistently top quartile but not pricelend to more low risk and less indebted customers and our leading, together with enhancements to the product range.
unsecured debt-to-income ratio of 20.8 per cent compares We delivered an improvement in average cost of retail funds favourably to the market average of 27.4 per cent.
through close management of pricing and the product mix, To support our approach, we strengthened our underwriting as well as passing on the reduction in Bank Base Rate to standards further in the second half of 2016 and introduced all variable rate customers.
We aim to offer our customers anew eligibility checker for customers.
This increased the both competitive and sustainable rates.
In line with our EBO credit quality of applicants and lifted our approval rate to philosophy, we provide customers with exclusive fixed term 87per cent resulting in over 86 per cent of new accounts in products to ensure our interest rates remain good value in the the highest credit score ranges.
This approach continues to deliver fair margins and strong retention.
The cost of risk improved to 1.70 per cent in 2016, from 2.00 per cent in 2015, reflecting the continued high quality of our During the year, we continued to expand and enhance our credit card business.
product range, including a suite of new partnership products with Manchester United Football Club, which provides We were delighted to win several awards including Best access to unique rewards programmes.
We launched our Overall Customer Service and Best Application Process from own Virgin Money Regular Saver in September and exceeded uSwitch and the Judges Award at the 2016 Card and Payment expectations with more than 18,000 accounts opened by Industry Awards.
Deposits Almost 70 per cent of new accounts were opened online, with Our lending growth was supported by a strong performance in the remainder opened through our Store network, postal retail deposits in 2016. and telephone channels.
Our online-led distribution model The UK savings market continued to grow and saw a continues to be a key factor in growing our retail deposit significant uplift in activity driven by the EU referendum, business cost effectively, and the convenience of our online as households held more savings to protect against sales and servicing capability supported an 11 point increase future uncertainty.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 21 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Essential Current Account Maintaining ahigh-quality balance sheet The performance of our Essential Current Account ECA Our balance sheet reflects our straightforward business was particularly strong in 2016.
We almost trebled the total model and our lending is comprised primarily of residential number of ECA accounts and customer balances increased mortgages and credit card advances, funded predominantly more than fivefold during the year.
The ECA attracts younger through retail deposits and an element of long term customers to our Stores and usage is strong with an average wholesale funding.
Our approach to responsible lending is driven by our The ECA is a best in class Basic Bank Account, which supports conservative risk appetite and prudent underwriting.
It has the main features of a typical current cost of risk at 13 basis points in 2016 was supported by the account, including the ability to deposit and withdraw money resilience of the UK economy and our data driven approach to through any UK Post Office, but has no overdraft facility or credit risk management to support asset quality.
It is a free basic bank account, paying a During the year we strengthened our balance sheet further fair rate of credit interest which is designed to help all our with the successful issuance of 230 million of Additional customers stay in control of their money.
Our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio Financial Services and leverage ratio are key measures of our financial strength.
We are pleased with the increasing momentum in our At the end of the year, our CET1 ratio was 15.2 per cent, our Financial Services business and we continue to explore the total capital ratio was 20.4 per cent and our leverage ratio significant potential for further growth in this business area.
was 4.4 per cent, positioning us well for continued growth.
Our customers continue to appreciate the simplicity and Our funding strategy is to access wholesale funding to transparency that our investment funds provide.
Funds supplement our core retail deposit base in order to extend under management increased by 12 per cent to end at tenor, ensure we have appropriate diversification in the 3.4 billion.
Equity ISA applications increased by 2 per cent, funding base and optimise funding costs.
outperforming the decline seen in the market.
At the Your In 2016, we completed two issues of Residential Mortgage Money Awards ceremony in July we won Best Direct Stocks Backed Securities RMBS totalling 1.3 billion and and Shares ISA Provider.
accessed both the Funding for Lending scheme FLS and The insurance business performed well during the year with the Term Funding Scheme TFS to support lending growth.
an overall increase in new customers of 27 per cent.
Travel Our loan-to-deposit ratio increased to 114.5 per cent at insurance was particularly strong with 450,000 new travel 31 December 2016 following our participation in the TFS.
To meet more customer needs, we extended Our liquidity position remains strong and our liquidity the breadth of our travel coverage.
This included the option coverage ratio LCR was significantly above the regulatory to cover pre-existing medical conditions, a proposition minimum at 154 per cent.
We hold substantial liquidity which attracted over 100,000 new sales through the resources in the form of high-quality liquid assets.
In addition, we were proud to provide travel insurance to the UK Invictus Games Team when they competed in Orlando, Florida.
2016 was the first full year of our refreshed home insurance proposition which has proved to be popular with our existingmortgage and online customers.
Over 5,000 customers registered for our new International Money Transfer service in 2016 and with a strong ongoing flow of customers signing up for the service, we expect to see continued growth in 2017.
22 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Chief Executives review As part of the annual pay review cycle colleague pay was Improving returns to shareholders discussed with the union Unite.
This resulted in an agreement As a result of the successful delivery of our strategy for 2016, which they could progress with their members.
Average our return on tangible equity strengthened from 10.9 per cent colleague pay increased by 4 per cent.
Our EBO culture sustains a virtuous circle based on a Key contributors to this continued improvement were growing commitment to the communities in which we work and income across each of our business lines, maintaining credit raises awareness of the Virgin Money brand and business and asset quality, the effective management of our funding as a force for good.
We believe that our culture cannot be base and further gains in operational efficiency.
readily and credibly replicated in the UK banking sector and We maintained the high quality of our mortgage and cards it provides the foundation for our strategy and differentiated business, reflected in our low arrears and impairment levels, approach to banking.
and total customer loan balances grew by 19 per cent Management team compared to 2015.
To support the continued development of the business, Effective management of our funding base reduced our westrengthened the Executive further this year.
average weighted cost of funds to 130 basis points from 143 basis points in 2015.
This partly offset pressure on mortgage Hugh Chater joined the business as Chief Commercial Officer asset spreads and resulted in a net interest margin of 160 in June and Tim Arthur joined in September as Creative basis points for 2016.
Hugh has deep experience of retail banking, including at MBNA, where he became Managing Director of The financial contribution across each of our business lines their UK Cards business.
Tim was previously Global CEO of increased and delivered 12 per cent growth in total underlying Time Out where he transformed an iconic brand into a global income to 586.9 million.
Underlying cost growth was limited digital business.
to 1 per cent, despite investment in the future of the business.
Peter Bole joined the business in November and became Chief Within our flat cost base we opened a new Lounge in Sheffield, Financial Officer CFO in January 2017. expanding our estate to seven customer Lounges and invested in our IT capability - to ensure the efficiency and resilience Peter was the former Tesco Bank CFO and has extensive of our systems.
experience in UK retail banking.
I would like to thank Dave Dyer, our former CFO, for his 20 years service and I am As a result of our operational leverage and continual delighted that following his retirement he will continue to improvements to operational efficiency, including resupport the business on a part-time basis in a strategy role.
engineering our mortgage and core back office processing systems, our cost:income ratio improved to 57.2 per cent, Cyber resilience strategy from 63.5 per cent in 2015.
We increased our underlying We have a well-developed Cyber Resilience Strategy to profit before tax by 33 per cent to 213.3 million.
Statutory manage the increasing risk of cyber-crime.
During the year profit before tax was 194.4 million, compared to we enhanced our Cyber Operations Centre which monitors 138.0 million in 2015. suspicious activity in real time and launched a new Security Zone on our intranet, providing detailed security advice Colleagues and culture to colleagues.
Our goal is to nurture a high performing, diverse and committed workforce.
We aim to ensure that all colleagues can reach their full potential, feel valued and empowered to thrive in a truly inclusive business.
Our latest colleague survey results showed that we maintained our excellent staff engagement score at 81 per cent, which compares strongly against industry standards.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 23 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 We are sufficiently nimble to adjust to changes in the Business as a force for good operating environment and will continue to target Our contribution to the communities in which we work high-quality growth opportunities in value accretive is a fundamental part of Virgin Moneys business model market segments.
We will continue to grow assets at the right price and quality.
The success of Virgin Money Giving continued and our We maintain a target market share of 3 to 3.5 per cent of not-for-profit online donation service helped charities raise gross mortgage lending and 3 billion high-quality credit card 92 million in 2016.
Virgin Money Giving has helped to raise balances of at the end of 2017. more than 500 million for charities since launch.
We will continue to access the Term Funding Scheme in 2017 Colleagues selected the NSPCC as our corporate charity of the and expect the overall loan-to-deposit ratio to go beyond 115 year for 2015 16 and raised over 2.1 million as the official per cent for the period in which we use the scheme.
charity of the 2016 Virgin Money London Marathon VMLM.
Runners in the 2016 VMLM raised a record 59.4 million In 2016, we decided that it would be prudent todefer our for good causes.
SME plansand focus investment on enhancing our digital capability.
Should the economic outlook support it in the The Virgin Money Foundation has distributed grants worth future, SME remains a strategic option for the business.
almost 2 million in the North East of England since August 2015.
Grants awarded in 2016 focused on organisations We are delighted to be collaborating with 10x Future working in the areas of housing and homelessness and Technologies as part of our digital strategy.
This is an exciting youth employment.
The Foundation will extend its reach and complex programme which will ultimately create a nationally over time.
fully integrated digital banking platform.
Work has begun in earnest on this long-term project and we will provide an Outlook update on progress in the second half of 2017.
As a UK retail bank focused on serving domestic customers, We have a proven track record on operational execution and the decision to exit the European Union does not directly we are well positioned to achieve a cost:income ratio of 50 per impact on our business.
Whilst the UK economy has been cent by the end of 2017. resilient since the vote to leave the EU, the eventual timing and nature of the UKs exit from the EU remains unclear and The strength of our financial performance and capital position the longer-term impact on the economy is uncertain.
underpins our confidence in achieving our financial targets, notably continued progress in our return on tangible equity Our strategy of growth, quality and returns is clear and and a solid double-digit RoTE for 2017. unchanged.
We will continue to focus on providing I would like to extend my thanks to our Virgin Money outstanding service to our customers, pursue disciplined colleagues for their hard work and achievements over the growth of our balance sheet within our risk appetite, maintain year, and to all of our stakeholders who play such an important our prudent underwriting to protect asset quality, and deliver part in our success.
strong and sustainable shareholder returns.
Our strategy, combined with our straightforward, low risk retail focused business model and strong balance sheet, means we remain well positioned to react to prevailing economic conditions.
We stand ready to take measures to protect asset quality further in the event of future economic headwinds.
Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive 27 February 2017 24 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 25 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Virgin Money Lounge, Glasgow
