Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review F O CU S O N RE C O V E R Y Well achieve these objectives by focusing on what we do best and can do even better in the future.
That means prioritising our people, customers, technology and performance.
People Every day, across the world, in mines, in factories, on frack sites, in power plants and many other places, our people are finding solutions for our customers challenges.
As our most valuable asset, our first priority must be to ensure our peoples safety and well-being.
We are committed to creating a zero-harm workplace that ensures everyone returns home to their families It is a great honour to be your new Chief Executive safely.
We also need to be a place where people proudly Officer.
There is something very special about The and sustainably do the best work of their lives.
Few engineering companies founded in the Victorian era are still leading their markets Customers in the new industrial age.
My job is to ensure If our customers suffer unexpected downtime in their this great business stays ahead and delivers operations it can cost them millions of pounds a day.
sustainable value for all our key stakeholders.
Our equipment, and access to a global service centre network that means our engineers respond to issues To help do that, we have launched We are Weir quickly, is essential to their success, but there is more a refreshed vision, mission and strategy to ensure we can do.
By adopting a solutions mindset we can that every one of our global team has a clear sense develop deeper relationships with our customers.
In of purpose and direction.
Our vision articulates our mining for instance, by offering plant audits, we can use core ambition for this Group to be the most admired our expertise to help customers improve productivity engineering business in our markets.
across a range of areas including pumps, valves, hydrocyclones and crushers rather than focusing Our mission is to enable our customers to sustainably on individual products.
and efficiently deliver the resources for a growing world.
Technology We will know we are being successful by achieving This partnership approach gives us valuable insights the following objectives: into our customers future demands that can then inform our technology programmes, whether traditional Growing faster than our end markets and delivering mechanical engineering innovations or new digital strong returns for investors.
We supplement our own expertise by Becoming the employer of choice in our markets.
working with academic and other technology leaders to Developing enduring strategic partnerships with ensure we stay ahead and continue to lead our markets.
Doing business the right way and living by our values Performance and Code of Conduct.
The Group has benefited from adopting a lean mindset in its operations but we need to ensure momentum is accelerated.
Well do that by re-invigorating our culture of continuous improvement focusing on quality, The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 8 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report As the year progressed there were signs of improvement in our core markets as commodity prices increased.
customer responsiveness and increased discipline While underlying long-term demand is growing, in reducing inventory to free up resources to invest current resources continue to deplete and the way in other strategic priorities.
new resources are accessed is becoming more complex.
This drives increased demand for the Groups An open culture aftermarket solutions such as spares and services, Weir has always had a vibrant culture.
Wherever we which generate the majority of our revenues.
In mining operate in the world there are common values that for instance, ore grades continue to decline meaning transcend borders and individual businesses.
As we go miners need to process more rock to get the same forward well build on those strengths through more amount of valuable ore. open leadership and engagement.
Our launch of We are Weir was the first time in the Companys history There is a similar theme in oil and gas where the length that every colleague was invited to discuss our future and intensity of shale well completions is increasing.
The level of engagement and The concept of a super-lateral was introduced in 2016 passion for our business was inspiring and we will after one onshore well in Ohio, USA, was drilled more continue to build a more open culture where best than 8km down and over 5km horizontally.
As hydraulic practice is shared and diversity of thought is promoted.
fracturing becomes more intensive, there will be greater demand for technology that increases customer What we mean by sustainability productivity: a core strength of our offering.
Our strategic priorities are aimed at achieving our vision and mission and in doing so building a We support customers through our comprehensive sustainable business.
Weir wouldnt have existed for service centre network, which alongside our intellectual almost a century and a half without being a responsible property, provides high barriers to entry for competitors.
corporate citizen of the communities it operates in.
2016 review You can read examples of progress in Sustainability Before I talk more about Weirs future, Id like to reflect in Action on page 16. on 2016.
A robust business model We launched a new Safety Charter in November setting Our business model is focused on providing missionout the behaviours which will lead Weir to achieve our critical solutions for mining, oil and gas and power ambition of becoming a zero-harm workplace.
I also customers around the world.
For instance, our Warman established a Chief Executives Safety Committee slurry pumps, which are the global market leaders in the comprising the Divisional Presidents and the Chief efficient processing of rock on a mine site, are essential People Officer to drive improvement throughout the to the successful operations of our customers.
We will never compromise on our commitment oil and gas frack pumps are crucial to the process to safety.
of accessing shale oil and gas deposits.
We have chosen these markets because they are underpinned The headline financial figures show the challenges the by long-term structural trends: global economic Group faced, particularly as oil and gas markets reached growth, population increases and urbanisation.
the bottom of one of the most severe downturns in These trends mean demand for energy and natural decades.
As the year progressed there were signs of resources will increase.
improvement in our core markets as commodity prices increased.
Demand for mining equipment stabilised after an extended winter shutdown at the beginning of the year.
Later in 2016, oilfield service companies The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 9 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review continued 2016 review continued While the pace and shape of recovery in our markets, in North America started preparing their fleets in particularly oil and gas, remains uncertain, we will be anticipation of an increase in activity in 2017.
The well placed to respond to the upturn.
Our ongoing agreement from OPEC leaders to reduce oil production commitment to research and development means further supported sentiment although the market we have the solutions to help our customers achieve remained oil price sensitive with many customers their objective of efficiently increasing productivity.
This looking for a sustained recovery in oil prices.
can be seen in the first orders for our next generation frack pump, the SPM QEM 3000, and the positive The Group maintained its strong financial discipline customer reaction to our new high-horsepower with a total of 170m in annualised cost reduction crushers in Minerals.
actions taken since the fourth quarter of 2014.
During the fourth quarter of 2016, we instigated further internal In total, the Group generated 110m of revenue in 2016 reorganisation.
Oil & Gas Pressure Pumping and from new products, defined as having been introduced Pressure Control platforms were integrated under a to the market in the past three years.
single management team in North America.
The China management structure was removed with operations You can read more in Our Main Markets on page 5, transferred to the divisions.
As part of this process a our Operational Reviews from page 30 and the number of legacy financial exposures were identified, Financial Review on page 24. principally in relation to warranty, associated inventory and contract liabilities which resulted in an exceptional Outlook for 2017 charge of 17m.
These liabilities have been finalised In recent months I have been encouraged by macro and we have implemented divisional governance commodity trends and the signs in our mining and oil across all our operations in China.
and gas markets that point to a cyclical upturn.
Our new strategic priorities will strengthen our capabilities and The fundamental hallmark of a quality business enable us to fully capture opportunities presented by is its cash generation and once again the Group improving markets, although there is a range of views delivered with cash flow from operations of 293m.
about the precise shape of the recovery in 2017.
The performance of Oil & Gas was outstanding, At a Group level, we expect to deliver strong cash with cash generation of 47m, even in the context of generation and good growth in constant currency making an operating loss for the full year.
Profit growth will be further supported by our programme of non-core asset disposals raised foreign currency translation benefits, partly offset by 78m including the sale of our renewables businesses incremental investments in people and technology.
American Hydro and Ynfiniti Engineering Services.
The sale of these businesses, alongside the integration of process pumps businesses Floway and Gabbioneta from the Minerals and Oil & Gas divisions respectively, gave the new Flow Control division increased scale and strategic focus.
Jon Stanton Chief Executive Officer 22 February 2017 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 10 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report HOW WE SUCCEED Caring for our colleagues, our neighbours and PE O PL E the environment and inspiring them to flourish.
Working in partnership to provide distinctive solutions C U S T OME R S that deliver compelling value for money.
Driving the development of new technologies T E CH NO L O GY and capabilities that lead the market.
Delivering excellence for all our stakeholders through P E R F O R M A NCE strong leadership, accountability and a lean mindset.
MEET THE GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM left to right John Heasley, Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Neilson, Director of Corporate Affairs and Strategy, David Paradis, Division President of Flow Control, Ricardo Garib, Division President of Minerals, Pauline Lafferty, Chief People Officer, Jon Stanton, Chief Executive Officer, Paul Coppinger, Division President of Oil & Gas.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 11
