6 WITAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT After several years when government bond yields had been steered lower as a means of stimulating economic growth, the process went into overdrive in 2016, with over a quarter of government bonds at one stage offering negative yields to investors.
Paying for the privilege of lending money to governments is a curiosity - akin to paying rent to the tenants of a house you own.
Some began to question whether such abnormal rates were more a sign of low confidence than a means of improving it.
The most extreme level of bond overvaluation began to reverse from August onwards, with the sell-off in bonds intensifying in the aftermath of the US election, owing to the looser fiscal policies promised by the new President.
There had been fears during 2015 that weakness and instability in commodity-dependent sectors and ANDREW BELL economies would spread to create a more general global recession.
Economic growth was indeed weaker than Chief Executive expected early in 2016 but expectations stabilised by the summer, reflected in a recovery in the price of oil and The investment markets in 2016 other commodities from the lows reached in January and Equity markets delivered strongly positive returns for improved expectations for corporate earnings, which had UK investors during 2016, although the numbers were been weak since early 2015. flattered by the impact of the weaker pound on overseas market returns and the overseas-exposed companies Given the influence of politics on market moves during concentrated in the FTSE 100 index.
There was a marked 2016, active managers, who tend to concentrate on contrast between the hesitant performance seen in the company-specific factors, in general found the going first half of the year and the more sizable gains seen in difficult and the majority of our third party managers the period between the Brexit referendum and the end underperformed during the year, in contrast to 2015. of the year.
Although the referendum result and the Witan remained fully and actively invested during the outcome of the US election were not widely expected, year, using periods of market weakness such as January the resolution of these known uncertainties was followed and June to add to our market exposure and reducing by equity market rallies.
Investors appeared to respond gearing into subsequent market strength.
We also turned to the hope of more stimulative economic policies, the widening in our discount to shareholders advantage putting to one side doubts over the incoming Trump by buying back our shares, boosting the NAV per share as administrations trade policy and the UK governments well as mitigating the level of the discount.
approach to negotiating an exit from the EU.
There was a notable gap between the total return on the UK market A number of our historically strongly performing and the sterling returns seen from overseas markets.
The managers lagged the strong rises in markets, offsetting relative strength of overseas returns for UK investors good performances from value-oriented managers and was attributable to the weakness of the pound, which fell the direct holdings.
However, our active use of gearing sharply following the Brexit vote.
and share buybacks meant that, even with a relative performance shortfall from our portfolio we were able to No account of 2016 would be complete without mention end the year with performance very close to the 23.0% of the extraordinary valuations reached in global rise in our benchmark, after all costs.
The Strategic government bond markets.
Concerns in January over Report on pages 8 to 2 1 sets out details of our third weak growth in the US and China, which led to sharp falls party managers performance during the year as well as in global equity markets, ushered in further easing moves decisions made in the areas of gearing, the use of index from the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank, futures and changes in the portfolio of directly held fund both of which ended 2016 with negative official interest investments.
In the aftermath of the Brexit vote, the view took hold that the resulting economic uncertainty would keep central banks focused on monetary easing and indeed the Bank of England did ease policy further in August.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Report of the Directors Strategy Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 Outlook Whilst a strong dollar might offset the benefits to other countries from a growing US economy it seems unlikely The strength of equity markets during 2016 reflects to occur in the absence of robust growth in the US.
So increased hopes for faster, or more balanced, economic the balance of risks and opportunities for emerging growth in 2017.
A significant fiscal stimulus is expected markets may be more mixed than in past periods of dollar from the new Trump administration in the US, in the form strength.
of tax cuts and infrastructure spending.
There is a risk of disappointment if this takes longer than expected to The shift in the emphasis of economic policy, from implement, or is significantly diluted.
Similarly, although stimulating private sector growth via low interest rates some of the more exaggerated fears for UK growth in the towards governments borrowing at low rates to boost aftermath of the referendum have been reset, the fall demand via tax cuts and investment spending is a in sterling is likely to lead to a squeeze on real incomes potentially significant turning point.
Although the implications for the UK economy rising, albeit from a very low base.
Government bond remain uncertain, UK quoted companies in the portfolio issuance is set to rise, at a time when central bank derive the majority of their earnings from overseas, thus buying is slowing down or stopping.
These are factors benefiting from the lower value of sterling.
against which the level of bond yields offers very limited protection yields remain generally lower than at the The Company recognises that the UKs eventual start of 2016, despite rising since the summer.
departure from EU membership may have both good and bad consequences for the UKs economic performance Although equities are capable of making progress even in coming years, some of which are not currently if bond yields are rising, this depends on the extent of predictable and will differ from sector to sector.
Our any change in yields and its cause.
If a rise is driven by assessment is that this is primarily a UK economic and higher inflation expectations reflecting better economic political issue.
Given our flexible global investment remit, growth and improved corporate pricing power it would it represents one of many factors that both Witan and its potentially be viewed as positive for equities.
If it external managers take into account in making decisions reflected higher post-inflation yields it would represent a about where to invest our shareholders funds.
rise in the real cost of capital, which would be a headwind.
Either way, a major further rise in yields could undermine European politics pose additional threats to the outlook equities, even if underlying economic growth improved.
for economic growth, as well as complicating the process With index levels offering few windfalls, 2017 seems likely of negotiating EU exit terms with the UK election to require a more selective approach to equities after the campaigns are not conducive to making trade deals landmark returns enjoyed in 2016. which may be unpopular with your own electorate.
With the Netherlands, France and Germany all facing Andrew Bell national elections in 2017 the air may not be clear until Chief Executive September, leaving aside the risk of an upset result in one or another country undermining confidence in the 9 March 2017 Eurozones cohesion.
On a more positive note, the bottoming out of commodity prices has removed a destabilising factor from a number of emerging economies.
This, allied with improved economic governance, could allow them to build on their strong 2016 performance, which broke a 4 year run of underperformance.
Although a strong dollar is often seen as a threat to emerging economies, raising the cost of servicing their dollar debts, the US also tends to have limited tolerance for a strong dollar if it impinges on US economic growth or the new administrations ambition to bring manufacturing jobs back home.
Job No: 28447 Proof Event: 2 6 Black Line Level: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Witan Project Title: Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
