Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 30 Corporate governance report continued In order to do this, as a matter of course in any these weaknesses and are captured as part IT systems one year, the Committee: of functional risk registers with defined The Group has completed a multi-year management responsibility.
The Committee receives and agrees appropriate actions in programme of upgrading and developing understands the importance of a robust risk response to regular reports from the Risk its core IT systems, the cost of which is a management process and control environment and Internal Audit function on: material element of capital expenditure for and look to progressively strengthen it the current year.
the status of internal control and risk over time.
management systems across the Group: There have been a number of key Effectiveness and independence implementations this year which will the departments findings, annual plan and support the delivery of the Groups strategy the resources available to it to perform of the external auditor and provide improved data and insight.
its work: and any concerns expressed by The Committee considered the effectiveness The Committee has monitored progress against colleagues about possible malpractice of  LLP PwC as system implementation plans and also reviewed or wrongdoing: auditor over the last year.
In making this an assessment of the implementations during reviews financial whistle-blowing reports assessment the Audit Committee has the year to evaluate the success of the from colleagues: considered the information presented by systems migration.
the auditors, management responses to the reviews the external auditors management auditors findings, including any adjustments The Committee has considered the nature letter on internal financial control: and the level of non-audit fees.
of costs being capitalised and is satisfied that seeks reports from senior management on costs have been capitalised in line with the The Committee holds meetings with the the effectiveness of the management of key Groups policy as disclosed in note 3.1 in the auditor without management present.
risk areas: and financial statements.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand monitors the adequacy and timeliness the auditors views on the control and The Committee has considered the risk of managements response to identified governance environment and managements of impairment and assumptions made by audit issues.
To fulfil its management supporting the carrying value These systems and processes have been in responsibilities in respect of the independence and concluded that these are appropriate.
place throughout the period and up to the and effectiveness of the external auditor, date of approval of this Annual report.
Stock the Committee reviewed: Stock is a material balance in the Groups The main features of the Groups internal the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and financial statements, with stock held across control and risk management systems relating scope of work of the external auditor as set a large number of locations.
Stock count to the accuracy and reliability of financial out in the engagement letter: procedures have remained consistent with reporting, including the process for preparing the audit work plan for the Group: prior year.
consolidated accounts, are: the detailed findings of the audit, including Judgement is required in determining provisions recruitment of suitably qualified and a discussion of any major issues that arose for shrinkage and other stock provisioning and experienced finance colleagues: during the audit: the Committee reviews these judgements as segregation of duties, clear lines of the letter from the external auditor part of the annual policy review.
accountability and delegation of authority: confirming its independence and objectivity: The Committee has reviewed and understood policies and procedures that cover financial and the impact the IT systems implementation has planning and reporting, preparation of financial the audit fee and the extent of non-audit had on the margin and stock processes.
information, and capital expenditure: services provided during 2015 16.
The Committee has reviewed the level of a robust period end review process The policy on the engagement of the external stock provisioning and key assumptions including review and commentary from auditor to supply non-audit services is set out underpinning the provisions and consider process owners: in the investor relations section of the Groups these to be appropriate.
a tiered review process for external financial website see www.
reports involving internal stakeholders from PwC has continued to provide non-audit Internal control and risk relevant areas of the business: services throughout the year.
In the year the management ratio of audit to non-audit services was within information and data security policies and The Board has overall accountability for the 1:0.7 limit set in the policy.
procedures: and ensuring that risk is effectively managed across self certification by each section of The Committee believe that this non-audit the Group.
Risks are reviewed by the Executive the business.
activity carried out by the statutory auditors Committee for all functions annually and results is subject to safeguards to avoid a threat to are brought to the Board.
On behalf of the The Audit Committee regularly reviews the the auditors independence or objectivity.
Board, the Audit Committee has responsibility Groups process for risk management and These safeguards comprise separate teams for reviewing the effectiveness of internal internal control and annually conducts a formal for audit versus non-audit work.
control including financial, operational and review of these processes.
failings or weaknesses of internal control were identified during these reviews.
The Groups principal risks are set out on pages Limited weaknesses and areas where controls 18 to 19. could be further automated were identified, clear action plans are in place to address
