Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 6 Chief Executives statement Improving the customer shopping trip We are listening to customers and they are informing the plan to rebuild Morrisons.
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR I have just completed my first year as your Our first aims during the year were to begin to Chief Executive.
It has been a year of listening stabilise sales, and lower costs.
To do this we hard to customers, responding quickly wherever identified the management talent we required We have introduced new possible, and improving the business.
and built a leaner, more focused team at our self-service and express checkouts into all of our stores.
The smaller Executive Morrisons is a business I have admired for many Committee is complete and many other years.
It was clear from listening to our four key important senior appointments have been stakeholders customers, colleagues, suppliers made from inside and outside Morrisons.
and shareholders, that it has many strengths.
We have started to deliver on our initial aims.
First and foremost our colleagues are our Trading has begun to stabilise and volume greatest asset highly skilled and passionate growth is returning.
This has been achieved about their company.
This turnaround will while continuing the journey of lowering be employee-led.
This means more Customers appreciate that we are a British price deflation and significantly fewer coupons, We are showcasing grocer, with a strong heritage.
We are a food both of which have created headwinds for Made by Morrisons products.
Good quality fresh like-for-like sales but have improved the clarity food and great value for money are our of our offer for customers.
key strengths, and Market Street is special.
We have continued our programme to Half of what we sell is fresh food and half remove wasted effort and reduce costs, albeit our fresh food we produce ourselves, with some changes to some components, providing unrivalled provenance from and remain confident of saving 1bn in the our own manufacturing capacity.
This has involved Our financial strength is also important.
some difficult choices, particularly around We have a strong cash flow, a strong and restructuring head office and closing or selling improving balance sheet, a largely freehold some underperforming stores, but these were property portfolio and pension schemes in necessary to start to create a cost effective surplus.
So, we have much to be optimistic and more responsive organisation.
about and firm foundations on which to build This turnaround is a journey that has now the turnaround.
That turnaround will have started.
It has been informed by a listening three phases fix, rebuild and grow.
programme that identified six priorities to be more competitive, to serve customers better, Customer satisfaction to find local solutions, to develop popular Last year This year and useful services, to simplify and speed up the organisation, and to make the core supermarkets strong again.
We go through the details of these on the following pages.
If we execute successfully, I am confident we can grow volumes, improve like-for-like sales, rebuild profits and improve our return on capital, while continually generating cash.
1 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 48 52 4 David Potts Weeks of the year Chief Executive Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 7 Morrisons as food maker Outlook We recruited Our food manufacturing capabilities To begin the turnaround, we made some in Meat, Fish, Bakery, Fruit & Veg, Deli, and tough choices during the year the head 5,000 new Flowers make us unique as a British food office restructuring and some particularly maker as well as a shopkeeper.
We operate difficult decisions around underperforming colleagues to better from 15 manufacturing sites across Britain.
store closures and the sale of the M local chain.
The business is well-run and well-invested, These were necessary steps for the long term serve customers with plenty of capacity to grow sales both benefit of all stakeholders.
After reviewing the during the I am optimistic for the future.
As the Chairman business during my first year, it is clear to me said, we are not planning for the trading busiest times that manufacturing is core for Morrisons environment to improve.
Despite improving part of both the solution and the considerable consumer confidence, the return of real wage of the week opportunity for the business.
increases, and higher disposable income, we During the year, we began making the freshness, are not assuming changing shopping habits will quality and provenance provided by our unique reverse.
Deflation will persist in our business as manufacturing capabilities more visible to our we continue to invest in lower prices for our customers.
Made by Morrisons showcases customers and strive to improve the value for some of the best in-store skills of our highly money we offer.
trained butchers, bakers, fishmongers and other Despite this tough backdrop, I am convinced craftspeople, and we are introducing many we are doing the right things to begin the good quality, great value products into this turnaround.
Customer satisfaction levels important and exclusive range.
are significantly up and we are beginning As we keep improving the shopping trip, to welcome customers back to Morrisons.
customers will see more of Morrisons as a food And, as I said, it will be Morrisons skilled and maker in our stores.
Those food maker skills passionate colleagues who will make the will help to both win more customers back difference and are key to our future success.
to Morrisons and gain new ones.
I would like to thank all of our colleagues, particularly those helping to improve the Morrisons as shopkeeper shopping trip for customers every day, We spent much of the year improving the for all the hard work and dedication so far.
First, we recruited Our manufacturing facilities have capacity 5,000 new colleagues and re-scheduled the Key Measures to grow.
Whilst we sold the M local stores, hours of others to better serve customers the broader convenience market remains 2015 16 Quarterly Group during the busiest times of the week.
LFL sales performance a sizeable opportunity for Morrisons and We improved the look, feel and maintenance we are currently trialling a franchise petrol 2.6% 2.9% 2.4% 2.6% 0.1% of every store inside and out through a forecourt convenience offer.
We also have programme called Back to Best.
Store layouts Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 many new ideas of how to provide popular improved, especially in Beers, Wines & Spirits and useful services at our stores.
We also started a Fresh Look partner, Ocado, we have expanded the reach refit programme that will upgrade the entire of Morrisons.
com to over 50% of British store estate by 2018 19, including 200 stores households and online losses are reducing.
that have not been freshened up in more than There are wholesale opportunities as the recent five years.
And there are Definition plenty of new growth opportunities, such as We also introduced new self-service and LFL sales performance measures the percentage change express checkouts into all our stores, and Nutmeg clothing that we can further explore.
in year-on-year sales excluding VAT and fuel, removing All of these have the common feature of being the impact of new store openings and closures in the improved all our point-of-sale material to be current or previous financial year.
capital light which is the future growth route clearer for customers.
Our promotions are now better and easier to 2015 16 LFL Quarterly number of transactions shop, and our prices lower, more consistent and well communicated.
We simplified our Match & 1.9% 3.2% 2.6% 2.0% 1.6% David Potts More card so customers could use it on every Chief Executive shopping trip, and invested in everyday round pound and sharper pricing, to begin to cut Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 every penny we can for customers.
Definition LFL number of transactions, year-on-year change.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 8 Our six priorities 1 2 3 To be To serve Find more customers local competitive better solutions Morrisons is a value for money brand.
Good customer service is part Morrisons has almost 500 Customers tell us they want the great of Morrisons.
Market Street and our neighbourhood supermarkets that Morrisons range at low prices.
skilled colleagues make Morrisons can serve local customers better.
Morrisons should be a place customers can always We want to serve our customers better.
Morrisons stores are well-located, serving trust low prices every day.
During the year, Customers tell us they want great service, shorter neighbourhoods and communities.
We have an we invested over 370m into the customer offer, queues and products to be available especially opportunity to improve our local customer offer most of it into price, bringing the total to nearly at the busiest times.
both by region and store-by-store, and make 700m over the last two years.
We cut prices of every square foot count.
During the year, we recruited 5,000 new in-store key commodities and everyday items.
Via our colleagues and re-scheduled hours towards the Scotland, Wales and big cities have their own unique manufacturing skills, we are also building busiest times of the week.
identity which we can better serve.
Every store a range of Made by Morrisons products, such as is unique.
fresh quiche and freshly baked Coburg Cob bread, We launched initiatives to remove wasted effort, at great value which are proving very popular improve on-shelf availability and ease pressure By listening to our customers and colleagues, with customers.
For example, there were major we will tailor the offer of each one to local tastes programmes to introduce express checkouts, and demographics.
A core offer will apply, with We have made our stores easier to shop for replace and upgrade the self-scan checkouts in managers able to flex outside the core to best customers.
We introduced fewer and more all our stores, and relay our Beers, Wines & Spirits suit local customers.
The organisation will be impactful offers, many at simple round pound and Fruit & Veg departments to a new look.
largely central, but the execution local local price points, and sharper prices, saving our solutions for national benefit.
customers every penny we can.
We have also We are ensuring we have the right technology simplified our Match & More card to make it and in-store colleague structure to more Elements of each stores ranging, promotions and easier for customers to understand and use.
effectively and directly manage queues, and services can be localised, and thereby become All of this is being communicated more clearly we will be improving the customer offer on more relevant and successful.
We have appointed and simply, without complicated claims, Market Street.
a small team responsible for identifying key local through new and improved in-store marketing.
opportunities including seasonality, ethnicity, We are also working on ways of improving affluence and life stage for example, students.
product availability, particularly in Fresh which Our aim is to use our strengths to provide a we know is so important to our customers.
In addition, the Fresh Look programme is being simpler and competitive Morrisons price list shaped by the communities served by Morrisons for all our customers one that is unique There is still a lot to do, but customers are beginning stores.
Specific popular and useful services will be to us.
Those strengths include our broader to notice the difference.
There has already been tailored to provide local solutions for each store.
business, such as wholesale supply, which help a reduction in queue lengths and a significant us lower costs and continue to cut prices in improvement in our customer satisfaction scores.
We are also introducing programmes to be more our supermarkets.
active with local marketing, and to better utilise our stores as centres of the local community.
During the year ahead we will continue to invest to become more competitive.
For example, Price Crunch cut the price of more than 1,000 everyday items in February and there is more to come throughout the year.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 9 4 5 6 Develop popular To simplify and To make core and useful speed up the supermarkets services organisation strong again Popular and useful services will give Morrisons is building a culture based Customers tell us what Morrisons our customers more reasons to visit on speed and teamwork, so we stands for good quality their local Morrisons.
fresh food, great value for money, good customer service and authentically British.
Morrisons has some strong services 336 petrol We continue to simplify and improve, and We aim to deliver those strengths in every store.
filling stations, 398 cafs, 118 pharmacies and 147 build a culture based on speed and teamwork, During the year, we completed a programme dry cleaners.
with clear and consistent ways of working.
to ensure all of the estate is at a consistent high standard, Back to Best, both inside and We also have a great opportunity.
We own 85% Progress on costs is good and we remain confident out.
Maintenance has been brought back of our stores, and we see several opportunities of saving 1bn in the three years to the end of in-house which is improving the service standards to provide third party in-store or on-site services 2016 17.
This has involved some difficult choices, to our stores.
that will help our stores be more attractive places particularly around restructuring the head office, to visit.
These will not require us to commit where c. 800 roles have been removed, and also We have over 200 stores that have not been significant capital, but will generate income closing underperforming stores and selling the brightened-up for over five years.
Our new and enhance returns.
Fresh Look programme upgraded over 50 stores last year and we are aiming for 100 a year from For example, we have been trialling various However, these programmes are about much now on.
in-store formats, such as Timpson at Morrisons, more than just cutting costs.
They are helping and we have the opportunity for complementary to create a leaner, more efficient business which There are many improvements that Fresh retail developments in our car parks.
is more responsive for customers.
Look can apply almost universally across the estate.
Improving the look and feel of Fresh, The leadership team has reduced from 110 to and allocating more space to growth categories around 65 people.
This smaller team has greater such as Nutmeg clothing, Free From, World responsibility and accountability for bigger areas Foods, and Food to Go, as well as improving of the business.
We have continued to refine customer facilities such as the customer service both the in-store and field leadership structures.
desk and Caf, are important components of the The field team is nearly complete and will include Fresh Look programme.
a mix of internal and external appointees, with a breadth of experience across a range of retail However, Fresh Look is much more than a backgrounds.
We expect this to bring a renewed standardised refit.
At each store, customer vigour to our retail leadership.
For example one listening groups tell us what a store needs before third of regional managers are female, compared work starts and we listen to feedback again to just one person previously.
after the work has been done.
So, Fresh Look Petrol filling covers all aspects of the store management, Cafs stations We have started to simplify and improve our structure, range and labour scheduling, not just relationships with suppliers.
We are working the physical layout.
together to develop a sell for less culture which 398 336 will mean lower every day prices for customers.
This will involve substantially reducing the 37 different sub-categories of commercial income Dry cleaners Pharmacies agreements to a target of just three.
We are also working with our suppliers category- 147 118 by-category and shelf-by-shelf to simplify the range in some areas and add space in others.
