Group Chief Executives review Achieving excellent execution Performance Excellent execution The Group continued to make progress in 2015 16 Wewant to accelerate execution of our strategy in challenging market conditions.
Revenue of throughout theorganisation to deliver faster 14,430 million 2014 15: 13,300 million was profitable growth inevery business.
8.5percent ahead and 2.4 per cent ahead In all of our businesses our objective is to grow on a like-for-like basis against strong prior year revenue ahead of the market while generating comparatives.
Price deation, possibly the profitable growth through a relentless focus on most severe the Group has ever faced, was a providing the very best service in our industry, significant headwind in the USA and the UK improving gross margins and maintaining an which reduced Group revenue by 1.5 per cent.
We continued to work hard and made good progress with gross margins, which at 28.3 per Our businesses and markets are not homogeneous cent 2014 15: 28.0 per cent were ahead of last and therefore require customised strategies year.
Operating expenses were 6.0 per cent to provide our customers with the best higher at constant exchange rates including possible experience.
Trading profit was To achieve excellent execution we have identied We want to 917 million 2014 15: 857 million, 7.0 per cent a number of important strategic themes which ahead of last year, including a 46 million benefit accelerate execution are the primary drivers for how we will win in from foreign exchange movements.
our local markets, outperform our competitors of our strategy To read more about our Key performance indicators and drive strong financial results.
While these throughout the see pages 8 and 9 strategic themes are common, the businesses organisation to deliver faster profitable growth in Key strategic themes everybusiness.
1: 5 Associate engagement : E-commerce John Martin Group Chief Executive Well trained, highly engaged associates Increasingly our customers want to deal deliver better customer service.
A relentless with us online and we must ensure we focus in this area drives customer loyalty.
have the leading e-commerce platform in each market in our industry.
This provides our customers with an invaluable 2: Customer service channel and some competitors nd this hard to replicate, giving us a significant competitiveadvantage.
Our aim is to provide the best customer service in the industry, consistently across branches and regions.
: 6 Private label penetration 3: Sales culture We will systematically build upon and extend our portfolio of private label brands which in We will continue to drive a strong sales 2015 16 represented 6.4 per cent of Group culture.
Where our associates are proud revenue.
We have an opportunity to offer a wider range of private label products to our and confident about our services, and customers, some of which attract a higher have the best tools, knowledge and data to support them, we will achieve the strongest grossmargin.
They engage with existing and new customers to make sure we are front of 7: Pricing discipline mindwhen it comes to bids for work.
We will work constantly to understand our customers needs more accurately and 4: Operating model improvement structure our pricing to be fair, consistent andtransparent.
We need to ensure that our operating model is agile and exible so it can adapt to changing customer needs.
We also need to ensure our support functions provide the To read more on our Financial and operating review see pages 30 to 33 right service to the front end of the business and do so efficiently with the ability to ex To read case studies about these key strategic themes their cost base when required.
To read more on our Regional see pages 14 to 24 performance see pages 14 to 25 Wolseley plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information prioritise them appropriately depending on two further acquisitions including Signature the local market and competitive environment.
Hardware, a US business-to-consumer kitchen For example, e-commerce growth is a priority and bathroom retailer and Westeld Lighting, in the UK and Canada where penetration anIndianapolis based lighting company.
The is less than 10 per cent, whereas in Central businesses generated annualised revenue Europe it is already over 35 per cent.
So overall of92 million and trading profit of 19 million.
we want to see rapid execution of the most relevant initiatives in each business to drive the Management changes fastest improvements.
Kath Durrant was appointed as Group HR Director in January 2016.
She has broad international At the beginning of the 2016 17 financial year experience in large multi-national businesses we have established three priorities against and was until recently Group HR Director at which we will allocate resources across Rolls-Royce plc.
In February, SrenOlesen the organisation: was appointed interim Chief Executive officer Priority one generate the best CEO of the Nordic region.
Sren is a strong profitable growth in Ferguson, our major leader with considerable international and US subsidiary.
Ferguson has a clear strategy operational experience gained principally in the which we are executing rapidly and effectively.
building materials industry in Europe.
In July, We will focus on accelerating revenue growth SimonOakland was appointed CEO of Canada on a sustainable basis while continuing to and Central Europe.
Simon has spent over generate attractive returns for shareholders.
20years in private equity with Alchemy Partners We will continue to target above market revenue and Nikko Securities and has considerable growth supplemented by organic expansion international and operational experience.
and bolt-on M&A where we can generate valuable synergies.
Sustainability We achieved each of our carbon and waste Priority two execute UK turnaround targets over the last two years and new five-year and repositioning plan.
In September 2016, targets have now been set by each business.
we announced a new operational strategy We are also pleased to report a reduction in focusing on the most attractive plumbing and our injury rate of 2.6percent.
Going forward we will deterioration in our lost workday rate 5.6 simplify our customer propositions: including per cent and collision rate 0.4 per cent is one for smaller installers and one for medium disappointing and our businesses have plans and large specialist customers.
At the same to address these.
This year we updated the time we will lower the cost base and optimise Groups sustainability framework following a the supply chain and branch network.
comprehensive review with the businesses, the You can read in more detail about our plans Board and engagement with our stakeholders.
to transform the business in the UK operating The programme is designed to mitigate review on page 20. sustainability risks as well as offering our Priority three review Nordics business opportunities to drive profitable growth operational strategy and restore the see the Sustainability section on page 26. business to profitable growth.
We have We continually audit our branches against health initiated a review of operational strategy in the and safety requirements and have made further Nordics to ensure that our strategy to drive the investments in safer racking, machinery and best service, grow market share and improve other safety controls during the year.
financial performance across the region is successful.
We expect to conclude the review People in the Spring of 2017.
I am excited by the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead and look forward to working with Bolt-on acquisitions and disposals our 39,000 tremendously talented and dedicated During the year, we completed 16 bolt-on associates to make Wolseley even more acquisitions with annualised revenue of successful in the future.
We will only acquire businesses that can help us achieve our strategic goals where we can achieve rapid integration synergies and generate attractive returns for shareholders.
John Martin Group Chief Executive Since the year-end, we have completed Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
