Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Group Chief Executives Q&A Focusing on our strengths Transitioning into the Group Chief Executive role How will this inuence your approach Q in recent months, I have had a great opportunity to strategy?
to meet and listen to our customers, suppliers, Our business units each have clear strategic leaders and associates.
This has reinforced my plans to generate profitable growth and will Our business units view of the inherent strengths of the Wolseley continue to execute them.
Resource allocation, business, not least the fantastic depth of talent each have clear that is investing the most capital and human and dedication of our associates at the front line.
resources in those businesses capable of strategic plans to It has also highlighted some of the opportunities generating the best returns for our shareholders, that lieahead of us which are discussed below.
drive profitable is an important part of our DNA today.
We will continue to be good custodians of our growth and How would you assess the businesss shareholders capital both in terms of investment Q strengths today?
will continue to in organic expansion and bolt-on M&A where we can create synergies.
At the same time we This is a people business.
will maintain a strong balance sheet which will knowledge, dedication and service that our enable us to continue to grow and invest in our associates deliver to our customers and the longbusinesses over the long-term without worrying term and enduring relationships they develop is a too much about short-term market factors.
Today we have a focused set of specialist So where will you focus in the next distribution businesses operating in attractive Q two to three years?
markets with leading market positions.
Scale, in supply chain, procurement, operations and The key challenge for Wolseley today is to focus technology is a strong source of competitive resources and ensure we execute our strategies advantage.
We continue to invest in these areas much more consistently and rapidly in all of our to maximise the benets we can bring to service businesses.
In some businesses, like Ferguson, To watch a video our customers and generate attractive returns.
we have implemented strong and rapid execution interview with deeper into the organisation with excellent Within our industry, long-term growth drivers results.
In others however, we have not achieved JohnMartin visit remain attractive in all the geographic regions the same level of traction.
We will continue to where we operate today.
We predominantly build on Wolseleys considerable strengths and www.
com serve repair, maintenance and improvement we now need to sharpen our focus in a few key markets which are usually resilient through the areas to achieve better execution.
The majority of our businesses operate in highly fragmented markets where To read more on our key priorities see pages 4 and 5 there are good opportunities to generate organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions.
What do you believe is the businesss Q What are the immediate challenges greatest asset?
We have one powerful and sustainable asset: Over the past 18 months we have experienced our associates.
Travelling and working around more turbulent end markets accompanied by the Group, listening to them, watching the skill, the collapse in the oil price, falling commodity knowledge and commitment they bring to prices and volatile exchange rates.
Most notably servicing our customers is inspirational.
We will for Wolseley in 2015 16 weve faced declining continue to get great execution by investing industrial markets in North America and our constantly in their development and enabling markets in Europe have remained weak.
The UK them to deliver the best service every day for vote to leave the European Union adds political our customers.
and economic uncertainty in the UK and Europe.
We will steer our businesses through these considerable changes, to develop and enhance our services in support of our customers and aim to provide the most stable, yet dynamic place for associates to work in this industry.
That will continue to drive profitable growth, one of the hallmarks of our business in recent years.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
