06 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives statement In 2016, we delivered very strong financial At a divisional level, Global eCom results and made significant progress on delivered strong and broadly based our strategy, by further deepening our growth, with transactions growing relationships with customers, extending 30% to 5 billion, supporting net revenue our market reach, and developing our growth of 22%.
Underlying EBITDA technology, products and people increased 18%.
In WPUK, net revenue capabilities.
We are continuing to grew 8%, supported by transaction capitalise on the strong structural volume growth of 7%, and, with ongoing growth drivers in our marketplace: good cost discipline, underlying EBITDA the growth of digital transactions rose 11%.
and ecommerce, and the increasing complexity of payments for our merchant In the US, we delivered better operational customers, particularly for those who execution in 2016 and are making good operate across multiple channels or progress towards building a sustainably on a broad international basis.
Underlying EBITDA increased by 9% at constant currency In 2016, we delivered very Our strategy is focused on helping our and transactions rose by 7%.
However, customers to prosper, by using our we are not yet seeing the benefits of the strong financial results and payments expertise and insight to execution of our strategy on our top line, made significant progress increase their sales, and reduce their and net revenue grew 2% in 2016.
It is designed to ensure be a key focus in 2017 and 2018. on our strategy.
the continued success of our business in a competitive and rapidly changing Market environment market, in order to deliver sustainable The dynamic nature of our markets value to our customers, colleagues and presents both opportunities and shareholders.
We expect that realising challenges, which we are tracking closely.
the full potential of our business model We are actively involved in shaping these will drive robust, visible and recurring developments with our merchants and organic revenue growth over the partners, industry and technology medium-term.
A very strong financial performance An important regulatory development in 2016 in Europe is the implementation of the We processed around 15 billion Second Payment Services Directive transactions, an increase of 14% PSD2, which is a significant step in compared to 2015.
Total transaction building a Digital Single Market in the value was 451bn, up 12%, and net region.
It aims to build a more integrated revenue rose by 15%, to 1,124m.
and efficient payments market across Europe, and to promote competition, We delivered increased profitability, bringing into scope new types of with underlying EBITDA growing 15% to payment services and enhancing 467.6m, and a substantial improvement customer protection and security.
in free cash flow to 170.9m, despite high levels of investment.
Overall, we see an opportunity in PSD2 to help our customers navigate this new payments landscape, and we will continue to work closely with EU and UK regulators and our merchant customers on the implications and details of its implementation.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 07 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Substantial progress on our strategy The successful development of our Elsewhere in our technology estate, we We made substantial progress on our omni-channel product, Worldpay Total, are also investing in a next-generation strategy in 2016.
We further strengthened continues, and is now available across payment routing layer that enhances our our customer relationships, product all three divisions.
In the UK, momentum existing investment in technology assets offering, market reach, technology and is building strongly, and we have added such as our payment gateways, enabling people capabilities, making improvements further functionality, including high value the intelligent routing of payments.
We across a broad front, underpinned by contactless and cross-tokenisation.
expect to begin trials with customers at a large number of individual initiatives.
We were pleased to launch Worldpay the end of 2017.
Total in the US in the fourth quarter, Extending our market reach and offering functionality specific to In addition, we have been developing expanding our products and services the American marketplace, having a new capability for analysing and We further extended our market reach, announced a European product reporting on data across the entire and delivered a substantial number of for Global eCom customers earlier organisation though our new Enterprise proposition upgrades and new products in the year.
By industrialising in 2016. our use of data, particularly in areas such Further development in technology as decision services, data visualisations We gained new licences in a number andinnovation and technical insights, we have enhanced of jurisdictions, including Hong Kong, Our strategy is to continually invest our capabilities to better serve our Singapore and Australia, and added Brazil in technology and products so that we merchants, partners and colleagues.
Work is currently underway can achieve better business outcomes We expect the use of EDP to permeate to develop further partnerships and for our customers.
We believe that more widely into our operations and licences across Europe, Asia and Latin these investments in technology systems in 2017.
America, and this is being reinforced and engineering talent will extend by a strengthening of our capabilities our competitive advantage.
We made We continue to place a central focus in regional offices to support the growth good progress on strengthening our on digital innovation, and expect to of our business, notably in Asia and technological capabilities in the year.
commence customer trials of our South America.
research and development projects Our new acquiring platform is a and investments in 2017, including in We launched a large number of new key component of our technology advanced technologies around identity customer products and services in infrastructure, and will deliver significant and mobile-based payments acceptance.
These included the launch of Your enhancements in terms of agility, flexibility Marketplace in the UK, a new insight and efficiency.
We have made good and reporting tool: major upgrades progress and now have thousands to alternative payment methods: and of new customers successfully extensions to our bankout products, transacting on it.
We have, however, supporting cost-efficient cross-border made a judgement call to alter the rate payments.
We also increased security of migration to ensure that we maintain for our customers, with advances such our current strong growth trajectory as cross-tokenisation, which creates and the accelerating pace of product common payment tokens across every development.
By the end of 2017 we channel, and point-to-point encryption.
expect to have migrated the majority of customers onto the new platform, including a significant number of our SME customers and some of our highest volume merchants.
For more complex customers, the pace of further migration is likely to be more determined by their preference, and given that a number will not want to migrate to the new platform in the run up to the holiday season, we now anticipate that these customers will migrate in 2018.
As a result, we will incur some modest incremental operating costs, but we do not expect a material increase in capital expenditure.
08 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives statement continued Strengthening our leadership team We have a committed and engaged Being a responsible leader We have continued to build our senior workforce.
We are pleased to have inmodern money leadership team over the course of the received a one star rating in The Best year.
We were delighted to welcome Companies engagement survey for In 2016, we launched our new Karen Richardson and Deanna the second year running, with 86% of approach to corporate responsibility Oppenheimer to the Board, bringing colleagues participating in the survey at Worldpay, focused on ensuring that extensive knowledge of the industry compared to 72% in 2015, and also our business is sustainable and acts as well as substantial commercial and to have had 60% of UK colleagues responsibly with our customers and financial experience.
James Brocklebank participate in our first ever Save as You our people, and in the communities and Robin Marshall, who were Earn Scheme, and 41% of US colleagues where we operate.
representatives of Advent and Bain in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
respectively, resigned from the Board Our approach, which was developed in September following the reduction I would like to thank all of our colleagues by our Corporate Responsibility in Advent and Bains combined for their continued commitment and Council with significant input from shareholding to 10.7%.
dedication to driving our success.
colleagues across the business, draws on our business capabilities Given our growth ambitions, we have Dividend and expertise, and is built around also made several changes to strengthen The Board is recommending the payment three strategic pillars: our Executive Team, drawing on the of a final dividend of 1.35p per ordinary Our customers: Supporting our best talent from both inside and outside share, making a total dividend for the customers in a responsible and the business, and demonstrating our 2016 financial year of 2.00p.
The final sustainable way: helping them grow managed approach towards achieving dividend will be paid to shareholders their businesses: innovating with evolution and continuity in our leadership on 27 June 2017, subject to their approval new products and becoming more team.
Appointments in 2016 included at our Annual General Meeting on 10 May.
resilient: and, as a result, helping Kim Crawford Goodman as CEO of communities prosper and the wider Worldpay US, Kevin McCarten as Group Outlook economy to grow.
Chief Strategy Officer, Ruth Prior in the We delivered a very strong financial Our people: Making Worldpay a newly created role of Chief Operating performance in 2016, and our guidance great place to work, embracing Officer, and Ruwan fide Soyza as for the medium term, which includes diversity: empowering personal Group General Counsel.
In 2017, targeting compound annual net revenue development: and encouraging our we also appointed Peter Jackson growth of approximately 9% to 11%, colleagues to make a meaningful as CEO of Worldpay UK.
contribution by giving something back to their local communities.
Investing in our people 2017 has started well and as we look Our world: Making a positive We are continuing to invest in our people, forward, we believe we are well placed impact on the world: operating to ensure they have the skills they need to take advantage of the many to high legal and ethical standards, to deliver for our customers, and that opportunities we see in our markets, and encouraging our suppliers they have sustainable and fulfilling given our robust business model and to do the same: protecting the careers at Worldpay.
We launched our the investments we are making in our environment: and using our core first ever graduate and return to work capabilities and resources to support our capabilities to make a positive programmes, both of which were strategy.
We therefore remain confident difference in society.
considerably oversubscribed, and in our future prospects and our ability also supported over 40 colleagues to continue to deliver strong, visible Our focus in 2017 will be on further in their participation in a Masters and recurring shareholder returns.
developing this approach and degree programme on International embedding it across the business.
Payments in collaboration with the Information on our progress to University of Middlesex.
date and our plans for the future can be found in the Resources and relationships section of this report, with more detail available online at www.
