CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW 2016 has been a strongyearforthe Group We have grown our huge and highly engaged consumer audience, with over 600 million visits to our websites and apps in 2016, delivering incredible value to our partners by generating over 53 million leads for them during the year.
HIGHLIGHTS Revenue increase of 84% to 197.7 million and Adjusted EBITDA increase of 58% to We are incredibly excited by 77.1 million the scale of the opportunity Acquisition of Property Software Group to help both consumers and creates UKs only end-to-end solution for partners throughout the property professionals property lifecycle.
Continued UK Agency partner growth up 5% ex-Property Software Group and listings inventory up 10% Total number of unique Property partners including Property Software Group at 23,101 at the end of the Period Outperformance in Comparison Services division with record levels of switching activity across every vertical Strong traffic with over 600 million visits tothe Groups websites and mobile apps, of which 68% via mobile Over 23 million leads generated during theperiod for Property partners including 350,000 property appraisal leads Comparison leads up 22% over same period last year to 30 million, helping consumers save over 320 million Invested in and partnered with a number ofleading and innovative sector relevant tech start-ups Developed market-leading new products for consumers and partners such as Running Costs and MoveIT Relocated into our new Group headquarters bringing all our London-based teams together under one roof Proposed final dividend of 3.7 pence pershare, bringing total dividend for thePeriod to 5.2pence per share 08|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report 2016 has been another very successful year for ZPG as we remain focused on being the consumer champion at the heart of the home.
We continued to lead innovation in the digital property and comparison markets and the Group is now stronger and more diversified than ever, delivering revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of 197.7 million and 77.1 million respectively during the Period.
Executing on our strategy & vision At the time of both the uSwitch and Property Software Group acquisitions we talked about being on a multi-year journey to create the best fully-integrated products in the market by refining and enhancing the experience for both our consumers and partners.
Doing so allows us to maximise the opportunity we have to fulfil our mission of providing the most useful resources for consumers when finding, moving or managing their home and being the most effective partner for related businesses.
This year we continued to invest in marketing our brands and developing our products.
We created a series of new national advertising campaigns for each of our consumer brands Zoopla, uSwitch and PrimeLocation resulting in record levels of brand awareness.
We launched our innovative Running Costs tool on the Zoopla website, giving consumers an idea of the total occupancy costs for any property including likely mortgage or rental payments, energy costs, water bills, insurance and council tax charges.
We saw strong take-up of the Groups award-winning AdReach product, which helps partners engage directly with their target audience and win more business.
We have grown our huge and highly engaged consumer audience, with over 600 million visits to our websites and apps during the Period, delivering incredible value to our partners by generating over 53 million leads for them during the year.
And we have seen RUNNING COSTS strong mobile growth, having relaunched both the Zoopla and uSwitch apps, with 68% of our The Group developed market leading new products for consumers traffic during the year coming via a mobile device as consumers engaged with our platforms at home, at work and on the move.
Acquisition of Property Software Group Capital Markets Day In April, we acquired Property Software Group, We held our first Capital Markets Day in The Group also made investments and the UKs market-leading provider of software September, which allowed us to provide developed exclusive strategic partnerships and workflow solutions to property professionals, deeper insight into our vision and strategy with some of the UKs mostpromising used in over 8,000 offices.
This acquisition is and the scale of the opportunity that exists andinnovative technology start-ups a core part of ZPGs mission and enables the throughout the property journey.
As part PropertyDetective, Landbay and Trussle Group to now provide the UK property ofthe day, we unveiled our updated key tofurther differentiate and enhance our industrys first end-to-end solution including performance indicators KPIs to reflect consumer and partner propositions.
As a software and CRM, digital marketing and theevolution of the business following our result, we have now launched individual market insight tools as well as further revenue recent acquisitions and our bundled property Property Reports for every home in the UK, opportunities for our Property partners.
Full KPIs under the updated aunique feature where prospective buyers akey step for the Group and ensures that methodology for the Group including pro canget a Mortgage in Principle in under weremain the most-valued partner for forma comparators for the same period last 5minutes and a new Invest channel where UKproperty professionals to help them year can be found at the end of this release.
anyone can now invest from as little as 100 market their inventory, manage their into the UK residential property market.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|09 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT AND BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED On a like for like basis including Property Property Services Comparison Services Revenues in our Property Services division Software Group, combined ARPP was 328, Our Comparison Services division outperformed up 1% on the same Period last year.
Excluding were 86.7 million for the year, including expectations this year with consumer adoption 7.3million of revenue from five months of Property Software Group, ARPA increased of comparison websites continuing to grow as across every vertical as the Groups Property trading from Property Software Group.
Our the benefits of switching become increasingly audience remains highly engaged with over partners continued to advertise their brands clear.
We experienced record levels of switching and market their inventory on our platform.
45 million visits per month to our property across every vertical with revenues in the division platform, up 2% year-on-year YoY, delivering UK Agency ARPA grew by 2% to 365, reflecting at 111.0 million, up 38% compared to the same the Groups pragmatic approach to pricing over 23 million leads to our Property partners twelve-month period last year, whilst helping over the Period.
ARPA in New Homes grew consumers switch and save over 320 million off by 13% to 377, as demand from New Homes their energy bills alone.
On a like for like basis the total number Developers for the Groups targeted email ofunique Property partners increased by As outlined in our half year results, the campaigns continued.
Overseas and Commercial 6%over the past year to 23,101.
We saw the Comparison Services division had an ARPA grew by 1% to 150 and 21% to 129 number of UK Agency partners advertising exceptionally strong first six months with record respectively as we focused on growing the on our portals grow during every month switching volumes in both the Energy and number of partners and inventory.
offinancial year 2016, ending the Period up Communications verticals as a result of our As outlined at the Capital Markets Day, the 5%at 13,373 in addition to 2,610 New Homes market-leading collective switch, energy supplier developments, 1,074 Overseas agents, Group will report its total number of unique price cuts and a highly-competitive environment Property partners and Average Revenue Per 415Commercial agents and 5,003 software for broadband deals.
We have seen these only partners.
The remaining 626 arise as a Partner ARPP from financial year 2017 tailwinds continue in the second half driving onwards.
For reference under the updated result of aligning the calculation method for further outperformance as outlined below.
Our inventory grew KPI structure, the Group had a total of 23,101 The performance in the Energy vertical was unique Property partners and blended ARPP 10% to over 927,000 listings at the end exceptionally strong during the Period, driven by ofthePeriod.
was 328 as at the end of the Period, competitive supplier pricing, our market-leading reflecting the mix effect from five months of collective and exclusive deals and continued ownership of Property Software Group.
regulatory support for comparison websites.
In June 2016, the CMA concluded its energy market investigation setting out a wide range of reforms to modernise the market which specifically enable comparison websites to play a more active role in helping consumers to find the best deals and to save money off their household bills.
The Communications vertical also performed strongly, driven by highly competitive deals andconsumer demand to switch to the best broadband and TV packages.
We continued todevelop our Financial Services offering with good progress in areas such as credit cards and banking as a result of the Groups targeted approach to launching into new verticals.
The number of Comparison Services leads generated during the year increased to over 30million, up 22% compared to the same twelve-month period last year.
The increase in ARPL to 3.67, compared to 3.23 for the same OUR ONGOING INVESTMENT IN BRAND twelve-month period last year, was driven by the significant outperformance in the Energy vertical.
10|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report Looking Ahead Since the end of the Period, the Group has announced further progress in differentiating its proposition for both consumers and partners with the acquisition of Technicweb, one of the UKs leading cloud-based estate agency website design and hosting businesses as well as an investment in and an exclusive strategic partnership with Neos, a leading smart home-insurance provider.
We are incredibly excited by the scale of the A CONSTANT JOURNEY OF GROWTH opportunity to help both consumers and partners throughout the property lifecycle and will continue to invest, integrate and innovate in product development and audience engagement to make the most of What was the rationale behind the acquisition Q this opportunity across the different divisions ofPropertySoftware Group?
ZPG provides best-in-class property marketing solutions and A Finally, we will continue to work hard to Property Software Group provides best-in-class property attract and retain the passion and talent we software and workflow solutions, making this the perfect have within the business as we grow.
We have combination for UK property professionals.
The combined grown to over 735 team members and have Group will now offer a one-stop-shop for agents for their now moved all our London-based staff into software and CRM solutions, digital marketing and market one Group headquarters, providing them with insight tools and create further revenue opportunities for them.
I would like to welcome Andy Botha and Mark Goddard Q What is MoveIT and how does it work?
and the whole Property Software Group A MoveIT helps agents to maximise their revenue streams teamto ZPG.
I would also like to thank the usinglocal trusted relationships.
Agents have attempted Executive Management team and their todothis manually but this tool is built into the workflow to respective team members for their ongoing provide prompts and ensure that agents are maximising hard work, dedication and commitment to theirreferral revenue in astructured and easy way.
our mission What impact has Brexit had on the Comparison division?
Q A Very little so far, but concerns about the economy are not negative for comparison websites and uncertainty can drive switching volumes.
Were more dependent on supplier competition, which increases in tougher times.
Alex Chesterman OBE What is driving the strong performance Founder & CEO Q ?
A Consumer adoption of comparison websites is growing as they are becoming increasingly aware of the benefits of switching.
There are also far more consumers now on fixed-term deals, whichdrives switching at the end of the term.
Finally, continued competition between suppliers keeps the switching market healthy.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|11 THE CONSUMER COMPARISON SERVICES VICTORIA, SERIAL SWITCHER Helping consumers save money Victoria, a 28-year old building society customer consultant with a two-bedroom flat in Norwich, is an energy-switching convert.
She made her first switch from Eon to Scottish Power this time last year saving 199 on the cost of her annual energy bill.
Surprised at how simple the process was, Victoria has recently switched back to Eons latest fixed rate tariff, which is set to land her a further 215 in savings for the year ahead.
Ill admit I wasnt looking forward to sorting out a new energy provider, she says.
Ithought it would involve entire evenings scouting out the best deals and making phone calls to my existing provider and the new one.
Thereality, however, is that it couldnt have been easier.
I compared deals on uSwitch, chose the best and filled in a few simple details online.
A few days later I received a letter from the newprovider setting out when the switch would happen.
For very minimal effort and absolutely nodisruption, Imalready 400 better off and looking forward to saving again.
For very minimal Victorias switching discovery spurred her on to seek out effort and absolutely better deals on her broadband and mobile too.
Not only no disruption, Im did she shave 7 and 4 a month respectively off the costof these bills through uSwitch, she landed better already 400 better packages and even incentives for joining.
off and looking forward to saving again.
320m AMOUNT CONSUMERS SAVED OFF THEIR ENERGY BILLS VIAUSWITCH 12|
