Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives strategic review Responding to a changing world It has been a year of continued progress, with signs of recovery in Europe and continued growth in emerging markets.
Our Project Spring investment programme is now complete.
Executing our strategy to capture growth opportunities Project Spring, our two year 19 billion Review of the year a Fibre networks that provide high investment programme, which was designed We have made good progress on a number speed broadband to 72 million homes to placeVodafone at the forefront of the of fronts in the last year.
We have significantly in Europe: including 30 million on our growth in mobile data and the increasing trend expanded our mobile and fixed data network own infrastructure towards the convergence of fixed and mobile coverage and quality, leading to strong a Further expansion in enterprise products services, came to its close in March 2016. growth in data usage: we have maintained and services, with IP-VPN extended Highlights include: encouraging commercial momentum, with to 70 countries, IoT connectivity platform consistent customer growth: and we have a 4G population coverage of 87% in our to 30 countries and cloud & hosting returned to organic growth in both revenue European markets, up from just 32% to 12 countries and EBITDA, thanks in part to strong in September 2013 cost efficiency.
In emerging markets, During the year we also significantly stepped a Extensive modernisation and capacity we are achieving sustained growth supported up our focus on improving our customers improvements, with 93% of our European by thestrength of our brand, our networks experience of our network and customer network now single RAN and 90% with and our distribution.
In Europe, the majority service, in order to bring to life the clear high capacity backhaul of our markets have returned to growth, customer benefits of our investments.
reflecting a more stable regulatory and a 3G population coverage of 95% in targeted As measured by Net Promoter Score, macroeconomic environment and better urban areas in India, and 4G launched in the we ended the year as the leader in 13 out competitive performance than in recent years.
last few months of 21 markets and improved in 15 of these Our key strategic drivers data, convergence markets: good progress, but still much a 91% of all customer data sessions in Europe and enterprise are at the heart of this to do to build clear differentiation.
now at speeds of 3 Mbps or better the rate continued improvement.
needed for high definition video streaming a Dropped call rates down by 40% since September 2013 so customers Vittorio Colao on average now only lose one call in 217 Chief Executive Our strategy We aim to be a converged communications leader, investing to provide our customers with differentiated network access and excellent customer service.
Together with capturing the scale and efficiency benefits of our global presence, we aim to generate attractive returns, enabling us to sustain our investment levels, further increase our network differentiation and meet our customers high expectations.
Data Convergence Enterprise 10 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 We are witnessing various drivers of data Our network investments are yielding very Data growth across our markets: the increasing positive results in our major markets, with High speed, worry-free penetration of smartphones, both in Europe a number of independent tests demonstrating and emerging markets: high speed 3G and 4G improvements in data coverage and networks, delivering consistent high-definition performance, and placing us very clearly video to customers on the move: bigger screen in the top tier of network operators.
We ranked Context sizes for a richer experience: the proliferation best overall in Italy and Spain, best network of over-the-top video services: and the rapid in London, and a strong number two network a As smartphone penetration increases, migration of social media from the desktop overall in Germany.
customers want faster and more reliable to mobile.
Customers increasingly expect high data services In AMAP, progress has been equally strong.
speed data coverage as much as they expect In South Africa, we have built 3G coverage a Customers have multiple mobile devices reliable voice services.
Our data strategy to 99% and 4G coverage to 58% significantly and want a single, worry free bill is simple: to build high quality mobile data ahead of our competitors.
We have developed networks, to encourage worry-free usage a Customers who are on the move pricing plans that make data affordable at fair prices, and to offer products and services demand high-definition video for customers across every demographic.
tailored to specific needs and accessible capabilities and low latency speeds This has been further boosted by the success to a wide range of users.
fast reaction time for a more of Vodafone-branded mobile phones and enjoyableexperience Total data traffic across our network grew 71% tablets.
With these products, we are able in the year, mainly reflecting the increased to bring the same quality and functionality take-up of 4G.
Driven by Project Spring, as well-known phone brands to the market What were aiming for we now offer 4G services in 21 of our markets, at a much reduced price point, opening a Were encouraging customers to use 4G with India, Turkey and Albania added during up mobile data services for low income to give them a better user experience.
Our 4G customer base grew by 126% customers for the first time.
The number of 4G customers more than to 47 million, with average usage typically In India, we have experienced strong growth doubled to 47 million in the year doubling when customers migrate from 3G in data over the last few years since the launch to 4G.
From a commercial perspective, we are a We are driving data usage by bundling of 3G in 2011.
Through Project Spring, we have focusing on offering customers worry-free content with 4G.
Data usage grew 71% extended our 3G network by 40,000 base data usage, with bigger data bundles and more in the year, and video usage accounts for station sites to 55,000 since September 2013. inclusive roaming.
We now have the most around one-third of data traffic We now have 27 million 3G customers out extensive 4G roaming network in the world, of a total base of 198 million mobile users.
a Increasing smartphone penetration reaching over 90 countries.
Despite this strong also helps drive data usage.
58% progress, only 27% of our European customers of our customers have a smartphone are using 4G, giving us significant opportunity in Europe, compared to 52% last year for further growth.
a We want our customers to use our services wherever they are.
Our 4G roaming network reaches 93countries Average smartphone usage in Europe MB month 2014 473 2015 755 2016 1,120 Enhancing customer services M-Pesa, our money transfer service, 197m now has more than 25 million active customers, an increase of 27% in the year, of our customers use data, representing boosted by market launches in Albania and 43% of all customers, up from 40% last year Ghana and supported by a network of more 11 than 261,000 agents in 11 countries.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executives strategic review continued In many of our markets, there is a growing We achieved organic service revenue growth Convergence trend towards the convergence of fixed of 3.5% in fixed line during the year, and 26% Connectivity and content, and mobile services also known as unified of all our European service revenue now wherever you are communications.
This trend provides comes from the provision of fixed line and many benefits to both customers and TV.
Our broadband customer base grew 11% operators.
For customers, there is the year-on-year to 13 million with 48% of these Context convenience of a single bill, the likelihood customers taking high speed services on fibre a Customers are increasingly converging of lower overall prices compared to buying or cable.
The launch of broadband in the or unifying communications by sharing services individually, and the potential UK during 2015 means we now provide fixed content between their fixed and mobile of enhancements to the service: using services in most of our European countries, devices phone, tablet, laptop or TV your TV subscription on multiple mobile as well as significant growth markets such devices as well as your big screen at home, as Turkey and Egypt.
a Television and content, when bundled for example.
with broadband, are becoming In February 2016 we made another important increasingly important drivers For the provider, there is an important network strategic move with the announcement of our of customer demand benefit from the combination of mobile and intention to form a 50:50 joint venture in the fibre infrastructure, which is increasingly Netherlands, combining our strong mobile a The growing demand for converged necessary as the volume of data continues business with Ziggo, the cable operator owned services drives data usage, which in turn to grow strongly.
The bundling of services by Liberty Global.
This will create a business requires the combination of mobile and also increases customer loyalty and provides with 99% 4G coverage and over 90% cable fibre infrastructure opportunities to sell additional services footprint in one of our key European markets.
or sign-up more members of a household.
This combination enables us to provide What were aiming for excellent converged services to customers, We have transformed our presence compete head-to-head with the incumbent a We expect fixed revenue to continue in converged or unified communications operator, and realise synergies with a net to gain in importance to us, driven in the last four years, particularly in Europe.
by convergence With several significant acquisitions, capital investment in fibre networks and strong Television and content are becoming a We are aiming to increase our market growth in customers, we are now a major increasingly important parts of our offering, share in fixed from a low level today player in high speed fixed broadband.
With the with customers often looking to buy as part a We seek to roll out more high-speed ability to market fibre and cable broadband of a bundle with broadband.
In the year fibre or cable.
We already reach services to 72 million homes in Europe, we launched TV services in Ireland and now 72 million households in Europe, 41% of these on our own next-generation offer TV in seven markets.
We have 9.5 million up from 41 million last year networks, our reach is very broad.
TV customers, with 0.4 million added this year.
a Were aiming to expand our TV services, to support the take up of broadband.
We already have TV services in seven markets Fixed broadband customers million Television and content are becoming 2014 9.2 increasingly important Our goal is to ensure access to premium 2015 12.0 content where our customers value it.
2016 13.4 In several markets, incumbents have sought to gain exclusive access to key content rights.
In this scenario we will compete to secure access, which may increase our 21% costs.
We will also encourage regulators to prevent incumbents from using of our service revenue comes from content in addition to their dominance fixed services in fixed access markets as a lever 12 to reduce competition.
Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Enterprise communications is a substantial Our Enterprise service revenue grew 2.1% Enterprise and growing market.
In a digital world, to reach 10 billion in the year, or 28% of total it is vital for companies big and small Group service revenue.
All of our strategic to be always connected with each other, their growth areas performed well, supported customers and their suppliers.
They want by Project Spring investments.
Enterprise fixed to do so in a seamless, cost-effective way, revenue grew 4.4%, as customers increasingly Context without managing multiple suppliers across look to procure fixed and mobile from a single many borders.
They need to have a mobile provider.
We have substantially expanded our a Businesses are increasingly searching for and digital strategy: it is no longer simply international presence over the last two years: one communications provider to supply about equipping a workforce with mobile we now offer IP-VPN services secure private both fixed and mobile to their workforce phones.
Our customers are assessing how data networks in 70 countries, with 268 points a It is important for communication new services such as the Internet of Things of presence.
In Cloud & Hosting, we now have service providers to offer businesses can enhance their customer proposition and capabilities in 12 countries.
Both of these reliable connectivity to employees, simplify their businesses.
Plain connectivity, specialisms build on our acquisition of Cable customers and suppliers whether mobile or fixed, is becoming more &Wireless Worldwide in 2012. commoditised: enterprise communications Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE, which providers increasingly need to be experts What were aiming for serves our biggest multi-national customers, in a wider range of services to address these saw revenue growth of 5.9% in the year driven a We want to maintain our strong mobile changing needs.
Our IoT unit achieved market share in enterprise, which has Vodafone has positioned itself well service revenue growth of 29%, with a 37% been earned from our trusted brand, in this changing marketplace.
Enterprise has rise in connections to 38 million.
We are the global footprint and service quality always been at the centre of our strategy, acknowledged world leading mobile provider a We aim to increase our market share and we continue to enjoy strong market for IoT, in both scale and expertise, with in fixed enterprise services, by building share in mobile enterprise across all our a global SIM available in over 200 countries, on Project Spring investments major markets.
Enterprise customers value and we are evolving our model from simple our trusted brand, network quality and connectivity for example, smart meters a We intend to continue to invest wide geographic reach, and this has been and vehicle tracking to capture more of the in the growth areas of converged a strong foundation on which to build our value chain.
The acquisition of Cobra in 2014, communications, cloud & hosting expansion into fixed-line and value-added which now operates as Vodafone Automotive, services, and the Internet of Things data and managed services.
With an estimated has significantly extended the breadth and Enterprise market share in Europe of 33% value of our services in the automotive sector, in mobile and only 6% in non-mobile, the longand we see similar opportunities in other term growth opportunity is significant.
Internet of Things connections million 2014 20.2 2015 27.8 2016 38.0 Project Spring has strengthened ourEnterprise business Project Spring has helped scale our 28% converged communications offer One Net, which is now available in 30 countries.
of our service revenue is from It has also enabled us to increase our points enterprise customers of presence by 57% to 268 and double our 13 IP-VPN geographic coverage to 70 countries.
