Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our strong results are underpinned by good performances across the business time is right.
We continued to sell mature and non-core assets, redeploying capital principally into our existing portfolio in our campuses and regional and local retail centres.
Overall our investment activity was broadly balanced.
EPRA net asset value was 10.9% ahead at 919 pence per share at the year end 932 pence excluding the impact of the recent increase in stamp duty.
Valuation was up 6.7% with Offices up 11.8% and Retail up 2.4% principally due to 5.3% ERV growth across the portfolio, which was 130 bps ahead of IPD.
We generated total property returns of 11.3% for the year.
Underlying Profit was 16.0% ahead at 363 million driven both by our successful leasing activity and our lower financing costs.
Diluted Underlying EPS was up 11.4% at 34.1 pence per share.
In line with previous announcements, the final quarterly dividend In a fast changing market we are focusing is 7.09 pence per share bringing the full year Key highlights of the year our business to benefit from long term trends, dividend to 28.36 pence per share, an increase notably: the transforming impact technology of 2.5%, delivering a total accounting return of 1 Total accounting returns is having on the way we work, shop and live: the 14.2%.
Our proportionately consolidated LTV impact of population growth and urbanisation, reduced to 32% in line with our strategy of not particularly in London and the South East: and gearing up on yield shift, with our investment 14.2% increasing consumer expectations in areas activity broadly balanced.
As a result of our Reflecting the increase in our net asset value such as health, wellbeing and sustainability.
refinancing activities, including the 350 million per share and income yield from the dividend We are focusing our portfolio on places where zero coupon convertible bond, our average we can control the environment, exploiting financing cost is down 50 bps to 3.3%.
1 Underlying Profit growth our placemaking expertise to manage more Reflecting our confidence in the coming year, complex mixed use environments delivering the Board is proposing a quarterly dividend of on our core purpose of creating Places People 7.30 pence per share or 29.20 pence per share 16.0% Prefer.
We see increasing overlap between our for the full year, an increase of 3.0%.
Driven by financing activity, development office campuses and our multi-let regional and completions and like-for-like net rental local retail centres as they combine a greater Our portfolio is virtually full with occupancy income growth mix of uses and evolve to reflect our customers of 99%.
In good occupational markets in both changing lifestyles.
Retail and Offices, we saw strong levels of Planning granted on demand for our remaining space.
This is We have had another good year both in terms reflected in our leasing transactions with of our underlying financial performance and 1.3 million sq ft of lettings and renewals agreed 1.5m sq ft our delivery against our strategic objectives.
of development space Performance in the year was underpinned by strengthening rental growth reflecting the In Offices we made good progress enhancing investments we have made across our portfolio and enlivening environments, strengthening in recent years alongside good occupational long term demand for our space, and appealing markets.
We made good progress with our to a broader range of occupiers.
We let or committed developments and are in a strong renewed 296,000 sq ft of space on average 1 Please see the glossary for definition position to be able to move forward with our 5.6% ahead of ERV, and added 3.8 million near term development pipeline when the of rent through rent reviews settled on terms 6 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17% ahead of previous rents.
The Leadenhall continuous achievement in all these areas over Building is now 98% let or under offer, with just We create outstanding places which the last five years.
We made strong progress one of the top floors to let.
We are making good make a positive difference to peoples embedding our sustainability strategy, progress on our campus visions.
including innovating on wellbeing through we completed 5 Broadgate and we are public realm improvements where we invested progressing our development opportunities 30 million over the year.
We diverted 98% of across the campus.
Elsewhere, our focus on Places People Prefer all managed waste from landfill and delivered creating Places People Prefer is driving public This is the core unifying purpose of a 40% carbon intensity reduction, leading realm improvements at Paddington Central our business, guiding our strategy the Global Real Estate Sustainability and will influence our plans at Regents Place and shaping our actions.
Benchmark for Europe diversified for the where we see further near term refurbishment second year running.
Our campuses remain affordable, and the investment we are Strategic focus Development remains a core part of our undertaking leaves us well positioned to We deliver long term sustainable returns business.
With the delivery of 5 Broadgate, capture rental growth going forward.
for our stakeholders by focusing on: our 2010 programme completed in the year, generating profit of 1.1 billion and an IRR of over Customer Orientation In Retail, we let or renewed 903,000 sq ft of 30%.
We are currently on site at 629,000 sq ft of space on average 8.0% ahead of ERV reflecting developments, a speculative commitment of Right Places the strength of our markets as well as the 530 million, principally 4 Kingdom Street and quality of our assets and the work we have been Clarges Mayfair, our super prime residential Capital efficiency doing to improve them.
We now manage our scheme over 50% pre-sold.
Looking forward, Expert People multi-let portfolio along regional and local lines we have a significant future pipeline with built reflecting how we see consumers spend their in optionality, meaning we can start each project This drives demand from our occupiers, time and money.
We continued to invest in our at the right time.
At Broadgate, our near term sustainable growth in income and multi-let portfolio, through large scale leisure pipeline includes 100 Liverpool Street and ultimately capital values.
extensions but also through smaller asset 1Finsbury Avenue, where we received planning management initiatives, improving the during the year and looking to the medium More information about our strategy amenities at our assets to drive footfall, term we submitted a planning application at and progress can be found on pages dwell and spend through improved customer 2-3Finsbury Avenue.
Other potential near term 18 to 25 satisfaction.
Footfall across our multi-let opportunities in Offices include 1 Triton Square portfolio was up 3.0%, outperforming the at Regents Place and 5 Kingdom Street at market benchmark by 440 bps with retailers Paddington Central.
In Retail, our near term Placemaking in-store sales also ahead of the market, up pipeline includes leisure extensions at Drake Placemaking is how we deliver places 2.4%.
We saw strong demand for our pipeline Circus, Plymouth and New Mersey, Speke.
people want to work, shop, live and of leisure extensions and at those assets where Our medium term plans include our mixed use spend time.
we have completed extensions or improvement redevelopment of the Eden Walk, Kingston and We connect works we have already seen good ERV growth a significant leisure extension at Meadowhall and operational improvements.
Superstores currently in public consultation, which will We design performance was more subdued, as expected, enhance its position as a flagship regional centre.
but we have been active in selling down our We enhance holding to 0.8 billion, from 1.3 billion two We have an exceptional opportunity at Canada years ago.
With deals under offer, this falls Water to create a vibrant new destination for We enliven to 0.7 billion.
London and are delighted Roger Madelin has Find out more about our placemaking joined British Land to head up the project: approach on pages 26 to 35 As expected, our investment activity was we are already benefiting from his experience broadly balanced over the year, including leading the redevelopment of Kings Cross.
our share of capital spend.
We continued This is a long term project, but we are making Our values to allocate more capital into our London progress, with a public consultation taking Our values underpin everything we do.
campuses, investing a net 280 million through place in February 2016, ahead of an outline developments at Broadgate, Regents Place planning submission in 2017.
Do what is right not and Paddington Central, where we also what is easy acquired One Sheldon Square.
In Retail, we made 420 million of disposals as we increase Work efficiently as one team our focus on the multi-let portfolio where we can put our placemaking skills to work to drive Make commercial decisions rental growth.
that create long term value Make things happen In April, British Land was one of only seven companies to receive the 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development as part of Her Majesty The Queens 90th birthday honours.
The Award is the UKs highest accolade for business success and is given to companies which bring major economic, social and environmental benefits through their business.
The award reflects our British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Outlook Our priorities for the year ahead Looking forward, we remain confident in the underlying strength of the business despite Deliver sustainable returns for stakeholders continued global macro uncertainty and the potentially adverse impact of a vote for the UK to leave the European Union.
Our business is resilient: our portfolio is modern, nearly fully let to quality occupiers on long leases: and our finances are strong with moderate LTV, low costs and long dated financing from a wide range of sources.
Our current committed development pipeline is modest but we have built optionality into our future pipeline so we can exploit its potential when the time is right.
Our strategy of creating Places People Prefer focuses our investment and activities on macro Customer Orientation Right Places trends, ensuring our real estate reflects the Improve understanding of our customers Progress developments alongside material changing way people work, shop and live.
pre-lets Use placemaking to deliver improved We have significant opportunities across our customer experience Progress Canada Water vision and plan existing portfolio, including in our three existing London campuses and the potential to create a new London campus at Canada Water, alongside our regional and local multi-let Retail assets.
Chris Grigg Chief Executive Capital efficiency Expert People Deliver budget Improve company organisational effectiveness Accelerate delivery of multi-let regional and local lifestyle retail Embed placemaking across the business To read more information about our Business model go to pages 10 and 11 Full year results 2016 www.
com results Chief Executive blog www.
com ceoblog For more information on sustainability www.
com sustainability 8 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Leadenhall Building Designed by Rogers Stirk Harbour Partners, The Leadenhall Building is a unique 603,000 sq ft office tower prominently located in the centre of the City of London.
Its defining feature is its distinctive tapering shape, which when viewed from the West appears to lean away from StPauls Cathedral.
This was developed as a response to the specific planning requirements which protect the views of St Pauls from a number of locations in London.
The British Land and Oxford Properties building won the Worshipful Company of Chartered Architects City of Londons Building of the Year award in 2015 after judges declared it an extraordinary example of contemporary architecture.
The building was also recognised by the British Council of Offices with a Commercial Workplace Award for its iconic structure and intelligent arrangements which allow the building layout to change as it rises.
com #SayCheesegrater The winning entry by Tom Mearns, to our #SayCheesegrater Instagram competition designed to celebrate the official opening of The Leadenhall Building by the Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
