36 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives statement We are in a strong financial position with a portfolio rich with opportunities which gives us considerable scope to create further growth in our business.
The Groups operating performance in 2016 illustrates how our business model of creating well-designed mid-market flexible office space in improving locations can make meaningful progress even in less buoyant market conditions.
Derwent London has taken advantage of the recent levels of occupational demand to achieve a record level of lettings in 2016, although the pace of market activity has slowed with the increased uncertainty surrounding Brexit negotiations.
We start 2017 with a low EPRA vacancy rate in a central London portfolio let at an undemanding average topped-up office rent of 45 per sq ft.
This is comfortably at the lower end of our middle-market target range of 45 to 80 per sq ft, and very much at the affordable end of the spectrum.
Our average lease length is 6.5 years or 7.8 years allowing for pre-lets.
Even after allowing for the changing outlook in the John Burns last eight months, our contractual cash rent of Chief Executive 150.3m, the basis of the portfolios net initial yield, can grow by 75.8m from the expiry of rent free periods, minimum uplifts, pre-lets, or from reversions within the investment portfolio.
Since then we have moved towards this by regearing the leases on 231,400 sq ft of the office space at Angel Building EC1 so that Expedia can occupy the majority of the building from 2020.
This enabled us to capture the significant existing reversion, and there are now minimum uplifts at the next reviews in 2020 and 2021.
In addition the income has been extended by between 9 and 14 years to 2030.
CBRE estimate that this initiative has enhanced the buildings value by 10%.
Letting our developments under construction and vacant space could add another 58.4m to rental income, after allowing for 363m of future capital expenditure to complete.
Since the year end we have pre-let 10.7m, or 18% of this additional potential, principally from our first letting at 80 Charlotte Street W1 to Arup, and also another floor at White Collar Factory EC1 to Adobe.
As a result our full development programme, which will not complete until 2019, is now 44% pre-let by income compared to 8% in December 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT 37 In total, the reversionary gains in our existing portfolio could raise our contractual cash rental Our potential reversion and income by more than 85% in the next five years.
In the coming 12 months, we aim to continue pre-letting opportunities capturing our investment reversion, let the available space in our 2017 project completions and achieve could see us tie in substantial more pre-lets on the 2019 deliveries.
This strategy income growth again in 2017. gives us the opportunity to tie in substantial income growth again this year while fide-risking the development programme.
The Group continues to look for opportunities to replenish our future pipeline.
However a lack of suitable opportunities meant that our only acquisition in 2016 was the long leasehold interest on part of The White Chapel Building.
Conversely we were able to identify a number of opportunistic disposals which enabled us to sell 208m of property in 2016 where we felt that we had limited short-term value to add.
These disposals have reinforced our balance sheet strength and our LTV ratio has fallen again to 17.7%.
Since the year end we have agreed to sell an additional 327m of property above book value, which will further improve our financial position.
We, and our occupiers, face a number of challenges this year with heightened political and economic uncertainty and the impact of business rate increases in London from April 2017.
It is still far too early to know what longer term impact these may have on the London market.
So far the UK and London economies have been resilient and business confidence indicators have recovered from June 2016 levels.
Our portfolio is well-balanced and opportunity rich.
We have a skilled management team and financial flexibility.
These attributes give us considerable scope to create further growth in our business over the next few years.
John Burns Chief Executive 28 February 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
