Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 23 Statement from the Chief Executive We have continued to invest in our enviable portfolio through our largest ever development programme, meeting occupier demand and delivering record leasing results.
With our balance sheet and talented team stronger than ever, we are well placed to continue delivering long-term, market leading returns.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive We are pleased to report another excellent set of Looking further ahead, excellent progress has been madein preparing our expanded pipeline of development results driven by market-beating portfolio returns, opportunities, which extends to 1.4 million sq ft across particularly in our development business, and some 14schemes, up by two schemes over the past year.
outstanding leasing activity including securing one Our development programme now totals 2.6 million sq ft of the largest ever West End lettings.
and covers 59% of our existing portfolio.
The property portfolio delivered underlying capital growth Record leasing activity managing operational of 14.7% in the year with a total property return of 18.9%, risk and capturing rental reversion well ahead of IPD central London at 16.7%.
As a result, EPRA NAV per share increased by 19.5% over the year, Our team has secured new lettings and lease renewals withdividends of 9.2 pence per share up 2.2% on 2015. of 31.8 million in annual rent, including 20.4 million of pre-lettings, across 447,000 sq ft, with market lettings on Exploiting favourable market conditions average 10.4% above our valuers ERV.
As a result, our intheexecution phase committed developments are already 61% pre-let or preCentral Londons property markets remained supportive sold, with our largest ever development scheme, Rathbone with economic growth driving employment and business Square, W1, now over 90% fide-risked following our record expansion across the Capital.
With record low vacancy 17.8 million pre-let to Facebook in September.
Since the levels and constrained supply of new space, healthy year-end, our letting success has continued with 2.6 million tenant demand enabled us to again deliver strong annual secured, including a further pre-letting, and we can look rental growth of around 10%.
In the investment market, forward to further rental income growth given our significant the weight of money has maintained transaction volumes reversionary potential of 33% off low average ofce rents of and competition for assets at robust levels, pushing yields 45.30 per sq ft. marginally lower during the first half of the year, although, Disciplined and profitable capital recycling as we warned at the interims in November, investors have into robust investment market approached pricing with more caution in recent months.
For the third consecutive year, we were a net seller, Looking ahead, we expect rental growth and development crystallising surpluses and recycling capital into our returns to remain the principal drivers of our valuation development programme and new pipeline acquisitions.
growth as we capture our substantial reversion, deliver the Our 469.7 million of sales were of long-let, low-yielding, remaining development projects planned for this cycle and high capital value properties 1,943 per sq ft on average, recycle capital through profitable disposals.
including 33 Margaret Street, W1 and 95 Wigmore Street, W1, while our 214.3 million of acquisitions were short-let, higher Successfully delivering our largest ever yielding, lower capital value properties 704 per sq ft in development programme and unlocking attractive locations with longer-term development angles.
potential over the long-term Delivering attractive shareholder returns five years So far this cycle we have successfully delivered eleven projects 995,400 sq ft, generating a profit oncost of 56% on development investment of 479 million, more TSR 104.7% than 50% ahead of last cycles expenditure.
Today, our expanded committed programme comprises eight schemes 851,200sqft, principally focused on the regeneration of NAV growth 135.2% the east end of Oxford Street, and all due to complete in the next 24 months with an expected profit on cost of 27.1% on development investment of 1.1 billion.
Combined with TPR 122.3% two near-term schemes 311,800 sq ft, our expected development capex to come stands at 428.4 million.
See more on our KPIs on pages 20 and 21 Strategic Report Annual review 24 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Statement from the Chief Executive Despite this more uncertain back drop, Londons commercial Financial strength and talented team property market fundamentals remain supportive: Londons to deliver organic growth economy is growing, its workforce expanding and demand Our financial position is stronger than ever, with a recordlow for quality ofce space remains robust.
With new supply loan to value ratio of 17.4% and 472 million of cash and limited and vacancy rates at or near record lows, we expect committed undrawn liquidity giving us plentiful financial to secure further pre-lettings and generate attractive rental repower.
Moreover, we have supplemented our experienced value growth across our portfolio of around 5% over the next team with the recent appointment of Steven Mew as Portfolio year.
In the investment market, as rental growth is captured, Director and Robin Matthews as Investment Director, replacing we can expect some mild expansion of yields, particularly for Ben Chambers who leaves with our best wishes.
Both will join some secondary assets where pricing has run ahead of the our Executive Committee which we expanded last summer growth on offer.
with the promotion of Andrew White to Development Director and Marc Wilder to Leasing Director.
Whichever way this summers political drama unfolds, we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they Well-positioned against more uncertain arise: We have a clear strategic focus: our opportunity-rich market outlook portfolio is let off low rents to a diverse tenant base with significant reversionary potential: our development pipeline Global economic and political uncertainties, including the has never been longer: our balance sheet has never been upcoming EU referendum, are affecting broader business stronger: plus we have a first class team to help us continue confidence and investor appetite.
It is too early to tell what delivering long-term, market-leading returns for shareholders.
the impact on the London property market will be although an extended political stalemate as the consequences of the referendum result are worked out would be unhelpful.
The GPE opportunity our portfolio Committed Long-dated Our 100% central London near-term portfolio is rich with 425m developments opportunity to deliver both 3.4% net initial yield 1,250m Crystallise near-term surpluses and 43% pre-let pre-sold surpluses long-term value creation.
Near-term value upside The committed near-term 11% developments have been signicantly fide-risked through 34% pre-lettings and pre-sales with more profits to come.
The investment Active asset portfolio comprises: management long-dated investment properties 66% which we developed with average Investment 911m 25% lease lengths of 12.8 years where portfolio 33% reversionary we expect to crystallise surpluses Repositioning 2,454m over time through recycling: upside classic active asset management investments on shorter leases with significant repositioning upside and reversionary potential to capture: and 30% Development our future development pipeline pipeline where the reversionary potential is already significant even before 1,118m redevelopment, giving us real Total: 31% reversionary long-term value potential.
