CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Making more happen We have successfully enlarged and enhanced our portfolio this year adding new differentiated retail space in faster-growth markets.
We have a strong and adaptable business with multiple opportunities for growth which will drive consistent, income-focused returns.
David Atkins, Chief Executive continue for a considerable length of time whilst 1 2016 highlights Adjusted earnings per share the UK renegotiates its relationships with the EU 2016 has been an eventful and successful year, and also whilst other European countries hold particularly set against the backdrop of some important elections.
We set ourselves 8.6% some stretching targets right across our business Despite the referendum result, it is reassuring and the whole company has worked hard to that in the second half of the year indicators of ensure we succeeded.
We increased our presence economic growth and consumer health in both in prime shopping destinations, cementing our the UK and rest of Europe have remained robust.
leadership with new centres in Birmingham, 5 year dividend per share In our business, we did not see any discernible Leeds, Southampton and Dublin.
In the latter compound growth rate lapse in commercial discussions with tenants and we converted our Dundrum centre from loans the pattern of consumer expenditure and footfall to direct ownership.
We extended our strategic in our centres was consistent with the first half of exposure to the fast-growing premium outlets the year.
We enhanced the experience for our In our investment markets, the fundamentals shoppers, bringing flagship retailers such as underpinning European property valuations Apple to Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille, and remain, including wide spreads for property yields we delivered the UKs largest dedicated dining over long-term interest rates, lower leverage and leisure-led scheme, enhancing our existing Like-for-like net rental across the property sector and well-capitalised Westquay shopping centre in Southampton.
Weakness in the retail parks For shareholders, we delivered a consistently market was exacerbated by temporary liquidity strong financial performance.
Adjusted earnings pressures at some UK open-ended funds post the per share grew 8.6% and we increased the dividend 3.2% referendum and has now stabilised.
We have grown the dividend at Our strategy an average rate of 7.7% over the last five years and we remain confident of delivering this consistent Against this backdrop, I believe our business track record as a result of our resilient business is well-positioned and has a clear strategy to model.
Our total property return of 5.7% yet Disposal proceeds 2016 succeed.
Our singular retail focus means we are again beat the IPD benchmark.
The compelling not distracted by the more cyclical nature of other investment proposition for shareholders is commercial property sectors and our teams are summarised overleaf page 9. able to focus solely on our retail tenants and how 635m best to serve their needs.
Market backdrop In this report you will see we have expressed The defining event in 2016 for our market was the our strategy differently page 5.
We have not decision, following the referendum in June, to end changed our strategy which is still aligned to the the UKs membership of the European Union.
The recognisable outputs of high-quality property, event triggered intense capital market volatility 1.
See note 10a and glossary income generation and capital strength.
and a subsequent devaluation of sterling.
Figure including premium outlets political and economic uncertainty is likely to 2.2% excluding premium outlets.
8 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW However, we have evolved the articulation to provide a clearer have invested significantly in our retail parks, introducing highunderstanding and elaborate on why we select the markets we street fashion brands, re-purposing excess space from bulky-goods do, how we achieve operational excellence and how we run our retailers and increasing the range of food and beverage.
business efficiently to deliver results for our stakeholders.
As a result, our retail parks are seeing growth in dwell time and customer visits are up 2.2%.
Supported by a strong UK housing Positioning for growth market, homeware retailers are looking for more space at our large We focus on growing consumer markets, that is, those retail market-leading retail parks and are also taking units at our on-site markets which will deliver good rental growth because they match developments, which are expected to deliver an attractive yield on how consumers shop in a multichannel world, and where we can cost of 8%.
This year we sold three retail parks which did not match increase our market share.
However, we remain committed to this market.
Our geographical focus is on catchments and cities in Europe with strong economic performance and our approach is bottom-up, on We focus on premium outlets for their exceptional financial an asset-by-asset basis: we do not target specific countries.
returns and they will continue to be a key part of our growth strategy.
The market drivers of rising international tourism, We focus on prime shopping centres because we believe, in a greater retailer appreciation for outlets, brand management and polarising retail property market, high-quality, integrated, urban multi-phase extensions combine to deliver some of the strongest destinations will win.
Our compelling shopping centre portfolio income growth of any European retail property sector.
Market is well positioned to benefit from this polarisation, with centres consolidation is occurring, driving yield compression, and this year in large European cities, including Birmingham, Dublin, London, we added five new outlets to our VIA Outlets joint venture and Leeds, Marseille and Paris.
increased our ownership in Value Retail.
Securing the best European shopping centres is a challenge which Today, our European portfolio is well diversified, with over 40% requires in-depth retail knowledge, specialist skill and vision.
This outside the UK and investments in 13 countries.
Our ambition year we successfully converted the Dublin loan portfolio to take is to grow the total portfolio through carefully considered ownership of Irelands pre-eminent shopping centre, Dundrum developments and acquisitions of prime retail assets in fasterTown Centre.
Ireland remains the EUs fastest growing economy growth consumer markets.
We continuously recycle capital thanks to its attractive business landscape.
We expect our longto support this growth, maintain a high-quality portfolio and term vision for the Dublin platform to deliver some of the strongest maximise returns.
This year we increased our disposals to returns in our portfolio.
635 million following the major acquisition in Ireland.
We We focus on retail parks in the UK to complement the experience anticipate disposals of at least 400 million over the next year as of our prime shopping centres and serve time-short shoppers who we position the balance sheet for the next phase of growth from our value a convenient shopping destination.
Over recent years we major developments such as Brent Cross and Croydon.
Our investment proposition Secure income Geographically diverse Weighted unexpired lease term Portfolio across 13 countries, to expiry 9.5 years over 40% non-UK assets Capital recycling Retail insight Focus on reallocating capital Specialist teams with a depth into higher-growth markets of retail experience Strong governance Sustainability Recognised best-practice governance Committed to sustainability at the throughout the business core of our strategy HAMMERSON.
COM 9 Chief Executives review continued We are proud that so many global capital providers choose to invest Creating desirability their funds with us, including ADIA, Allianz, AXA Real Estate, Our strategy is to create differentiated destinations that will CPPIB, GIC and Standard Life.
It is testament to our reputation, thrive in a multichannel environment.
Two years ago we launched high-quality assets and consistent financial returns that our total our Product Experience Framework.
It has been an overwhelming platform extends to 17 billion of capital through partnerships success and the framework approach means it touches all parts across Europe.
Using the differentiated destinations strategy we think about curating all elements of the consumer interaction, In September we listed our shares on the Johannesburg from the customer service desk to pop-up retailers and community Stock Exchange JSE though a secondary listing.
To mark the opening of Westquay Watermark further example of our approach to reaching the widest pool of we held a spectacular light festival which delighted the local international capital.
We have enjoyed good support from South community in Southampton.
African shareholders and this listing provides them with an additional route to invest.
Responsibility I put a lot of our business success down to our internal culture, which is largely driven by our company values.
In our staff survey this year we again scored highly across the London, Paris and Dublin offices, with colleagues rating culture, diversity and corporate social responsibility particularly highly.
What makes me particularly proud about our culture is the mature, open discussions around issues including flexible working patterns, disability in the workplace and the LGBT agenda.
The employee events celebrating International Womens Day, World Cultural Day and National Work Life Week helped to drive meaningful change in attitudes and behaviours, further strengthening Hammersons culture and values.
This year, we introduced a revised maternity and paternity policy with a more generous pay structure for new Light Festival, Westquay parents.
And after two years supporting the Samaritans and Elifar, our colleagues have now voted to select Alzheimers Society We are often challenged by the view that physical retail will be and Macmillan as our new staff charities, and I look forward to replaced by online.
On the contrary, we are embracing technology increasing our fundraising efforts together.
and the positive effects it is having on retail and the changing role Our sustainability strategy, Positive Places features in our of the physical store.
Shopping centres are evolving to become investment proposition and is a key pillar of our Product social venues, retailers are becoming more creative with store fit Experience Framework.
We have made major steps during the outs to strengthen their visual brand and attract customer loyalty, year to deliver on this by creating retail destinations that deliver and click & collect is making shopping less time consuming.
positive impacts economically, socially and environmentally.
At Visitors to our centres use digital technology to research products, our new developments we worked closely with local authorities, check availability, compare prices, share pictures with friends and contractors and retailers to deliver skills, training and employment also purchase goods.
We are constantly developing new features for support for local people.
This has been incredibly successful, with our portfolio-wide Plus app to support this trend.
82% of jobs generated at our Victoria Gate development awarded Our development pipeline in the UK, France and Ireland will to local people.
We will shortly announce an updated sustainability deliver the next generation of differentiated destinations.
These strategy with the level of ambition we feel necessary to mitigate complex projectstake time.
However, when completed they will energy security and pricing risk for the business and to support the reinforce our position as a leading European operator.
wider response of leading businesses to climate change risk.
Our collaborative approach Outlook We promote financial efficiency and partnerships to ensure I expect that global political events will continue to dominate we maintain a breadth of growth opportunities.
As the largest UK newsflow through 2017, and no doubt beyond.
Since 2009, we landlord to leading international retailers, we have deep retail have built a more resilient business with higher-quality property connections.
With a breadth of retail formats, we can serve all of and a more diversified platform.
Against this backdrop of further their needs.
uncertainty, I am confident that we have a strong and adaptable business with multiple opportunities for growth, giving us the We also enjoy close partnerships with Value Retail and APG on ability to respond to changes in specific end-markets.
We will our European premium outlets platform, speaking daily, sharing continue to prioritise our stronger performing sectors in order expertise, seconding team members and discussing our aligned to enhance returns, with particular focus on earnings growth and strategies in this market.
These partnerships are a strategic cash flow generation, in order to continue to grow the dividend for advantage and make us the only listed European REIT with our shareholders.
significant exposure to this attractive sector.
