8 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Chief Executives review intu focuses solely on regional shopping centres both here in the UK and those we are developing and improving in Spain Our strategy for Our aim is to continue to advance a The intu difference high-quality and sustainable business Our strategic priorities are underpinned 2017 remains unchanged that is resilient and well-placed to create by what we call the intu difference.
This is in terms of relentless long-term value, in the face of changes shorthand for what differentiates us from in the global and national economy and other retail landlords.
It is how we combine focus on improving structural changes in retail.
our scale, expertise and insight to create our centres and overall compelling experiences for our customers We have made considerable progress in which in turn deliver good results for our business performance.
The core retailers and value for our shareholders business is performing well and has strong and other stakeholders.
momentum, with many projects due to start in 2017.
Prime centres for quality retailers The strong growth this year in like-for-like We have delivered 6 per cent growth net rental income, following the positive in underlying earnings per share to outcome in 2015, is a reection of our overall 15.0 pence, driven by a 3.6 per cent approach over the last few years investing growth in like-for-like net rental income in our prime centres and focusing on getting from increased rental levels, improved the right tenants in the right place, paying occupancy and the positive outcome the right rent, and removing poorer quality of our recent redevelopment work.
tenants and undesirable short-term lets.
Net asset value per share diluted, Retailers understand the intu difference adjusted has been stable at 404 pence, and appreciate how we deliver customers with overall like-for-like property values consistently to our high-footfall locations.
At 31 December They recognise these are locations where 2016, we had cash and available facilities they really need to have a presence.
The of 922 million, giving us considerable pulling power of our centres has been financial exibility.
illustrated in 2016 with key fashion retailers upsizing and making an increased long-term Increased focus on the best in class investment, with the likes of Next, Primark, With the disposal of intu Bromley and Inditex, H&M and New Look all increasing completion of our exit from the US their store sizes and overall presence in Strategic priorities for 2017 on favourable terms, we have continued our centres.
Our focus in 2017 will be on the four main the process of recycling capital into our goals which we believe will result in strong super prime regional centres, acquiring We are continuously improving the look of total returns over the medium term: the remaining 50 per cent of intu Merry our centres for both retailers and customers.
Hill and progressing development Occupancy is high, and as a result income optimising the performance projects at other key centres.
has been growing and valuations have been of existing assets stable in an uncertain investment market.
driving forward our UK Owning 100 per cent of intu Merry Hill development pipeline allows us to advance the many Strengthening our fortresses improvement opportunities more rapidly We are on site with our extension of intu making the brand count and due to its size the returns should be Watford which will transform the centre seizing the growth opportunity meaningful.
The first steps are already into a major regional offering and we have in Spain underway through taking back the former opened two new restaurant redevelopments Sainsburys store to facilitate sizeable at intu Eldon Square and intu Metrocentre, Read more on pages 32 and 33 re-tenanting transactions.
which give customers reasons to stay for longer.
Both these restaurant developments have delivered good financial returns.
Strategic report Chief Executives review 9 Zaragoza has achieved some good lettings, including Globo and Fnac, which have pushed up occupancy to 97 per cent.
We have entered an exclusivity agreement to acquire the 153,000 sq m Xanad shopping centre in Madrid.
Should this transaction complete, we would then own three of Spains top-10 centres.
Finally, at intu Costa del Sol we are closing in on the final piece of planning to allow us to start this project and move further forward with our aim of having the best regional centre in five or more of the top-10 shopping regions in Spain in the next five to seven years.
Being a good corporate citizen Looking forward to 2017, we have three Trust in business is vital and good large projects to get underway: the corporate citizenship is engrained redevelopment of intu Broadmarsh in in our culture, in how we treat our Nottingham, the leisure extension at intu colleagues, how we operate our Lakeside and the enclosure and extension centres and how we deal with of Barton Square at intu Trafford Centre.
Delivering a multichannel solution We have a diverse workforce.
We Our culture We are seeing substantial benets from have always embraced the principle In one way we are quite a simple business, the brand, starting with intu Experiences, of a national living wage and we do with a focus on creating the best shopping which is now generating over 20 million not operate zero-hours contracts.
Our culture is driven by a singleof income a year, equal to our eighth minded purpose to make our customers biggest shopping centre.
This includes We also believe the intu name should feel better about life through a visit to promotions across multiple centres with be a kitemark for the sort of centre you one of our centres.
global brands such as 20th Century Fox, want in your city and we are very active Mercedes Benz and Nespresso.
in the communities in which we operate.
When we rebranded as intu in 2013 we agreed on three values that would help Our online shopping platform has shown Outlook for 2017 our staff make that happen.
Every member a marked improvement in the year with The environment for business is likely to of staff is trained in these values of bold, strong growth in revenue and traffic on be challenging as the full impact emerges creative and genuine to help us act in the intu.
co. uk as the number of shoppable of the UKs EU referendum vote but we way we would like the business to act.
We have are soundly positioned as we concentrate That means doing the right thing by all continued to develop the website, further on top-quality assets in prime locations our stakeholders customers, retailers, enhancing the experience and continually with high occupancy and strong footfall.
reinforcing the advantage we get from With such high standards to maintain the national intu brand, something not Our strategy for 2017 remains unchanged we make sure we have outstanding available to our competitors.
in terms of relentless focus on improving and enthusiastic people working for our our centres and overall business business, and our culture is dedicated All this is evidenced by the growing performance.
We intend to deliver to unleashing their passion, innovation awareness of the intu brand, recognition continued growth in like-for-like net rental and creativity.
of which, on an unprompted basis, has income and we reiterate that we expect risen strongly in the year to over 20 per this to be in the 0 to 2 per cent range Read more about our culture on page 56 cent of UK shoppers surveyed.
for 2017, subject to no material tenant failures, down in the first half against the Performing strongly in a recovering strong 2016 comparative and up in the Spanish economy second half year.
This includes the impact Our two existing centres are performing of some 2 per cent from units being held well.
At intu Asturias, the new restaurant for redevelopment and from the full year terrace has been well received and with impact of BHS closures.
the centre effectively full we are starting a project to create more units from space not previously lettable.
