14 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 OUR RESULTS OUR HIGHLIGHTS CHIEF 37.
6m of investment lettings 33.8m of development lettings EXECUTIVES 13.4% Acquisitions of 123.4m Total business return STATEMENT Development and refurbishment expenditure of 372.6m Disposals of 1,493.1m 11.5% Ungeared total property return 10.9% Increase in adjusted diluted NAV per share Over the last six years, Land Securities has worked at pace to create value and resilience through disciplined buying, selling, development and management of space.
In London, we have delivered awell timed, well executed, speculative development programme into a supplyconstrained market.
And in Retail, we have responded to growing demand for great experiences, transforming our portfolio so it is dominated by destination centres.
In March 2010, our Combined Portfolio was valued at 9.5bn and adjusted net debt was 4.2bn.
Today, our Combined Portfolio is valued at 14.5bn and adjusted net debt has been reduced to 3.2bn.
Our adjusted diluted net asset value per share has more than doubled and our balance sheet is in terrific shape, with low gearing and plenty of financial capacity.
S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC R RE EPOR PORT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL ST STA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S AD ADD DI IT TI IO ONAL final I IN NF FO OR RMA MAT TI IO ON N Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 15 This year, revenue profi t was up 10.0% to 362.1m and adjusted diluted net asset value per share was up 10.9% to 1,434p.
Total business return theincrease per share in adjusted net assets AS GUARDIANS OF SHAREHOLDER plus dividends paid was 13.4%.
Weve transformed more than the numbers.
CAPITAL, OUR RESPONSIBILITY IS TO We now have a higher quality portfolio of fi first-class assets let on longer leases.
And across POSITION THE COMPANY SO IT CAN the Company we are working hard to realise our vision of being the best property company in the THRIVE WHATEVER THE OUTCOME.
UK in the eyes of our customers, communities, partners and employees.
More on that in a THATS WHAT WE HAVE DONE.
Robert Noel, Chief Executive Raising the dividend Since 2010, we have built and let 1.4m sq ft of outstanding spaces and places todays leading due to an approaching lease expiry at our current space in our Retail Portfolio.
At the same time companies and their employees require and head offi ce, we move into a new offi ce with a wecommitted to 3.1m sq ft of speculative expect.
With construction largely complete, more collaborative and fl exible work environment.
commercial development in our London Portfolio weare focused on letting our remaining space The relocation will mark the start of an exciting a huge leasing challenge.
After another strong and giving our customers the best occupier new chapter in the life of our company.
year of lettings, we now have just 0.5m sq ft left experience.
We will continue to seed our to let in London and interest in this remaining portfolio with opportunities for the future, Outlook space is healthy.
although we are unlikely to resume building at Some have suggested our current market Given the success of our development scale in London in the near term.
positioning is more prudent than exciting.
I am lettings, the higher quality of our rental income happy with that description.
As risk has been and reduced speculative risk in our development Communities and partners rising outside the business, we have been programme, we have recommended a fi final Our properties help to generate and sustain local reducing risk inside the business.
Ongoing dividend of 10.55p per share taking the total economic activity.
Our shopping centres are challenges include appropriately managing the dividend for the year to 35.0p per share, up 9.9%.
major employers and our offi ces create demand changing balance between supply and demand We aim to maintain our progressive dividend for local services.
In turn, a vibrant local economy in London offi ces and responding to the policy from this level.
and environment is more attractive to the evolution of consumer habits in retail.
And next customers who support our business.
month, we face the prospect of a UK exit from Balance sheet discipline Support from our communities and partners the European Union.
As those of you who have followed us for some is key to Land Securities sustainability.
This year We believe a vote to leave the EU would time will know, we have funded our activity since we have consolidated our sustainability lead to business uncertainty while negotiations 2010 through a net debt neutral approach.
Put approachunder three broad themes creating take place on an exit treaty.
Uncertainty slows simply, by September 2015 we had invested jobs and opportunities, effi cient use of natural decision-making.
Over the short term, we 4.4bn and funded this through disposals.
At the resources, and sustainable design and anticipate this would drive down occupational half year, we signalled we would be net sellers in innovation.
This is about being smart in the way demand in our market.
In turn, this would lead the second half and we were, taking advantage we minimise disruptive impacts while maximising tofalling rental values and a reduction in of great market conditions to sell 1.1bn of the benefi ts our assets create for everyone who construction commitments, particularly in assetsas we saw wider economic and political encounters them.
As part of this, we have London.
So an exit could be painful for the uncertainty increasing.
As a result, our balance continued to set ourselves stretching social and property industry and those it supports.
But sheet gearing is now at its lowest level for many environmental targets.
there is a higher principle at play here.
Though no asset is sacrosanct, we are not Our approach also brings together partners to decision for the British people, not businesses.
expecting to make any material disposals over extend the benefi ts of our activity.
For example, 779 Itis up to individuals including those amongst the coming year.
people have gained training and job opportunities our customers, communities and partners to through our groundbreaking Community decide whats best.
As guardians of shareholder Customers Employment Programme.
I was delighted that this capital, our responsibility is to position the Shopping is more and more about spending time team eff ort was recognised with the Business in the Company so it can thrive whatever the outcome.
as well as spending money.
People want to enjoy Community Work Inclusion Award for 2015.
We are Thats what we have done.
a fantastic day out in a place that off ers great now applying what we have learnt in London to After another strong performance, the brands, food, entertainment and atmosphere.
Oxford, where we are working with partners on the business is in terrifi c shape with the fi financial While cost and convenience continue to drive Westgate Oxford scheme to deliver construction resources needed to address future growth in online retailing at the expense of training and jobs.
And we have a team of great physical stores the most successful shopping people who are imaginative, but disciplined, in destinations off er a unique experience.
And the Employees the way they manage assets a team that is best retailers need to be in those locations.
I would like to thank my colleagues for their absolutely focused on our core purpose of Over the last few years, we have sold all of consistently impressive contribution.
To be the providing the right space for our customers and our standalone superstores and secondary best property company in the UK, we need to communities.
regional assets and reinvested proceeds into keep attracting and developing exceptional buying andbuilding truly premium destinations people.
Land Securities should stand out as a such as Bluewater, Trinity Leeds and Westgate place where individuals from diverse Oxford.
We have also stepped up the off er at backgrounds are united by talent, values, Gunwharf Quays, St Davids and our retail parks.
The retail sector moves fast so we will continue Employee engagement is high and we Robert Noel to anticipate and respond to changing needs.
expect it to go higher over the next 12 months as, Chief Executive In London, we have been providing the
