Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Chief Executive Q&A Andrew Jones CEO gives an overview of progress in the year, his assessment of the structural forces affecting the retail sector and the impact on LondonMetric.
What is your main focus The change in the digital economy is Q at LondonMetric?
having a profound impact on retail stores and how they have been traditionally Our overriding concern is to deliver The compounding understood.
Retail is changing to reect A value to shareholders over the impact of repetitive this and the problems at retailers such income is increasingly long term.
as BHS are just the tip of the iceberg for attractive in a lower We continue to focus on managing both a sector bedevilled by high rents, heavy growth environment.
the structural and cyclical forces that discounting, inadequate online platforms inuence our business.
As managers and far too much physical capacity.
of risk, we need to fully understand the Retailers have to invest heavily in dynamics of these forces and navigate their distribution capability and the business accordingly.
Our judgement continually evolve their infrastructure is not clouded by the burden of legacy to drive operational efficiencies.
assets and we endeavour to own assets Occupier demand for modern, high that remain relevant in a rapidly changing specication distribution warehousing retail environment.
has meant that availability is low and this Equally, we believe that the world is has created structural demand supply evolving from a focus on active strategies dynamics with good rental growth in to more passive ones, where the offer of evidence for the right assets.
higher repetitive and predictable income This is especially the case for more is clearer and more attractive.
Whilst it is strategically located depot warehousing not always the case, investors are valuing and last mile distribution property which quality of income today more highly than facilitate same day and next day delivery its equivalent in NAV potential upside.
requirements, particularly in the South What specic structural forces are East and major UK conurbations.
Recession and technology A have signicantly altered consumer expectations and habits.
Shopping patterns are rapidly evolving and the expectation of efficiency, speed, value and convenience are driving omnichannel retailing.
The changing face of retail see page 14 Our business model see page 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executive Q&A continued How are you responding to the We remain unemotional about ownership Distribution portfolio Q changing retail environment?
of our assets and have crystallised strong returns from disposals whilst ensuring The 392 million of transactions in that we are unencumbered by legacy A the year demonstrates our ongoing 824m or less relevant assets.
As evidenced by response to these changes.
our 80 million of distribution disposals, 54% of We have made significant further we will sell core assets where purchasers portfolio sales of mature retail assets, achieving assessment of value is higher than our attractive prices, whilst recycling own aspirations.
into big box logistics and smaller In todays competitively priced distribution warehouses, which offer environment, we are also disciplined attractive risk adjusted yields and asset and rational.
We will step away from management opportunities.
opportunities that dont meet out return During the year, we acquired 155 million criteria and our customer centric model Falling retailer demand of distribution assets let to occupiers helps us to make the correct real estate for physical space is such as Next, Poundworld and DHL.
The management team is being substituted by the We successfully delivered 1.9 million sq fully aligned with shareholders and constant need for better ft of developments and our distribution is incentivised to deliver enhanced distribution infrastructure.
developments in Wakeeld and returns and not simply grow assets Warrington are on track to complete later under management.
These two developments along How have you improved your with our pipeline developments at Stoke, Q nancing arrangements and Bedford and Crawley will add a further describe your approach to gearing and 11.8 million of rental income.
Distribution assets, including At the start of the year, we signed developments, totalled 824 million at A a new 400 million unsecured the year end and now represent 54% facility which was recently increased of our portfolio asignicant increase to 444 million.
This facility provides from20%at the timeof merger in 2013. signicantly greater exibility and has Our strong retailer relationships have also helped to reduce finance fees that might generated further convenience deals otherwise have arisen from our investment where we have worked in partnership and development activity.
It has also with M&S and Aldi.
helped to increase our average debt maturity to 5.6 years, reduce our cost What are the key drivers of of debt to 3.5% and provide additional Q LondonMetrics success?
Our strong occupier relationships as Our loan to value of 38% at the year end A well as the deep relationships that is at an appropriate level that allows us to we have within the real estate sector draw down further on our debt facilities to are paramount to our success and key fund developments without impacting on to maintaining our very strong portfolio our conservative approach to gearing.
metrics of long leases, extremely high We continue to take a prudent approach occupancy and strengthening income.
to managing interest rate risk and, as Our asset management activities at the year end, 93% of our drawn debt delivered 55 lettings and rent reviews was hedged.
which helped to drive like-for-like income growth of 3.1% at 6.9% above ERV.
Investment review Asset management and see page 22 development review see page 26 Financial review see page 35 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 Chief Executive Q&A continued 40 million distribution development for Poundworld Replenishing our near term per annum.
The rent is subject to five development portfolio yearly compounded RPI rent reviews toa minimum of 2.5% per annum and Our developments are short cycle amaximum of 5.0% per annum.
in nature and we are constantly focused on replenishing our The highly prominent 30 acre site is development pipeline.
located near J31 of the M62 in a wellestablished logistics hub.
During the year, we purchased a 524,000 sq ft retail distribution Construction commenced in summer development in Wakeeld.
The purchase 2015 and practical completion and forward fund development was is expected in autumn 2016. acquired at a yield on cost of 6.3% and The warehouse will be rated BREEAM was pre-let to Poundworld Retail Ltd on Very Good.
a 15 year lease at a rent of 2.5 million How has LondonMetric delivered on What are you most alert to as you Q its Responsible Business Strategy?
We have built on our significant We continue to monitor investment A progress from the previous year and A activity and market liquidity very our efforts have been recognised with an closely.
This ensures that we maintain EPRA sBPR Gold award and a substantially exibility to fund our developments and improved GRESB score.
other opportunities as they arise whilst enjoying attractive margins of safety 94% of our 2015 16 targets were achieved between our long and strong income and highlights included the introduction andour cost of debt.
of a new Responsible Business Procurement Policy and implementation of initiatives to install solar panels, replace external lighting and monitor occupier contentment and energy usage.
In addition we completed three major Andrew Jones developments, all of which are rated Chief Executive 1 June 2016 BREEAM Very Good.
Our approach to Responsible Business see page 45
