Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The changing face of retail We are focused on the winning sub sectors within retail: retailer-led distribution, fullment and convenience-led retail.
Retail continually evolves, responding to new trends, changes in technology and developing shopping habits.
History shows that as shopping habits change, real estate requirements respond.
Aligning our real estate investment strategy to these shifts, willdeliver long term shareholder value.
Shopping habits continually evolve with a 1940 1980 shift seen every 20 years No cars Out of town edge of since the 1940s.
town convenience Limited refrigeration Today, we live in a digital Rise and increased dominance Daily shopping trips age with the continued of supermarke et ts s rise of eCommerce and Rise in high street Birth of out of to own wn online shopping and real estate requirements are responding.
Retailers supply chains are now consumer facing with spending migrating away from more traditional modes of shopping.
It is business critical for retailers to meet the demand of the consumer which is resulting in distribution and fullment 1960 2000 becoming more important than retail stores.
Car borne shopping Continued growth of out of town Mass refrigeration Migration of in town retailers outof town Weekly shopping trips Birth of the shopping park Birth of the shopping centre Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 The changing face of retail continued In excess of 1 billion parcels are Shoppers embrace delivered to the consumers front door, growing year on year with c. 1.2 billion internet shopping 2010 forecast for 2016 and forecast to The UK is now one of the most continue to rise by c. 12% per annum to Technological sophisticated online retail markets in the 2018.
Consumer habits are becoming advancements world with an internet penetration rate in more entrenched.
transforming supply excess of 85% and 61% of shoppers now chains to consumer Recent retailer results confirm the latest actively shopping online.
This is double centric models consumer shopping habits.
40% of Next the OECD average and the UK active sales are now through their directory Shoppers embracing online shoppers is signicantly higher business which is effectively online.
internet shopping than other western economies such Dixons Carphone have 29% of their sales as US 35%, Germany 48%, Canada Birth of omnicoming from online and 55% of Argos 42% and Spain 18%.
channel shopping sales originate online.
Recent retailer May 2010 saw the UK launch of the trading performance also shows the Sheds become the Apple iPad and the start of true strength of online with like-for-like growth new shops mobilisation of the internet.
Up until this up and store sales falling.
John Lewis point, desktops were the key tool to online sales are up 21% and stores down access the internet and shop online.
3%, Argos online sales are up 10% and The technological advancements store sales down 13%.
These trends of the iPad and devices such as the continue to accelerate as shoppers smartphone that have followed have continue to embrace internet shopping.
truly opened up online shopping to the consumer.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The changing face of retail continued It is imperative for the retailer to ensure 2010 Resulting in a continued that their overall logistics and operation is t for purpose and meeting the demands structural shift and an of the consumer.
Further technological evolving landscape advancements will continue this trend with increased operational efficiencies for retailers driven through warehouse automation and robotics.
Accelerating technological change will drive continued growth of ecommerce Consumers have adopted different and the digitalisation of retail.
methods of purchasing from an entire purchase online to browsing online and Pure play online retailers, such as Amazon, buying in store to buying online and ASOS, Boden, Boohoo and The Hut picking up from store.
Looking forward, Group, demonstrate that physical stores these changes in consumer shopping are no longer a pre-requisite to successful habits will re-shape the role of store and retail.
Reductions in operational costs and place further emphasis on the supply information asymmetry has allowed a chain model and how it interfaces with wide variety of products to be profitably the consumer.
The consumer wants to buy the goods to meet their specic requirements with the modern supply chain now consumer facing.
Retailer landscape in the past Retailer landscape now Manufacturer Importer Manufacturer Importer Regional distribution unit National distribution unit Local distribution unit Local distribution unit Delivery parcel returns Retail stores Retail stores Consumers Consumers Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 The changing face of retail continued According to Local Data Company, Driving logistics and Outlook vacancy rates across retail shops stand at 12.4%, however this masks the polarisation We believe that the retail real estate pace of change within this market.
Prime retail real estate is will continue.
requirements more robust with secondary and tertiary The significant retail increasingly redundant in todays evolvement since Logistics digital age.
Rental levels continue to fall 2009 demonstrates Online retail is driving demand for a in poorer retail locations as shoppers vote the impact that technological range of different types of warehousing with their feet and retailers see no need to changes and including mega national distribution be located there.
shopping behaviour centres, parcel sortation centres, is having on real The success stories within retail real estate local parcel depot stations, dot.
revolve around top up,  and local delivery centres Non food online led retail.
Footfall supports the strength forsame day delivery.
spending is estimated of retail parks nationally, with their to grow from 17.4% The occupier market remains robust convenience and the ease at which today to 25% of all non with take up above long term averages.
click and collect orders can be fullled.
Around 4.5 million sq ft was taken up in Q1 Destination retail remains strong, however 2016 which was 22% up on Q4 2015 and the consumer expects more which is It is now widely accepted by retailers 18% up on Q1 2015. resulting in increased capital expenditure that the supply chain and operational costs to keep the Supply remains muted.
From a peak is consumer facing destination relevant and attract footfall.
requiring retailers to availability of 94 million sq ft in 2009, have t for purpose it is estimated that current supply Leading to a re-rating in asset logistics to meet the is c. 15 million sq ft equating to increasing consumer pricing approximately six months demand.
demands for instant Speculative development has risen as a Investor demand remains strong for gratication and quicker online delivery.
result of the supply demand imbalance distribution assets.
Investment volumes in however remains signicantly below this sector in the last two years have been We believe that the retailers response and pre-recession levels of c. 10 million sq the strongest for the last 15 years.
impact to real estate ft per annum at 5.6 million sq ft per requirements means Yields have continued to narrow further annum.
The average void period for units that sheds are the with prime distribution yields being c. 4.5% speculatively built since 2009 is just five new shops.
having improved by 125 bps in the last months, reducing to five weeks in prime We seek to position two years.
Further yield compression locations such as the Midlands.
our real estate is likely to be muted, however rental portfolio to these values are growing reecting the supply wider structural trends Retail demand imbalances in the sector.
whilst maximising shareholder returns Whilst online is contributing to a successful Investment volumes in the retail through the cyclical supply demand dynamic in logistics, sector are down on historic long term drivers of the market.
it is causing great disruption to more averages, possibly reecting a perceived traditional retail real estate.
A shop unit is nervousness in the sector and the future no longer the only route to market and as role the sector has to play in the market.
a result retailers continue to re-examine Yields remain robust for prime retail with and rationalise their store networks.
weakness seen in the secondary markets reecting the occupational trends.
