CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW The period under review was one of the most To this end, we continued to invest heavily in our significant in Mediclinics three-decade history.
people, their training, the facilities in which they work, Through the Combination of the businesses of and the technology they use.
Mediclinic International Limited and Al Noor Hospitals A particular emphasis at Mediclinic is to really Group plc, we boosted our presence internationally, understand and benchmark our performance.
We doubled the size of our UAE business in a fasttherefore extended our investment in data growing market, and secured a listing as a FTSE 100 collection and analytics using Press Ganey, an company on the London Stock Exchange.
With the internationally renowned external research investment in Spire Healthcare, we also established group, to measure patient experience.
This has a footprint in the dynamic UK private healthcare brought new levels of insight into the performance markets.
At the same time, we continued to grow of our South African and Middle Eastern volumes and revenues across all our operating operations, and we are now ready to start a pilot platforms, while maintaining stable margins.
We now enter the 2016 17 financial year in a strong We continued to pursue a number of projects position and eager to take full advantage of our which enable us to move towards a better newfound scale.
Despite the uncertain economic integrated healthcare delivery model, with improved environment, the healthcare market fundamentals collaboration between the various clinical disciplines.
remain sound and we anticipate continued growth For example, using the clinical expertise of the across all of our operating platforms.
well-established and renowned oncology team at This is indeed an exciting time for the Group, Hirslanden to assist with the establishment of the which promises to bring long-term value to our new oncology centre at the Mediclinic City Hospitals shareholders with a well-balanced portfolio North Wing in Dubai that will open in the second of operations, a leading position across a mix half of 2016. of attractive healthcare markets, and a strong Our relentless focus on patient care helps us to management team at the helm.
build productive relationships with all stakeholder groups where we have built high levels of trust in IT ALL STARTS WITH THE the quality of our service and our ethical principles over the years.
PATIENTS The very bedrock of our business is our patients first ethos.
Across all our operating platforms, we seek to be the first choice for patient experience, and to provide superior clinical outcomes.
Importantly, we also seek to deliver a single, standardised quality of service wherever we operate.
8 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Offi cer quality of its people and infrastructure.
By stepping BUILDING A LARGE, COHESIVE in as a minority investor, with a seat on the Board, INTERNATIONAL GROUP we gain valuable fi first-hand experience of the UK market, building relationships with a strong, stable Our growing international scale enables us to unlock organisation.
It certainly helps us to share skills and best practice ACCELERATED PROGRESS across the Group, thereby contributing to our focus on patients.
Scale also brings valuable synergies TOWARDS OUR STRATEGIC and cost-effi ciencies.
For example, since the GOALS implementation of a central buying department for the Group, we have already achieved double-digit Overall, the developments during the period under cost savings on several of our surgical supplies and review enabled us to accelerate progress against our on the purchase of healthcare equipment for our six strategic priorities, as set out in greater detail on AR clinics and hospitals.
pages 18 to 21, in all our key markets.
In our South African operations, we increased our Our clear aim is to operate as a well-integrated, capacity by opening two new day clinics, together networked group.
Following the Combination with adding 52 beds, and added 80 beds to our existing Al Noor, the smooth alignment of operations has hospitals.
Despite the volatility of the economy and been a priority.
By March 2016, we confi rmed the the uncertainty of the political environment, we see new senior management team for the Middle East, continued opportunity for growth, albeit at a slightly and appointed workstream leaders to map-out the lower rate.
As expected, we now face some tough integration challenges, specifi cally related to For our Swiss operations, the 2015 16 fi financial year Information and Communications Technology and was very satisfactory.
We added several new facilities Human Resources.
However, I am confi dent that we to our existing portfolio, including more than 20 new have a strong leadership team in our Middle Eastern inpatient beds, outpatient facilities and consulting operations who has a realistic understanding of the rooms, plus a host of technology investments.
With related complexities and the expertise to overcome a stable economy, a strong currency, highly trained them.
We further have a wealth of experience in the medical staff and an aging population, Switzerland broader Group that can assist where and looks set to deliver stable growth and to remain a when required.
During the period under review, we further extended The acquisition of Al Noor, with operations primarily our international footprint and geographical in Abu Dhabi, has accelerated our progress in this diversifi cation with the acquisition of a 29.9% stake attractive Middle Eastern market.
We are rapidly of Spire Healthcare, a leading private healthcare extending capability and capacity, with 120 new beds provider in the UK.
Like others in the industry, due to be added in 2016 17 and a further 290 beds we are attracted by the long-term prospects for set to follow by 2018 19. the UK private healthcare market.
We were also impressed by Spires patient focus, as well as the 9 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued A STRONG FINANCIAL OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2016 17 PERFORMANCE AND BEYOND The Group experienced strong patient growth The 2016 17 financial year is set to be another across all the operating platforms leading to revenue exciting year for Mediclinic.
growth of 7%, reported in pound sterling, with a Our number one priority is our continued focus on stable underlying EBITDA margin at 20.4%.
our patients and to remain their demonstrable first I should add that our listing on the London Stock choice.
Alongside this, the smooth integration of Exchange, where we entered the FTSE 100 Index our Middle Eastern operations is a priority that will in March 2016, should further strengthen our future continue to receive significant management attention financial position.
As well as providing a new source and support.
We will furthermore seek new ways to of lower cost capital, it leaves us less exposed to the unlock the benefits of an integrated, international volatility of the South African rand should we raise healthcare Group, focused around the seamless new capital for international expansion.
delivery of services with the patient firmly at the centre.
KEY OPPORTUNITIES AND I would like to thank all of our doctors, nurses, support staff and management for their dedication CHALLENGES and commitment during the year.
This underpins Currently we view the fundamentals as remaining everything we do and, with this in mind, I am positive across all of our markets.
With, amongst confident that we will continue to build on the other factors, an aging population, a growing middle significant progress made in 2015 16. class, and the ongoing emergence of new,  medical procedures, we continue to anticipate long-term growth.
Nonetheless, we do face a number of pressure points: The affordability of healthcare is a matter of pressing public policy concern.
This is one reason Danie Meintjes why it is so important for us to grow our scale, Chief Executive Officer optimise our cost base and ensure that we offer cost-effective quality care to our patients.
Another challenge is regulatory uncertainty.
During our three-decade history, this is something we have learnt to manage.
We understand the need to adapt to an ever-changing political climate: building an internationally diverse portfolio strengthens our position.
The availability of high-quality clinical staff is an issue for the healthcare industry worldwide.
We work hard to be an employer of choice and to ensure that our hospitals are regarded as the best facility for independent medical practitioners to treat their patients.
We continue to invest in the training and development of our people to ensure that we attract and retain the necessary talent.
We are aware of a growing move towards consumerism in the healthcare market, with the advent of more demanding, better-informed patients.
Our patients first ethos is critical to creating the confidence in our patients to believe in our Company slogan of Expertise You Can Trust.
We do not underestimate these challenges, and we work hard in order to ensure that we have the necessary plans and strategies in place to mitigate them.
