Strategic Report Executive Vice Chairman & CEOs Review Record growth in 2016 With further strategic progress in 2016, we have created a leading, inter-connected, integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand private healthcare network with the scalability and flexibility to sustain strong growth into the future.
2 STRATEGY DELIVERING GROWTH added specialty healthcare segments Long-term & Home care: 406 licensed NMC Health delivered record growth in through the acquisition of leading global beds ProVita, Americare and two 2016 as we began to reap the long-term and regional entities and the subsequent assets in Saudi Arabia rewards of several years of progress on establishment of new strategic multiOperation & management: 205 the two stages of our growth strategy.
brand verticals capable of unlocking licensed beds Sheikh Khalifa In recent years NMC has expanded its synergies within the enlarged group Hospital in UAQ asset and brand portfolio organically and and act as stand-alone platforms Products & consumables: Around inorganically into additional healthcare spearheading the expansion beyond 97,600 Stock Keeping Units exclusive services segments, extended our the UAE into some of most accretive wholesaler of mainly globally presence across the continuum of care, healthcare market segments.
established and branded healthcare entered into higher growth and margin products and equipment specialties with very favourable regional We have made significant progress in supply demand dynamics, and selectively achieving this objective delivering on the The progress we have made to date in entered new geographies to position the second stage of our growth strategy.
executing on our strategic growth plan Group at the intersection of multiple Since 2015 NMC has completed has enabled NMCs healthcare asset growth channels to the ultimate benefit acquisitions that have enhanced and brand portfolio to become even more of all our stakeholders.
our capabilities, added value and diversified with significantly enhanced been successfully integrated.
competitive advantages and substantially With further strategic progress in 2016, we augmented strategic optionality.
This in have created a leading, inter-connected, In addition, in December 2016 NMC turn enables NMC to further expand its integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand announced the proposed acquisition growth horizons in what is an increasingly private healthcare network with the of the Al Zahra Hospital in Sharjah, which challenging market for static market scalability and flexibility to sustain strong is due to complete in the first quarter of actors.
The combination of this progress growth into the future.
Al Zahra Hospital is a multispecialty with a more optimised resource allocation general hospital and one of the largest is leading to a substantially higher growth, CONTINUED STRATEGIC PROGRESS private hospitals in the UAE, operating margin and return profile for the Group.
Following our IPO in 2012, the Group 137 active inpatient beds and serving embarked upon the first stage of strategic approximately 400,000 outpatients and Today NMC is the leading private sector growth to enhance organic capacity, 23,000 inpatient bed days per year.
The healthcare group in the UAE and one resulting in three new hospitals and two acquisition complements the Groups of the most advanced and diversified new medical centres, adding 410 licensed existing network of seven out-patient operators in the MENA Middle East beds marking the largest ever private medical centres in Sharjah, the third and North Africa region.
Our Maternity sector expansion programme in the most populous emirate in the UAE, & fertility vertical has segment-leading UAE healthcare market.
The first stage and is expected to be value accretive assets, and is now considered one of strategic growth has been completed, in the first full year of ownership.
of the top three fertility services and all new hospitals and medical centres providers globally based on cycles that opened in 2013 and 2014 achieved Above acquisition along with the Saudi performed annually.
breakeven ahead of initial guidance, acquisition As Salama, coupled with and NMC Royal Hospital which opened NMCs organic growth programmes, In the Long-term & Home care vertical outpatient services in September 2015 have enabled the Group to establish and we expanded into Saudi Arabia in the and inpatient services in March 2016 is further develop strategic verticals within last year, firmly establishing our position performing ahead of expectations.
the broader healthcare delivery platform as the leading regional operator of with  capabilities long-term care services and enhancing The second stage of our growth strategy, and brands.
the opportunities for future growth in this which was initiated at the beginning segment and across the Group, as we 1 of 2015, entails a shift in focus from Multi-specialty: 783 licensed beds remain the only provider present along capacity to capabilities.
NMCs objective NMC Healthcare & Dr.
Sunny the full continuum of care.
In Operations is to accelerate its expansion into higher Maternity & fertility: 100 licensed beds & management NMC was the first local medical complexity and thus higher value Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital, operator in the UAE to be awarded Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF a contract to manage a government 1 Includes 154 beds of Al Zahra Hospital.
2 Includes 140, 120 and 26 beds of As Salama, Chronic Care and Provita beds in NMC Royal respectively.
8 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report We have made significant progress in delivering on the second stage of our growth strategy.
Since 2015 NMC has completed acquisitions that have enhanced our capabilities, added value and been successfully integrated.
In our distribution division, the with NMC till they are discharged.
Geographical regulatory regions Products & consumables vertical, as satisfaction surveys and mystery shopper expanding presence, mainly across 4 of year-end 2016 we offer around 97,600 exercises undertaken during the period the UAE, GCC and Europe.
SKUs and are seen as one of the top demonstrated very good progress.
Wholesale product distribution market 5 three wholesalers in the UAE.
products sold range from FMCG During 2016 we continued the phased to pharmaceuticals and food across NMC now operates a total of 43 healthcare roll out of our Hospital Information System the UAE.
services assets and 15 pharmacies, HIS in our new hospitals and within including the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa some legacy assets, in order to increase Post the introduction of the 20% coGeneral Hospital in Umm al Quwain.
operational efficiency within our network.
payment, which was effective from 1st We will continue to introduce and utilise of July 2016, the regulator has continued GEOGRAPHICAL EXPANSION the HIS across our network of assets over to work with the operators to clarify and Further to our strategic growth plan, the coming year.
In 2016 we also made where possible update the application in a NMC expanded into Saudi Arabia in 2016 progress with the implementation of the manner that serves the ultimate objective through the Long-term & Home care Companys financial Enterprise Resource which is better and more sustainable vertical by announcing the acquisition Planning ERP system.
healthcare services to the patient.
Most of As Salama Hospital, which was recently, the Healthcare Authority of Abu subsequently consummated in early REGULATORY CHANGES Dhabi HAAD, announced the decision 2017, in Al Khobar and investing in a new While regulatory changes and to exempt long-term care patients from long-term care facility in Jeddah.
Going improvements are part and parcel of an the co-payment.
forward, NMC will continue to evaluate evolving and advancing healthcare sector, further geographic expansion in the UAE, very few of those changes get the same OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL GCC countries and selectively beyond, level of attention afforded to the abrupt PERFORMANCE as we see attractive market opportunities introduction of a blanket co-payment of Our healthcare assets continue to 3 with growing populations, favourable up to 20% on Thiqa insurance in late June perform very well and we have achieved demographic trends and undersupply 2016.
This announcement took the equity positive operational and financial results.
and healthcare markets by surprise.
In total, we received 4.32m patients into CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS However, our continuous efforts since our facilities in 2016, representing 34.5% In addition to making and integrating NMCs establishment to build a business year on year growth.
Hospital occupancy value-enhancing acquisitions, we seeking sustainable long-term growth increased by 0.8% driven by the continually have continued to make upgrades within and competitive advantages by adhering high demand for quality services and we our existing hospital network to further to the highest ethical standards combined enlarged our medical specialist teams optimise service delivery and capacity with the constant objective to deliver even with the addition of 225 doctors during utilisation.
As a result, at the end of 2016 more effective services to both patients the year.
the Groups healthcare assets had a total and payors shielded us from part of the capacity of 1,135 licensed beds and with potential impact.
the completion of the Al Zahra Hospital and other acquisition this will rise to 1,289 Furthermore, and in line with our strategy, licensed beds.
NMCs diversification was also another very important pre-existing mitigant.
During the period, we continued to Unlike most of the UAE healthcare private advance our clinical capabilities and sector, NMC operates across: offering throughout our key hospitals.
The addition of NMC Royal Hospital, which 1.
Insurance market segments from the commenced its inpatient services during basic all the way up to Thiqa insurance.
the period, was major step forward for 2.
Medical clinical segments with a the groups capabilities.
We continued leading and rapidly advancing mix of to work on further improving the patient capabilities across the multi-specialty 3 Medical insurance cover provided by the experience at our facilities, from the vertical to specialist units in fertility Government of the Abu Dhabi emirate to moment patients start their interaction and long-term care.
Citizens who are provided this insurance do not pay an insurance premium.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 Strategic Report Executive Vice Chairman & CEOs Review continued We expect continued strong performance from our enlarged network, its growing specialisms and the further introduction of higher value added services especially through our single specialty verticals.
Group financial performance in 2016 was OUTLOOK We expect another good year for the once again strong, with reported revenues I would like to thank my fellow members UAE economy in 2017 supported by further increasing by 38.6% and Earnings Before of the Board of Directors, the senior GDP growth of around 2.3% despite lower Interest, Depreciation and Amortisation management team and our shareholders oil prices, based on forecasts by leading EBITDA increasing by 63.7% compared for their continued support and dedication rating agencies.
For the local healthcare with 2015.
This was driven by the throughout the year.
Most importantly, sector, one of the key drivers of growth increased utilisation of our organic I would like to thank the employees will be the increase in the patient volumes 455 bed capacity expansion over the of NMC both old and new for their with expected completion of mandatory past two years, recent acquisitions of tireless efforts to provide the United healthcare insurance in the Emirate of businesses in high growth segments, Arab Emirates and the regions growing Dubai by Q1 2017.
For NMC in particular, and very good performance at the major population with increased local access we expect continued strong performance specialty hospitals and in particular to quality healthcare services and from our enlarged network, its growing healthcare assets in Dubai which products, as we have done so for specialisms and the further introduction benefitted from faster than expected the last four decades.
of higher value added services especially roll-out of mandatory healthcare through our single specialty verticals.
NMC continues to have a Our transformation from a small strong capital structure, and even after pharmacy and clinic into an internationally Yours sincerely, completing the US$560m acquisition recognised private healthcare services of Al Zahra Hospital in the first quarter provider would not have been possible of 2017 we will remain well capitalised without the unparalleled support of DR B. R. SHETTY to support and pursue further growth the UAE government and its residents, Executive Vice Chairman and CEO opportunities.
and I extend my sincerest thanks to you for your encouragement.
For more information see Our Strategy We also continued to expand our on pages 16 to 19 distribution vertical, Products & consumables, this year with further new product and brand introductions.
The number of SKUs increased to around 97,600, an increase of 9.3% compared to 2015.
10 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
