Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Q&A with Steve Ingham, CEO exposure in the business to any one Q.
How do you maximise Q. Youve paid special market, with the development of our technology in your business dividends over the last two Page Personnel business as well as discipline and geographic diversification.
and what impact does social years.
Do you anticipate that This means we are far less dependent media and LinkedIn have on continuing into 2017?
on Financial Services than we have your business?
historically been, this now only A.
We continue to operate a policy of representing 7% of the Group.
financing the activities and development A.
Technology delivers speed and of the Group from our retained earnings efficiency for our teams, boosting Q.
What are the progression and to operate while consistently their productivity.
It drives candidate maintaining a strong balance sheet opportunities at PageGroup?
acquisition and gives management the position.
We first use our cash to tools to drive sales on an ongoing basis.
satisfy our operational and investment A.
As an organically grown business, By using technology efficiently, it allows requirements, and to hedge our liabilities there is plenty of opportunity to our consultants to focus their time under the Groups share plans.
We progress rapidly within PageGroup, on understanding and delivering the then review our liquidity over and above from consultant to the senior leadership clients requirements.
this requirement to make returns to team, and we have many examples of It minimises the time consultants spend shareholders, firstly by way of ordinary this across the Group.
The management on administration, whether that be dividend.
team, and myself as CEO, started searching, loading vacancies on job as consultants, demonstrating the Our policy is to grow this ordinary boards, or compliance.
In turn, this significant progression opportunities dividend over the course of the maximises their exposure talking to that we can offer.
We also enjoy the economic cycle, in line with our longcandidates and clients with a system performance culture.
term growth rate: we believe this enables focused on streamlining processes, us to sustain the level of ordinary resulting in an increase in productivity.
This is also true of every member of dividend payments during a downturn, Technology also gives better performance the senior operational management as well as increasing it during more measurement, with access to visual team: none were brought in externally.
KPIs which appear on each managers To facilitate this progression, we have Cash generated in excess of these dashboard, so they can actively manage a clearly defined talent development first two priorities will be returned to performance amongst the team.
These training roadmap, supporting the shareholders through supplementary can be tailored to each consultant daily, professional development of all our staff returns, using special dividends or share to ensure they are focusing on the most at every stage of their career.
In 2016, after consultation relevant task.
with our shareholders, we made a This real time data allows us to manage Q.
How is PageGroup supplementary return of 6.46p per consultants more effectively on a daydeveloping its consultants share.
We will continue to monitor our to-day basis and to develop them more liquidity in 2017 and will make returns to to become senior leaders of quickly into great recruiters.
It also allows shareholders in line with the above policy.
us to deploy training to the most relevant the future?
We invest a significant amount of Q.
What do you consider the a number of business development calls resource to succession planning, talent but not generating enough new jobs, outlook to be for 2017 and development and retention.
We offer a clearly needs training around the content what do you consider to be competitive remuneration package, we of their calls to ensure success.
This run executive coaching schemes, internal benefits us as a Group but also benefits your biggest challenge?
and external mentor programmes, 360 the consultants through increased degree feedback assessments, Personal remuneration and improved skills.
It is clear that there are a number of Development Plan development and macro-economic challenges in a number LinkedIn is another significant channel for a Global Directors Academy in which of our larger markets and the current us to acquire candidates and clients, as we partner with an external leadership cycle is proving to be unpredictable well as an opportunity to build awareness development company.
In particular, in 2016 we and affinity for our brands.
Technology, is designed so that we can develop our experienced tough trading conditions in including CV boards and networks like current consultants into the leaders of a number of our markets such as New LinkedIn, has driven a perception that tomorrow.
We also have an international York Financial Services, the UK, Greater everyone has equal access to every mobility programme where we have China and Brazil.
We have very limited candidate.
Our skill at PageGroup is grown our business with confidence visibility on the economic outlook, but we putting the human initiative and contact through moving some of our most will continue to focus on driving profitable back into that process, which is crucial talented employees to new locations for growth, as we have throughout 2016. in such a candidate driven market.
We know more about our candidates I am confident that we have the best than any publicly available data ever management team in place to guide the will: their motivations: requirements: Group through the current economic skills: personality: culture: style: image uncertainty.
We have reduced the and desires.
