Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Chief Executives Committee In addition to the Royal Mail plc Board, the ChiefExecutives Committee manages the key strategies of the Group with an overall framework of financial risk and business controls to meet the needs of stakeholders.
Moya Greene Matthew Lester Stephen Agar Rico Back Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Managing Director, Consumer Chief Executive Officer, GLS and Network Access See Our Board of Directors Current role See Our Board of Directors Appointed Chief Executive Officer on pages 4345.
Current role on pages 4345. of GLS in October 1999.
Appointed Managing Director, Consumer and Network Access in Previous work history October 2011.
Founding manager of German Responsible for the regulated Parcel in 1989, which was acquired letters business both USO by the Group in 1999. andAccess.
Previous work history A barrister who started his career in the Government Legal Service before moving .
Maaike fide Bie Jack Bertram Stephen Cameron Mick Jeavons General Counsel Managing Director, Strategy, Deputy Chief Operations Officer Chief of Staff Pricing and Growth Current role Current role Current role Appointed General Counsel in Appointed DCOO in August 2015 Appointed Chief of Staff in Current role April2016.
Appointed Managing Director, Strategy Director.
Strategy, Pricing and Growth in Previous work history Previous work history January 2016.
Joined Royal Mail in January 2014 Mick is a chartered accountant Previous work history and appointed Acting General and has performed a wide range Joined Royal Mail in 1985 and has Previous work history Counsel in September2015.
of senior roles in Royal Mail, most worked across all aspects of the Partner at McKinsey & Previously General Counsel for recently as Corporate Finance operation notably as Operations, Company focused on strategy, the EMEA division of GE Capital Director responsible for Group Process and Programme Director transformation and growth in Commercial Distribution France, Investment, Procurement and and Territory Director.
travel, post and logistics sectors.
a financial services unit of the the UK Finance teams.
Previous Successfully led the initial phase General Electric Company.
to this he was Group Financial of Royal Mails comprehensive Controller and Finance Director of Has held other senior international transformation programme GroupProperty.
legal roles at the European across UK operations.
Bank for Reconstruction and Stephen is a Fellow of the Development, Ernst & Young LLP Association of Project Managers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 47 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executives Committee Jon Millidge Mike Newnham Shane O'Riordain Stuart Simpson Group HR Director Chief Customer Officer Managing Director, Director, Group Finance Communications & Regulation Current role Current role Current role Appointed Group HR Director in Appointed Chief Customer Officer Appointed Director of Group Current role February 2014. in March 2012.
Appointed Managing Director, Communications in Pension Scheme Trustee Joined the Royal Mail Group in 2009 Previous work history November2010.
of the Royal Mail Defined and was appointed as Deputy Chief Led the Consumer division of ContributionPlan.
responsibility for Strategy and in Prior to this, he was running Previous work history Prior to that held a number 2014, Regulation and Pricing.
Operations for the West Region of Joined Royal Mail in 1985 as a of executive board positions the UK and was Finance Director of Previous work history graduate and has worked across atOrange.
Director of Communications for a number of the businesses within Royal Mail Group.
Previous work history the Group.
Worked in the automotive industry Held a number of Group Previously Company Secretary for 15 years with senior roles in Communications Director from May 2010 to February 2014 Finance and Strategy, the last 10 of positions in the banking and and prior to that was the Acting which were based outside theUK.
financial sector at Lloyds Group HR Director.
Banking Group, HBOS, Halifax andFlemings.
Sue Whalley Chief Operations Officer Current role Joined Royal Mail in 2006 and was appointed Chief Operations Officer in January 2014.
Responsible for leading the next phase of the transformation in Operations, with specific focus on further development of safety, quality, efficiency, culture andinnovation.
Previously, as Regulation and Government Affairs Director, led the programme for privatisation.
Previous work history Consultant at McKinsey & Company for 17 years, the last six of which were as a partner.
48 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16
