Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Our performance 1 Group revenue increased by one per cent.
GLS revenue growth of nine per cent offset a one per cent reduction in UKPIL revenue.
As a result of our strategic focus on costs 2 across the Group, adjusted Group operating profit before transformation costs was 742million.
Transformation costs were 191million due to our accelerated efficiency programme.
This led to a decline of 10basis points in the adjusted Group operating profit margin after transformation costs to 6.0per cent.
Inyear trading cash flow of 254million was 61 million lower than the prioryear, reflecting higher investment spend in 201516.
Our strategy We have a plan in place to help us protect our core business and grow in new areas.
We are responding to our changing environment by updating our strategic priorities.
They are underpinned by putting the customer at the heart of everything wedo.
Our strategic priorities are: Winning in parcels: Defending letters: and Growing in new areas.
Enabled by: Chief Executive Officers Strategic focus on costs: Technology and innovation: and review An engaged and motivated workforce.
See pages 16-17 for more information.
We have delivered a resilient performance in challenging Winning in parcels markets.
We are continuing to deliver service We are the UKs leading parcels carrier.
Our scale as the Universal Service Provider improvements and product innovations to meet means that businesses selling goods customer needs.
We are stepping up our investment in online can operate just as effectively from a village in rural North Wales as a business growth, to ensure we are agile and responsive in our in the centre of London.
We provide a vital fast-changing market place.
delivery network that, in particular, supports consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises SMEs.
1 All movements are on an underlying basis unless Moya Greene otherwise stated.
Underlying change is calculated Chief Executive Officer after adjusting for movements in foreign exchange in 18 May 2016 GLS, working days in UKPIL and other oneoff items that distort the Groups underlying performance.
Forvolumes, underlying movements are adjusted for working days in UKPIL and exclude elections in lettervolumes 2 All adjusted results are a nonIFRS measure and exclude specific items.
The commentary in this report, unless specified otherwise, focuses on the operating results on an adjusted basis.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by Management and reported to the Board and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the results of theGroup Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 07 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officers review 5 Competitive marketplaces Group, now accounts for around five per cent We have a range of international delivery The UK parcels market remains one of the of UKPIL parcel revenue.
options designed to make exporting as most competitive in Europe.
We estimate that simple and cost effective as possible, as part 3 the total blended market volume of parcel UKPIL parcel volume growth of three per cent of the Governments Exporting is GREAT 4 deliveries in the UK will grow at four per cent was driven by growth in import, Royal Mail campaign.
International postage can now per annum in the mediumterm.
However, account and Parcelforce Worldwide, where also be purchased through Click & Drop, we estimate that annual addressable market volumes increased by 12 per cent.
Excluding our easy to use online postage service.
volume growth will be impacted depending Amazon volumes, total Royal Mail account We have expanded this service across more on the expansion of Amazon Logistics.
parcel volumes increased by seven per cent.
Royal This growth more than offset the effects of Mail International Tracked & Signed is now In the consumer SME segment, competition the competitive environment in consumer available in 54 destinations.
Increased collection, SME and export parcels.
Parcel revenue delivery and return options are giving increased by one per cent, due to the impact We have extended our strategic service with consumers more choice.
We have introduced of this mix.
Alibaba, linking Chinese exporters with UK a wide range of initiatives to maintain our online shoppers, and allowing them to supply preeminent position in this segment.
We are Our European parcels carrier, GLS, delivered goods for UK delivery much more quickly.
seeing an improvement in the volume trend revenue growth in almost all of its markets.
We have increased the number of brands on through these channels.
Growth continues to be fuelled by increasing the Tmall shop front to 34 since we launched crossborder trade, driven by eretail.
Large retailers are seeking new fulfilment channels by building or expanding delivery Adding value by improving our Winning in parcels: key points and or collection networks, cutting other products and services delivery operators out of the value chain.
Pursuing faster growing areas of the We are becoming more flexible to suit Carriers are bringing new capacity online, UK and international markets: the needs of our sending and receiving which is putting pressure on prices.
We are Adding value by improving our customers.
For example, we have extended also seeing growth in the use of disruptive products and services: and latest acceptance times in our Mail Centres technologies and fastgrowing delivery and RDCs for our Tracked 24 48 products, Expanding and automating our options, albeit from a low base.
Royal Mail reflecting customer demand.
is performing well in the account parcels segment.
We have won new contracts with We are expanding the support we offer to key John Lewis Partnership, Urban Group, M&S Pursuing faster growing areas business customers and online marketplace and Waterstones.
New contract wins have traders, including eBay sellers.
In October ofthe UK and international more than offset lost Amazon volumes, and 2015, we launched and have subsequently markets we are seeing some uptrading to higher extended a trial of doorstep collections in revenue tracked services.
We are successfully targeting the faster North West England.
This service offers growing areas of the UK parcels market marketplace sellers and SMEs next day International markets are intensely and are developing initiatives to address parcel collection from their address.
Around competitive, with UK market dynamics the impact of increased competition in the 300 sellers are participating in the trial.
increasingly replicated in international, consumer SME and export markets.
International accounts We have reduced our prices for Second Class for 19per cent of UKPIL parcel volumes and We are increasing our capability, where medium parcels under two kilograms and we 18per cent of revenue.
We saw a reduction appropriate, to handle larger parcels.
Leeds are maintaining the online price of small and in export volumes during the year.
We have Mail Centre is piloting a mechanised parcel medium parcels for 201617. spent a significant amount of time developing conveyor that can safely, and more efficiently, strategies to address this.
However, it handle larger parcels a growing segment of We are working with Post Office Limited to remains a key strategic focus for the next our parcels mix.
includes more Post Office branches being Our returns volumes have grown by open for longer, and on Sundays, and our Our performance 24per cent this year.
We are improving and expanded Local Collect network.
Local Our broad customer base means that we extending our Tracked Returns service Collect is the largest UK network of click and are less exposed to the actions of our to contract customers, including eBay collect locations.
It has been extended to larger customers than some of our peers.
We are also growing our business Enquiry Offices to create a network of more Our largest parcels customer, the Amazon with existing customers, such as ASOS.
Royal Mail Local Collect has more collection points across the UK We are developing initiatives to address than the next two largest competitor click the impact of increased competition in and collect networks combined.
In February 2016, 3 Internal estimate based on Triangle Management Parcelforce Worldwide extended its tracked Services RMG Fulfilment Market Measure 2014 : Expanding and automating globalpriority return service to retailers defined as individually addressed parcels and ournetworks packets, generated and delivered in the UK, weighing sending items to Australia, which is the up to 30kg, that do not require special handling.
first country outside the EU to benefit from Parcel automation is one of the next stages Includes access fulfilment large letters & parcels and this express returns service.
The service is on our transformation journey.
The first excludes click and collect, sameday, small local currently available in 18 countries.
parcel sortation machine has been installed operators and all international traffic.
Includes Amazon Logistics and other retailers in Swindon.
The rollout to further sites will owndeliverynetworks continue over the next two years.
4 5 Based on Verdict UK Eretail survey and RMG Amazon Group includes Amazon Logistics, Lovefilm marketinsight and Book Depository 08 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information We are working with our customers to put consumers are now realising the value and 2D barcodes on as many parcels as possible.
opportunities of retaining mail as a customer Nearly 100 per cent of parcel volumes communications channel.
through the Post Office network now use Royal Mail 2D barcodes.
Around 50 per cent Marketing mail revenue is important for our Promoting the value of all our UKPIL parcels now carry a barcode business it provides access to revenue of direct mail and onethird can be tracked by customers in pools to support the delivery of the Universal some way.
Through our MarketReach business, we are increasing awareness of the value GLS is setting new standards in the German of advertising mail, through campaigns like parcels market.
Together with DPD and MAILMEN see case study.
Hermes, it has founded ParcelLock GmbH, which operates carrierneutral parcel boxes We are launching MailshotMaker, a new for private customers.
With the secure parcel online tool that enables SMEs to design and box system, delivery operators can leave implement direct mail campaigns.
We have items in the parcel box for the customer also launched a new digital stamp indicia for to pick up.
GLS FlexDeliveryService is business customers.
They can now add high continuing to rollout and is now available in quality, fullcolour printed versions of some 13 countries.
of Royal Mail Special Stamps range and our iconic blue Second Class stamp to their Defending letters business mailings.
We intend to extend the Addressed letter volumes decreased by three range of designs available over time.
per cent better than our forecast range of a 46 per cent decline per annum due to the Royal Mails stamp prices are amongst the oneoff return of direct delivery volumes.
In February 2016, weannounced price increases of one penny Marketing mail revenue was flat.
This for First Class and Second Class consumer follows growth of three per cent in the first stamps.
We carefully considered the impact Tess Macleod Smith, vice president of six months and reflects a slowing in UK on our customers and our business before publishing and media at NetaPorter economic activity.
Direct mail is the fourth deciding to apply the lowest possible increase on making the companys print largest advertising medium in the UK.
We believe these magazine, Porter, shoppable.
Overall, UK direct mail advertising spend changes are necessary to help ensure the grew one per cent during 2015, the first sustainability of the Universal Service.
increase in four years, while print advertising Eightyfive per cent of our core 6 media declined 11 per cent.
Optimising mail handling audience who are devoted digital We continue to implement processes to shoppers say that print is the number ensure that mail is handled as efficiently one influencer in telling them what to Defending letters: key points as possible.
We have improved large letter buy and from where.
Promoting the value of mail: sorting machines and will be upgrading Optimising mail handling to increase Optical Character Reading technology to sort Porter is sent out in the post to our efficiency: and more mail automatically.
We began a pilot highest spenders.
These days, many to optimise the processing of mail through of us simply dont have time to go to a Participating in Ofcoms consultation our collection hubs, working closely with newsstand, so mail is the best medium on the Fundamental Regulatory our unions.
Our Bristol and Jubilee Mail for reach as well as impact.
In a world Review, to ensure the provision of Centres will handle this preprocessed mail of convenience and online shopping, the Universal Service in the UK.
allowing us to streamline the sorting and having things delivered directly to us is trunking process.
Promoting the value of mail Regulation We use direct mail because we Since 2005, Ofcom has tracked consumer We await the publication of Ofcoms know it works we invested in two ratings of value for money in eight sectors.
proposals under the Fundamental Regulatory very successful campaigns in the Postal services and delivery is the only sector Review.
We will actively participate in the UK and US this year and they can to see an increase in customers perception consultation process.
be directly attributed to an uplift in of value for money from 2005 to 2015.
The Keep Me Posted campaign aims to The mag, like mail, is a great give every consumer the right to choose, acquisition tool.
We know that once without disadvantage, how they are someone is a subscriber to Porter, they contacted by companies.
To date, 10 visit the site 25percent more often service providers have been awarded a and spend 120per cent more with us.
Keep Me Posted Mark of Distinction the Youcant argue with figures like that.
most recent recipients being Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Ulster Bank, which have a combined customer base of around 16 million.
Thismeans these 6 WARC UK expenditure report, April 2016.
Data from January to December 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 09 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officers review Growing in new areas of 2.4 per cent, within our 2.03.0 per cent that Royal Mail has been named in The Times target range.
This builds on a productivity Top 50 Employers for Women 2015, for Growing in new areas: key points improvement of 2.5 per cent in 201415 and our commitment to gender equality in the 1.7 per cent in 201314. workplace, for the second consecutive year.
Making the most of our existingassets: With more than 47,000 vehicles on the road, Through our Together for Growth programme, Targeted investments to build our we have the biggest fleet in the UK.
New driver over 6,000 managers and union representatives presence in growing areas of the technology has been installed in approximately took part in joint training over a 16 month market: and 13,000 small, highmileage vans.
The new period from July 2014 to October 2015. technology promotes better driving behaviour, The programme was designed jointly with Becoming a digital organisation and keeping them safe and reducing fuel usage Communication Workers Union CWU and building ecommerce capability.
Unite CMA and is one of the UKs largest ever investments in this form of training.
As part of our focus on growth, we are We are extending Collections on Delivery, seeking ways to generate more value from by which our postmen and women collect Royal Mail takes its Quality of Service very our existing assets.
The UK vehicle service, letters from lowvolume postboxes.
We are extremely disappointed maintenance and repair market is estimated Alongside this, a nationwide review of our that our full year regulatory First Class 7 to be worth around 3.4 billion per annum.
national and regional routes will help us to performance of 92.5 per cent narrowly We have around 100 fleet workshops that are reduce mileage.
missed the 93.0 per cent target.
We again expert in vehicle maintenance services.
We are exceeded our Second Class target, with a conducting a pilot offering third parties access Technology and innovation performance of 98.8 per cent.
We are strengthening our technology backbone so that we can support our We are committed to delivering a high We are launching a new app Swapshots objectives to win in parcels, defend letters Quality of Service while seeking to become which aims to capture growth in the printed and grow in new areas.
In doing so, we actively image market.
Royal Mail is believed to be review the absorbable rate of change and the first European postal operator to launch In parcels, we have begun the rollout of the appropriate balance between quality an app of this kind.
Swapshots integrates 76,000 new PDAs across our operation.
In the second half of the year, digital technology, printing and delivery These handheld devices provide management we increased the already very considerable in order to print, post and deliver photos data through functions like the scanning of resources deployed to improve our delivery within three days.
Theapp will sit alongside 2D barcodes, and the capture of signatures performance.
Mallzee, the personal shopping app which on delivery.
Three thousand finger scanners aggregates inventory from over 150 fashion have already been introduced across our Mail We note that Ofcom is launching an brands, as part of Royal Mails growing Centres and RDCs.
With better management investigation into our Quality of Service for digital portfolio.
information, we can benefit from more 201516.
We believe the full year outcome accurate billing for the services we provide was impacted by events outside our control.
We are also targeting higher growth areas.
These include Cyber Week, which this In particular, we are looking to leverage Customers will enjoy easier signature capture year fell outside the Christmas exemption GLS expertise and reach and to strengthen and, in time, better tracking information.
period, and significant disruption in parts partnerships with marketplaces, eretailers and of the network due to poor weather and other operators.
In March 2016, we acquired In our letters business, we are continuing road closures.
Royal Mail believes that if the Intersoft, a provider of carrier management the rollout of Mailmark, which provides 201516 performance was adjusted for these software for international parcel shipments.
barcode technology and onlinereporting for two factors, an additional 0.31 per cent would This complements the purchases of machinereadable business, advertising and be added to the 92.5 per cent performance.
data management and labelling provider publishing mail.
Over three billion letters have We are asking Ofcom to take these issues NetDespatch and delivery software developer now been sent using Royal Mail Mailmark into consideration.
Storefeeder, further enhancing our inhouse and around 50 per cent of machinereadable IT capabilities.
mail currently carries the Mailmark barcode.
At Royal Mail, we strive to deliver a consistently We are targeting 90 per cent of suitable high quality, value for money service.
While Strategic focus on costs letters by 201617. our performance improved in two out of our 9 Becoming more efficient and productive allows four main complaint categories, we were us to be more competitive.
This, in turn, helps We are focusing on improving our customer disappointed to see that an increase in other us to grow our existing customer relationships experience by rolling out improved complaint categories offset this.
It helps to fund technologies across our network.
We have investment in our growth and maintain our fair deployed the 'ServicePointSystem' We take complaints seriously and have terms and conditions for our people.
online bookingin tool to 460 Enquiry developed a root cause approach to Offices.
Thetool allows colleagues to complaints management.
This helps us UKPIL operating costs before transformation locate customers items quickly and easily, to resolve customer issues quickly, while costs declined by one per cent, in line with providing a faster service.
We have avoided around this, there is also a focus on first time 180 million in operating costs during the Engaged and motivated delivery within our operation and constantly 8 year.
We achieved productivity improvements driving improved performance in our workforce operational units.
We are making it as easy Our people are at the heart of our continued 7 Estimate based on analysis performed by OC&C success.
We want our workforce to reflect 9 Strategy Consultants Redirections, redeliveries, misdeliveries and 8 the communities we serve.
We are pleased Collections, processing and delivery in UKPIL 'Something For You' cards.
Performance improved in corenetwork 'Something For You' and redirection complaints 10 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information as possible for customers to receive their around 160 million currently expected in parcels through services such as Delivery to 201617.
We expect that the rate of revenue growth in GLS will slow in 201617, given the We are tackling other complaints through particularly strong performance this year.
our Operations Standards, which give us Competitive pressures continue to intensify in a standard approach to key processes and our key markets, such as Germany.
These Standards are split into four key categories safety, quality, efficiency and We have invested heavily over the last five people helping us to work more efficiently years in rebuilding our legacy IT systems and and consistently across the business.
We expect to keep total net investment spend, which includes Customer and You, a twoyear programme replacement and growth capital expenditure which completed in March 2016, modernised and the cash cost of transformation, net our Enquiry Offices to create more welcoming of operational asset disposals, within the and wellmaintained environments, improved range of 550600 million per annum in and standardised processes to ensure greater the mediumterm.
Within this we will be consistency in quality across sites and targeting an increased skew towards projects equipped our people with more customer facing and initiatives supporting growth.
We completed Customer and You training We remain focused on our inyear trading for a total of 3,980 employees, exceeding our cash flow, which underpins our commitment overall target of 3,500. to a progressive dividend policy.
Subject to shareholders approving the final Thank you dividend, eligible employees with a maximum 2016 commemorates 500 years since HenryVIII allocation of 832 Free Shares will have knighted Brian Tuke, the first Master of the received dividend payments of over 430 by Posts, in 1516.
This act was the first step in 29 July 2016. the creation of the Royal Mail.
The history of the postal service in the UK reflects the Outlook tremendous societal and political change that Our outlook for UK letter and parcel market has taken us from sixteenth century Tudor trends remains unchanged.
However, we England to the United Kingdom of today.
will need to meet the challenges caused by slowing economic growth, the current low We are proud to celebrate the heritage of inflationary environment, and continuing this great Company.
Against this backdrop of developments in the highly competitive continued change, Royal Mail's people have markets in which we operate.
In particular, been a constant presence.
They are the heart in the first three months of 201617 we will of this Company.
I hope that, through them, be lapping the impact of elections in letter we will continue to deliver the Universal revenue in the prior period.
Service and play an instrumental role in Our cost avoidance programme in UKPIL is peoples lives for many years to come.
on track and we expect to avoid a similar level of costs in 201617 as the prior year.
We continue to target avoiding around 500millon of annualised costs, cumulative over the three financial years to 201718.
Moya Greene Chief Executive Officer That said, we have additional challenges to 18 May 2016 manage in the coming year, in particular the negotiation of pay and pensions, while maintaining the climate of positive engagement with our people that we have created over the past five years.
We will continue to seek opportunities to drive efficiency across the organisation such that transformation costs are likely to be above the previously indicated range of 120140 million per annum over the period of the cost avoidance programme, with During 500 years of the postal service, new ways of working have been embraced to deliver mail faster and more efficiently.
com 500years to find out more.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 11
