SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 Chief Executives Review Delivering on the strategy In 2016, SEGRO has delivered strong operating metrics, a record year for development and a strengthened financial structure.
It is well placed to thrive in 2017 and beyond, despite some of the macro uncertainties.
David Sleath Chief Executive Strategic Report 23 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our Goal 1 2 Disciplined Capital Operational 3 Allocation Excellence Efficient capital and corporate structure Fundamental to our strategy are three key pillars The combination of these three elements should Our strategy is to create a portfolio of activity which should combine to deliver an translate into sustainable, attractive returns for of high quality big box and urban attractive, income-led total property return: our shareholders in the form of progressive warehouses in the strongest dividends and net asset value growth over time.
markets which generates attractive, 1 Our goal is to be the best owner-manager and low risk, income-led returns with developer of warehouse properties in Europe Disciplined Capital Allocation: picking the and a leading income-focused REIT.
above average rental and capital right markets and assets to create the right Our portfolio comprises modern big box and growth when market conditions portfolio shape by actively managing the urban warehouses which are well specified and portfolio composition and adapting our capital are positive, and is resilient in a located, with good sustainability credentials, deployment according to our assessment of the downturn.
We seek to enhance and which should benefit from a low structural property cycle.
void rate and relatively low-intensity asset returns through development, management requirements.
Our assets are while ensuring that the short-term 2 concentrated in the strongest European subincome drag associated with markets which display attractive property market Operational Excellence: optimising performance characteristics, including good growth prospects, holding land does not outweigh from the portfolio through dedicated customer limited supply availability and where we already the long-term potential benefits.
service, expert asset management, development have, or can achieve, critical mass.
3 Efficient capital and corporate structure: we aim to underpin the property level returns from our portfolio with a lean overhead structure and appropriate financial leverage through the cycle.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 24 Chief Executives Review Disciplined Capital Allocation Owning the right properties in the right places Disposals: What to expect in 2017 Acquiring high quality What we said we would do We will continue to identify assets for disposal warehouse assets in Europe where we believe that the expected risk-adjusted in2016 We acquired 90 million of assets during the returns from retaining them are less appealing We expected to acquire less in 2016 than year at an average topped-up net initial yield of than the returns offered by other investment in 2015, taking advantage instead of the 6.3 per cent.
opportunities, not least by those from investing strengthening occupier market and lack of in our own development pipeline.
We will Our acquisition activities which, as expected, modern, well-located space to accelerate balance disposal activity with appropriate were lower than in 2015, have focused on development activity.
investment in line with our goal to generate a building scale in our newer geographies, growing and resilient income stream.
including big box and urban warehouses in What we achieved in 2016 the major logistics and urban markets of Spain We invested 547 million in our portfolio, Asset value appreciation reflects Barcelona and Madrid and Northern Italy.
of which 16 per cent was in acquisitions, returns from asset management with the remainder in developing new We also acquired 155 million of development in a stable yield environment assets and adding to our land bank for land which is discussed under Enhancing future development.
Values of UK commercial real estate fell in the growth through development on page 29. months immediately after the EU referendum Acquisitions: What to expect in 2017 What to expect in 2017 but the impact was relatively minor for industrial We will continue to undertake asset acquisitions, assets compared to other real estate sectors.
Investor demand for high quality assets and preferably on an off-market basis, where we Pricing has recently shown signs of improving land remains competitive so we expect to believe we can add value.
Competition for and investment volumes recovered strongly continue to focus our investment activities high quality warehouse properties remains in the fourth quarter of 2016 after a lull in the mainly on developing new assets than on strong so we expect to focus our investment on third quarter.
Investor demand for big box acquiring existing ones.
developing new assets, as we did in 2016. warehouses in Continental Europe held up well throughout the year and pricing in some regions Disposing of non-strategic assets has continued to improve, amid a generally We received gross proceeds of 565 million and benign economic environment, favourable 24 million from disposals of assets and land structural trends driving occupier demand and respectively, reflecting an average 2.7 per cent yields which remain attractive compared to low premium to 31 December 2015 book values.
The asset sales reflect an average topped-up The Groups property portfolio totalled initial yield of 5.9 per cent.
6.3 billion 8.0 billion of assets under Our disposal activity during the year focused management at 31 December 2016. on selling non-strategic assets to third parties, The portfolio valuation, including completed including the 325 million Bath Road office assets, buildings under construction and land, portfolio in the UK and a number of more increased by 4.8 per cent on a like-for-like management-intensive industrial estates in the basis adjusted for capital expenditure and Our modern portfolio is UK and Germany.
asset recycling during the year.
This comprises located in the right places a 4.5percent increase in the value of our Within the disposals were 179 million of completed properties, a 7.6 per cent increase in for our customers to be wholly-owned Continental Europe big box the value of properties under development and warehouses which we sold to the SEGRO within easy reach of their an 11.5 per cent increase in the value of our land European Logistics Partnership SELP joint bank.
The valuation was also impacted by a rise customers and workforce.
venture SEGRO has a 50 per cent interest in stamp duty taxes in both the UK and France in SELP so the disposal is treated as a sale of during the year.
50 per cent of the assets in the total disposals Phil Redding figure.
Under the terms of the joint venture, we The largest component of the uplift in the Chief Investment offer SELP the Continental European big box value of our land bank was the increase in Officer warehouses which have either been bought or the value of a former industrial estate in West developed by SEGRO.
SELP has the option but London which we have committed to sell to a not the obligation to buy these assets.
We expect this transaction a number of such assets which would be suitable to complete before the end of the first quarter for future sale to SELP and we intend to offer of 2017. these for sale to the joint venture during 2017.
Strategic Report 25 Overview Governance Financial Statements The UK completed portfolio including assets Valuations: What to expect in 2017 Unrealised gains and losses on portfolio 1 held throughout the year, assets acquired While investor demand for high quality millions and like-for-like value change % during the year and developments completed warehouses in core urban and transport excluding capital expenditure during the year was the strongest component locations remains strong, it also remains 9.4% 3.2% 1.1% 2.8% 0.6% 4.8% of performance, delivering a 5.6 per cent selective on pricing and quality.
We expect 250 valuation uplift 2015: 13.1 per cent, despite the to add value through active management rise in stamp duty on commercial properties of our existing assets and development.
during the year, outperforming the MSCI-IPD 200 Prime yields continue to appear attractive UK Industrial Quarterly Index which increased compared to government risk-free bond by 2.0percent.
This outperformance reflects yields, enhanced by the prospect of rental the high quality of our portfolio and the 150 growth to come, although this should be continued impact of our asset management considered in the context of heightened initiatives across the business.
The capital political and economic uncertainty.
return on our UK portfolio was driven by the 100 combination of a 4.7percent improvement in estimated rental values 2015: 4.4 per cent and a 17.5 per cent increase in the value of 50 completed developments.
The equivalent yield on the portfolio improved to 5.6percent 0 31 December 2015: 5.8per cent.
Greater Thames Northern Southern Central Total London Valley & Europe Europe Europe National In Continental Europe, the completed portfolio Logistics value increased by 2.0 per cent during 2016 2015: 7.9 per cent.
The portfolio equivalent 1 P ercentage change relates to the whole portfolio including completed properties, development and land.
yield improved to 6.6 per cent 31 December 2015: 6.8 per cent, while rental values posted a modest positive return of 0.3 per cent after a 0.9per cent decline in 2015.
This reflected broadly stable rental values for big box warehouses across our geographies and some signs of improvement in our modern urban warehouses, particularly in Germany.
The Continental European developments we completed during the year increased in value by20 per cent.
More details of our property portfolio can be found in Note 15 to the financial statements and in the 2016 Property Analysis Report available at www.
Acquisitions completed in 2016 Disposals completed in 2016 Purchase price Net initial Topped-up net Disposal proceeds Net initial Topped-up net Asset Type m, SEGRO share yield % initial yield % Asset Type m, SEGRO share yield % initial yield % Big box logistics 82.6 6.2 6.2 Big box logistics 103.5 5.4 5.4 Urban warehousing 7.4 7.0 7.0 Light industrial 112.8 4.6 5.4 3 Land 155.1 n a n a Higher value use buildings 349.1 5.6 6.2 Acquisitions completed Land 24.0 n a n a 2 2 in2016 245.1 6.3 6.3 2 2 Disposals completed in 2016 589.4 5.4 5.9 1 Excluding acquisition costs.
3 Land acquisitions are discussed in Future Development Projects.
Unrealised gains and losses millions SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 Chief Executives Review Operational Excellence Optimising performance through customer focus, active asset management and development rents are broadly stable.
In Central Europe, Improving returns from our headline rents are stable but competition for Optimising the existing assets pre-let agreements has caused incentive levels to At 31 December 2016, our portfolio comprised rise.
Importantly, we do not see any evidence of performance of two main asset types: urban warehouses and big oversupply in any of our markets.
The demand-supply dynamics our portfolio Growing rental income from letting differ, varying by both type and by geography.
existing space and new developments What we said we would do Urban warehouses account for 54 per cent During 2016, we contracted new leases and of our portfolio value and are used for a wide in2016 pre-let agreements totalling 44.9 million variety of purposes, including light industrial, of headline rent 2015: 39.3 million.
We continued to focus on generating urban distribution particularly last mile We generated 16.1 million from leases on rent roll growth from standing assets and delivery and data centres, by a wide variety existing space, offset by 14.1 million of rent development while also managing and, of businesses, united by the need to be close lost from space returned to us, resulting in where possible, reducing the cost base.
to both their customers and their workforce.
net take-up of 2.0 million of existing space They are located mainly on the edges of 2015: 5.2 million.
What we achieved in 2016 London, Paris, Dsseldorf, Berlin and Warsaw, We are reporting another year of strong Additionally, we contracted 27.1 million of where land supply is most restricted and operating metrics, including rent roll growth rent from letting up developments completed demand for warehouse space is strongest.
of 2.0 million on standing assets, a low during 2016 of which 21.7 million was agreed The supply shortage is most apparent in London vacancy rate of 5.7 per cent, a cost ratio of in prior years and 23.4 million from prewhere industrial land is being lost, in particular, 23.0 per cent, and 79 per cent of customers let agreements.
to infrastructure projects and residential rated us good or excellent.
The Greater London Authority Our customers represent a wide range of issued a report during the year forecasting that industries, allowing us to avoid over-reliance on What to expect in 2017 one-third of Londons industrial land will be lost any single sector or individual customer.
Our top We expect positive rent roll growth in 2017 over the next 25 years.
The combination of this 20 customers represent 27 per cent of our rent although driven more by development lack of land and strong demand from businesses roll, and our largest customer represents completions than by standing assets due needing warehousing to service their customers 4.8 per cent.
to the limited amount of vacancy in the is manifesting itself in improving lease terms and portfolio.
We expect to make progress on Take-up reflects the economic and structural higher rental values.
reducing the cost ratio towards our target of trends in our major markets, with 35 per cent Big box warehouses, classed as those over 20 per cent of gross rents, mainly reflecting of new rent from parcel delivery companies and 10,000 sq m in size, account for 40 per cent the growing size of the portfolio.
third party logistics providers, while retailers and of our portfolio value.
These are focused on manufacturers accounted for 16 per cent and the major logistics hubs and corridors in the 18 per cent respectively.
UK South-East and Midlands regions, France Changes in the rent roll from our standing the logistics spine linking Lille, Paris, Lyon and assets is influenced by three main factors: rent Marseille, Germany Dsseldorf, Berlin, Leipzig agreed at rent reviews and lease renewals, the and Hamburg and Poland Warsaw, dz and We focus our development portfolios vacancy rate and space returned Poznan.
Overall operating performance is also activities in micro locations Although occupier demand is healthy across dependent on pre-let agreements, lease terms ofstrongest demand for, and all of our markets, the availability of land and agreed and operating cost efficiencies.
These are limited supply of, modern competition for customers outside the UK examined in more detail opposite.
means that new supply of big box warehousing warehouse properties.
Asset management: What to expect often keeps pace with demand, resulting in in 2017 limited rental growth.
We expect rent roll growth from standing assets Andy Gulliford In the UK, the availability of high quality big to remain positive in 2017.
Our vacancy rate will Chief Operating box warehousing in core logistics locations continue to be impacted by the completion of Officer has been particularly low and this has resulted speculatively developed space but the higher in significant rental growth over the past two level of pre-let developments should ensure years.
Speculative development has increased that it remains within our range of between over the past year, although we believe this has 5 and 7 per cent.
We will continue to focus slowed in the aftermath of the EU referendum.
on maintaining an efficient cost base.
In Continental Europe, there is some speculative construction underway but big box logistics Strategic Report 27 Overview Governance Financial Statements Rent reviews and lease Portfolio vacancy Space returned on lease We aim to keep vacancy low: not only do renewals termination vacant buildings earn no rent, but they also In the UK, most of our leases over five years While we work hard to retain our customers, cost us money in terms of insuring and in length are subject to five yearly, upwardsinevitably some will choose to leave our securing them and, in the UK, we must pay only rent reviews: if market rent levels for a properties.
In most cases, we are able to business rates on empty space.
We measure particular property and location are higher anticipate the vacation and will work to re-lease vacancy based on our valuers Estimated Rental than the rent being paid, the rent payable the building as soon as possible thereafter.
Every building, whether occupied is adjusted upwards: if market rents are In some cases, the return of a building may or not, has a rental value.
Our vacancy rate lower, then the rent payable is maintained.
offer us the opportunity to refurbish it and is calculated by dividing the ERV of vacant In Continental Europe, indexation provisions let it out at a higher rent.
We employ an buildings by the ERV of our whole portfolio.
apply on an annual basis and can, in limited independent company to carry out an annual A small number of our buildings may be cases, cause rents to fall.
Where a customer survey of our customers to give them a formal subject to short-term leases less than one renews a lease, the rent is subject to full opportunity to provide feedback on our year where we are preparing them for negotiation.
Rent changes on review in the customer service and to let us know what we redevelopment or where a customer wants UK only and renewal are a good indication do well and where we need to improve.
We treat this short-term space of rental trends as they involve the same Retention rate of 75 per cent as being occupied but also disclose a vacancy customer and the same building.
We calculate During the year, space equating to rate including short-term space.
the change based on headline rents 14.1 million 2015: 14.1 million of excluding incentives.
Vacancy remains low at 5.7 per cent headline rent was returned to us, including The vacancy rate at 31 December 2016 was Uplift of 5.4 per cent 1.4 million of rent lost due to insolvency 5.7 per cent 31 December 2015: 4.8 per cent, Rents improved in our UK markets, especially 2015: 1.3 million.
We retained 75 per cent of which approximately a quarter represents in London and South-East England.
During the of rent at risk from break or expiry during speculative developments completed in 2015 year, new headline rents on review and the year 2015: 68 per cent.
The increase in the vacancy rate renewal were 6.4 per cent higher in the UK in 26.1 million of rent is at risk from lease was primarily the result of a higher level of tandem with an improvement in lease terms break or expiry and, at 31 December 2016, speculative development completions during and 0.1 per cent lower in our Continental customers in administration represented the year and the expected take-back of a large European portfolio.
In Continental Europe, 0.4 million of annualised rent 31 December UK warehouse in November which added 0.8 higher rents on renewal in our Southern 2015: 0.3 million.
percentage points to the rate.
Treating shortEurope portfolio were offset by lower rents in 79 per cent of customers rated us good or term lettings as vacant space would increase Central Europe from lease renewals due to excellent in our annual customer survey, the vacancy rate to 6.3 per cent 31 December greater competition for customers.
a welcome improvement from 2015 2015: 6.3 per cent.
We continually seek to improve during the year was lower, at 5.2 per cent our customer service and the survey is a useful compared to 6.5 per cent in 2015.
We target tool to direct our focus.
a vacancy rate of between 5 and 7 per cent to allow for temporary volatility arising from the timing of speculative development completions and take-backs of space.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 28 Chief Executives Review Operational Excellence continued Overall lease terms Rents from new pre-let Cost efficiencies We aim to maintain an efficient cost base.
incentives and lease lengths agreements and take-up of This involves ensuring we own sufficient assets Rent payable is one of a number of terms to speculative developments in each of our main geographies to extract be agreed in negotiations with new customers.
We develop buildings both on a pre-let and economies of scale and that we keep all costs, There are two other main variables: incentives a speculative basis.
Agreeing a letting with a both local and central, under control.
Our cost and lease length.
In certain circumstances, customer prior to construction a pre-let efficiency is expressed as a total cost ratio, which we may offer a customer a discount on their fide-risks the development for us and it means is our total accounting cost base as a proportion rent to offset the costs of relocating from their the customer has certainty of delivery and can of accounting gross rental income, and we target existing premises.
This is most commonly tailor elements of the development.
We build a ratio of 20 per cent.
in the form of a rent-free period.
In strong speculatively where we believe the occupier occupier market conditions, there is less need Total cost ratio increased to 23 per cent market is sufficiently strong and the supply to offer incentives and customers are willing Our total cost ratio for 2016 increased limited to ensure that the space is let soon after to sign up to longer leases, often foregoing to 23.0 per cent 2015: 22.2 per cent.
Developments are an important breaks in the lease a lease break offers the Approximately half of our costs are considered source of growth for the Company.
customer an opportunity to terminate the lease property operating costs, the remainder being 23 million of rent contracted from at a certain point.
pre-let developments Operating and administrative costs increased Lease terms improve During the year, we contracted 23.4 million by 11.8 million, which was partly offset The level of incentives agreed for new leases of rent from pre-let agreements for future by a 4.1 million increase in joint venture excluding those on developments completed delivery 2015: 14.1 million.
Parcel delivery management fee income due mainly to in the year represented 7.3 per cent of and logistics companies account for over development within, and the increased net the headline rent, an improvement from half of the agreements, including Deutsche asset value of, SELP.
Post DHL in Germany and DPD in the UK.
Retailers, particularly those operating primarily Lease lengths also improved to 7.1 years to first See page 49 of the Financial Review for more online, were also prominent, including our details of the total cost ratio, including details break 8.7 years to expiry as at 31 December first developments for Amazon in Italy and 2016, compared to 6.8 years 8.6 years to of a change in calculation method to bring our Germany, Yoox Net a Porter in Italy and disclosure into line with EPRA guidelines.
Lease terms METRO in Paris.
continue to be longer in the UK 8.2 years to break than in Continental Europe 5.2 years We also secured 8.1 million from taketo break, reflecting mainly different lease up of space completed speculatively structures and regulations.
A data centre provider occupied a newly built warehouse on the Slough Trading Estate and two of the three speculatively built warehouses in Navigation Park, Enfield, were occupied shortly after completion.
See pages 34 and 35 for more details of these two developments.
Strategic Report 29 Overview Governance Financial Statements leased to multiple parties or are in areas of the scale we desire in this attractive asset class Enhancing growth through and location.
We subsequently exercised two particular supply constraint.
development options during the year including one to develop We have seven pre-let big box warehouses As competition to acquire standing warehouse a 550,000 sq m rail-connected logistics park, under construction including our largest ever assets has increased, the risk-adjusted returns known as SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands development: a 155,000 sq m warehouse have shifted firmly in favour of development Gateway, directly adjacent to the M1 motorway for Amazon in Rome.
We are also building a compared to acquiring existing assets.
There are and East Midlands International Airport, the UKs 57,400 sq m big box warehouse for international relatively few competitors with the land, the second largest cargo airport.
We have started retailer, METRO, in Paris.
development expertise and the financial capacity infrastructure works and will approach potential to develop warehouse assets.
We invested customers for pre-let agreements during 2017.
We have also commenced speculative 302 million in new developments during development of a number of multi-let industrial We estimate that our land bank can 2016 2015: 164 million and acquired estates, of which are all close to population support 2.7 million sq m of development.
155 million of land to extend the longevity of centres, allowing occupiers to access their The prospective capital expenditure associated our development pipeline.
with these projects is 1.2 billion and we The strength of demand for pre-let estimate that they could generate 128 million Future development projects developments in particular was the reason of headline rent, representing a yield on total Our land bank identified for future development behind the decision to raise 325 million of development cost including land and notional was valued at 392 million at 31 December new equity to fund a number of these projects.
finance costs of 8.2 per cent.
2016, equating to 6 per cent of our total There is more detail on this on page 103. portfolio.
Land is an important source of future Within this land bank are projects which growth for us but, until it is developed, it Development projects completed we expect to commence in the next 6 to produces no income and reduces the income We completed 421,600 sq m of new space 12 months, including pre-let agreements subject returns we generate.
As a result, where we during the year.
These projects were 80percent to final approval and or planning permission and acquire land, we normally expect to be able to let as at 31 December 2016, generating speculative developments we expect to approve develop it fully within five years, or we seek to 23.5 million of annualised gross rent, with a shortly.
At 31 December 2016, these nearsecure the land through option agreements, potential further 5.8 million to come when the term opportunities have the ability to generate allowing us to buy the land only when we are remainder of the space is let.
This translates into approximately 27 million of new headline ready to begin developing it.
a yield on total development cost including land, rent around 69 per cent of which is associated construction and finance costs of 8.2 per cent with potential pre-let agreements from capital During the year, we invested 155 million in when fully let, substantially higher than yields expenditure of approximately 245 million.
development land, most of which was for sites available from acquiring similar quality assets.
which are already being developed or where These figures are indicative of our current infrastructure works have begun.
Within these Amongst the developments completed in expectations but are dependent on our ability to were plots of land bought as a result of two 2016 were three big box warehouses in secure pre-let agreements, planning permission, significant agreements secured during 2016.
Rugby Gateway, one of which has been let to construction contracts and on our outlook for parcel delivery and logistics company Hermes.
occupier conditions in local markets.
We secured a 10 year agreement with the We completed new urban last mile distribution Greater London Authority to develop 35hectares Within our land bank are sites identified warehouses for Deutsche Post DHL in London, of industrial land across five sites in East London for alternative use valued at 102 million Dsseldorf and Vienna, and for FedEx TNT known collectively as East Plus.
We estimate that and comprise part of a site we acquired in in Paris.
the sites, which we will acquire over the course West London in 2015, as well as the former of the ten year agreement, will support around Current development pipeline Northfields Industrial Estate, on both of which 140,000sqm of urban distribution and light At 31 December 2016, we had development we have conditional agreements to sell to industrial space.
The combination of these sites, projects approved, contracted or under residential developers.
We expect to dispose of along the A13 main road between Londons construction totalling 540,500 sq m, both sites in 2017 or early 2018. inner and outer ring-roads, should provide us representing 171 million of future capital with an enviable position in this regenerating Development: What to expect in 2017 expenditure and 27 million of headline rent area.
We have started development of two sites, We expect to invest in excess of 300 million when fully let.
The projects, all of which are due including a warehouse pre-let to DPD.
in development during 2017, which includes to complete in 2017 and 2018, are 61percent both our committed pipeline and further pre-let and will yield 7.7 per cent on total We entered a development partnership with development opportunities under discussion, development cost when fully occupied.
Roxhill in February 2016 which gave us access including a number of pre-let projects under to 12 sites for big box warehouse development We will usually build urban warehouses negotiation or subject to planning.
in the Midlands and South-East regions of speculatively as occupiers often prefer to the UK.
These sites, over which SEGRO holds Further details of our completed and active see the space before committing to a lease.
option agreements, could support development development projects are available in the 2016 We are more cautious about building big box of over 1 million sq m of big box warehousing Property Analysis Report, which is available to warehouses speculatively unless they can be over 10 years, which would enable us to achieve download at www.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 30 Chief Executives Review Efficient Capital Structure Creating a strong and resilient capital base Approximately 200 million of SEGRO bonds Improved financial leverage mature in 2018 and we will assess refinancing Creating a strong Net debt, including our share of joint venture options for these during 2017. net debt, fell by 102 million during the year to and resilient 2.1 billion.
The movement in net debt is mainly Dividend increase reflects a a function of net divestment during the year and strong year and confidence for capital base 325 million gross of new equity, partly offset by the impact of our strategy to protect our the future What we said we would do balance sheet against exchange rate volatility.
Under the UK REIT rules, we are required to in2016 pay out 90 per cent of UK-sourced, tax-exempt The look-through LTV ratio improved to To manage our levels of net debt to rental profits as a Property Income Distribution 33percent 31 December 2015: 38 per cent maintain our look-through loan to value PID.
Since we also receive income from our as a result of lower net debt and rising ratio LTV below our mid-cycle target of properties in Continental Europe, our total asset values.
We estimate that our portfolio 40 per cent.
dividend should normally exceed this minimum would have to fall in value by approximately level and we target a payout ratio of 85 to 50percent before breaching the tightest What we achieved in 2016 95percent of Adjusted profit after tax.
We aim covenants on our debt.
This risk is considered to deliver a progressive and sustainable dividend Net debt, including SEGROs share of debt in more detail on page 59. which grows in line with our profitability in order in joint ventures, fell by 102 million due The euro strengthened by 16 per cent against to achieve our goal of being a leading incometo net disposal activity and the proceeds sterling during the year.
We have maintained focused REIT.
of the equity placing in September, partly a high degree of hedging to protect our offset by the impact of the strengthening The Board has concluded that it is appropriate balance sheet and earnings from the impact of euro exchange rate during the year.
These, to recommend an increase in the final dividend future volatility.
Our net assets are 69 per cent combined with the increase in the value per share of 0.6 pence to 11.2 pence 2015: 10.6 hedged and our euro earnings are 47 per cent of our portfolio, resulted in a look-through pence which will be paid as a PID.
The Boards hedged against movements in the euro-sterling LTV of 33 per cent at 31 December 2016. recommendation is subject to approval by exchange rate.
Further details can be found in shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Financial Review.
What to expect in 2017 in which event the final dividend will be paid on We intend to keep our look-through LTV During the year, we carried out approximately 4 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at below our mid-cycle target of 40 per cent.
2 billion of financing including refinancing the close of business on 24 March 2017.
We believe that this ensures significant 400 million of bank facilities in the APP joint In considering the final dividend, the Board took headroom to our tightest gearing covenant venture and 780 million of Group bank into account: should property values decline, as well as facilities.
We raised 325 million of gross providing the flexibility to take advantage of proceeds from an equity placing and launched the policy of targeting a payout ratio of any opportunities arising.
the first bond within SELP, raising 500 million between 85 and 95 per cent of Adjusted with an additional 200 million of revolving profit after tax: credit facilities.
This activity improved the cost, the desire to ensure that the dividend is efficiency and duration of our capital structure.
sustainable and progressive throughout the The equity placing was carried out in September cycle: and to fund 456 million of capital expenditure the results for 2016 and the outlook Our capital structure gives associated with identified development projects for earnings.
either underway or expected to commence over us resilience and capacity the following 12 months.
At 31 December 2016, The total dividend for the year will, therefore, approximately 75 per cent of the expected to invest in our portfolio.
be 16.4 pence, a rise of 5.1 per cent on 2015 investment had been deployed or committed 15.6 pence and represents payment of to our development pipeline and the remaining 87 per cent of Adjusted profit after tax and Soumen Das projects are progressing according to plan.
Chief Financial Capital structure: what to expect in 2017 Officer The Board has decided to retain a scrip dividend We expect to invest in excess of 300 million in option for the 2016 final dividend, allowing development capital expenditure during 2017. shareholders to choose whether to receive At 31 December 2016, we had 32 million of the dividend in cash or new shares.
In 2016, cash and 535 million of bank credit facilities 32 per cent of the 2015 final dividend and available to us to fund this intended expenditure.
19 per cent of the 2016 interim dividend was paid in new shares, equating to 29.5 million of cash retained on the balance sheet and 7.1 million new shares being issued.
Strategic Report 31 Overview Governance Financial Statements Outlook for SEGRO in 2017 and beyond I am proud of what SEGRO has achieved in We enter 2017 with confidence.
Occupier Operational Excellence Development 2016: the sale of the Bath Road office portfolio demand is holding up well and there is no and Asset Management.
Our development means that we are now a pure-play warehouse evidence of over-supply in any of our markets, pipeline is an important source of enhanced REIT: we have continued to grow our rent roll meaning that the prospects are good for further returns.
We expect to continue to develop on both a like-for-like basis and from letting up rental growth in the UK and stable or improving over half of our buildings on a pre-let basis our high quality developments: our portfolio is rents in Continental Europe.
The persistent during 2017, although we will continue to well occupied by a diverse range of customers low interest rate environment continues to cast develop speculatively in areas where occupier on improving lease terms: and we have secured warehouse yields in a favourable light and we demand is strong and supply is constrained.
approximately 2 billion of new financing on our see evidence of a healthy appetite for modern, We remain alert to any changes in occupier own behalf and on behalf of our joint ventures well located assets among investors.
While the demand and the speed of warehouse in the form of new equity and new debt, most scope for further yield compression is limited, construction allows us to increase or reduce particularly the equity placing and the inaugural both rental growth and development profits speculative development relatively quickly SELP bond.
should provide support for the value of our should conditions warrant it.
We continue to portfolio in 2017. strive to deliver excellent asset management, Our investment activity in 2016 was focused on maintaining a well occupied portfolio and an building scale in our major markets, through While there are a number of broader economic efficiently run company.
development and modest acquisitions of high and geopolitical uncertainties, we are confident quality warehouses.
In particular, we have that our portfolio is well positioned to be able to Efficient and resilient capital structure.
increased our exposure to Italy where we outperform the wider property market.
Our balance sheet has been strengthened have an operating base capable of servicing a by proceeds from disposals and the equity Our priorities for 2017 and beyond larger portfolio.
This scale has helped us both placing in September providing capacity for Our strategy is directed at delivering attractive to establish SEGRO as an influential participant further investment in our portfolio.
We intend total returns for shareholders in the form of a in these markets and to become more to maintain our LTV ratio at comfortably sustainable, progressive dividend stream and net operationally efficient.
below 40 per cent to provide appropriate asset value growth over time.
The three pillars of resilience in the event of any property The UKs decision to leave the European Union our strategy are designed to achieve this and we market correction.
has undoubtedly caused uncertainty for the will continue to focus on growing and improving property industry generally.
It is likely to take our portfolio in a disciplined and focused way.
Our business is well positioned, notwithstanding months, if not years, for occupier demand the current degree of political and economic Disciplined Capital Allocation.
As in 2016, to adjust to the new situation, so we are not uncertainty.
We have had an active start to we expect to invest more in development complacent about the impact it could have 2017, and we continue to see opportunities to than in acquisitions, although we will remain on our business.
Indeed, the work done to grow our business through further disciplined open to acquisitions where the pricing reposition our portfolio over the past five years investment, matched by a prudent approach and returns are attractive.
We continue to was designed to ensure it would be resilient in to financing.
identify assets which may be suitable for times of market uncertainty or weakness.
disposal although the volume will likely be The early signs are encouraging: we have seen considerably slower than in 2016.
We will seek David Sleath little, if any, impact on occupier and investor to divest these assuming investment market Chief Executive demand for our warehouse properties since the conditions remain supportive.
We welcome the UK governments decision to support a third runway at Heathrow Airport, allowing us to progress our long-term development plans for the airports cargo centres which are owned by the APP joint venture.
