Strategic report Chairmans and Chief Executives statement Another period of strong growth SVG Capital has reported another period of strong growth, with net assets per share increasing by 10% 719p to 719p per share 1,125 million and the share price appreciating NAV per share by 45%.
at 9 December 2016 10% growth 45% Total Shareholder Return 02 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 Strategic report On 18 October, HarbourVest lapsed its Whilst we will be saddened to see In the six months to July 2016, the Companys investment portfolio continued offer for the Company, having failed to SVGCapital windup, the Boards roleis to build on the strong performance of secure the necessary shareholder support, always to maximise shareholder valueand recent years reporting a total return of and agreed to purchase the Companys we are pleased we were able to achieve 13%.
This performance was underpinned investment portfolio at a 0.6% premium this in a highly pressurised process.
by a continued favourable exit market to the July 2016 valuation of the portfolio.
Your management team have worked and strong revenue and earnings growth Including the Companys net cash extremely hard since the financial crisis, across the investment portfolio and resources, and net of all estimated costs, atfirst returning the Company to aposition further enhanced by the positive currency this equated to an approximate aggregate of strength and thereafter driving a benefit of a weak sterling, following the EU value per share of 715p, a 10% premium strategy of selective investment in high referendum in June 2016.
The Company to HarbourVests original offer of 650p per quality and sought after opportunities.
also continued to make progress towards share and one that valued the Company at It is absolutely in their character that they its strategic goals, committing to three 1,118 million.
have completed their roles by ensuring that new funds and completing two new value was maximised for all shareholders The sale of the investment portfolio coinvestments.
with the sale of the investment portfolio and return of value was approved by at a premium to net asset value.
We wish In September 2016, an entity controlled by shareholders in December 2016 and we them all the very best in whatever they HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest, expect to have returned 1,050 million to goon to do.
a Boston headquartered private equity shareholders at a share price of 715p by fund of funds manager, announced an the end of April 2017, crystallising a 45% unsolicited full and final cash offer for the gain for shareholders since 31 January Andrew Sykes Company at 650p per share.
The winding up of the Company Chairman offer was at a premium to the then share will complete the return of value to price of the Company, it represented shareholders with liquidation distributions 2 February 2017 a 16.5% discount to the value of the expected to be made from Q3 2017. investment portfolio at 31 July 2016 and Through the cycle, the returns generated in the Boards view materially undervalued Lynn Fordham by top performing private equity managers the Company and its assets.
Chief Executive have outperformed public markets.
The Company had a high quality portfolio The listed private equity sector provides a 2 February 2017 with considerable scarcity value and in wide range of investors, who are unable to a very short period of time a number invest directly in the asset class, with access of other highly credible and seasoned to the returns private equity can generate.
private equity investors expressed However, for much of the Companys interest and made offers for some or all 20 year history, the sector has traded of the Companys investment portfolio.
at a discount to net asset value, despite After careful consideration and having strong performance from a number of reviewed the Companys strategic options, itsconstituents, including SVG Capital.
the Board concluded that shareholder At the same time, we have seen intense value would be maximised through the interest in acquiring private equity sale of the investment portfolio and an portfolios from an increasing number of orderly windup of the Company.
investment firms in recent years.
In our Accordingly, the Board entered into case, the combination of a high quality negotiations with two separate consortia portfolio, a share price trading at a of private equity investors, both of persistent discount, coupled with the steep which made offers for some or all of depreciation of sterling and our largest the Companys investment portfolio.
shareholder being prepared to exit its These offers represented superior investment, meant that SVG Capital was shareholder value than the HarbourVest a highly attractive target for an acquisitive cash offer of 650p for the Company.
US based secondary investor, such as HarbourVest.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 03
