STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Since the year end, we have completed MAINTAINED FOCUS TO DELIVER two important strategic initiatives with the acquisition of a 3,100-bed, on-campus HOMEFOR SUCCESS FOR ALL portfolio at Aston University and also the sale of a regional portfolio, which STUDENTS WHO LIVE WITH US together improve our portfolio quality and focus on the best Universities.
The business completed its planned conversion to become a REIT on 1 January 2017.
This transition supports our continued focus on earnings, capital discipline and commitment to distribute earnings to shareholders.
As a result of the strong performance and positive outlook, we have accelerated our increased pay-out ratio to 75% of Adjusted EPRA earnings Richard Smith excluding USAF performance fees Chief Executive Officer a year ahead of schedule.
Delivering great service to our students and University partners We provide a high-quality and secure living In my first year as Chief Executive, I am Financial highlights environment where young people can pleased to report another strong set of develop academically and socially and results for the year ending 31 December EPRA earnings make the most of their time at University.
We have maintained our focus on delivering sustainable growth in recurring For many people, University is where the 3% 62.7m profits and cash flow in the long term, foundations of their career are laid.
We and delivering a Home for Success to all understand that a University education is of the students who live with us.
We do a significant investment for young people, Adjusted EPRA earnings this by providing great service and and believe that no-one should miss out operating brilliant buildings that students simply because of their personal and Universities choose.
But, for every generation investment discipline to maintain of students, University is more than simply a strong capital structure and deliver a stepping stone to a job.
It moulds them Adjusted EPRA EPS high-quality earnings.
as individuals and provides a critical bridge to adulthood, where they can Performance in 2016 was driven by learn the interpersonal skills they will need 20% another year of strong growth in EPRA 27.7p for life.
We believe that where a student earnings, rental growth and development lives has a material impact on their profits, combining to deliver a total Profit before tax academic and social experience of accounting return of 15%.
Adjusted EPRA University and, ultimately, their lives.
We earnings adjusted to exclude the yield therefore aim to create an environment related element of the USAF performance 48% 201.4m which is caring and supportive, but also fee increased by 24% to 61.3 million allows our students to express their natural and now represents one-third of the desire for independence.
As a result of Basic EPS the significant growth in earnings and We recognise that affordability of Higher the positive outlook for further earnings Education is an important consideration 38% 101.3p growth, we are declaring a final dividend and therefore we offer a variety of of 12.0p 2015: 9.5p, making a dividend accommodation at different price per share of 18.0p for the full year 2015: points to students with the majority of Dividend per share 15.0p, an increase of 20% year on year.
our accommodation focused at the mid-range price point for purpose-built We are continuing to focus on growing 20% 18.0p student accommodation.
65% of our earnings in absolute terms and also as a customers are from the UK and we proportion of our total return.
This is driven continue to attract growing numbers of by our ability to continue growing rental Total accounting return second and third-year students, who now levels on an annual basis, the delivery of make up one-third of our customer base.
cost efficiencies and from the completion We will continue to focus on providing our 59% of our high-quality development pipeline.
15% customers with excellent service and an Our PRISM operating platform, which experience that they value.
Loan-to-value became fully operational in 2016, provides Our focus on the student experience is us with a unique capability to drive completely aligned to the aims of our value from our portfolio through scale 3% University partners, for whom student 34% efficiencies and revenue management, experience is a key measure.
With supporting our ongoing income focus.
16 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED students spending more time in their average portfolio yield of 5.45% 2015: best Universities in the UK, and also to accommodation than on campus, we 1.8 billion and 5.55% yield.
generate capital to invest in further can demonstrate to Universities how we development activity and exciting We also made excellent progress with can support them and their ambitions.
opportunities such as the Aston Student our development pipeline during the year.
This focus has led to 58% of our Village acquisition.
During 2016, we sold We completed five new buildings over the accommodation being let to Universities 114 million of assets on a see-through summer and secured an additional four through nominations agreements.
With basis including the sale of two assets to new development schemes, which an average remaining life of six years, our USAF.
These assets were sold in line with increases our secured development nominations agreements provide income book valuations.
We intend to sell pipeline to 7,000 beds for delivery over and rental growth certainty on over half 150-200 million Unite share of assets on the next three years.
Construction of all of our revenue.
In turn, this provides a see-through basis during 2017 to take our 2017 openings is progressing in line protection from any potential changes to advantage of the ongoing strength in the with plans, planning consents and build student numbers, and has helped to deliver investment market and to ensure that we contracts are in place for all of our 2018 average occupancy of 98% and rental maintain a strong and flexible balance deliveries and planning permission is in growth of 3.5% over the last five years.
sheet as we progress our development place for all but one of our 2019 schemes.
We have made good progress Students too, expect more from their already in 2017, having completed the sale We are continuing to see attractive accommodation and this year, we of a 4,175-bed regional portfolio in February development opportunities in strong maintained customer service satisfaction for 295 million Unite share 102 million University markets and we plan to invest levels a key performance indicator for in line with book value.
selectively in target markets to enhance us at high levels, placing us on a par portfolio quality and deliver target with some of the best European service Maintaining high quality earnings returns.
Whilst demand for student companies.
We also secured excellent and a strong capital structure accommodation remains strong in results in our independently assessed We have maintained full occupancy London, the fall in land prices over the employee effectiveness and University across our portfolio 98% with rental last 12 months has not been sufficient, trust scores.
The delivery of great customer growth of 3.8%.
With 58% of this income when combined with new planning service to students and Universities underpinned by nominations requirements for affordable student translates into our strong financial agreements, we have a high level of housing provision, to enable us to achieve performance, delivering occupancy of visibility in the ongoing occupancy and our target returns.
We will continue to 98% and rental growth of 3.8% in 2016 rental growth outlook of the portfolio.
In monitor the situation for opportunities.
With our new operating addition to revenue growth, a focus on system, PRISM we have also delivered The anticipated yield on cost of our efficiency has resulted in further further improvements to our NOI margin secured pipeline is 8.4% and prospective improvements in our NOI margin up to and overhead efficiency measure.
returns on new schemes remain attractive 73.1% 2015: 72.5%, and in our overhead at 8.0-8.5%.
The secured development efficiency revenue which shows that our Our people, University relationships, the pipeline is highly accretive and remains overheads, net of management fees, quality of our portfolio, PRISM and the a significant component of our future now represents 40 basis points of gross broader operating platform set us apart earnings growth and could contribute asset value 2015: 48 basis points.
We from the other operators in the sector 12-14 pence per share to EPRA earnings remain confident about our ability to and will support the ongoing growth once built out.
make further efficiency gains and to in our portfolio, service levels and deliver our targets of 75% and 25-30 basis financial performance.
We continue to target acquisitions of points by the end of 2017. completed assets and portfolios that Operating brilliant buildings enhance the quality of our portfolio and Unites share of net debt grew by 45 Our strategy is built around the quality, the earnings profile of the business.
These million to 776 million in 2016.
Our capital location and scale of our portfolio.
We acquisitions are targeted through our expenditure programme Unite share aim to operate buildings that are located 146 million was majority funded by co-investment vehicles due to their lower in and around the Universities with the cost of capital, allowing us to generate our disposal programme and retained best prospects.
We believe that our focus enhanced returns through our asset earnings.
We maintained our LTV within on high-quality Universities across the UK management and acquisition fees.
our target range in the mid-30% level at is the best strategy to achieve continued 34% 2015: 35% as development profits USAF has acquired two assets under high levels of occupancy and rental growth.
development which will be opened for and rental growth outstripped the We generate 82% of our income from the 2017 academic year.
These forward increase in net debt.
Our net debt to customers attending high and midfund assets represent 404 beds, in Oxford EBITDA ratio is 6.5 2015: 6.9, again within ranked Universities, increasing to 86% on our target level which we intend to maintain.
and Edinburgh and were purchased for completion of our development pipeline.
Following Interest rates have remained at low levels the year end, LSAV acquired a 227 million throughout 2016, and we have continued During 2016, we opened 3,100 new beds, portfolio located on the Aston University to take advantage of these historically invested 12 million in asset management campus.
This exciting development allows low rates both on new debt facilities and and refurbishment programmes and sold us to build a strategic relationship with a through entering into forward starting 114 million of assets on a see-through high-ranked University and to leverage our interest rate swaps in respect of future basis.
Taking into account these activities PRISM operating system to deliver strong borrowing requirements of our secured together with valuation movements, the financial returns.
As a result of these value of our investment portfolio including activities, our average cost of debt has our share of co-investment vehicles Disposals remain an important part of our strategy and we will continue fallen to 4.2% from 4.5%.
We expect it to increased by 14% to 2.1 billion as at to recycle assets out of our portfolio to fall a little further over the next few years 31 December 2016 and is valued at an ensure that we increase exposure to the as forward starting swaps becomes STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 17 effective.
At these levels, the spread to removal of the cap means the number of ungeared development yields and students accepted onto courses will not investment yields remains significant.
be materially impacted, and we expect the high and mid-ranked Universities to The Groups conversion to REIT status recruit more students than those at the reflects the consistency and quality of the lower end of the league tables.
earnings profile and its conservative financing strategy.
The Group will ensure The qualities of the student accommodation that the balance of business, gearing ratios sector have attracted significant levels of and dividend pay-out levels remain within capital investment over the last three years the guidelines set out within the REIT regime.
with over 11 billion of investment activity.
This increased investment activity has also seen Chief Executives Q&A Market and strategy the level of new supply increase and the The outlook for the student accommodation total number of purpose-built beds to Richard Smith sector remains positive, with structural factors increase to 250,000 beds 14% of the UKs addresses some topical continuing to drive the demand: supply student population.
The outlook for new questions from our shareholders imbalance in the University markets in which supply suggests that the rate of new supply we operate.
The UK Higher Education sector will continue at a similar rate of around What has the highlight of 2016 Q is recognised globally for the strength of its 20,000-25,000 over the next two years.
Universities and contribution that it makes to However, a significant proportion of the new In 2016, we welcomed our A research, innovation, talent development beds are focused on the upper end of 500,000th student to Unite and the UK economy more broadly.
The UK the price range which will have a minimal Students, a fantastic milestone in the is the second most popular destination for impact on our type of accommodation.
Companys 25-year history and international students and has 18 out of testament to the high quality service Furthermore, our exposure to changes the worlds top 100 Universities and 47 of we provide students during their in student numbers is mitigated by our Europes top 200 Universities.
The launch of PRISM high quality University relationships and the UK Higher Education sector to was another important achievement nominations agreements and therefore maintain its global standing and reputation.
in 2016, which is delivering significant we remain confident that well-located, The number of applicants and the number mid-range, direct-let student efficiencies for the business and of students accepted into courses in 2016 accommodation will be able to maintain considerably improving the customer was again at record levels at 725,000 and high levels of occupancy and rental growth.
experience we can offer to students.
540,000 respectively 2015: 710,000 and 530,000, driven by growth in demand from Outlook How will the exit from Europe Q both UK and international students.
With Building on a period of consistent strong affect the business?
applicants outstripping the places offered performance, and supportive market Following the EU referendum, the A by Universities by 185,000, the sector is fundamentals, the Group remains well Government has confirmed that well placed to withstand any potential placed to deliver sustainable earnings all existing EU students and for the reductions from UK demographics or the growth in the years ahead.
Our 2016 17 and 2017 18 academic years impact of the UK leaving the EU.
development pipeline and operational will have funding provided for the expertise provides good visibility over the duration of their courses.
With 9% of Following the removal of the student future rental growth and increasing our students coming from the EU, any number cap in 2015, the Higher Education recurring earnings.
Our portfolio is potential impact on student numbers sector is facing further change with the focused on stronger Universities, plus our from the EU referendum would have introduction of the Teaching Excellence highly scalable operating platform and Framework TEF in May 2017.
This will provide a limited impact on Unites occupancy strong brand leaves us well placed to students with greater visibility of the quality given the continued supply demand extend our market leading position.
of teaching at Universities and also allow imbalance.
We continue to be positive Universities to increase fees in line with Despite the broader macro uncertainties on the outlook for the higher education inflation if they meet certain criteria.
We created by the EU referendum, the sector in the UK which is recognised expect the TEF to have a significant impact supply demand outlook for student globally for its excellence and its ability on the attractiveness of Universities, accommodation remains in our to attract talent from across the world.
particularly to UK students, and we are favour, and we will look to benefit 25 well placed to respond to changes from opportunities to extend our Read more: Brexit resulting from this new information.
development pipeline, grow on-campus Does the board plan to expand the accommodation and strengthen University Q The gap between the number of applicants executive management team?
With this backdrop, a strong and the number of University places could balance sheet and our new REIT status, The Board, senior management A be reduced by external factors, including we are confident that the business and I remain focused on and the potential impact of the EU referendum remains well placed to deliver highly committed to the continued success of on student numbers.
The Board has established demographic trend has seen a reduction a comprehensive senior leadership in the number of 18-21 year olds, affecting Richard Smith development programme to grow the next four years.
Early applications data Chief Executive Officer and nurture our talent and develop in January 2017 shows a 5% reduction in 22 February 2017 our high performers.
This ensures we applicants for the 2017 18 academic year.
have a clear talent pipeline for future However, we expect that the 185,000 Board appointments.
surplus of applicants over places and the
