CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A Q A with Chief Executive Officer James Ward-Lilley This has been a transformational year for the Group.
Our overall business performance shows strong recurring revenue growth, with our in-market products, significant pipeline progression on our partnered and wholly-owned assets and excellent merger integration progress following the completion ofthe Skyepharma merger in June.
James Ward-Lilley Chief Executive Officer Clearly this has been a year of significant achievements Our partnered novel pipeline programmes have seen good progress forVectura: what have been your main highlights?
Highlights include the successful completion ofour Phase I The merger has delivered a step change in our revenue profile, study for VR942, a novel inhaled biologic in co-development with UCB: enhancing our technology platform and capabilities and driving the first regulatory validation, approval in the EU and subsequent ustowards our goal of being the industry-leading inhaled airways launch in Poland post period, ofour smart nebulised FOX device disease formulation and device development experts.
As reported with Bayers Ventavis VR876 forthe treatment of pulmonary last year, in-market revenues have replaced Vecturas historic hypertension.
Ablynx also exercisedanoption for continued milestone-driven financial profile.
With over 20 in-market assets, development of its neonatal anti RSV programme ALX-0171 recurring revenues accounted for over 80% of total Group revenue VecturaVR465.
The Phase IIb trial hasstarted and results are in 2016.
These recurring revenues are driven by the seven recently expected in the second half of 2018.
Wehave also seen good launched in-market inhaled products where we see continued progress with the Phase I novel antibody programme with our momentum and where we have good mid and long-term co-development partner UCB.
In terms of business development, the key achievements for Pipeline progress has also been notable.
The most significant theyear were the signing of a second licensing agreement with near-term value driver was the submission and acceptance for Mundipharma for VR2076, a new pMDI triple combination therapy, review of our US generic Advair Diskus programme, VR315, and signing of a third generic licensing agreement with Hikma for triggering a $10m milestone from our partner Hikma.
Wenow VR730, aDPI generic salmeterol programme.
await the outcome of the GDUFA review with the target date set We have also made excellent progress with our merger since the for10 May 2017.
We are also making good progress with our deal completed.
We have moved quickly to agree and implement wholly owned programmes.
Our leading Phase III programme, the necessary organisational changes in order toremove uncertainty, VR475, assessing the effect of the anti-inflammatory steroid to focus the teams on their day-to-day operational priorities and budesonide in reducing exacerbations in severe adult asthmatics tosecure fast synergy delivery.
I have been impressed by how the using our novel AKITA JET Favorite technology is recruiting well.
teams have worked well together throughout the process.
We now Iam also pleased that our second AKITA JET-based project, VR647, have a significantly strengthened series of device and portfolio to treat an established nebulised budesonide paediatric segment, opportunities alongsidea stronger and more diverse talent base inthe US, has also started Phase I recruitment.
including atexecutive and management levels.
14 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The nine-person leadership team combines executives from both How would you describe the new Vectura to someone Vectura and previously Skyepharma.
We have also recently welcomed who did not know the business?
Gonzalo fide Miquel as our Chief Medical Officer.
Gonzalo is a Vectura is a successful airways disease drug, device and formulation physician with extensive global inhaled respiratory drug development business with unique integrated inhaled drug development experience.
capabilities and a proven track record supporting partners to bringnew medicines to patients.
Vectura has a deep portfolio of We continue to track headcount and operational synergy delivery in-market products and a broad pipeline of assets in development.
and, with good progress made, now expect at least 10m savings to be realised by 2018.
Vecturas vision is clear: to be the leading airways disease formulation and device development experts reflected in strong novel and generic More important than cost synergies, a key value driver for the partnerships and, in the future, our own specialist commercialisation in merger is the ability of the combined group to offer and do more niche diseases.
With a proven track record built on strong technology with its existing and new partners as a result of its combined device and development capabilities, recurring and growing cash flows platform and development capabilities.
Based on this our teams worked from in-market assets and a broad pipeline Vectura is well placed intensively over the summer and completed a review of the existing todeliver upon this vision.
portfolio and combined development pipeline as well as near-term actionable new opportunities.
Merging two businesses is rarely a straightforward process how do you feel the integration with Skyepharma has gone?
I am very pleased with how the integration process has gone and Iam proud of the professionalism and determination shown by the enlarged Vectura team during this time.
Quite naturally, merging two The merger has delivered a step change businesses can be an unsettling time and no two business combinations inour revenue profile and significantly are ever the same, but my team has sought to ensure that decisions have been implemented as swiftly as possible to minimise disruption enhanced our technology platform and uncertainty for our employees.
A less tangible but crucial area andcapabilities.
of progress post-merger has been the establishment of a new, vibrant company culture to support the values and behavioural expectations of the enlarged Group.
We have nurtured this process As a result of this review we are now progressing immediately using a highly interactive and engaging programme, building on withthree new inhaled generic opportunities, with a further two aclear development of Beyond the Best for Both for the whole planned.
Work has also been initiated on our wholly owned VR588 business.
Wehave made great progress against all the metrics programme, a novel broad-based, potent and selective inhaled weset out and believe we arewell on track to exceed merger pan-JAK Janus Kinase inhibitor.
In order to balance portfolio risk expectations in the future.
and create headroom to proceed with these initiatives we confirmed wewould stop the development of the pre-clinical SKP2075 anovel theophylline-inhaled corticosteroid combination programme.
Although not core to the overall business I am also pleased with the developments taking place at our oral multilayer tablet manufacturing facility in Lyon.
This site was returned to the Group in July having been leased for five years to Aenova.
The site is significantly under capacity and the new management team has immediately started toexecute new business volume agreements and are turning around key operational productivity parameters.
We look forward to reporting on further business deals being struck by our new French team.
Read more about our governance on pages 50 to 58 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A CONTINUED Do you feel Vectura is stronger operationally to confirm that Sunovion has now launched Utibron in the US than it was at the start of 2016?
and look forward to the US launch of Seebri later in 2017.
Novartis Absolutely the merger with Skyepharma completed our technology licensed the UScommercialisation rights of these products to Sunovion and formulation expertise, bringing a market proven pMDI platform in December 2016.
Sunovion has a strong commercial inhaled in addition to strongly growing cash flows, including revenues from respiratory track record with a well established specialist presence flutiform.
The addition of the pMDI device platform provides Vectura in the USCOPD market.
with the capabilities to offer development of drugs addressing 42%, Since the merger, you have made substantial efforts in in value, of the inhaled market, where Vectura previously had no explaining the business in a different way highlighting novel, established devices.
generic and your wholly-owned pipelines.
Can you tell us a Vectura now has a range of industry-leading proprietary platforms little bit more?
that provide access to a growing global respiratory market estimated Vectura has a uniquely integrated combination of formulation, to be worth more than $40bn, a proven track record of bringing device and development capabilities.
This is reflected in our historic products to the market and clear plans for new value-added performance, our current in-market assets and our broad pipeline.
I believe the merger has significantly accelerated our It also provides a strong platform for multiple further partnering goal of becoming the industry-leading airways disease formulation and specialist self-development.
The merger has strengthened our and device development experts.
During the past nine months, our main operational focus has been to Our business model is founded on the leverage of our capabilities ensure a smooth integration of the two legacy businesses.
We have across novel and generic drug development and balances risk now materially completed the implementation of the new organisational through partnership and through the progressive development structure and I am confident that we have the right skills in the right ofour own specialist assets.
places to enable us to build upon the momentum.
Vectura has a successful and established model where we work What have been the main challenges this year?
with partners on novel formulation and device developments.
Apart from the merger the most important challenges for the Today this is seen in the successful in-market revenues being yearhave included pipeline progress, in particular with VR315, generated from products such as flutiform and Ultibro.
This is andcontinued external focus on our key partnered programmes being sustained with development projects including earlier stage and business development.
I am very pleased with the way we pipeline projects such as the Phase I UCB VR942 inhaled antibody, have successfully delivered against these goals.
However, as with every business, we have had some setbacks andfrustrations along the way.
Vectura now has a range of industryGSKs decision not to extend the term of their legacy option to license agreement with Vectura beyond 31 July 2016 was disappointing.
leading proprietary platforms that Asa UK-based R&D collaborator and formulation specialist we must provide access to a growing global vigorously defend our important and valued intellectual property and expertise.
The financial investment required by the Group in respiratory market estimated to be pursuing this course of action is fairly modest when compared to 1 worth more than $40bn.
the potential royalties that would be payable to the Group under the legacy contract.
As we have previously advised, we remain open to finding a mutually acceptable solution in order to avoid costs and Phase II Ablynx VR465 ALX-0171 FOX smart nebuliser development, potential uncertainty over royalties that were, up until July 2016, and the later stage Phase III Novartis QVM149 project which utilises subject to a cap of 13m percalendar year.
The legal process is proprietary Vectura intellectual property.
ongoing and the court hasscheduled a jury trial commencing on In the generics arena Vectura is very well positioned today with proven 17December 2018. capabilities in the generic version of Seretide, available in Europe In August, we announced that Mundipharmas European Phase III and sold by Sandoz under the brand name AirFluSal Forspiro.
trial of flutiform in COPD did not meet its primary endpoint.
Whilst Wehave four further late-stage generics in development with our a COPD indication for flutiform would have been positive for this partners Sandoz and Hikma and see this portfolio expanding following important and growing asthma product, it was not an entirely our review of new opportunities post-merger.
The generics segment surprising result.
COPD is a complex disease: the results highlighted is attractive to Vectura given the limited number of companies with the challenge in demonstrating reductions of exacerbations with a capability to deliver complex generic products and devices along ICS LABA combinations in COPD.
flutiform continues to grow with good returns made through providing both formulated drug strongly based on the approved asthma indication.
and device elements in the programmes.
In order to progressively capture more value for the business Vectura is developing its own The delay in Novartis US launch for Utibron and Seebri was also specialist portfolio.
Once again this leverages our proprietary device asource of frustration in the year.
Clearly Ultibro is performing and formulation capabilities and, by owning the assets, it allows Vectura verywell ex-US and the new GOLD Guidelines have reinforced the to gain significantly from direct commercial exposure and margins.
role ofLAMA LABA treatment in COPD.
Post period, we were pleased 1 Global data r eports, 2016, Decision Resources 2015 16.
Market defined as asthma, COPD, Allergic Rhinitis, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, Cystic Fibrosis andAcute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
16 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT What do you see as the main opportunities in the inhaled The Group has a strong balance sheet and clear capital allocation respiratory market and do you have the capabilities to plans priorities.
Like all businesses we continue to carefully assess executeon these?
ifwe can further accelerate our business performance with non-organic Vectura is well positioned to capitalise on the unprecedented level options.
Our focus is to assess opportunities, prioritising the US, of change being seen in the large and highly dynamic inhaled with in-market revenue-generating assets and specialist customer respiratory market currently valued at over $40bn.
This positioning care coverage and capabilities where valuations could meet our strong has been further strengthened by last years merger.
Opportunities fitting these criteria are limited and with no prerequisite for M&A our priority for the business The biggest opportunities lie firstly in the growth of recently therefore remains to focus on delivery of the current strategy and launched new classes of novel combination such as the LAMA LABA accelerate performance through excellent organic execution.
Vecturas interest in this class isreflected in the IP utilised in the latest products from both GSK Does Vecturas success and future growth depend upon and Novartis.
asuccessful outcome for generic Advair VR315 US ?
We have a strong and diversified business with a proven Secondly, we expect to see the development of new triple combination trackrecord reflected in established on-market revenues alongside therapies where, thanks to the recent agreement with Mundipharma a broad portfolio and a unique set of inhalation development alongside its existing Phase III QVM149 partnered with Novartis, capabilities which extend well beyond VR315 alone.
This position Vectura now has an interest in two triple combination programmes.
was significantly reinforced by the merger with Skyepharma.
The third large opportunity lies in the transformation of the generic In the meantime our VR315 generic Advair programme partnered combination device segment with the expected entry of the first with Hikma represents an important opportunity for us to access a ICA LABA substitutable combinations entering the US market.
multibillion dollar market and we look forward to hearing the outcome The fourth opportunity is the increasing role of novel biologic of the GDUFA review which remains scheduled for 10 May 2017. treatments for severe uncontrolled asthma patients.
Once again Vectura is well positioned in this setting through our novel inhaled What are your priorities looking ahead and do you see anyhurdles?
The VR942 programme reflects the Our strategy and priorities are clear.
industry-leading large molecule antibody formulation expertise of With its proven formulation device and development capabilities the Group where we have plans with our partner to progress to Vectura is well positioned to accelerate shareholder value creation, Phase II clinical studies later in 2017. capitalising on changes in the market dynamics of the inhaled And finally there remains a high level of unmet need in the specialist respiratory market.
Vectura has a strong outlook both as a partner niche and rarer respiratory diseases where Vecturas capabilities for generic and novel development programmes and the opportunity can bring value in multiple further potential collaborations as well to capture an increasing share of investment value through the future as with further selective self-development and commercialisation commercialisation of its wholly owned specialist targeted assets.
Our priorities focus on financial performance delivery, key pipeline progression, further industrialisation and scaling of our device and You have mentioned accelerating your strategy supply chain, further business development and licensing, ensuring does this mean M&A?
productivity with effective and efficient systems and processes No.
Vectura is well set for organic business acceleration based post-merger and, finally, continuing to strengthen our leadership, onits strong in-market recurring revenues, the potential of its talent and team engagement and performance.
broad late-stage pipeline, its multiple further business development opportunities and, finally, the potential to increase our share of value We look forward to 2017 with confidence given the strength through wholly owned commercialisation of its specialist portfolio.
oftheestablished platforms and potential for further news flow Whilst we do not have the necessary commercial infrastructure today, onourgeneric and novel programmes alongside additional under current timelines we do not expect that our wholly-owned business development partnering.
assets will be on market until 2020 and we therefore have time tofinalise our commercial planning approach.
In Europe we are carefully assessing , with build-out in 2019 orpartnering VR475, our lead Phase III asset.
We are committed todeveloping our own US commercial capability where a small sales team of approximately 75 FTEs would enable us to support roll out and commercialisation of VR647 in the specialist paediatric customer setting.
17 1 ESTABLISHED IN-MARKET PORTFOLIO AND PR OVEN TRACK RECORD Seven in-market inhaled assets underpin future growth FORMULATION Class Class Ultibro Seebri Dual bronchodilator LAMA LABA Bronchodilator LAMA 4 4 Breezhaler Breezhaler Status Status EU and ROW EU and ROW Launched 2013 EU and ROW Launched 2012 EU and ROW COPD COPD Launched in US post period, April 2017 2017 US launch expected Sales last twelve months Sales last twelve months 1 1 $363m $149m 3 3 Combined peak sales potential range Combined peak sales potential range $1bn $1bn Competitive differentiation Competitive differentiation Easy-to-use DPI device with demonstrated Easy-to-use DPI device once-daily efficacy as seen in FLAME Effective LAMA bronchodilator studyresults IP LICENCE AGREEMENT 5 Class Class Anoro Ellipta Relvar Ellipta Dual bronchodilator LAMA LABA Anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator 5 Global COPD Breo Ellipta ICS LABA Status Global Asthma COPD Launched 2014 US, EU and ROW Status Launched 2013 US and ROW Competitive differentiation Launched 2014 EU Once-daily LAMA LABA Competitive differentiation Once-daily ICS LABA 5 Value to Vectura: Vectura royalties capped at 9m p. a.. First patent under agreement set to expire in 2019 1 Based upon Company r eported information twelve months ended 31 December 2016.
5 Anoro Ellipta, Relvar Breo Ellipta and Incruse Ellipta are registered trademarks of GSK: photos courtesy of GSK.
Formulation technology licence: product not developed by Vectura.
2 Internal calculations based on IMS Health Data Q3 2016 twelve months ended Until the end of July 2016, the Group also earned royalties from GSK under a legacy Vectura 31December 2016. agreement, capped at 13m in any calendar year.
In July, Vectura announced that it has 3 Peak sales based on consensus of those analysts who have published pr oduct-level initiated legal proceedings against GSK in the US following GSKs decision not to extend the forecasts, provided for indicative purposes and not necessarily representing internal term of its legacy agreement with Vectura beyond 31 July 2016, by licensing additional management expectations.
patent families under the terms of the 2010 option-to-licence patent agreement between 4 Photos of Seebri Breezhaler and Ultibro Breezhaler courtesy of Novartis AG.
18 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GENERIC ANALOGUE NOVEL PATENTED WHOLLY-OWNED MOLECULE AND MOLECULE AND SPECIALIST ASSETS DEVICE PARTNERING DEVICE PARTNERING FORMULATION, DEVICE and PRODUCT SUPPLY FORMULATION and DEVICE Class Class flutiform EU and ROW AirFluSal Forspiro Anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator Anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator Asthma EU and ROW ICS LABA ICS LABA Asthma COPD Status Status Launched 2012 EU Launched 2014 EU and ROW Launched 2013 Japan Sales last twelve months 2 $18m Sales last twelve months 2 $211m 3 Peak sales potential range $150m 3 Peak sales potential range $300 to $500m Competitive differentiation Easy-to-use DPI device generic Competitive differentiation ICS LABA Easy-to-use pMDI device Effective novel combination of well Cost-effective alternative to Seretide known and effective fluticasone ICS and or other LABA ICS treatments and formoterol LABA molecules Seven recently launched inhaled products driving recurring proforma revenue 5 Class Incruse Ellipta Bronchodilator LAMA 6 Proforma growth Twelve month in-market sales Global COPD Status Launched 2014 ROW 28% $2bn Launched 2015 US and EU Competitive differentiation 82.9m Once-daily LAMA 3.5m 64.8m 14.7m 3.4m 12.2m 10.0m 9.4m 52.5m 42.0m the parties.
Whilst V ectura intends to enforce its patent rights to the fullest extent it remains open to finding a mutually acceptable solution in order to avoid costs and potential uncertainty.
Until the outcome of the litigation is known, or a compromise is Proforma nine months Proforma nine months reached, the Group is not reflecting the receipt of further income from GSK in relation tothe patent rights covered by the expired 2010 option-to-license patent agreement.
to December 15 to December 16 6 Based upon royalty reports received from partners.
flutiform Seebri Ultibro Ellipta portfolio AirFluSal Forspiro Breezhaler products Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 19 2 BROAD LATE-STAGE PIPELINE AND EARLY INNOVATIVE PORTFOLIO valuable late-stage novel and generic assets 7 VR315 US VR730 US VR506 US VR632 EU Product: Generic Advair Diskus Product: Generic salmeterol Product: Product: Not disclosed Salmeterol fluticasone propionate Generic fluticasone propionate Vectura technology: Vectura technology: Vectura technology: Proprietary DPI and formulation Vectura technology: Proprietary DPI and formulation Proprietary DPI and formulation Proprietary DPI and formulation Indication: Asthma COPD Indication: Asthma COPD Indication: Asthma COPD Indication: Asthma Status: Development Status: Development Status: FDA regulatory Status: Development review QVM149 VR876 VR475 EU EU and ROW EU and ROW, ex-US Product: Novel triple therapy Product: Nebulised iloprost Product: Nebulised budesonide Vectura technology: Vectura technology: Vectura technology: Proprietary DPI and formulation FOX smart nebuliser device AKITA JET Indication: Indication: Severe Indication: Asthma Pulmonary arterial hypertension uncontrolled asthma Status: Phase III Status: Approved, Status: Phase III launched in Poland post period early-stage-flagship innovative assets 3 VR647 US VR942 Global VR465 Global Product class: Product class: Inhaled biologic Product class: Biologic Nebulised budesonide Status: Status: Status: Phase II study to commence H22017 Phase IIb initiated Phase I underway Target to market: 20242025 Target to market: 20232025 Phase III start H2 2018 Indicative market size estimates: Indicative market size estimates: Target to market: 2020 Biologics market: expected to increase RSV market: c. $800m, expected to increase 1 2, 3 Indicative market size estimates: to $3bn-$5bn by 2030 to $2.4bn by 2025 4 US nebulised budesonide market: $930m Target differentiation: Target differentiation: Target differentiation: First-to-market potential for inhaled DPI First-to-market potential for novel RSV Faster delivery time biologic delivery inuncontrolled asthma therapy utilising smart nebuliser FOX device Better lung deposition: Ease of administration vs. potential forreduced injectabledelivery local side effects and Opportunity for lower cost of lowerdosage goods vs. injectable delivery 1 F orecast estimates from Decision Resources, Pharmacor Asthma 2016 and select analyst reports: JP Morgan, March2016: N 1 Singer, June 2016 and Socit Gnrale, September2016.
These assets represent key value drivers for the 2 RSV Report, Decision Resources, 2016.
Group but our broad pipeline also contains a number 3 RSV Report, Global Data, 2016. of other assets and further details can befound at: 4 IMS MIDAS, Q4 2016. www.
com portfolio pipeline-assets 20 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GENERIC ANALOGUE NOVEL PATENTED WHOLLY-OWNED MOLECULE AND MOLECULE AND SPECIALIST ASSETS DEVICE PARTNERING DEVICE PARTNERING In focus: three late-stage assets with near-term value potential VR315 US Generic Advair Diskus programme awaiting FDA GDUFA review outcome 1 IMS MIDAS Q4MA T 2016 for Advair sales volume.
Generic analogue molecule and device for GDUFA goal date of 10 May 2017 asthma andCOPD maintenance treatment Hikma 2017 guidance assumes new generics 2 GSK reported information.
Dry powder formulation launches to be c. $120m, including the launch of generic Advair in H2 2017 Fluticasone Salmeterol Opportunity Product class 1 Class $9.6bn 36m units Anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator ICS LABA 2 GSK reported US net sales of 1.8bn in 2016 Focused on launching generic Advair in 2017 High-quality submission addressing FDA substitutable Partner generic product device combination guidance Significant interaction with the FDA, including anumber of pre-approval inspections Vecturas proprietary A complex drug-device combination which is currently one of only two ANDA lever-operated filings that have been accepted for review by the FDA DPI device QVM149 EU & ROW Phase lll fixed triple combination therapy in asthma 2 1 Asthma and C OPD.
Source: forecast estimates from Decision A triple therapy for the treatment of Peak sales potential Resources, Pharmacor Asthma 2016, COPD 2015 and select moderate-severe, uncontrolled asthma $300m to $500m analyst reports: Stifel, September 2016: Leerink, May 2016: JP Morgan, March 2016: Citibank, June 2016: N 1 Singer, June Product class Target differentiation 2016 and Socit Gnrale, September 2016: G7.
Dual bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory Effective DPI triple therapy in easy-to-use device 2 Peak sales based on consensus of those analysts who have LAMA LABA ICS Potential first-to-market in EU for asthma published product-level forecasts, provided for indicative Indacaterol glycopyrronium mometasone treatment in DPI device purposes and not necessarily representing internal management expectations.
Customer portfolio familiarity with strong Status awareness of Ultibro in COPD using Phase III study read-out planned for 2018 Breezhalerdevice Target on market 2020 Partner Opportunity Potential target population 7.0m EU and Japan 1 $2bn to $5bn indicative market size for total triple therapy class by 2024 Fixed combination triple-therapy treatments are expected to develop strongly and are likely to take significant share from existing use of multiplefree combination treatments as well as from the large volume of ICS LABA combination treatments currently used VR475 EU Leading Phase III wholly-owned asset with potential todeliver revenues by 2020 Value driven from recurring sales of budesonide Targeted delivery of budesonide for adult Commercial pathway nebules delivered with exclusive proprietary and adolescent patients with severe, Evaluating  smart card uncontrolled asthma andpartneringoptions Status Wholly owned 1 Decision Resour ces 2016.
European Phase III study underway: target reduction in exacerbations vs. placebowith reduction in hospitalisations Key features andoral steroid usage Nebulised budesonide with novel proprietary delivery using the AKITA JET device Anticipated filing: H2 2019 Proven individual elements of drug-device Opportunity combination tested with positive OCS-sparing Cost-effective alternative to biologic therapy trialresults In EU there are currently 4.2m patients with severe persistent asthma where 4050% 1 Vecturas proprietary areuncontrolled smart nebuliser Positioned as an add-on maintenance treatment before biologics AKITA JET device Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 21
