Chief Executives Strategic Review Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer Photographed on the March Board tour talking to Stuart Lancaster, Centre Manager, at Canalot Studios, Ladbroke Grove.
Owning our own buildings means we can act quickly to support customers in the face of fast-changing technology.
"18""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information It is an extremely exciting time to be a New and Growing Company in London."
Huge leaps in technology, improved transportation links and new neighbourhoods of economic growth are all acting as catalysts for entrepreneurship.
Beyond that, the way in which these companies want to work is driving a raft of new expectations and requirements when it comes to finding a home for their businesses.
Against that backdrop, our strategy of owning our own unique buildings and digital infrastructure, while having direct customer relationships and providing flexible leases and the right lifestyle facilities, is proving immensely popular and differentiating us from others in the market.
Our strong results this year, with trading profit after interest up 65% to 43.9m and rent roll up 12.7%, are testament to our approach and our commitment to delivering superior shareholder returns over the long term.
Across London we are seeing activity spread from traditional working hubs to new areas and we have been acting quickly to add to our portfolio of properties to support businesses in these new locations.
For example, this year we gained planning consents for two major refurbishments to create brand new business centres in Hoxton and Shoreditch and we completed five acquisitions, adding to existing clusters of properties and increasing our footprint in areas with regeneration potential.
"Trading profit after interest 65% 19""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Owning iconic buildings is only part of the story."
Today Im often asked about how technology and innovation is affecting property and work space and I answer that they are driving significant changes to demand for services and facilities that must be reflected quickly.
Thanks to our uniquely close dialogue with customers, we understand whats needed and our rolling refurbishment and redevelopment programme helps keep us at the forefront in addressing this evolution, adding new facilities and diversifying our portfolio in response.
We have found that by far the most common requirement for customers is access to business-class connected services, intelligent building-wide Wi-Fi and a secure, super-fast and resilient network.
Investing in these areas is an essential cornerstone of our strategy, helping us to provide not only what customers want today but also to be prepared for the next wave of changes and needs in the future.
We know how important our customer relationships are, both in terms of responding to day-to-day requirements in our business centres and in acting to anticipate new demands.
We spend time on research, gathering data and insight in addition to the feedback we receive in our regular conversations with customers and satisfaction surveys.
Keeping Workspace, our buildings and our customers aligned like this will ensure that we continue to strengthen our reputation as the home to New and Growing Companies across London.
"Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer 20""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The right strategy continues to drive performance Right market London is growing and changing."
Page 23 Right Right brand properties Increasing Creating recognition modern growth and reputation.
Page 31 Page 25 WORKSPACE UNDERSTANDS WORK SPACE Right Right people customers Driving New and Growing performance.
"Page 29 Page 27 Meeting rooms at 160 Fleet Street, Midtown 21""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 22""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We are focused on growing Strategy in action Right our portfolio of properties in 2015 16 market in London and increasing Planning consents our market share."
gained for two major London is refurbishments to Why London is the right create brand new growing and market for Workspace business centres in changing As a global Hoxton and Shoreditch entrepreneurial capital, and for two mixed-use London is one of the redevelopments in largest homes to New Stratford and and Growing Companies.
London continues to Involved in transactions evolve with huge worth over 230m, investment in including completing five infrastructure and acquisitions, adding development opening to existing clusters of up new areas and properties and increasing creating regeneration our footprint in areas with opportunities.
We have a deep Continued to see a broad knowledge of and spread of demand from significant expertise in New and Growing operating in the London Companies all across property market, with London.
excellent relationships with local planning Looking forward authorities.
Continue to grow footprint across London through targeted acquisitions to satisfy demand from New and Growing Companies.
Seek planning consents at eight further refurbishment and redevelopment schemes.
"View from customer unit in new building at Vox Studios, Vauxhall 23""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 24""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We identify, develop and Large scale mixed-use Right manage smart, dynamic redevelopment scheme properties and comfortable buildings, completed in Ladbroke where people and their Grove with new business Creating businesses thrive and grow."
centre, Grand Union Studios, letting up faster modern growth Why investment in than expected and at environments our properties is so a higher price point.
important Grand Union Studios Our refurbishment and achieved a BREEAM redevelopment pipeline Excellent certification creates new, higher and an Energy quality space with Performance Certificate increased employment of A 20. density helping to satisfy Continued disposal of demand and allowing light industrial properties, us to drive pricing.
recycling capital into The design of our business centres where buildings is all-important Workspace can add and drives demand: we more value.
are catering for how our Invested in significant customers want to work, upgrades to connectivity providing more break-out in our properties, areas, cafs, meeting installed one of the rooms and event space, UKs first 10GB fibre as well as business-grade connections and 1.3GB technology.
community Wi-Fi into New and Growing a commercial multi-let Companies are building.
discerning customers so Workspace needs Looking forward to remain ahead Complete refurbishment of constantly evolving of The Record Hall, trends in order to remain Hatton Garden, and their go-to home.
continue with major refurbishment projects Strategy in action at Holywell Centre and in 2015 16 Cremer Business Centre.
Total rent roll up Continue roll out of 12.7% in the year, while technology infrastructure, like-for-like rent per including installation of sq.
ft. was up 16.4% and building-wide Wi-Fi like-for-like occupancy across our business remained stable at 90.7%.
Completed major Continue to educate our refurbishments at Cargo customers on how they Works, The Print Rooms can help us manage our and Vox Studios, adding buildings in the most 67,000 sq.
ft. of higher environmentally quality net lettable space responsible way.
and achieving pricing growth ahead of forecasts.
Repositioning projects also completed at Westbourne Studios and Grays Inn Road.
"Refurbished Club Workspace and entrance at The Print Rooms, Southwark 25""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 26""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We continue to build our Launched a new sales Right understanding of our brochure to clarify the customers customers to better cater Workspace offer and to their needs and enhance enhance the customers New and demand for our space."
Encouraged 59 customer Growing Why New and Growing businesses to provide Companies Companies are the right work placements to 71 customer for Workspace students from 19 local The market of New and schools for Inspiresme Growing Companies in Week.
Four students London is huge and were subsequently continues to grow.
offered further work NGCs are fuelling experience.
Londons economy and growing at a faster rate Looking forward than large corporates.
Continue to evolve There is a lack of customer platforms and competition offering expand range of business high-quality space, insight events to educate flexible leases and wider and inform, encourage customer benefits, networking and interensuring continued trading and continue demand for Workspaces to build the Workspace offer.
Ensure our best in class Strategy in action technology offer is at in 2015 16 the forefront of the 299 customers expanded market for New and in the year either taking Growing Companies.
larger space or additional Continue to grow Club units.
Workspace with three Conducted research new clubs in the pipeline into our customer base and two refurbishments to better understand planned.
what sectors they are Align with the right operating in and how partners to enhance they do business.
our offer for customers Continued to expand beyond the office space Club Workspace, now we provide.
Fourteen Club customers grew into the main Workspace portfolio in the year.
Published a new customer magazine, HomeWork, providing news and insight of relevance to New and Growing Companies.
Continued to roll out business insight events with partner, Knowledge Peers, to educate customers on topical issues and encourage networking.
"Caspar Thykier, CEO of Zappar, in their new office at Barley Mow Centre, Chiswick 27""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 28""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We invest in the right talent Strategy in action Right to deliver our strategy and in 2015 16 people provide the right solutions Expanded investment for our customers."
team to take advantage Driving of opportunities for Why our in-house talent is strategic acquisitions.
performance so important 1,237 training days We have a scalable completed by employees operational platform, on areas including Health managing all marketing, & Safety, Social Media, enquiries, lettings and Customer Service, renewals activity inConflict Resolution and house without having Networking & Events.
16 employees supported By controlling all the through further studies touch points with our and 28 long service customers from the first awards given, including enquiry through to the 23 for more than 10 years viewing, lease negotiation employment.
and move we are able Supported six employees to build a deep to trek eight hours a day understanding of over six days to climb demand across London the 4,167 metres to the and the needs of a NGC.
summit of Mount Centre staff act as the Toubkal in Morocco, first point of contact raising over 17,000 with customers and are for youth charity, XLP.
therefore first to hear 12 Workspace employees about customers provided work business performance placements to 14 and future occupational students for Inspiresme requirements.
Strong expertise and market knowledge in Looking forward our Development and Launch new intranet and Investment teams ensure internal communications Workspace is well platform to engage all positioned to acquire employees in the new properties and business and enhance generate superior value communication between from our existing head office and on-site portfolio.
Continue with existing training for all employees and introduce new courses on Recruitment and Facilitating Events.
Set up a skills matrix for all employees to identify, develop and track employee skill sets.
Implement new HR system, including self-service elements.
"Centre Manager meeting a customer at repositioned 160 Fleet Street, Midtown 29""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued 30""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We are focused on Environmental efforts Right increasing our brand reach recognised through brand to encourage long-term Workspaces continued advocacy, drive pricing and inclusion in the Increasing improve performance."
Continued to work with recognition and Why the Workspace the right partners that reputation brand remains important reflect our brand With increased noise proposition and added around the concepts of value for customers: flexible working and developed our connected co-working, it has services offer with Excell become more important Group, provided for Workspace to customers with premium highlight its differentiated access to the Informed offer.
Funding alternative The Workspace brand finance platform and encompasses the offered storage solutions ownership and through Lovespace.
development of our real estate as well as the Looking forward provision of solutions for Refresh our social media our customers.
strategy to increase reach We design our properties and take advantage of to reflect our brand opportunities to tell our proposition and customer brand story to customers offer, without placing too and prospects.
much emphasis on our Enhance interaction with own branding within the our customers through building.
development of our digital strategy, including Strategy in action the evolution of customer in 2015 16 platforms.
Launched new website, successfully integrating the customer offer under one site, including meeting rooms, coworking and community.
Upgraded meeting rooms across the portfolio and created an online platform, expanding our brand reach beyond Workspace customers.
Launch of HomeWork magazine helped to position Workspace as the go-to brand for New and Growing Companies.
"Repositioned atrium and caf at Canterbury Court, Kennington Park, Kennington 31""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
