09 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Premier's fundamental purpose is to add significant value for 2003 was also a year in which we were able to strengthen our shareholders through high impact exploration and commercial deal existing partnerships: making.
This demands that we not only deliver superior operational and financial performance, but we also maintain careful consideration Save the Children USA: we agreed to a global collaboration of the needs and aspirations of those with whom we do business.
Under this agreement we are designing an 2003 Premier continued to develop its corporate social responsibility innovative new programme in Jakarta - Indonesia, working with CSR activities as described below.
Monash Universitys Castan Centre for Human Rights: Premier is We published our first Sustainability Performance Report in July 2003. partnering in a three year project started in 2002 to look at the This report, which followed the Global Reporting Initiatives reporting role that corporations can, and do, play with specific reference to model, was short listed for the annual Association of Chartered Certified human rights, where they operate.
The outcome of this project will Accountants 2003 awards in the Sustainability Reporting category.
be a book and a series of management tools to help corporations identify and deal with human rights and related issues.
In the first half of the year, Premiers executive directors agreed an ambitious new CSR strategy to complement the restructuring of the The highlight of the year, in terms of our partnership building company.
This strategy recognises that responsible business is a key initiatives, was the collaboration with the United Nations part of our business and will help Premier to: Environmental Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre UNEP-WCMC in the Proteus initiative.
Proteus, a five year be the business and community partner of choice: partnership, was officially launched on 2 October 2003 and Premier remain an industry leader in the sustainable development arena: is one of the founding partners.
continue to plan, and deliver, net positive social and environmental impacts: and The primary goal of Proteus is to deliver a decentralised biodiversity work in partnerships to multiply these positive impacts.
knowledge management system versatile enough to provide wideranging information and analytical services on the living world to As part of our commitment to remaining a leader in the area of CSR, governments, business and NGOs.
It will deliver services through a Premier became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact global biodiversity network a federated system of databases on the in 2003.
The United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, worlds living resources, based on the existing databases, systems challenged world business leaders in January 1999 to embrace and networks of the centre.
This is going to be the worlds most and enact the Global Compact, for further information see comprehensive and authoritative knowledge bank on biodiversity.
The sustainability of the programme will be dependent on a worldwide network of partners to help with the collating of The Global Compact describes nine principles encompassing human biodiversity data.
In Pakistan, Premier, UNEP-WCMC and LEAD in rights, labour standards and the environment.
The corporate Pakistan signed an agreement in 2003 to identify the main sources signatories to the Global Compact promise that they will adhere to of data and the principal requirements for a Proteus system in it in every country where they have operations.
Premier has actively the country.
participated and we continuously demonstrate how we are embracing and enacting these principles, wherever we work.
At Premier we have always believed that building positive relationships with communities, and other stakeholders, will help to Premier was listed on the FTSE4Good Index and named by Business enable us to go about and sustain our business.
During 2003, we in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index the authoritative identified and delivered new community development initiatives in benchmark of responsible business practice as one of the top 100 Indonesia, Pakistan, Guinea Bissau and Indias Assam province.
responsible companies in the UK.
Further details of these initiatives, our developing partnerships and the progress of our ongoing reporting on sustainability performance, The FTSE4Good indices, social and environmental, were specifically can be viewed on our website www.
designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies.
The inclusion criteria are regularly reviewed so that they reflect a broad market consensus on what constitutes good corporate responsibility practice as it evolves.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003
