co. uk Arriva at a Glance Arriva is one of the largest transport services organisations in Europe.
UK Bus Arriva is one of the UKs largest bus The division has invested nearly 190 million operators, with over 6,000 buses and in new vehicles over the last four years.
It is the biggest operator These include easy access buses which have in London, providing 18.5 per cent of the a host of features designed to improve capitals bus services.
We also monitor customer satisfaction to target areas Outside London, Arrivas bus services in which we can improve our service further.
operate in the North East, North West and South East of England, Yorkshire, the Arrivas innovative Going your way Midlands, Wales and Scotland.
marketing campaign continues to deliver results with specifically tailored regional Arriva values its employees and opportunities and route-based applications encouraging for employee development mean that around more people to travel by bus.
Arriva is also 1,300 bus drivers have achieved NVQs in committed to working in partnership with customer care and engineering employees local authorities to deliver sustainable receive continuous vocational training.
routes, modern infrastructure, accessible vehicles and improved reliability.
UK Trains Arriva began operating the new integrated Arriva Trains Northern provides interurban, Wales and Borders franchise in December rural and commuter passenger rail services 2003.
The 15-year Arriva Trains Wales Trenau across the North of England.
It operates Arriva Cymru franchise provides interurban, around 1,200 train services every day, over rural and commuter passenger rail services 600 of which pass through Leeds station.
throughout Wales and the border counties, With over 2,500 employees, Arriva with a network that stretches from Liverpool Trains Northern provides nearly 29 million and Manchester through North and South passenger journeys a year.
The company Wales to Bristol and Penzance.
It runs a also manages 225 stations across its fleet of 116 trains, covering a route of over network, including 37 staffed stations.
2,600 miles supported by over 1,800 Since Arriva was awarded the franchise in employees, and operates 235 stations, February 2000, it has focused on delivering of which 48 are staffed.
improvements and in November was awarded the Institute of Transport and Logistics award for Excellence in Passenger Transport 2003.
2 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk We provide more than one billion passenger journeys every year in the UK, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden and operate vehicle rental and bus and coach distribution businesses in the UK.
International Arriva is one of the largest private sector Scandinavia: Arriva is the largest provider providers of passenger transport in mainland of services in the Danish bus market and is Europe with operations in six countries.
There the first private company to win franchises remain significant opportunities as the bus to operate passenger rail services in Denmark.
and rail markets, which the EU estimates to The franchises, which began last year, serve be worth around 70 billion, increasingly Mid and North Jutland.
Arriva also operates open to competitive tendering.
bus services in the south of Sweden.
The Groups mainland European businesses Iberia: Arriva is the major operator of have some 5,000 vehicles and over 10,000 scheduled bus and coach services to the employees operating an extensive range of south of Lisbon.
Arriva also operates services including buses, trains, commuter interurban services in the north west of coaches, taxis, water buses and fully Portugal.
In Spain, Arriva operates bus accessible demand responsive vehicles.
services in the northwest province of Galicia and in Mallorca.
The Netherlands: Arriva operates 20 per cent of the regional bus services in the Italy: Arriva is the largest private sector bus Netherlands, working as a contractor to local operator in Italy, providing urban, interurban government.
It also owns NoordNed, a rail and airport services to the east of Milan and bus operator in the north of the country.
principally in the Lombardy region of northern Italy.
Vehicle Rental Bus & Coach Arriva Vehicle Rental operates a fleet of around 11,500 cars and light commercial vehicles from 40 locations nationwide, employing some 600 people.
It provides thousands of rental vehicles to local authorities and major corporations across the UK.
The rental market is growing as organisations move away from vehicle ownership and instead lease their fleet.
Last year saw the introduction of Tasc, which offers customers highly flexible fleet management, tighter cost control Arriva Bus & Coach distributes both new and an even better level of service.
and good quality used buses and coaches for operations throughout the UK.
It has the exclusive rights to import VDL bus and coach chassis and products.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3 www.
co. uk 2003 at a Glance February April August Thornaby station won the Station Excellence Arriva Denmark won two out of the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry of the Year award at the HSBC Rail Business three quality awards based on customer and Minister for Women, the Rt.
Awards, beating strong competition such as comments made by the Greater Copenhagen Patricia Hewitt MP, launched a new the redevelopment of Manchester Piccadilly.
Authority HUR for bus services.
community partnership between Arriva and The scheme at Thornaby involved the the Leicester Racial Equality Council.
Arriva construction of a new waiting room, retail made an initial donation of 4,000 to unit, staffed ticket office, a 60 space car June support the positive images project, a park, new lighting, CCTV and five real-time Arriva was highly commended for its campaign to promote racial minority positive display screens.
The redevelopment is the programme The Arriva Approach to Diversity images in sport and encourage local result of a joint investment of almost Valuing Difference, at the Opportunity communities to take up exercise to maintain 500,000 by Stockton Borough Council, Now Awards for its commitment to gender their health.
The partnership reflects Arrivas Arriva Trains Northern and the Strategic Rail equality in the workplace.
Arrivas approach position as a part of local communities across Authority.
Arriva seeks to work in partnership to diversity is designed to create an the UK and its desire to build sustainable with local and national authorities to benefit environment which maximises the potential relationships that are relevant to the Groups the local communities it serves.
of all employees and appreciates all activities.
differences in people, whether customers or employees.
March Arriva presented 3,000 to St Christophers School in Wrexham to continue its award winning environmental work, including its Millennium Eco-Centre.
This will enable pupils to carry out a range of projects including devising alternative ways to travel to school and looking at how energy and water bills can be reduced.
Arriva is committed, both nationally and locally, to supporting environmental projects.
4 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk September November December Arriva completed the purchase of the Arriva Trains Northern won the Institute of Arriva Netherlands was successful in bidding remaining 49 per cent of Transportes Sul do Transport and Logistics award for Excellence for a large tender to operate public transport Tejo TST from the Barraqueiro Group in in Passenger Transport 2003.
The award services in the city and province of Groningen Portugal for 26 million, having acquired was given in recognition of Arriva Trains and the province of Drenthe.
These services a controlling interest of 51 per cent in Northerns efforts to deal with industry are currently run by Arriva Netherlands and June 2002.
TST is the leading operator of challenges and improve performance, safety comprise nearly half of the businesss scheduled bus and coach services in the and customer service and reflects the hard contracts in the northern region of the growing commuter region to the south of work and commitment on the part of country.
The new contract starts in June Lisbon and also operates schools and works its employees.
2004 and runs for three and a half years.
Together with our operations in the north of the country, TST positions Arriva Arrivas commitment to safety was Arriva commenced operation of the 15-year as one of Portugals leading bus companies recognised at an awards ceremony held Wales and Borders franchise.
This is a new with a fleet of over 900 vehicles and by the UK road safety charity Brake, which integrated franchise providing interurban, 1,750 employees.
is dedicated to reducing deaths and injuries rural and commuter passenger rail services on the roads through awareness-raising with a network that stretches from Liverpool campaigns and educational resources.
and Manchester through North and South October The company was shortlisted in six categories Wales to Bristol and Penzance.
Arriva commissioned NOP Research Group at Brakes Road Safety Awards, which to carry out a customer satisfaction survey resulted in wins in two categories and across our regional UK bus business, being highly commended in two others.
providing information about every aspect of the journey experience on a depot by depot basis.
The results indicated that 90 per cent of passengers were satisfied with the overall service they receive, with customers scoring Arrivas bus drivers, ease of access and easy-to-buy tickets the most highly.
Arriva is justifiably proud of its drivers and continuous monitoring will enable us to improve our service even further.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5
