2 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Our Business at a Glance Communications Spirent Communications is a global provider of performance analysis The Service Assurance division provides network monitoring and and service assurance solutions that enable the development and management systems for service providers to assure the quality of deployment of next-generation networking technologies.
Our systems enable the efficient delivery and maintenance of leased line voice and data, digital subscriber line, The Performance Analysis division develops testing solutions wireless, optical and IP networks.
The division provides operations for a broad range of communications technologies critical to the support systems, remote test probes, network test access systems and deployment of next-generation networks.
Our systems test wireless the expertise to implement solutions over a national or global scale.
and wireline networks and equipment, including core terabit routers, broadband access devices, third generation wireless handsets, Internet infrastructure, web applications and security and Internet telephony.
Our systems enable customers to emulate large-scale networks, introduce impairments and stress test equipment to ensure maximum performance and conformance to industry standards.
Network Products We are a developer and manufacturer of innovative solutions for and cable covering products provide insulation and physical protection fastening, identication, protection and connectivity in electrical for wires and cables.
and communications networks marketed under the global brand HellermannTyton.
We also produce a range of products used in the installation of local area and wide area communications networks such as raceways, HellermannTyton designs and manufactures a broad range of ducting, racks, patch panels and modular jacks.
high-grade nylon ties, clips, channels and xings for fastening cables and wires in electrical, communications, automotive, industrial We are a market leader in systems for the automated application equipment, aerospace and construction applications.
We produce of cable xings and identication printing and application systems.
products with value added identication and security features such as standard cable markers, application tailored labels, printed customised markers and tags, tamper-evident xings, security seals and printed ties for clinical waste.
Our heatshrink insulation, convoluted tubing Systems Our Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, which develops controlling other aspects of the vehicles functions, including seating power control systems for specialist electrical vehicles in the mobility or platform position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
and industrial markets, and an aerospace business that provides groundbased logistics support software systems for the aviation market.
We are a leading developer and supplier of ground-based logistics support and maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO software TM TM PG Drives Technology is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic systems, brand named GOLD and AuRA, for the civil and military control systems for use in specialised electrically powered vehicles.
Our systems manage aerospace customers These include medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and logistics and MRO processes by providing maintenance work ow mobility scooters as well as small industrial vehicles such as oor management, inventory control, repair order management, recording cleaning vehicles and aerial access platforms.
Our systems allow and forecasting capabilities.
the user to control the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as
