consistent improvement in to become one of the largest Operating profit has more than operating margin.
doubled over the past five years.
including joint ventures, before goodwill charges and integration costs Milestones 1998 1999 2000 Taylor Nelson Sofres plc joins the 11 acquisitions to build global network Acquisition of CMR, the largest FTSE250 on London Stock Exchange and specialist sector expertise, include provider of advertising expenditure TNS Nipo, the largest market measurement in US Consumer panels established in Asia information group in the Netherlands and Latin America TNS increases presence in fast TV audience measurement extended growing Chinese research market by Launch of multimedia CAPI for use by in China acquiring 46% of CVSC interviewers in France and UK European presence in Media Successful launch of Transact, a Intelligence reinforced by acquisitions tracking service based on in France, Spain and UK pharmaceutical wholesaler data in UK Establishment of TNS University to TNS acquires Conversion Model, part provide consistent training in use of of its portfolio of Business Solutions Business Solutions around world The power of our global network The growth of the past six years, since the Our operations span 70 countries in Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and the Middle East acquisition of the Sofres group in 1997, has We are the worlds largest custom research group created a major force We are market leader in a number of countries in Europe, in market information including the UK, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, Finland, Denmark We are the largest provider of advertising expenditure measurement and largest custom research provider, in the US We have the strongest custom network in Asia Pacific 2 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 Earnings per share Dividend per share Relative share price pence pence performance 10.5 3.0 2.6 Taylor Nelson Sofres FTSE Mid 250 8.6 2.4 8.0 2.1 7.0 1.8 5.9 1.4 4.4 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Source: Datastream TNS has maintained steady The group has delivered year on growth in earnings.
2001 2002 2003 TNS receives UK Marketing magazines TNS builds presence in US consumer TNS launches new brand award for Market Research Agency of sector and internet capabilities with TNS acquires NFO, consolidating its the Year three key acquisitions position as one of worlds largest TNS acquires MDC Group which Acquisition in Sweden completes market information groups extends network to Finland, Russia Nordic coverage, where TNS holds IBM appoints TNS as its primary and Baltic states market leading positions in Norway, corporate research provider Denmark and Finland Cinema trailer tracking and sports First commercial application of sponsorship evaluation added to Nordic regional telecoms index Portable People Meters in conjunction Media Intelligence offering established with Arbitron Client launch of TNSInfo, a web portal Innovative system for advising clients information delivery system on optimum media selection secures major Automotive contract wins Unilever appoints TNS as its global preferred supplier of consumer panel data The scale of our expertise Our wide range of hi-tech solutions We are the world leader in consumer panels.
We run panels in Since its launch in 2001, 5,000 users on more than 1,300 28 countries and are present in a further 18 through alliances.
client sites have taken up TNSInfo TNS monitors the behaviour of 81,650 households, which provide TNS technology is used to measure TV viewing and radio information on over 80 million purchase events each year listening habits in 21 countries We run media intelligence services in 20 countries and cover InfoSysTV, the advanced TV audience analysis system, is more than 1,600 TV stations, 11,300 press titles, 4,500 radio used in 14 countries and is the system of choice for all but stations and over 3,000 web sites.
This translates to 112m one of the broadcasters in the UK TV spots, 13m press ads, 3m radio spots and 100m web In the US, Media Intelligence has expanded full-motion banners each year colour creative to all TV spots Our access panel is one of the largest in the US, with 500,000 households available for mail and phone surveys and 2.65m individuals available online the sixth sense of business 3 Specialist sectors TNS specialises in eight industry sectors that require global presence or highly developed expertise Media Intelligence TV and Radio Audience Main activities Measurement Across a wide range of Healthcare media, including TV, radio, print and internet, TNS Worldpanel Main activities continuously measures Using state of the art advertising expenditure, and household and individual tracks and analyses creative metering technology, TNS advertising and editorial Main activities measures television viewing news.
TNS also tracks TNS offers a range of custom and radio listening habits to cinema trailers and sport Main activities and multi-client services provide accurate audience sponsorship activities.
Continuous measurement throughout the product data on a continuous basis.
and analysis of consumer Clients lifecycle to help define Clients purchasing behaviour using Media owners, advertising market opportunities, Broadcasters, advertising technology matched to the agencies, public relations develop brands, guide agencies, advertisers, sophistication of local advisers, broadcasters, communications, track brand platform operators and TV markets, including bar code publishers, government performance and optimise production companies.
scanners, internet and till departments and NGOs, as organisational effectiveness.
well as local and TNS insight Clients international companies.
Is the programme Clients Major pharmaceutical, maintaining its volume and Multi-national and local TNS insight biotech, diagnostics, device share of audience?
fmcg brand and private What are the advertising and medical supply label manufacturers, fresh trends for our industry?
What share of commercial companies, and local health food suppliers, retailers and impacts do we have services.
Where and when should we market analysts.
TNS insight What is the impact of the How can we ensure our What drives market share of What is the most efficient changing demographics on share of voice relative to brands and retailers, and way to reach our target my market potential?
What message will motivate How can we get the most How does my advertising Have campaign objectives consumers to seek medical effective impact from our influence shoppers?
What are the trends in drug How and when do people Are we using the most treatment practices?
What strategies should be effective combination of used for brand and category media for our marketing When do light viewers of TV Which physicians should my management?
4 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 Information Technology Automotive Telecoms Main activities TNS IT research specialists Polling & provide clients with Social Main activities marketing and research Main activities Automotive research information to help decision TNS Telecoms offers a total specialists provide market making at every stage of the approach, which ranges measurement, analysis and product lifecycle.
from fieldwork to business Main activities insights for automotive solutions and advisory Clients TNS conducts surveys to industry clients.
It includes Many of the worlds leading understand how society is a complete range of syndicated market reports multi-national software, thinking or reacting to major services including brand as well as custom research.
hardware, office equipment issues on a national and and advertising tracking, and chip manufacturers, as Clients international scale.
In the car clinics, dealer well as internet marketers.
Telecoms service providers, political arena TNS tracks satisfaction research and mobile phone equipment TNS insight public opinion on campaigns, vehicle quality studies.
manufacturers, content Does my website maximise legislative and policy issues.
Clients providers and government opportunities with clients Clients Major automotive and tyre regulators.
Government bodies, political manufacturers, leading TNS insight Is my advertising meeting its parties, editorial media, component suppliers, as What is the relative value of strategic objectives?
NGOs and foundations, well as oil, leasing and our relationship with major international retailing companies.
What marketing strategies business and residential institutions, universities and should we use to deal with TNS insight customers?
increasing product How do I maximise business What content is the youth commoditisation?
TNS insight opportunities in fast growing market looking for?
What are the major values automotive markets, such What is the impact on our on which societys as China?
business of shortened Is 3G going to be taken up, behaviour is depending?
What will be the needs and What are the major trends?
behaviours of car buyers in What drives our customers How commited are our the future?
How does the population view its elected leaders?
How can we use our brand to How should this product be protect our best customers configured to maximise What is the election result How do I maintain from competitors?
the sixth sense of business 5 Expertise Knowing the issues as well as the answers.
TNS has expertise in all the core areas of market information Our Business Solutions are sophisticated techniques for solving marketing problems across any industry sector or country.
They help our clients to build stronger brands Market segmentation brand portfolio management brand positioning studies market structure Product development competitor analysis and brand performance concept testing product testing forecasting brand tracking Advertising and communications evaluation advertising pre-testing Stakeholder advertising tracking management customer retention employee commitment 6 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 AdEval Miriad The Conversion Model An advertising pre-testing system, The advanced data integration, A psychological measure of human which evaluates an advertisement's analysis and delivery tool for all types behaviour that analyses customer performance using unique and of research studies.
It identifies which powerful diagnostics, to show how customers are committed to the brand Client issue How do I make sense of advertising can be optimised.
or service, which are likely to defect the many diverse sources of marketing and what the future direction for the Client issue If I havent seen an information available?
immediate result, will my advertising TNS insight You need an intelligent improve over time?
Client issue How strong is my brand data integration analysis and delivery relative to its competitors?
TNS insight If an advertisement system to assist in decision-making at doesnt show results quickly it is both the strategic and tactical levels.
TNS insight We enable you to improve unlikely ever to work.
A media plan Miriad is custom built to your market share by identifying how will naturally contribute to an ads specifications and available via to strengthen your brand.
Some success, however if the creative is desktop or web.
It is used across marketers complain that they operate flawed, you cannot compensate by nearly 500 tracking studies and in in commodity markets and that their extra media spend.
A so-called slow more than 40 countries.
We have found burn usually turns into a no burn.
that in every market, there will always NeedScope System AdEval offers guidance on how to be people who become attached to A system for measuring consumer rectify an ad that could otherwise fail.
Brand commitment is needs and motivations, which uses a something every brand can achieve.
MarketWhys proven psychological framework to The brand and advertising tracking uncover the fundamental elements TRI M system that goes beyond basic linking successful brands and their An integrated stakeholder awareness measures to understand consumers.
the real impact of marketing activities.
Client issue How can I tap into Client issue How do customers Client issue What should I be consumer needs to uncover marketing perceive my products and services?
measuring in my advertising tracking?
Which of my branches departments are the best performing ones in terms TNS insight Advertising awareness TNS insight NeedScope identifies of customer retention or employee alone is no guarantee of a positive profitable consumer need segments commitment?
TNS goes so that clients can manage global beyond simple awareness measures brand portfolios, prevent other brands TNS insight Measuring, managing to get to the real advertising effect, cannibalising an existing range and and monitoring your stakeholder by understanding the impact of both identify new brand opportunities.
relationships - levels and drivers media and creative on the brand.
of customer retention, as well as Optima It helps you understand how your strengths and weaknesses, compared A brand portfolio management tool advertising is working to retain with your competitors.
that offers an understanding of existing and acquire new customers.
market structure, based on how and why consumers choose the brands they do.
Client issue What do I do if my brand needs to operate and be positioned at both a local and global level?
More information about TNS insight By analysing the key our business, including drivers contributing to the brand share, Optima can achieve both global and contact details, can be local positioning.
It identifies the key found by visiting our choices driving the market and the website strengths of the brand.
com recommends what messages can be applied at both levels.
the sixth sense of business 7
