The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Our business at a glance: The five divisions of The Weir Group PLC provide solutions to many of the most demanding engineering and operational challenges facing our society.
Weir Minerals Weir Clear Liquid Weir Valves & Controls Weir Minerals is the world leader in the Weir Clear Liquid has a reputation for Weir Valves & Controls specialises in critical design and manufacture of pumps, mill engineering excellence in the design, service and isolation valves designed to liners, cyclones, and slurry valves for the manufacture and service of engineered support regulatory compliance and best mining and minerals processing industries.
pumps and fluid handling systems.
practice in power generation, oil and gas safety.
Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures No.
of businesses 4 2003 order input 225.8m 2003 order input 146.5m 2003 order input 62.0m Market size c. 800m Market size c. 7.5bn Market size c. 1.5bn Market position No.
1 insectors in which we operate in high pressure nuclear valves Our brands: Our customers: Our brands: Our customers: Our brands: Our customers: ASH Alcoa Atwood & Morrill AMEC Group Weir Alstom CAVEX Barrick Batley Valve Black & Veatch Lewis Bechtel Galigher Codelco Blakeborough Constellation Floway BP Controls GEHO fide Beers First Energy Roto-Jet Dupont Flowguard Hazleton Newmont Fisia Italimpianti Wemco Foster Wheeler Hopkinsons Isogate WMC John Brown Girdlestone General Electric MAC Valves Engineering Schabaver Anglo-American Begemann Kellogg Brown & Root Sarasin RSBD Kellogg Brown & Root Warman BHP-Billiton Rubber Engineering New York City Sebim PSE & G Weiresist CVRD Zeron 100 Pillsbury Tricentric South Texas Project Grupo Mexico Shell Technip Offshore Rio Tinto Thames Water TVA Tyson Foods 2 Minerals Clear Liquid Valves & Controls Services Techna Pursuing our vision Weir Services Weir Techna Weir Services is a leading provider of Weir Techna is the specialist engineering The entire Weir organisation is equipment maintenance, process support design and systems integration division, and asset management across a range of with particular strength in desalination, focused on our agenda specialised sectors.
water treatment, defence and nuclear markets.
to improve operational Facts and figures Facts and figures effectiveness and the No.
of people 725 achievements have been No.
of countries 9 2003 order input 192.5m 2003 order input 100.5m substantial - a change in Market size c. 15bn Market size c. 3.5bn attitude, global restructuring Market position No.
1 and 3 and a clear strategy now in UK, Middle East & Canada insectors in which we operate its second year of delivery.
Our services: Our customers: Our expertise: Our customers: Equipment repair ADNOC Desalination Airbus and overhaul Aramco Water Treatment Amerada Hess Consolidated BHEL Gas storage and BAe Systems maintenance handling BP BP Asset Thermal processes ChevronTexaco British Energy Management Defence and Corus British Nuclear Fuels Process analysis Nuclear Inquisitor NIOC Dubai Electricity & Water Authority Powergen UK Spare and EDF International enhanced parts Scottish & Southern Energy plc Hyundai Heavy Process equipment Industries Shell Valves and controls SASOL Specialist technical Yorkshire Water services SBM Technip-Coflexip UK Ministry of Defence Ultra Electronics 3
