Quintain at a glance TIMELINE APRIL 2002 Quintain is a leading property investment and 42.7m of pubs sold development company specialising in strategic into Quart a general and limited partnership with property acquisition, redevelopment and asset Hermes and Bank of Scotland management across the UK.
We are dedicated to achieving sustained growth and optimising the return for our shareholders.
Our results are a testimony to this focus.
The total return to shareholders over the past year, and MAY since our stock market flotation in 1996, has outperformed both the FTSE 350 and Investment 21 year development Property Databank IPD indices.
Our overall performance is reflected in our progressive dividend, agreement for 190 acres at the Greenwich which has risen from 3p to 8p per share over the same period.
Peninsula signed between Meridian Delta Limited MDL THE FOLLOWING HIGHLIGHTS THE STABILITY AND STRENGTH OF OUR RETURNS and landowners English Partnerships and Quintain 15 years Average lease length within the portfolio 38.5m Current rent from the portfolio 52.2m Estimated rental value open market value of the portfolio 5.7% Planned voids as part of land management strategy AUGUST 2.6% Unplanned voids Purchase of Wembley London 63% Gearing fully hedged to minimise interest rate risks Limited WLL for 48m 6.2% Average cost of debt maturing in 5 years Purchase of 30m portfolio, the largest property being a freehold office building in Central Manchester OCTOBER Practical completion achieved at The Parishes, Scunthorpe DECEMBER MARCH 2003 APRIL Submission of Purchase of 11 acre London Borough of 14.1m sq ft planning Palace of Industries site Greenwich application for the adjacent to 44 acres unanimously resolves Greenwich Peninsula owned by WLL to grant planning permission for Sale of Wheatsheaf 14.1m sq ft Centre, Rochdale for 17.9m QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 2 8 Our performance and planning provide a robust defence against changing market conditions.
In the last year falling yields have offset declines in real rents and produced positive returns in UK real estate but the market has been driven by debt backed buyers and, in our opinion, this is unsustainable in the longer term.
In the foreseeable future the active management of assets will be the key to sustainable growth and improved shareholder returns.
THE BUSINESS CAN BE DIVIDED INTO THREE CORE AREAS Special Projects include large, The Main Portfolio comprises Quintain Third Party Q3P high profile and complex a diverse and substantial manages and participates in holdings where enhanced direct property portfolio sector-focused funds.
value is achieved through invested across a wide range land management and of sectors in the UK.
Each element complements the others and draws on the high level of industry expertise within Quintain and from the extensive knowledge of our external advisers.
We often work in partnership with public and private sector bodies to enhance the returns available.
We believe we are ideally placed to achieve these returns and aim to match the activity of the last 12 months.
For example, our complex regeneration projects at Greenwich and Wembley are amongst the largest being undertaken in the country.
We will be submitting a planning application for approximately 40 acres surrounding the new National Stadium later this year and envisage achieving unconditional planning consent for the 14.1 million sq ft mixed use regeneration on the Greenwich Peninsula in the early part of next year.
We believe we can provide more than 14,000 new homes and 30,000 new permanent jobs for London at these two locations.
Elsewhere, we are proposing 200,000 sq ft of mixed residential and retail space in Manchester and 2,250 homes and 1 million sq ft of commercial development on a 300 acre site in Emersons Green, Bristol, of which the Group owns 65 acres.
Otherwise, with our joint venture partner Morley Fund Management, we are progressing the formation of a second healthcare fund.
Members of the Quintain senior management team Members of the Quintain team ANNUAL REPORT 2003 3
