Aviva is the worlds seventh-largest insurance group and the biggest in the UK.
It is one of the leading providers of life and pensions products to Europe and has substantial businesses elsewhere around the world.
Its main activities are long-term savings, fund management and general insurance.
It has premium income and investment sales from continuing operations of 30 billion, and around 240 billion of assets under management.
The group has 56,000 employees serving 30 million customers worldwide.
Operational highlights Highlights of the year Strong performance in both long-term savings and general 1,907m insurance businesses operating profit before tax Robust life results: good sales growth in continental Europe: signs of confidence returning to UK market: margins up to 14.4bn 26.1% worldwide long-term savings new business sales Significant growth from bancassurance: sales up 27%: now accounts for 25% of new life and pensions sales: 24.15p average margins 39.7% full year dividend Excellent and sustainable general insurance results with new group combined operating ratio target of 100% for 11.2bn next three years shareholders funds Strong capital position and well-prepared for new UK realistic solvency reporting regime Geographical breakdown of worldwide business mix # Long-term savings 6 1 5 1 UK 33% From continuing operations, including life achieved operating profit, before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
2 Continental Europe 34% From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums.
3 Rest of world 5% On an achieved profit basis.
4 General insurance With reference to net premium income from continuing operations.
3 4 UK 17% #Including health premium income.
2 5 Continental Europe 6% Based on gross worldwide premiums.
6 Rest of world 5% All growth rates in this document are quoted at constant rates of exchange.
Aviva plc 01 Highlights of the year In the UK, our long-term savings business is showing resilience in a slow market.
We are making steady progress in France, with strong performances in Spain and Italy.
Our recent bancassurance agreement with ABN AMRO in the Netherlands is off to a promising start.
In the United States we are growing profitably.
Our start-up operations in India and China are growing well, above plan.
Aviva is a firm supporter of sensible Our UK general insurance operation is corporate governance disciplines, and turning in excellent results and good we already follow what has become free cashflow.
Worldwide, our general regarded as best boardroom practice.
insurance business is improving steadily, From the 2004 financial year we shall Chairmans statement and Canada is promising after a setback be required to report the boards earlier in the year.
compliance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Our fund management results are more Code incorporates recommendations robust than in the previous year.
from the Higgs review of the role of Aviva has come through a third year non-executive directors, which of adverse economic conditions.
We continue to look for promising generated considerable debate in the Some of our competitors have strategic opportunities, and will expand City throughout 2003, and the Smith suffered severely.
Others have our business where we see the chance report on audit committees.
We are undertaken massive capital raisings.
to be a market leader and grow the ahead of the game reporting this year as At Aviva we reduced dividends early business profitably.
if the Code had been in effect for 2003. to a sustainable level.
We further increased our capital strength by We propose a final dividend for 2003 Two non-executive directors, issuing subordinated debt in 2001 of 15.15 pence net per share, Carole Piwnica and Anna Catalano, and 2003 to raise altogether which brings the total for the year to joined our board during the year, and 2.8 billion.
are already making significant This will be payable on 17 May 2004 contributions.
Through strict cost control and stringent to shareholders on the register on capital allocation we have run and 26 March 2004.
Our policy remains One long-time executive director, developed our business with undisturbed that of growing the dividend by about Tony Wyand, retired in November 2003. continuity and maintained a Standard & 5% a year.
Likewise, Philip Twyman will retire in Poors AA range of ratings for the group.
I would like to thank both of them for their exceptional Our two main operational aims to be contributions.
They will be missed for the insurance industrys low-cost their eminent qualities and their producer and provider of choice are international experience.
Sir Michael being reached gradually.
We benchmark Partridge, a non-executive director and our performance continually to measure member of the audit committee, retired our progress.
in May 2003, and I thank him for his Through strict cost control and invaluable contribution.
stringent capital allocation we have run and developed our business with undisturbed continuity Pehr G Gyllenhammar Group strategy Chairman 1 To grow our long-term savings business aggressively and profitably.
2 To build a world-class fund management business.
3 To take a focused approach to general insurance, with disciplined underwriting and efficient claims handling.
4 To build top-five positions in key markets.
5 To withdraw from lines of business or markets which do not offer the potential for market-leading positions or superior returns.
Aviva plc 02 Chairmans statement I believe that Aviva has emerged from tough times in good shape Mike Biggs decided to leave the group at 31 December.
He did an excellent job, and I thank him for what he accomplished.
Philip Twyman took on additional responsibility for the group I am pleased with the progress we are finance director role from 1 January on Our staff have been under pressure making towards the creation of a a transitional basis.
I am pleased that through several years of adversity.
I single market for financial services Andrew Moss will be joining us from know that our management recognise Lloyds of London as group finance that ambitious efforts are needed to director later in the year.
motivate and encourage our dedicated employees.
Management has done well As chairman of the European Financial under demanding circumstances and will Services Round Table, I am pleased with continue to address these issues.
the progress we are making towards the creation of a single market for financial I believe that Aviva has emerged from services, although much patience is tough times in good shape.
We have proposed significant strongly positioned as a leading simplification to supervision and European-based financial services group.
regulation, steps toward a single capital That should benefit you as our market, and are preparing proposals for shareholders.
more effective and community-wide consumer protection.
In the area of corporate social responsibility, Aviva has high ambitions Pehr G Gyllenhammar and is making good progress.
I feel that Chairman all business operations in our group now understand our mission and are eager to do their best.
Aviva relative to FTSE Eurotop 300 Life and FTSE Eurotop 300 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Aviva FTSE Eurotop 300 Life FTSE Eurotop 300 Aviva plc 03 Chairmans statement
