chairmans statement The year ended 30 September 2003 was a period of significant development for the Group, Board composition Outlook with the strong organic growth of our core business divisions being augmented by the Andrew Chambers, an independent non-executive director The acquisition of Britannic Money during the year, as acquisition of Britannic Money, consolidating the Group's position as a major participant who has served on the Board since 1991, resigned from the well as being financially attractive, was also strategically in the buy-to-let lending market.
This acquisition was achieved without the need to issue Board in August on account of length of service and Michael significant, increasing our asset base and providing us with new equity: as well as being financially attractive, the purchase of Britannic Money is of Kelly, a director since 1994, resigned shortly after the year new sources of distribution to complement our prominent major strategic importance in our aim to expand the Group's influence and presence in end following a decision to spend more of his time overseas.
position in the professional buy-to-let sector.
The combined a secured, high quality lending sector with significant growth opportunities.
We wish them both well and thank them for their significant business provides a strong base for further development in contributions over the years.
a market which has excellent long-term growth prospects.
Profit before tax from ongoing operations, which excludes the impact of the acquisition, was 53.1 million, an increase of 15.4% from 46.0 million in the preceding year.
Profit before tax In August 2003 we were pleased to welcome David Beever Our objectives for the next year are to complete the after inclusion of the acquisition was 51.9 million, an increase of 12.8%.
Earnings per share to the Board as an independent non-executive director.
integration of Mortgage Trust and to continue to grow increased by 10.6% to 35.5p from 32.1p.
David is a non-executive director of JJB Sports plc, London profitably our core lending divisions.
Within this, we shall & Continental Railways Limited and Volex Group plc and maintain our focus on cost control and our strong stance In view of the sustained growth in profits, and consistent with the progressive dividend policy Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance.
He was previously on credit quality.
By so doing we aim to ensure the outlined last year, your Board has declared an increased final dividend of 3.7p per share which, Vice Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Limited.
David has continued development of a high quality book with which when added to the interim dividend of 2.6p paid on 31 July 2003, gives a total dividend of 6.3p assumed the role of senior independent director.
the Group is now associated and to support sustained per share for the year, an increase of 23.5% on last year's dividend of 5.1p.
Subject to approval growth of profits.
Whilst the new financial year will not at the Annual General Meeting on 10 February, the dividend will be paid on 12 February 2004.
Shortly after the year-end, we appointed two new be without its challenges, we have entered it well placed executive directors, John Heron and Pawan Pandya.
to take advantage of the opportunities afforded by the Business review and strategy John Heron is responsible for the Group's first mortgages secured lending markets and we look forward to reporting Our core business divisions saw strong growth during the year.
We continued to focus on division, encompassing Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage further progress at the half year.
the more defensive product areas such as the buy-to-let sector and secured personal loans.
Trust, and joined the Group in 1986.
He is currently In total we advanced 1,296.5 million of loans secured on residential property, 87.8% of our Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Staff total lending of 1,477.4 million.
Association and is a member of the Executive Committee I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the staff of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
Pawan Pandya joined of the Group and to my fellow directors for their hard We reported last year that the Group would be seeking value enhancing acquisitions to the Group in 1988 and was appointed Chief Operating work and support during the year.
Britannic Money, being a leading UK provider of innovative Officer in 2002, responsible for all loan administration flexible and buy-to-let mortgage products, was identified as an excellent complementary and processing, collections and Group technology.
fit to Paragon Mortgages by virtue of its broker relationships, its focus on the mid-market and emerging professional sector, its strong credit ethic and its excellent portfolio performance.
David Hoare, an independent non-executive director since In common with the Group, Britannic Money also used securitisation as its principal 1993, has confirmed that on account of length of service he Jonathan P L Perry funding method.
The acquisition was completed on 30 June 2003.
Since then, the business will be retiring from the Board at the end of the forthcoming Chairman 15 December 2003 has maintained its focus on the mid-market buy-to-let sector and has withdrawn its Annual General Meeting.
We thank David for his support and owner-occupied current account mortgage products on which, in our view, the margins contribution during his many years of involvement with the were inadequate.
The rebranding as Mortgage Trust and the launch of a new series of Group.
Following David's retirement the Board will, through products all took place within three months of the acquisition.
the Nomination Committee, search for a suitable independent candidate to fill the vacancy in due course.
As a result of the strong organic growth and the acquisition of Britannic Money, net loan assets at 30 September 2003 had more than doubled to 5,287.1 million, inclusive of those held by the off-balance sheet companies, from 2,521.3 million at the end of the previous year.
4 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 5
