TR Property Investment Trust plc Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 Contents and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your Directors Review bank or building society account Contents All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum 1 Highlights of the Year Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary market 2 Profile reviews 3 Financial Highlights and Performance Information 4 Chairmans Statement Henderson Selection ISA 8 Managers Report 16 Twenty Largest Equity Investments You can invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc through a Henderson Selection ISA.
The ISA offers the following: 18 Principal Investment Properties Tax free income and tax free growth Directors Report Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 20 Directors and Management An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your 22 Directors Remuneration Report bank or building society account 23 Report of the Directors Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary market reviews 26 Corporate Governance 28 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Accounts Henderson Selection Transfer PEP 29 Report of the Independent Auditors 30 Group Statement of Total Return Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP 31 Group and Company Balance Sheets funds in cash from other managers into the Henderson Selection Transfer PEP.
This offers you 32 Group Cash Flow Statement the opportunity to invest PEP funds in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
33 Notes to the Accounts 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting Further Information 48 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Please consult our website www.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, Shareholder Information FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
49 General Shareholder Information and Glossary of Terms Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor 52 Directors and other Information Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call Inside Back Cover Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan 44 20 7818 1315 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our Henderson Selection ISA mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Henderson Selection Transfer PEP Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
