Centrica at a glance British Gas Centrica Business Centrica Energy Centrica Storage Services Management Group Under the British Gas name Centrica Business Services aims We source the gas and electricity Centrica Storage operates the in England, the Nwy Prydain to be recognised as the most we need to supply our Rough gas storage facilities and British Gas names in Wales, innovative and flexible provider customers in Britain through a a partially depleted gas field and Scottish Gas in Scotland, of energy and other essential team of specialists working in in the Southern North Sea.
we supply gas, electricity and services for businesses.
Centrica Energy Management The business provides storage telecoms services to residential Group CEMG.
The business services for a wide range of customers throughout Britain.
The business markets gas, consists of our upstream gas customers, including other As well as energy and telecoms, electricity and telecoms production, electricity businesses within the we offer customers an increasing services under the British Gas generation, wholesale and Centrica group.
choice of complementary brand across Britain.
It is now industrial gas sales activities and home services.
the number one supplier of our energy optimisation unit.
co. uk energy to the commercial sector.
We continue to be the first Through its provision of choice gas supplier for millions The creation of Centrica appropriate access to of people.
Since the market Business Services enabled competitively priced gas and opened to competition in 1998 the business to focus on the power supplies, CEMG is key weve become the largest specific needs of its customers, to the success of our retail supplier of electricity to from large industrial and energy businesses.
commercial companies, to small and medium size businesses.
We now produce approximately Apart from supplying energy 25% of peak demand for our we are also the largest domestic www.
co. uk electricity customers through central heating and gas appliance our interests in six gas-fired installation company with power stations.
In addition, we maintenance and breakdown are committed to investing in services provided under our renewable generation, and HomeCare range.
We also already have interests in provide HomeCare for plumbing developments in the Irish Sea and drains, home electrics and and North Sea.
kitchen appliances and are a national installer of domestic, www.
com monitored home security systems.
British Gas Communications offers an integrated package of fixed line, mobile and internet services to customers across Britain.
co. uk Taking care of the essentials 02 Centrica plc report 2003 The AA One.
Tel Europe Centrica North America We provide reassurance and With a fresh and innovative Our energy supply joint venture, In Ontario, Direct Energy services to motorists in the UK approach, we provide a range Luminus, has provided a launch Essential Home Services offers and Ireland through the AA.
of landline, mobile and internet pad for developing our activities gas and electricity and a range The roadside assistance service services across the UK.
Competition in the of home services.
remains at the core of our Flanders region of Belgium, activities, with members One.
Tel landline customers are which had been open at In Texas we supply electricity choosing the level of cover offered a range of call plans, industrial and commercial under the Direct Energy, that best suits their needs.
level was extended in July WTU Retail Energy and CPL Customers also benefit from free 2003, to residential gas and Retail Energy brands to homes The AA is the UKs number directory enquiries calls to electricity customers.
intermediary and we are a Mobile phone customers have a Following the opening of the We supply gas under the Energy growing provider of personal choice of the latest handsets Spanish energy market at the America brand in Michigan, Ohio loans and financial services.
start of 2003, Luseo Energa and Pennsylvania.
is focused on providing AA Service Centres offer a Internet users are offered a electricity for small and Direct Energy Business Services range of maintenance and choice of packages, whether for medium sized businesses.
provides comprehensive energy repair services to motorists casual home use or business solutions to businesses across Britain, and AA Tyre Fit needs.
be throughout Canada and in Texas.
is the UKs first all-mobile fleet broadband options for people www.
com and retail tyre network.
We are who require high speed access www.
com the only national driving school and always on connection.
com exclusively using fully qualified www.
com Every day we touch the lives of millions of people.
Through our leading brands, Centrica provides warmth, comfort and peace of mind.
