Chairmans statement Emap has made good progress this year.
Stability and confidence have returned to the Group, and the core business is now performing well.
This year the media markets in which Emap operates in the UK and France have been the toughest we have seen for some years.
Despite these conditions, I am proud to be able to present a strong set of results and a positive outlook for the coming year.
Robin Miller retired from his role as Chief Executive in January 2003 after 37 years with the Group.
Robins contribution to making Emap what it is today is immeasurable.
It has been a real pleasure for me to work with Robin and I would like to thank him for his vision, commitment and example.
Following an extensive search, Tom Moloney was appointed Emaps new Chief Executive on 23 January 2003.
Tom has been with Emap for over 20 years, most recently as Chief Operating officer.
He was clearly the best man for the job and I look forward to working with him over the coming years.
He will be well supported by Gary Hughes, the Groups excellent Finance Director.
Emap has made good progress this year.
We have invested in new products and made acquisitions which will contribute to future growth.
The Group has balanced revenues, strong operating cash ows and, with net debt of 211 million, good funding headroom.
In October last year Emap re-entered the FTSE 100 and this year it has signicantly outperformed its peer group of media companies in terms of total shareholder return see page 23.
The Board regularly reviews its corporate governance arrangements.
Shareholders interests are well represented by an independent Chairman and three independent Non-Executive Directors, who form a majority on the Board.
Emap is an exciting media company with a wide range of opportunities ahead of it.
The forthcoming year will undoubtedly bring its share of difficulties but also new developments and achievements.
After a poor period in the Groups history I would like to thank everyone at Emap on behalf of the Board for their contribution to the Companys renewed success.
