06 FKI plc Annual report 2003 FKI Logistex: Turnover FKI Logistex is a leading supplier of A world leader in integrated automated material handling 439.3m automated logistics and systems to the global airport baggage handling, freight and parcel, Group percentage sortation products, warehouse retail distribution and systems and solutions.
Products and services provided include design, simulation, software, high-speed sorters, conveyors, AS RS, high-speed palletisers, carousels, picking systems and after-sales service.
Lifting Products and Services: Turnover Lifting Products and Services has a worldWorld leader in lifting class capability in design, manufacture, 408.7m products.
World number distribution and servicing of lifting and other equipment for customers in the Group percentage two in chains and lifting industrial, mining, energy, construction, gear.
World number 28.4% marine, fishing, hardware, automotive, one in large shears.
warehousing distribution, LPG and scrap markets of the world.
Hardware: Turnover Hardware has extensive capability in design, US number one in window manufacture and distribution of window 258.5m hardware.
US number one and door hardware, furniture hardware and ergonomic equipment for original equipment Group percentage in storm and screen door manufacturers, distributors and retailers.
US number 18.0% In addition, castors are sold to a wide one in mechanisms for variety of other customers which supply hospitals, industrial manufacturing, ergonomic solutions.
food manufacturing and retailing and cargo handlers.
Energy Technology: Turnover Energy Technology is a leading supplier World number one of turbogenerators: wind turbines: 332.9m independent supplier switchgear: electric motors: measurement and control products and is a significant Group percentage of turbogenerators and supplier of other electrical machinery and leading supplier of other 23.1% equipment.
Products and systems are sold electricity generating to manufacturers of turbines, pumps, compressors, fans and other machines machinery and power and to a wide variety of customers in infrastructure equipment.
industry, power generation, oil and gas supply, air separation, petrochemical and contracting.
07 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Group at a glance Markets Operations Worldwide Airport baggage handling Freight and parcel Warehouse retail distribution Manufacturing Markets Operations Worldwide Construction Bridges Stadiums Harbours Chains and hoists Distribution Oil and gas Mining Markets Operations UK, North America, rest of Europe and Far East Window and door manufacturers DIY stores Office furniture Operations UK, North America, rest of Europe and Far East Markets Power generators Oil and gas industry Renewable energy Rail industry
