2 GKN plc 2003 GKN AUTOMOTIVE AT A GLANCE Automotive GKN is one of very few truly global suppliers of automotive components and systems.
More than 50 GKN engineering and manufacturing facilities in Japan, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa, Europe and the Americas support all of the worlds leading manufacturers of cars, light trucks and off-highway vehicles.
GKN Driveline is the worlds No.
1 supplier of constant velocity jointed sideshafts CVJs.
This business has achieved substantial growth in recent years and will continue to take advantage of growth in emerging markets and higher CVJ content on four wheel drive and all wheel drive vehicles.
These account for approximately 25% of all the light vehicles produced in North America.
A further area of growth is driveline-related torque systems products.
GKN Driveline has moved decisively to build on its knowledge and product base by further developing its presence within the market for advanced torque management devices and systems which enhance vehicles traction, stability and safety.
1 supplier of powder metal parts and is the No.
1 producer of metal powder in the US.
GKNs capability in the technology and production of powder metal parts and their raw material is unique among major companies.
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of components and systems for agricultural and off-highway equipment.
It is also a leading supplier of automotive structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive, industrial and marine applications.
Emitec, a 50:50 joint venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in metallic substrates for catalytic converters.
Power Take Off PTO Metal powder shaft GKN is a world leader in GKN OffHighway Systems is the Powder Metallurgy.
Metal world leader in the engineering powder, produced by GKN and manufacture of PTOs which company Hoeganaes in the use power from an agricultural US and in Europe, is the raw vehicle such as a tractor to material used by GKN Sinter power ancillary equipment.
Metals to create a wide range of components primarily for automotive customers.
Electronic Torque Manager GKN Drivelines most advanced product which uses software, electronics and electro-mechanical devices to manage torque flow proactively within a vehicles driveline system.
Powder metal Super LSD Torque sensing device one of components the products which are part of Components produced by GKNs development of a torque GKN Sinter Metals can be up to systems business.
30% cheaper than components produced by conventional casting or forging.
Improvements CVJ in density and surface finishing GKN has a 42% global market will continue to expand the global share for CVJ sideshafts market for these components.
components fitted to 85% of light vehicles.
3 GKN plc 2003 GKN AEROSPACE AT A GLANCE Aerospace GKN has a significant presence in the world of aerospace.
Approximately 80% of its overall aerospace revenuesare derived from the defence sector and this focus on defence is a significant strength, particularly at a time when there is a downturn in civil aerospace but growth in military aerospace.
Today, GKN operates as an international first tier supplier through GKN Aerospace and as a helicopter prime contractor through AgustaWestland.
GKN Aerospace, which has engineering and manufacturing operations in Australia, Germany, the UK, US and Mexico, is the worlds No.
1 independent supplier of advanced composite structures.
It is also a leading international supplier of high-performance alloy structures.
Its customers include prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing and Lockheed Martin and jet engine manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
GKN supplies structures for US military aircraft such as the F A-18E F Super Hornet, F A-22 Raptor, C-17 Globemaster 111 and F-35 JSF.
Within the civil sector GKN is a supplier on all Airbus programmes including the A318 319 320 and 321 single aisle family, the A340 500 600 long-range aircraft and the A380.
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy, has one of the broadest and most balanced military and civil product portfolios in the industry.
It is a 32% partner in the European NH90 helicopter programme and has teamed with Lockheed Martin and Bell to address a number of major US military programmes for medium-lift helicopters.
Composite structure Manufactured from uniHelicopters directional carbon fibre tape, The Lynx helicopter produced this blade-stiffened, integrally by AgustaWestland is one of moulded structure is used on the worlds most successful the flap skin of the Airbus A340 maritime rotorcraft with more long-range aircraft.
Pictured is the radar and optoelectronic sensor system on a Royal Navy Mk8 Lynx.
The EH101 medium-lift helicopter is the flagship of AgustaWestland and the most modern aircraft of its type.
Pictured here is a detail of the Jet engine casing tailrotor assembly on the EH101.
GKN Aerospace Services is a world leader in the use of The Lynx and EH101 exemplify chemical milling.
This is a section AgustaWestlands capability as of an integrally stiffened titanium a prime contractor and systems engine casing.
provides lower weight and cost compared to traditional fabrication methods.
Aluminium component High-speed machining, centred at GKN Aerospaces St Louis plant in the US, is capable of high repeatability production of complex components in a range of materials at competitive cost.
Pictured here is a section of a structural component for the F A-22 fighter.
A320 acoustic panel GKN Aerospace possesses a unique capability to produce complex-shaped panels based on welded titanium and alloy steel honeycomb.
One of the primary uses of these panels is to suppress jet engine noise levels.
