Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:00 PM Page 11 Our UK building and facilities services We have a growing position in the UK nuclear During 2004, we will also invest more time business, which focuses on designing and and defence sectors and in European and resources in systems that allow us to installing mechanical and electrical services telecommunications.
share knowledge and experience and in in buildings, is a leading player in its field.
specific business development initiatives Client opportunities aimed at extending our relationships with Our construction services business The spread of our business presents us existing clients.
is one of the largest in the UK.
We have many clients who are only aware of part of what Building our reputation We also have a number of businesses that we do.
The potential within our client base We are taking up an increasingly important have a good platform for growth as their is truly significant.
position on the world stage.
In 2004, for markets consolidate: example, we will be working alongside We have specific programmes aimed our partner, Fluor, to help reconstruct Iraqs Our Earth and Environmental business is at tapping this potential, such as our war-torn infrastructure.
establishing an important franchise across Strategic Relationship Management the Americas and is moving to Europe.
and asset care programmes and are Whilst we have always done this sort already seeing this investment turn into of important work, we have not always Our international pharmaceuticals business successful cross-selling and contractual communicated it actively.
In 2004 and beyond, has established a good client base and is wins.
In particular, we are seeing the will be putting more intensive effort expanding from its traditional UK base benefits of the full acquisition of SPIE as into building our brand, to communicate into North America.
It also has the business is transferred both ways across the value within AMEC in a clear and potential to expand in Continental Europe.
