At a Glance Wood Group provides services and products to customers in the oil & gas and power generation industries around the world through three complementary businesses.
ENGINEERING & PRODUCTION FACILITIES A WORLD LEADER IN  engineering for deepwater  mature field production topsides and subsea pipelines support and enhancement CLIENTS GLOBAL OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY & KNOW-HOW PROJECT & RISK MANAGEMENT INTEGRATED SERVICES WELL SUPPORT GAS TURBINE SERVICES  No.
3 globally in provision of ESPs  World's leading independent in  No.
4 globally in industrial gas turbine surface wellhead equipment aftermarket support Engineering & Production Facilities Engineering & Production Facilities provides a broad range of life-of-field engineering design, modifications, project management and operations & maintenance services to oil & gas customers worldwide.
Well Support Well Support supplies solutions, products and services to increase production rates and recovery from oil & gas reservoirs.
It is among the market leaders in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps ESPs, in the provision of surface wellheads and valves, and in the provision of electric and slickline services in the Gulf of Mexico and South America.
Gas Turbine Services Gas Turbine Services is a world-leading independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services for industrial gas turbines and related high speed rotating equipment, used for power generation, compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
4 John Wood Group PLC Engineers from around the world, working on the TOTAL North Sea project, discuss engineering designs in Aberdeen.
Working with TOTAL in the North Sea.
Wood Group supports clients throughout the life-of-field.
Wood Group Pressure Control Sulzer Wood provides manufactures surface specialist pump and gas wellheads for Saudi Aramco.
At a Glance Wood Group combines its worldwide experience and knowledge of industry best practice to provide the most appropriate solution to its wide range of global customers.
Revenues by Destination US$1,992.6m Employees by Location 13,300 Rest of the World Rest of the World 30% 23% North America North America 48% 46% Europe Europe 24% 29% The broad range of services Wood Group offers are provided on an integrated basis in line with customers' requirements.
There is continuing demand for outsourced and solutions-based services covering all, or part of, life-of-field operations and Wood Group has the project and risk management skills, the performance contracting experience and the specialist capabilities to meet our customers requirements.
% of Group 2003 Revenues excluding discontinuing operations 6 John Wood Group PLC BEST-IN-CLASS SOLUTIONS Involved in delivering fit-for-purpose, best-in-class solutions in more than 50% of deepwater projects worldwide.
Mustang Engineering is the exclusive marketing agent for, and is authorised to grant licenses under, ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company's US patent number 4,696,603 Compliant Offshore Platform, and corresponding patent in other countries.
