qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 42 Risk factors Business risks demands, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Similarly, interruptions in the We face increasing competition from new providers of supply of telecommunications equipment for our networks could mobile services impede network development and expansion.
We are competing increasingly with new mobile service providers, virtual network operators and resellers of mobile services.
Failure Alleged health risks associated with mobile to compete effectively could result in a decrease in our customers, telecommunications could lead to decreased usage of our revenues and profitability.
services and products, increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites or potential liability We face competing technologies Public concern about the actual or perceived health risks of mobile We also face competition from communications technologies that communications could have a detrimental impact on our business are under development or that will be developed in the future, through negative customer perception of our brands, services or including cordless technologies and private and radio-shared products, difficulties in retaining or attracting customers, reduced networks.
As a result of current trends in the telecommunications usage times per customer of our mobile telecommunications industry in Europe, such as the rapid convergence of technologies, services or increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites.
We we expect there to be further technological advances in the future.
cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will Failure to compete could result in a decrease in our customers, refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless revenues and profitability.
handsets and base stations and these health concerns.
Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base The BT relationship does not continue in the form that we stations as a result of these health concerns or wireless companies, would wish including us, could be held liable for costs or damages associated At demerger a three-year contract was signed with BT to continue to with these concerns, which could have a negative impact on our supply us with sales and distribution services in the UK business market.
agreement is subject to certain termination events, including, This amongst other things, failure to meet certain performance levels and In addition, regulators may reduce the prescribed limits for exposure on 12 months notice following a change of control.
We cannot to electromagnetic radiation in the countries in which we operate, guarantee that this arrangement will be renewed after expiry of the which would mean that the exclusion areas around our antennas in initial term.
If the arrangement does not continue, as we would wish, those countries may have to increase in some situations.
In this in the event that other channels were unable to address the event we may suffer additional costs associated with repositioning requirement, it may have an adverse impact on the size and quality our network equipment and we may experience delays in the of our corporate and small to medium enterprise customer base, roll-out of our networks.
which may have a negative impact on our business and results of operation.
O Germany may be unable to reach critical mass in a 2 reasonable time frame We may be unable to execute our network sharing If O Germany fails to meet its sales forecast in terms of new 2 agreements with T-Mobile in the most favourable customers and increase in ARPU, this could have a significant commercial terms negative impact on the profitability of our business.
We have network-sharing agreements with T-Mobile in the UK and in Germany.
It is possible that commercial, legal or regulatory Implementation of a new billing and operational system barriers could prevent us from executing these agreements on the Implementation of a new billing and operational system will require most favourable terms, which may in turn result in additional costs the migration of all post-pay customers from our existing system.
or delayed roll-out of our UMTS networks.
This could have a Our internal support structure will need to change to implement the significant effect on the profitability of our businesses.
It is a large scale and complex transformation, which is due to be completed by mid-2004.
If the transition is not completed We depend on a limited number of suppliers for wireless successfully, this may affect operational performance.
network equipment and maintenance whose failure to provide necessary supplies could have a negative impact We may fail to roll out Airwave on time on our business A change in the planning regime, relating to the siting of masts, Failure of one of our common infrastructure suppliers would delay may impact on our ability to deploy the network and therefore programmes to provide new capabilities and services across the could have an effect on our business, financial condition and results businesses.
Although we have not been materially affected by supply of operation.
problems in the past, handsets and network infrastructure suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements.
If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, or fail to develop and deliver to us handsets that satisfy our customers 42 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp042-050.
qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 43 Regulatory risks next three years.
It is proposed by the Director General of Telecommunications that in addition to a one-off 15 per cent cut to We operate in highly regulated markets that limit our be implemented by 25 July 2003 by all four mobile operators us, exibility to manage our business Vodafone, T-Mobile and Orange, we and Vodafone should be We must comply with an extensive range of requirements that subject to further successive reductions in real terms which amount regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation to an annual reduction of 15 per cent for each of the remaining of our networks and the provision and pricing of our products three years to 31 March 2006 16 per cent for T-Mobile and and services in the countries in which we operate.
This broadly follows the recommendations of the co-operate with agencies or other governmental authorities that Competition Commission.
The Director General of Telecommunications regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and is seeking comments by 24 July 2003.
If these successive reductions which oversee the general competitiveness of the wireless market.
are implemented, this will cause an additional reduction in the Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely revenues we receive from termination charges over the coming affected by changes in law, regulation or government policies years.
Judicial proceedings are currently pending in relation to the directed at the wireless markets in which we operate.
In particular, Competition Commission report.
If the report is overturned on the decisions by regulators and competition authorities concerning the basis of irrationality, unreasonableness or procedural unfairness, granting, amendment or renewal of licences to us, or decisions relating then legal precedent suggests that we would obtain the benefit to tariffs, or the effects of expansion into new markets, or the of any generally favourable decision and any consequent change accessibility of our network to mobile virtual network operators, in regulation.
service providers or its access to third-party networks could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.
We may be subject to new regulatory obligations Under the new EU regulatory framework for electronic communications, An EU investigation of roaming charges may result in a the national regulatory authorities in each member state are required decrease in roaming revenues to determine if any operators have significant market power SMP The Competition directorate of the European Commission is in particular markets identied by the European Commission.
conducting an inquiry in the international mobile roaming services The three mobile markets currently identied by the European markets in the European Economic Area, or the EEA.
The European Commission are: call termination on individual networks: wholesale Commissions initial findings raised a number of competition and access and origination: and wholesale international roaming.
In market structure concerns about the level of wholesale roaming addition to these three mobile markets, regulators may identify charges and the mark-ups applied in retail markets and also raised further markets with the consent of the European Commission.
concerns that the structural characteristics of the market may If any of our operating businesses are found to have SMP in any contribute to possible collective dominance.
If, as a result of this of the markets reviewed, the national regulatory authorities are investigation, the European Commission fines us or regulates roaming required to impose regulatory obligations on us in those markets.
charges, it could have a negative impact on our business and results These obligations could include transparency: non-discrimination: of operations.
accounting separation: access: and price control and cost accounting Regulation of call termination charges may increase and in exceptional circumstances, a regulator may impose additional In the UK, the charges we make to other operators for terminating or alternative obligations, with the approval of the European Commission.
calls on our network termination charges are currently subject to a Depending upon the markets identied and the obligations imposed, price reduction of 9 per cent each year after allowing for an increase this could have a significant effect on the profitability of our businesses.
in such charges equal to the increase in the relevant year in the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
A UK competition law investigation may result in decreased revenues, fines and liability to third parties Following a year-long investigation of the level of termination In the UK, Oftel has recently opened a competition law investigation charges, the Competition Commission recommended that all into the prices we and other UK network providers charge certain operators be required to reduce these charges by 15 per cent retail business customers for calls to mobiles.
Oftel is concerned that before 25 July 2003.
It also recommended that in the following the low level of these charges could be discriminatory, or represent a three years each mobile network operator in the UK should margin squeeze, when compared to the wholesale prices we charge successively reduce their charges.
Oftel is planning to require to other operators.
If Oftel ultimately nds against us then we could operators to make the initial price reduction on 24 July 2003.
A new be required to alter our prices, could be ned, and could be liable EU regulatory framework will come into effect on 25 July 2003 at to third parties for damages, this could have an effect on the which time the price cap will fall away.
On 15 May 2003, Oftel profitability of our business.
published its market review relating to mobile wholesale voice calls terminating on individual mobile networks.
As a result of this, the Director General of Telecommunications has formed an initial view that each mobile network operator in the UK has significant market power in a separate market for voice call termination on its network and can be expected to have market power for at least the www.
