Operating and financial r Operating and financial review eview continued continued We have developed a more structured approach, which is Risk management supporting the Groups risk management culture.
Sound risk management is an important discipline for environment policy requires each business to adopt an environmental the Group, enabling us to identify the risks that could affect management system that reflects both its own local impact and the the achievement of our strategic objectives and helping us expectations of interested parties.
Companies are required to comply to make more effective business decisions.
The Groups risk with the Group health and safety and environment policies and management process and operational and compliance strategies as determined and monitored by the Board.
controls are monitored at Board level.
Production continuity The process, described in detail in the Corporate governance section Material risks to production continuity apply chiefly to our cement on pages 34 to 37, is concerned primarily with the identification of businesses due to the high cost of daily down time.
Work continued major risks to the business and measures to mitigate them.
In recent last year on analysing critical spares and their provision, and improving years we have developed a more structured approach, which is preventative maintenance procedures to address the issue of business supporting the Groups risk management culture.
During 2003 we introduced an improved risk management framework Succession planning and employee issues providing guidelines to help local management teams ensure that Failure to address management succession issues is a risk for all formal risk management procedures are in place across the Group.
A Board initiative is currently under way to improve our Businesses are required to identify material risks, the measures taken management development process.
With our business undergoing a to mitigate them and confirm that controls are in place covering the period of change, we are committed to providing full consultation, effective use of resources and the achievement of objectives.
information and support to all of our employees who are affected.
In the finance section of the Operating and financial review some Risk management is a dynamic process.
With the business climate and significant risks are defined on page 24 and as part of the businesss the Group itself constantly changing, our aim is to identify significant ongoing process of risk assessment, some of the other risk factors risks, support risk-based decision making and ensure that our internal that have been identified as having a potential impact on the Group controls are effective.
Looking ahead, we are committed to improving are as follows.
the process in our businesses and raising the profile of risk management in general.
This year, as we continue to assimilate risk National economic and market environment management techniques into the overall management of our business, Building materials demand is influenced by economic cycles and local we shall be developing further the link between our risk management issues in each of our countries of operation.
Our management process and business planning processes.
regularly identifies risks such as economic slowdown and increased competitive activity.
Regular monitoring of macro-economic conditions and market activity, and improved planning, mitigate such risks.
Competition anti-trust and legal compliance and claims We have introduced extensive measures to reinforce conformity with our Group-wide policy of compliance with all competition laws and regulations.
These include internal training programmes designed to educate and inform employees about compliance and competition law.
Compliance is monitored at Board and Executive Committee level by a combination of reporting requirements and audits.
Health and safety and the environment The Group is engaged in an extractive industry and we are aware that our health and safety and environmental performance has the potential to put at risk our licence to operate.
Health and safety Managing environmental risk risk assessments are carried out at all of our businesses in order to We realise that our environmental performance has the potential to put at risk our eliminate hazards and reduce risks as far as possible.
Our Group licence to operate.
We therefore take great care over our stewardship of the environment.
Many of our companies have been recognised for their environmental restoration work, including Readymix Asland which won a Spanish national award for work at this quarry in Begues.
26 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003
