Report of the Directors Supervision and Regulation European Union directives United Kingdom regulations General General The framework for supervision of banking and financial services in the The Financial Services Authority is the single statutory regulator United Kingdom is largely formed by European Union Directives which responsible for regulating deposit taking, insurance and investment are required to be implemented in member states through national business pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. legislation.
Directives aim to harmonise banking and financial services It is a criminal offence for any person to carry on any of the activities regulation and supervision throughout the European Union by laying regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act in the United down minimum standards in key areas, and requiring member states Kingdom unless that person is authorised by the Financial Services to give mutual recognition to each others standards of prudential Authority or falls under an exemption.
This has led to the passport concept enshrined in The Financial Services Authority has authorised Abbey, as well the Banking Consolidation Directive and the Investment Services as some of its subsidiaries, to carry on certain regulated activities.
The Directive which is currently being revised : that is, freedom to regulated activities they are authorised to engage in depends upon establish branches in, and freedom to provide cross-border services permissions granted by the Financial Services Authority.
The main into, other European Union member states once a bank or investment permitted activities of Abbey and its subsidiaries are listed below.
rm is authorised in its home state.
Banking Prudential supervision and capital adequacy Deposit taking is a regulated activity that requires a rm to be The Banking Consolidation Directive sets out minimum conditions authorised and supervised by the Financial Services Authority.
for authorisation and the ongoing prudential supervision of banks.
Abbey has permission to carry on deposit taking as do several of its Minimum conditions for the authorisation and prudential supervision subsidiaries, for example Abbey National Treasury Services plc and of investment rms are set out in the Investment Services Directive.
The overall responsibility for prudential supervision falls on the home country regulator of a bank or investment rm.
The Banking Insurance Consolidation Directive and the Capital Adequacy Directive govern United Kingdom banking groups may provide insurance services supervision of capital adequacy for both banks and investment rms through other group companies.
Insurance business is authorised and in the European Union.
The Capital Adequacy Directive contains supervised by the Financial Services Authority.
Insurance business detailed rules for the regulatory capital treatment of risks arising in the United Kingdom is divided between two main categories: long in the trading book, that is broadly, positions and securities that term assurance e. g whole life, endowments, life insurance investment a United Kingdom bank or investment rm holds for proprietary bonds and general insurance e. g. building and contents cover and trading purposes.
For other non-trading risks, the Capital Adequacy motor insurance.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act, Directive refers to the Banking Consolidation Directive, which regulates effecting or carrying out any contract of insurance, whether general the quality and proportions of different types of capital to be held or long term, is or will be, a regulated activity requiring authorisation.
by an institution, the amount of capital to be held for counterparty Dealing in, arranging deals in, managing or advising on a contract of exposures arising outside the trading book and restrictions on insurance is at present, only regulated where the contract of insurance exposures to an individual counterparty or group of connected is long term insurance see Investment business and Current and counterparties.
In addition, the Capital Adequacy Directive and the future developments, Regulation of mortgage lending and general Banking Consolidation Directive require consolidated supervision of insurance below.
Abbey has a number of subsidiaries which are authorised by the The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has been working Financial Services Authority to effect contracts of insurance.
Abbey with industry groups and regulators to reform the 1988 Capital Accord also acts as a broker, receiving commissions for the policies arranged.
and has proposed a more risk sensitive framework for determining minimum regulatory capital requirements.
The new Capital Accord Investment business under consideration, known as Basel II, requires regulatory capital to Investment business such as dealing in, arranging deals in, managing be held against specic credit, market and operational risk exposures.
and giving investment advice in respect of most types of securities Banks will be able to choose between three levels of sophistication and other investments, including options, futures and contracts for calculating regulatory capital for credit and operational risk.
The differences which would include interest rate and currency swaps consultation period on the latest proposals Consultation Paper 3 and long term assurance contracts are all regulated activities under ended in July 2003 and the Committee was due to publish the final the Financial Services and Markets Act and require authorisation by version of the new Accord in mid 2004, but this has been delayed.
Under the current timetable, the new Accord will become effective Abbey and a number of its subsidiaries have permission to at the end of 2006. engage in a wide range of wholesale and retail investment businesses The New Basel Capital Accord will need to be implemented including selling certain life assurance and pension products, unit into European Union law through amendments to existing European trust products and Individual Savings Accounts tax exempt saving Commission directives.
A working document on capital requirements products and providing certain retail equity products and services.
for European Union banks and investment rms was published in July 2003.
It is anticipated that following nalisation of the New Basel Financial Services Authority conduct of business rules Capital Accord the Commission will adopt a formal proposal for a The Financial Services Authority conduct of business rules also directive, which will then need approval by the Council of Ministers apply to every authorised person carrying on regulated activities and the European Parliament.
It is the intention that the new directive and regulate the day-to-day conduct of business standards to be will enter into force at year-end 2006. observed by authorised persons in carrying on those activities.
The conduct of business rules prescribe stringent rules relating to the circumstances and manner in which authorised persons may communicate and approve financial promotions, which are communications in the course of business or which are invitations or inducements to engage in investment activity.
106 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Supervision and Regulation continued The Financial Services Compensation Scheme Current and future developments The Financial Services Compensation Scheme covers claims against Regulation of mortgage lending and general insurance authorised rms or any participating European Economic Area rms Residential mortgage lending will be brought within the scope of where they are unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against Financial Services Authority regulation with effect from 31 October them.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme covers insurance 2004 and general insurance from 14 January 2005.
The new rules companies, deposit takers and investment rms and is funded for mortgage lenders and administrators will cover such matters as: by imposing levies on authorised persons to meet its expenses.
the tness, propriety, and solvency of lenders: the suitability of their Deposit taking: The Financial Services Compensation Scheme controllers and managers: the advertising and other promotion of provides protection for customers of deposit taking companies when mortgages: the disclosure of the essential features of a mortgage such companies default.
The maximum level of compensation for loan: and the ongoing relationship between lender and borrower.
a deposit claim is 31,700, 100% of the first 2,000 and 90% of the In the meantime, until Financial Services Authority regulation of next 33,000. mortgages is introduced, the voluntary Mortgage Code will continue Investments: Financial Services Compensation Scheme provides to apply.
cover when an authorised investment rm defaults and cannot return General insurance intermediaries will be regulated by the customers money or investment assets: or meet claims for losses Financial Services Authority following the adoption of the European arising from poor advice or investment management.
The maximum Union Insurance Mediation Directive in August 2002.
The Treasury level of compensation claim related to the above is 48,000, i. e 100% have consulted on draft legislation and the Financial Service Authority of the first 30,000 and 90% of the next 20,000. have consulted on the rules which they propose to introduce.
Insurance: Policy holders are protected if they are insured by authorised insurance companies under contracts of insurance issued Payment Systems in the United Kingdom, or in some cases in the European Economic The Ofce of Fair Trading undertook a further review of payment Area.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme covers systems in 2003 and will take on an enhanced role in relation to compulsory, general and life insurance when an insurance company payment systems for a period of four years.
For claims against insurance rms, the first 2,000 of an then review competition in the industry and may consider legislation.
insurance claim or policy is covered in full, plus 90% of the balance.
Measures have already been taken by the industry to improve the Compulsory insurance claims are covered in full.
efficiency and competitiveness of the system, for example the changes to the governance of the banks automated clearing system which Data protection took effect on 1 December 2003.
The Ofce of Fair Trading is currently The United Kingdom Data Protection Act 1998 limits the ability investigating the transparency of cheque clearing cycles.
of a United Kingdom company to hold and use personal information relating to its customers.
The law requires that United Kingdom Future governance of insurance companies companies notify the Information Commissioner of their activities The Financial Services Authority are consulting on many issues which concerning the processing of personal data prior to commencing will affect the way insurers carry on business, ranging from such matters those activities.
The Information Commissioner maintains a public such as how past performance is presented to the regulation of register of data controllers.
In addition, companies regulated by the distance sales and long term care insurance.
Data Protection Act 1998 must comply with the eight enforceable principles of good conduct, the data protection principles and must Savings review submit to requests from the individual who is the subject of the data The Sandler Report into long term savings was published in July 2002. concerning matters such as giving access to their data and the right It hopes to encourage the take up of long term savings and proposes to object to incorrect data being held or to direct marketing.
a suite of simple, low cost products, with xed charges for with-profits, pensions and unit trusts and proposals to establish a lower tier Other main relevant legislation of authorisation for advisers selling only stakeholder products.
The The Consumer Credit Act 1974 regulates certain loans to consumers Report also contemplated simplication of the Individual Savings both secured unless for housing related purposes and unsecured Account regime.
The HM Treasury Response to the consultation on and associated credit broking.
The Unfair Terms in Consumer Sandler Stakeholder Products, was published in July 2003.
The suite Contracts Regulations 1999, apply to certain contracts for goods of stakeholder products will incorporate the CAT standard cash and services entered into with consumers.
The main effect of the Individual Savings Account, new Child Trust Fund and existing Regulations is that a contractual term covered by the Regulations stakeholder pension.
which is unfair will not be enforceable against a consumer as the Regulations contain an indicative list of unfair terms.
These Polarisation Regulations apply, inter alia, to mortgages, savings accounts and The polarisation rules control the way certain savings and investment related products and services.
The Financial Services Authority has products can be sold.
Advisers on life assurance, personal pension gained new powers under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts policies, collective investment schemes unit trusts and OEICS and Regulations 1999. investment trust savings schemes have to be either: an Independent Financial Adviser and advise across all products and companies in the market: or tied and represent just one company or group and sell only its products.
The Financial Services Authority has confirmed that it plans to end the polarisation regime, subject to certain consumer protection safeguards.
Final rules and implementation are expected during 2004.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 107 Report of the Directors Supervision and Regulation continued Consumer Credit Act 1974 The Consumer Credit Act at present applies to loans of up to 25,000.
The Department of Trade and Industry are consulting on changes to the Act which will include the removal of this financial limit, alterations to the form and content of agreements, the licensing regime and advertising.
European Union developments There are a number of proposals emanating from the European Union, which will affect the UK financial services industry in due course.
Work continues on the Financial Services Action Plan.
Of the 42 proposals most have now been nalised.
The intention is to create a single market for financial services by 2005.
There is also a proposal to create a Single European Payments Area and the Commission has published a consultation paper.
The Regulation on Cross Border Payments in Euros has been fully in force since 1 July 2003.
In addition, there are proposals for a new Consumer Credit Directive, and a directive on Unfair Commercial Practices.
There have also been a number of measures which are aimed at facilitating the provision of financial services across borders by use of e-commerce.
The revised Investment Services Directive is continuing its progress through the European Union legislative process.
Non-statutory practice recommendation Codes of practice The United Kingdom Council of Mortgage Lenders introduced a voluntary Code of Mortgage Lending Practice in 1997, which is designed to be followed by lenders in their relations with personal customers in the UK, and to which Abbey subscribes.
Abbey also subscribes to the Banking Code, and the revised Banking and Business Codes took effect from March 2003, sponsored by the British Bankers Association, which sets minimum standards for the provision of banking services to personal customers.
108 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Audited Financial Statements Financial Statements Contents to Financial Statements Financial Statements 110 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Abbey National plc 111 Consolidated profit and Loss Account for the years ended 31 December 2003, 2002 and 2001 112 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2003 and 2002 113 Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2003 and 2002 114 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the years ended 31 December 2003, 2002 and 2001 114 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the years ended 31 December 2003, 2002 and 2001 115 Accounting Policies 120 Notes to the Financial Statements 190 Five Year Record Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 109
