Shareholder Information Risk Factors An investment in Abbeys ordinary shares involves a number of risks, Abbeys businesses are subject to substantial legislation, certain of which are set forth below.
The factors discussed below regulatory and governmental oversight.
should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement Abbey is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative of all potential risks and uncertainties.
actions and policies in each location in which Abbey operates.
Changes in supervision and regulation, in particular in the UK, could Risks concerning borrower credit quality and general economic materially affect Abbeys business, the products and services offered conditions are inherent in Abbeys business or the value of assets.
Although Abbey works closely with its Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability regulators and continually monitors the situation, future changes of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide in regulation, scal or other policies can be unpredictable and are range of Abbeys businesses.
Adverse changes in the credit quality beyond the control of Abbey.
See Supervision and regulation for of Abbeys borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in additional information.
UK or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic risks in the The resolution of a number of issues affecting the UK financial financial systems, could reduce the recoverability and value of Abbeys services industry, including Abbey, could have a negative impact assets and require an increase in Abbeys level of provisions for bad on Abbeys results of operations or on its relations with some of its and doubtful debts.
Deterioration in the UK economy could reduce the customers and potential customers.
profit margins for Abbeys banking and financial services businesses.
These issues involve the possible misselling of endowment See Risk management for a discussion of these items.
There is a risk that further provisions may be required as a result of these issues.
See Note 38 to the Market risks associated with uctuations in interest rates, foreign Consolidated Financial Statements.
exchange rates, bond and equity prices and other market factors are inherent in Abbeys business Risks associated with strategic decisions regarding organic The most significant market risks Abbey faces are interest rate, foreign growth, the competitive environment and potential acquisitions exchange and bond and equity price risks.
and disposals Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may Abbey devotes substantial management and planning resources affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and developing strategic plans for organic growth and identifying possible borrowing costs.
Over the last year we experienced a reduction in our acquisitions and disposals including the restructuring of Abbeys interest rate spread.
Should interest rate spreads continue to decrease businesses into ongoing Personal Financial Services businesses and this could adversely affect our profit from banking operations.
Portfolio Business Unit businesses being managed for value and exit.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-dollar and If the outcome of these plans do not match expectations, Abbeys sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets and liabilities earnings may not develop as forecast.
In addition, the market for UK denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings reported by financial services and the other markets within which Abbey operates Abbeys non-UK businesses.
are highly competitive: Abbeys ability to generate an appropriate The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the return for its shareholders depends signicantly upon managements value of Abbeys investment and trading portfolios.
In addition Abbey response to the competitive environment.
See Business overview is exposed to changes in the equity markets through its final salary Competition for additional information.
pension scheme closed to new entrants in 2002 and its life assurance funds including the requirement to maintain a minimum Abbeys insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks solvency margin.
regarding claims provisions Abbey has implemented risk management methods to mitigate Claims in Abbeys life assurance businesses may be higher than expected and control these and other market risks to which Abbey is exposed.
as a result of changing trends in claims experience arising from changes However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic in demographic developments, mortality and morbidity rates and or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes other factors outside Abbeys control.
Such changes could affect the could have on Abbeys financial performance and business operations.
profitability of current and future insurance products and services.
See Risk management for a discussion of these risks.
Risks associated with the disposal of our assets and or businesses Operational risks are inherent in Abbeys business As previously announced, we are managing the Portfolio Business Abbeys businesses depend on the ability to process a large number Unit businesses for exit.
In some cases this involves the sale of assets of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Losses can result from and or businesses.
Based on information currently available to us, the inadequate or failed internal control processes, people and systems, value of these assets or businesses shown in our financial statements or from external events that interrupt normal business operations.
reect managements best estimate of their current value.
We believe See Risk management Operational risk.
these values will be close to ultimate disposal values.
However there is an inherent uncertainty in predicting the ultimate sales value.
As a result we may incur losses on disposal or further amounts to be written off xed asset investments and or increases in provisions, therefore reducing our profitability.
See Risk management Life Business.
196 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003
