Operating and Financial Review Risk Management Life Risk Committee: this was formed in December 2003 with Introduction responsibility for advising the Chief Operating officer and Chief Risk Abbeys risk management focuses on the major areas of credit officer on matters relating to all the risks facing the balance sheet risk, market risk, liquidity risk, insurance risk, residual value risk and and profit and Loss Account of the life companies and related operational risk.
Authority ows from the Abbey National plc Board investment businesses.
of Directors to the Chief Executive officer and from him to his direct It replaced the Investment and Asset Management Risk reports.
Delegation of authority is to individuals.
Formal standing Committee which was formed under the Chief Operating Ofcers committees are maintained for effective management or oversight.
The Investment and Asset Management Risk Committee Their authority is derived from the person they are intended to assist.
comprised selected executives and relevant experts.
This committee assisted the Chief Operating officer in discharging his responsibility for balance sheet management and shareholder risks in relation to Board credit and market risks.
Treasury Services Risk Committee: this is formed under the authority Chief Executive Audit and Risk of the Head of Treasury Services and is responsible for advising him officer Committee and the Chief Risk officer on matters relating to credit, market and operational risk in Treasury Services and the Portfolio Business Unit.
Consumer Risk Committee: this was set up to replace the Credit Chief Operating Risk Committee officer Committee including the Retail Credit sub-committee which was Chairman of Audit dissolved in November 2003.
It is responsible for advising the Chief and Risk Committee Risk officer on credit, market and operational risk matters in Personal Asset and Liability Committee Financial Services.
Chief Risk officer The Credit Committee was formed under the authority of the has right of access Chief Risk officer.
It comprised senior risk experts.
The Committee to Audit and Risk Life Risk Committee assisted the Chief Risk officer in discharging his responsibilities Committee for credit, market and residual value risk, reviewing risks and recommending mandates and limits.
Head of Portfolio Treasury Services Business Unit Chief Risk officer: The Chief Risk officer operates under authority Risk Committee Treasury Services delegated by the Chief Operating officer.
The Chief Risk officer is responsible for establishing and maintaining comprehensive, accurate Consumer Risk Chief Risk officer and effective risk reporting, and clear systems of risks limits.
He is also Committee responsible for highlighting to management all matters relevant to understanding risks being taken and to setting risk appetite.
The Chief Denotes formal Denotes reporting of Risk officer also has direct access to the chairman of the Audit and delegation of authority information and key decisions Risk Committee in respect of risk oversight.
Credit risk The diagram above shows the structure that was in operation at the Credit risk is the risk that counterparties will not meet their financial end of 2003 in respect of risk management and oversight.
Changes obligations and may result in Abbey losing the principal amount lent, are described in the text that follows.
the interest accrued and any unrealised gains less any security held.
Board: this is the primary governing body.
Its role is largely determined Credit risk occurs mainly in Abbeys loan and investment assets, and by legal and regulatory responsibilities and requirements.
risk-control responsibilities include setting risk appetite, approving risk policies and reviewing risk prole.
Managing credit risk in Banking and Savings Audit and Risk Committee: this is a key Board committee.
Abbey lends on many types of property but only risk-control responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness and after a credit risk assessment of the borrower and an assessment of integrity of risk-management systems and controls, reviewing the the property is undertaken.
The systems used to manage and monitor risk-governance structure and reviewing compliance with risk-control the quality of the mortgage asset are reviewed regularly to ensure policies and procedures.
It is the duty of the committee to review they perform as expected.
the effectiveness of the control mechanisms for the management of The majority of residential lending is subject to national lending risk.
It is not the responsibility of the committee to form a judgement policy and national lending authority levels, which are used to about the acceptability or appropriateness of these risks.
This remains structure lending decisions to the same high standard across the the responsibility of the Board and will be discharged through the retail network, a process further improved by mortgage credit scoring, Chief Executive officer.
underwriter accreditation and regular compliance reviews.
Details Risk Committee: this is established under the Chief Executives concerning the prospective borrower and the mortgage are subject Ofcers specic authority and comprises senior executives and the to a criteria-based decision-making process.
Criteria for assessment Chief Risk officer.
This is a key management mechanism to facilitate include credit references, loan-to-value ratio, borrower status and cross divisional discussion and consultation, and make the mortgage credit score.
recommendations to the Chief Executive officer on risk control A responsible approach to lending is taken to ensure borrowers and management issues.
do not borrow more than they can afford.
For low-risk applicants this Asset and Liability Committee: this is established under the may include the use of self-certication of income.
Chief Operating Ofcers authority and comprises selected senior The majority of loans provided by Abbey are secured on UK executives and relevant experts.
This committee assists the Chief properties.
All properties must be permanent in construction: mobile Operating officer in discharging his responsibilities for cross divisional homes are not generally acceptable.
Abbey can provide a mortgage asset and liability management, capital structure, funding and liquidity.
for the purchase of properties outside the UK where the property is a second home and the loan is secured on the main property located in the UK, or where Abbey operates a European branch.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 75 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Prior to granting any first mortgage loan on a property, Abbey has the The following table sets forth information on UK residential mortgage property valued by an approved and qualied surveyor, who is often arrears and properties in possession at 31 December 2003, 2002 and an Abbey employee.
The valuation is based on set Abbey guidelines.
2001 for Abbey compared to the industry average as provided by the Normally, in the case of additional lending, when the total loan remains Council of Mortgage Lenders.
below 85% loan-to-value, the original property value is subject to Abbey CML indexation and no further survey is carried out.
If the loan exceeds percentage of total 85% loan-to-value, a revaluation is carried out by a qualied surveyor.
mortgage loans by number The maximum loan-to-value ratio is usually no more than 95% 6 months to 12 months in arrears where the maximum loan is 250,000.
Abbey typically charges 31 December 2001 0.44 0.38 a fee to customers where the loan-to-value ratio is 90% or higher.
31 December 2002 0.27 0.30 Mortgage indemnity guarantee insurance and high loan-to-value 31 December 2003 0.16 0.25 fee.
Mortgage indemnity guarantee insurance is an agreement between 12 months or more in arrears a lender and an insurance company to underwrite the amount of every mortgage advance that generally exceeds 75% loan-to-value.
31 December 2001 0.13 0.18 The mortgage indemnity guarantee insurance arrangements for 31 December 2002 0.07 0.15 loans originated prior to 31 December 2001 for Abbey are as follows: 31 December 2003 0.03 0.11 For loans originated prior to 1993, the credit risk on the amount Properties in possession of every mortgage advance over 75% of the valuation at 31 December 2001 0.06 0.05 origination is fully insured with third party insurance companies.
The expected insurance recovery is factored into the provision 31 December 2002 0.03 0.02 for lending losses.
31 December 2003 0.02 0.02 For loans originated between 1993 and 2001, Abbey has obtained almost all of its mortgage indemnity guarantee insurance from its Bank account and unsecured personal lending.
Abbey uses many insurance subsidiary Carfax Insurance Limited Carfax.
Carfax in systems and processes to manage the risks involved in providing turn reinsures a portion of the credit risk where commercially unsecured personal loans and overdraft lending or in granting bank appropriate.
Such reinsurance covers a layer of risk above a level of account facilities.
These include the use of application and behavioural losses that Carfax believes it can prudently bear.
Carfaxs reinsurance scoring systems to assist in the granting of credit facilities as well as is the only insurance purchased and accordingly the provision for regular monitoring of scorecard performance and the quality of the lending losses includes a provision for losses insured by Carfax.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, fees charged to the Behavioural scoring examines the lending relationships that customer to compensate for the additional risk of mortgage a customer has with Abbey and how the customer uses their bank advances are deferred and taken to Other operating income in the account.
This information generates a score which is used to assist profit and Loss Account over the average anticipated life of the loan.
in deciding the level of risk in terms of overdraft facility amount, card From 1 January 2002, Abbey ceased purchasing mortgage indemnity facilities granted and preferred unsecured personal loan value for guarantee insurance from Carfax for the Banking and Savings mortgage each customer that Abbey is willing to accept.
Existing cover remains in force.
Abbey continues to charge to scores are normally updated on a monthly basis.
customers high loan-to-value fees, which are credited to the profit and Abbey has successfully extended the use of behavioural scoring Loss Account over the anticipated life of the loans.
Mortgage indemnity into other areas of the business, including the renement of debt guarantee insurance contracts between Carfax and the rest of Abbey management strategies and bank account transaction processing.
are accounted for as intra-Abbey transactions and are eliminated cahoot.
The processes used to manage credit risks are similar to on consolidation.
those in the rest of Banking and Savings.
Debt Management Operations is responsible for all debt management initiatives on the secured Managing credit risk in Abbey Business portfolio for Banking and Savings.
Debt management strategies, which Abbey Business provides a varied range of products to assist with the include powerdialling, negotiating repayment arrangements and finance requirements of businesses.
These products include overdrafts, concessions and debt counselling, can start as early as the day after leasing, lease purchase, factoring, property finance, secured and a repayment falls due and will continue until legal action.
Risk management policies are specic to and reect collection strategies are applied to different segments of the portfolio the risks inherent in each product set.
Approval processes for credit subject to the perceived levels of risk for example, loan-to-value, risk include the use of judgement, assisted by the use of probability collections score and account characteristics.
of default and loss given default data, and the use of credit scoring on If the agreed repayment arrangement is not maintained, legal portfolios of a retail nature.
Abbey Business operates within policies proceedings may be taken and may result in the property being taken and authority levels approved by the Chief Risk officer.
Abbey sells the repossessed property at market price area has a dedicated risk team, reecting the desire for risk control to and uses the sale proceeds, net of costs, to pay off the outstanding be close to the business needs and risks.
The stock of repossessed properties held by Abbey varies according to the number of new possessions and the buoyancy of the housing market.
76 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Managing credit risk in Treasury Services appropriate.
The market risk disclosures shown below for trading The Risk Committee has established a set of risk appetite limits to instruments are calculated using Value at Risk using a historical cover the portfolio mix within Treasury Services.
Within these limits, simulation approach whilst disclosures for non-trading instruments the Chief Risk officer has approved credit mandates and policies to are based upon a combination of Value at Risk and sensitivity analysis.
cover detailed industry sector limits and asset quality.
All transactions At both aggregated and business area levels such analysis is falling within these mandates and policies are scrutinised by the complemented by stress testing.
Specic approval by the Risk To achieve consistency in measurement across business areas, Committee is required for any transaction that falls outside the risk we have adopted a series of market risk measurement standards to appetite.
Analyses of credit exposures and credit risk trends are which business areas are required to adhere.
We report market risks provided for the Treasury Services risk committee each month, and key by type of exposure in two broad categories: issues escalated to the Risk Committee as required.
Large exposures Short-term market risk covers activities where exposures are subject as dened by the Financial Services Authority are reported quarterly to frequent change and could be closed out over a short time horizon.
to the Risk Committee and the Financial Services Authority.
Much of the exposure is generated by Treasury Services activities Credit risk on derivative instruments is assessed using scenario and includes both trading and non-trading portfolios.
analysis to determine the potential future mark-to-market exposure Structural market risk includes exposures arising as a result of the instruments at a 95% statistical confidence level and adding of the structure of portfolios of assets and liabilities, or where the this value to the current mark-to-market value.
The resulting loan liquidity of the market is such that the exposure could not be closed equivalent credit risk is then included against credit limits, along out over a short time horizon.
The risk exposure is generated by with other non-derivative exposures.
features inherent in either a product or portfolio and normally present In addition, there is a policy framework to enable the over the life of the portfolio or product.
Such exposures are a result collateralisation of certain derivative instruments including, in of the decision to undertake specic business activities, can take a particular, swaps.
If collateral is deemed necessary to reduce credit number of different forms, and are generally managed over a longer risk, then the amount and nature of the collateral to be obtained time horizon.
Examples of structural market risk include the exposures is based on managements credit evaluation of the customer.
arising out of the uncertainty of business volumes from the launch of xed-rate and structured loans and savings products, or from the Market risk provision of hedging against such risks.
Although most long-term Market risk is the potential for loss of income or decrease in the balance sheet positions are hedged, Abbey remains exposed to value of assets caused by movements in the levels and prices of variances in customer behaviour often caused by market rate financial instruments.
movements impacting new business take-up and early redemption A major portion of the market risk arises from exposures to changes and causing unfavourable mismatches to arise.
in the levels of interest rates, equity markets and credit spreads.
Interest rate exposure is generated from providing xed rate loans and savings Trading Activities products, funding and trading activities in Treasury Services, and Trading activities are undertaken by Treasury Services only.
They management of Abbeys overall asset and liability structure.
Changes are managed on a continuous basis, and are marked to market on in interest rates affect the value of funds managed for the benefit of a daily basis.
customers, as well as on specic shareholders funds of the life The following table shows the value at risk-based consolidated assurance business.
The life assurance business is also exposed to exposures for the major risk classes as at 31 December 2003, together changes in the level of equity markets.
Other exposure to equity markets with the highest, lowest and average exposures for the year.
is generated by the creation and risk management of structured Exposures within each risk class reect a range of exposures products by Treasury Services for the Personal Financial Services market associated with movements in that financial market.
For example, and trading activities.
Credit spread exposure arises from credit risk interest rate risks include the impact of absolute rate movements, management and trading activities within Treasury Services.
movements between interest rate bases and movements in implied Abbey accepts that market risk arises from the full range of volatility on interest rate options.
The range of possible statistical activities undertaken as a provider of Personal Financial Services.
modelling techniques and assumptions mean these measures are We actively manage and control market risk by limiting the adverse not precise indicators of expected future losses, but are estimates impact of market movements whilst seeking to enhance earnings of the potential change in the value of the portfolio over a specified within clearly dened parameters.
The Market Risk Policy, which is time horizon and within a given confidence interval.
reviewed and approved by the board on an annual basis, sets the From time to time, losses may exceed the amounts stated where framework under which market risks are managed and controlled.
the movements in market rates fall outside the statistical confidence Business area policies, risks limits and mandates are established interval used in the calculation of the value at risk analysis.
The 95% within the context of the Market Risk Policy.
The business areas confidence interval, used as a standard across Abbey, means that are responsible for ensuring that they have sufficient expertise to the theoretical loss at a risk factor level is likely to be exceeded in one manage the risks associated with their operations.
The independent period in twenty.
We address this risk by monitoring stress testing Risk function, under the direction of the Chief Risk officer, ensures measures across the different business areas.
that risk taking and risk control occur within the framework prescribed For trading instruments the actual, average, highest and lowest by the board.
The Risk function also provides oversight of all value at risk exposures shown below are all calculated to a 95% level risk-taking activities through a rigorous process of regular reviews.
of confidence using a simulation of actual one day market movements Abbey ensures that exposure to market risks is measured and over a one year period.
The effect of historic correlations between risk reported on an accurate and timely basis to senior management.
factors is additionally shown below.
The use of a one day time horizon In addition to the regular reporting for the purposes of active risk for all risks associated with trading instruments reects the horizon management, the board also receives consolidated reporting of all over which market movements will affect the measured profit and loss market risk exposures on a monthly basis where actual exposure of these activities.
levels are measured against limits.
The numbers below represent the potential change in market Senior management recognise that different risk measures are values of trading instruments.
Since trading instruments are recorded required to best reect the risks faced in different types of business at market value, these numbers also represent the potential effect activities.
In measuring exposure to market risk, Abbey uses a range on income.
Trading instruments are held only in Treasury Services.
of complementary measures, covering both value and income as Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 77 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Exposure at 31 December Exposure for the year ended 31 December Actual Average Highest Lowest exposure exposure exposure exposure 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m m m m m Group trading instruments 1 Interest rate risks 3.7 4.0 4.3 5.2 7.5 7.9 2.8 3.7 Equity risks 1.6 2.9 2.3 2.0 5.2 4.9 1.4 0.8 Spread risk 1.1 2.6 2.0 2.3 2.5 3.0 1.1 1.6 2 Other risks 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 3 Correlation offsets 1.2 2.5 2.6 2.2 Total correlated one-day Value at Risk 5.3 7.0 6.1 7.4 8.4 10.7 4.5 5.8 1 Interest rate risks include property index risk.
2 Other risks include foreign exchange risk.
3 The highest and lowest exposure gures reported for each risk type did not necessarily occur on the same day as the highest and lowest Total correlated one-day Value at Risk.
A corresponding correlation offset effect cannot be calculated and is therefore omitted from the above table.
Non-trading activities An analysis of exposures on non-trading financial instruments is shown below.
These numbers represent the potential change in theoretical market values of such instruments, and do not represent the potential effects on income for a given time period.
Separate income at risk measures are used to supplement these analyses for appropriate portfolios.
Non-trading instruments are held for collection in the form of cash over time, and are accounted for at amortised cost, with earnings accrued over the relevant life of the instruments.
Abbeys risk measures, however, focus on potential risks over the life of the non-trading instruments wherever appropriate, and are therefore based on valuation measures, using estimated discounted cash ows where reliable market values are not available.
For Abbeys non-trading instruments the actual, average, highest and lowest exposures shown below are all calculated to a 95% level of confidence and are based upon one-day market movements for short-term market risks, and market movements of between one day and three months as appropriate to the management of each portfolio for structural market risk positions.
78 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Exposure at 31 December Exposure for the year ended 31 December Actual Average Highest Lowest exposure exposure exposure exposure 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m m m m m Group non-trading instruments Short-term market risk Interest rate risks 1.0 2.4 1.4 2.2 2.7 3.5 0.5 1.0 Equity risks 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.7 Foreign exchange risks 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 Structural market risk Interest rate risks 14.6 90.0 32.0 84.4 51.2 94.2 14.6 73.1 Equity risks 5.6 5.3 5.6 9.3 8.0 12.9 3.3 5.3 Foreign exchange risks 0.3 1.8 1.6 3.5 1.9 6.1 0.3 1.8 The above sensitivity exposures should not be aggregated, as no account has been taken of the correlation between risk classes.
Life Business Managing market risk from Personal Financial Services Abbey faces two main sources of market risk within the Personal Banking and Savings Business Financial Services Life Companies: The primary risks within the Banking and Savings business are interest Firstly, there are exposures that arise directly from funds held for rate related.
Abbey is able to mitigate the consequences of interest the account of Abbey in the shareholder funds of the Life Companies.
rate movements on net interest income from Banking and Savings by Abbey directly bears these risks and they are consolidated with other re-pricing separately the administered variable rate mortgages and corporate-wide market risk exposures.
variable rate retail deposits, subject to competitive pressures.
The Secondly, there are indirect interest rate and equity risk absolute levels of interest rate risk are managed via a portfolio of xed exposures arising where there are insufficient surpluses in the interest rate instruments including interest rate swaps.
However, to the policyholder funds to fully mitigate the market risks associated with extent that variable rate assets and liabilities are not precisely the effects of adverse market movements on the funds.
The sources matched, the balance sheet is exposed to changes in the relationship of indirect market risks include Market Value Adjustment free between administered rates and market rates.
guarantees and Guaranteed Annuity Option exposures where any In addition to administered variable rate products, Abbey also has shortfall on the with-profit-business would be borne by Abbey.
These a significant volume of xed rate and structured mortgage and savings exposures are risk managed using equity index options and forward products.
The market risk exposures from these products are generally starting interest rate swaps.
hedged with interest rate swaps which are transacted with Treasury Market risk affects solvency, embedded and realistic balance Services.
The related market risks of such contracts are managed within sheet valuations, and the risks under these different measures are the market risk framework developed for Treasury Services.
However, managed simultaneously against their respective limits and controls.
during the period of product launches the hedging of actual volume can The Life Companies Market Risk Function ensures that all risk positions only be estimated, so limits on the maximum exposure are maintained are understood by management and that key issues are escalated.
The business also remains exposed to variances from the expected redemption level of xed rate and structured products by Group Infrastructure customers in advance of the contractual maturity, with measures and Risk exposure arises from the pool of interest earning assets funded limits in place to control the exposure.
by non interest bearing liabilities, e. g. share capital, retained profit.
To manage this interest rate exposure Abbey uses interest rate Managing market risk in Treasury Services swaps and some xed rate assets to stabilise earnings.
This strategy The primary risk exposures for Treasury Services are interest rate, is managed by Treasury Services and operates within the same equity, credit spread and some residual exposure to property indices.
market risk framework approved by the Board in the Market Risk Policy.
Equity risks are managed via equity stock, futures and structured Market risk exposures are managed using a combination of equity derivatives.
Credit-spread risks are managed via credit earnings volatility and Value at Risk measures.
An appropriate set of derivatives credit default swaps, total return swaps.
Property Index limits are established and controls processes are in place to ensure that risk is managed via insurance contracts and property derivatives.
risk management activities operate within the established framework.
Treasury Services operates within a market risk framework designed to ensure that it has the capability to manage risk in Effect of repricing risks on Abbey a well-controlled manner.
A comprehensive set of policies, procedures The interest rate repricing gap information is shown in the notes and processes have been developed and implemented to identify, to the consolidated financial statements.
measure, report, monitor and control risk across Treasury Services.
The standardised risk measure adopted is Value at Risk calculated Hedging activity at a 95% confidence level over a 1 day time horizon.
On a daily basis, A significant part of Abbeys exposures are hedged internally, offset market risk factor sensitivities, Value at Risk measures and stress tests against other categories of exposure in the balance sheet, or by using are produced, reported and monitored against limits for each major derivatives as part of an integrated approach to risk management.
activity and at the aggregate Treasury Services level.
These limits For further details on the use of derivatives, see the notes to the are used to align risk appetite with the businesss risk-taking consolidated financial statements.
activities and are reviewed on a regular basis.
Early identication and Any unhedged residual risks are retained in Abbey businesses measurement of risks are important elements of the risk management and are monitored, reported and managed under the overall market processes.
Measurement of risks can involve the use of complex risk framework.
quantitative methods and mathematical principles to model and predict the changes in instruments and portfolio valuation.
These methods are essential tools to understand the risk exposures.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 79 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued To be effective, the management of liquidity in a crisis must be timely, Liquidity risk proactive and exible enough to respond to a variety of different Liquidity risk is the potential that, although remaining solvent, circumstances.
The management structure for the Liquidity Contingency Abbey does not have sufficient financial resources to enable it Plan, which is structured around a small team of individuals with the to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only authority to agree, co-ordinate and implement actions that will control at excessive cost.
Liquidity risk is a key risk faced by financial a volatile, dynamic situation, has two key elements: services organisations.
the Treasurer is responsible for the rapid assessment of the The Board is responsible for dening the liquidity management implications of a sudden, unexpected event on the day-to-day and control framework at Abbey and has approved a liquidity risk liquidity of Abbey, and for the decision to activate the Liquidity policy to cover major liquidity risks and define key liquidity limits.
Contingency Plan: and Along with its internal Liquidity Risk Policy control framework, Abbey the liquidity crisis management team, under the chairmanship abides by the Sound Practices for Managing Liquidity in Banking of the Treasurer, is the decision-making authority in the event of Organisations set out by the Basel Committee as its standard for a liquidity crisis, and is responsible for implementing the Liquidity liquidity risk management and control.
The Liquidity Contingency Plan defines a framework for the Liquidity risk management decision-making process under exceptional circumstances, and it Management of liquidity at Abbey, including the management of cash details the tools available to mitigate any such event.
These tools ows, raising funding, and managing liquid asset holdings, is the include procedures for realising marketable assets, for entering into responsibility of the Chief Operating officer.
The active management repo transactions with central banks, and for securing retail deposits of liquidity is undertaken by Treasury Services within the framework and managing wholesale funds.
Even though the Liquidity Contingency of the Liquidity Risk Policy.
The Asset and Liability Committee and the Plan focuses predominantly on realising marketable assets to meet Risk Committee monitor Abbeys liquidity position on a monthly basis.
liabilities, in certain situations additional funding as well as The board also receives a monthly update on key liquidity issues and certicates of deposit, commercial paper and medium term funding Abbeys liquidity position is reported to the Financial Services may be sought, depending on the nature of the crisis.
The Liquidity Authority on a monthly basis.
Contingency Plan is reviewed and revised on at least an annual basis.
Abbey views the essential elements of liquidity management Potentially, if our usual funding sources become unavailable for as controlling potential cash outows, maintaining prudent levels an extended period of time, the issuance of a retail savings bond may of highly liquid assets and ensuring that access to funding is available also be considered.
A comprehensive management and monitoring process, and a series of liquidity limits within which liquidity Liquidity risk measurement is managed, underpin these elements.
For example, as excessive Abbey uses net cash ows as a key measure of liquidity risk as they concentration in either liquid assets or contractual liabilities contributes take into account contracted liabilities and contracted assets that to potential liquidity risk, appropriate limits have been established have a dened maturity date.
Such current cash outows as well as pursuant to the Liquidity Risk Policy.
Management also monitors Abbeys expected future cash outows measured over key benchmark time compliance with the Sterling Stock Liquidity limits set by the Financial periods and unexpected cash outows arising from unexpected but Services Authority, which focus on ensuring that sterling cash liabilities plausible events, such as the withdrawal of a percentage of retail due five days in advance can be met by realising liquid assets, with deposits at any point in time and the limited ability to renew wholesale any excesses being reported to the Risk Committee and the board.
deposits, are met through new borrowing, additional sales in the repo In addition to such limits, liquidity ratios also have trigger-review levels market and additional asset sales.
that require the Treasurer or the Chief Operating officer to initiate Liquid assets are normally measured at current market values, appropriate reviews of current exposure when such levels are exceeded.
discounted to reect transaction costs.
Liquid assets may take time The Liquidity Risk Policy has been designed to reduce the to liquidate, due to marketability issues and large position sizes, and likelihood and impact of either rm specic or system-wide liquidity may decrease in market value in times of adverse market movement.
Abbey intends to maintain sufficient liquid assets and This expected liquidation time is measured over key benchmark time marketable assets to meet the expected cash ow requirements of periods under prudent assumptions in relation to market conditions.
all its businesses, to ensure customer and counterparty confidence, The risk related to uncertain assumptions about the behavioural and to be in a position to withstand liquidity pressures resulting from characteristics of assets and liabilities is also considered when unexpected or exceptional circumstances.
While Abbeys liquidity risk is consolidated and primarily The ratio of discounted liquid assets that will be available to meet controlled at the parent company level, liquidity risk is also measured, the cumulative liabilities falling due at key benchmark time periods is monitored and controlled within the specic business area or the the principal liquidity measure.
The liquidity ratio is subject to periodic subsidiary where it arises.
Management recognises that while the stress testing based upon a range of assumptions.
liquidity approach developed pursuant to the Liquidity Risk Policy is designed to reduce the likelihood of significant liquidity issues arising, Securitisation of Abbey assets the possibility of such events cannot be eliminated.
Consequently, Abbey, through various special purpose vehicles, provide a wide Abbey also operates a Liquidity Contingency Plan to manage and range of securitised mortgage products to a diverse investor base.
co-ordinate any actions that are required in order to mitigate the There is little liquidity risk related to asset securitisations as the effects of a liquidity shortfall.
The Liquidity Contingency Plan defines repayment of the securitised notes issued is nanced by the the circumstances under which the plan is activated, the management expected maturity or repayment of the underlying securitised asset framework and notication procedures, and the key roles and which is recognised in the Liquidity Policy.
Abbey does not expect responsibilities during the operation of the plan.
securitisations to represent a greater proportion of its overall funding The Liquidity Contingency Plan becomes operational when in the future than at present.
However, in times of significant market the demand for cash, whether from demands for repayment, from disruption, residential mortgage backed securitisation, which typically wholesale funding or from retail deposits, exceeds the limits for liquidity remains a very liquid and deep market, might be accessed, and in management dened under the Liquidity Risk Policy.
The circumstances such circumstances could provide a higher proportion of funding that cause this to happen will tend to be sudden, unexpected events that than is presently expected.
trigger demands for cash that cannot be managed within the procedures, limits and controls dened in the Liquidity Risk Policy.
80 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Managing credit risk in First National Insurance risk Motor Finance provides funds via motor dealers acting as introducers Insurance risk arises when a payment is taken that offers financial to individuals and businesses.
A large majority of such arrangements protection against specified contingencies, such as life expectancy, are secured on the vehicles involved.
In the course of these sickness, loss or damage or when the customer terminates his operations, advances are also provided to participating dealers.
Abbey is only exposed to the contingencies of life Credit risk management policies and techniques reect the varying expectancy and sickness, that is, mortality and morbidity.
The forms of financial products provided by the business and include the exposure to insurance risk arises in the Life assurance companies.
The Appointed Actuary UK was responsible throughout 2003 First National Litigation Funding plc provides loans via claims for the independent review of the management of insurance risk.
management companies and solicitors acting as introducers to The Appointed Actuary UK chairs the insurance risk committee individual claimants for the purchase of after the event insurance which consists of a team of insurance experts who aid the Appointed cover.
Such cover provides the claimant with insurance against the Actuary in his role.
An insurance risk policy provides the control costs of unsuccessful litigation.
The repayment of such loans is made framework within which insurance risk is managed.
by the claimants, either from damages and costs recovery, or from The essential elements of insurance risk management that cover the insurance policy.
Risk management focuses on acceptability assessment as well as mitigation of the risk include underwriting from of insurance cover, operational risk of payment processes and legal the policy proposal document through to assessment of individual risk of documentation.
claims, pricing taking into account the level of underwriting, market experience, external studies and reassurance data, reinsurance for Market Risk assistance in pricing of some risks and for spreading of risks and Managing market risk in European operations reserving holding sufficient funds to meet expected claims.
The Italian branch and French subsidiary are both exposed to market risks arising from Personal Financial Services Banking and Savings Operational risk management activity.
These risks are monitored in a manner consistent with the Operational risk is the risk of loss to Abbey, resulting from inadequate Personal Financial Services Banking and Savings exposures.
The French or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external subsidiary also has interest-earning assets funded by non-interest events.
Risks are categorised by type, such as fraud, process failure, bearing liabilities, similar to the same risk in Group Infrastructure and inadequate Human Resource management and damage to assets.
interest rate risk exposure arising from the litigation funding vehicle.
They are assessed, not only in terms of their financial impact, but also These risks are measured, reviewed and reported by the Personal in terms of their affect on business objectives, regulatory Financial Services Banking and Savings market risk function.
An independent operational risk function has responsibility Managing market risk in Life businesses for establishing the framework within which risk is managed and Life companies in the Portfolio Business Unit consist of Scottish for ensuring its consistent implementation across Abbey.
The framework Mutual International and Scottish Provident International Life incorporates industry best practice and anticipated regulatory Assurance.
Abbeys market risk exposures in Portfolio Business Unitrequirements, particularly those emanating from the Basel Committee and Life are similar to those in Personal Financial Services-Life.
All Portfolio the Financial Services Authority.
The primary purpose of the framework, Business Unit-Life market risk exposures are measured, managed and which is approved by the Risk Committee and the Board, is to define and reported in a manner consistent with the Personal Financial Servicesarticulate Abbey-wide policy, processes, roles and responsibilities.
Life exposures and by the Life companies market risk function.
The management of operational risk is the responsibility of business managers, who identify assess and monitor risks, in line Managing market risk in Treasury Services Portfolio Business Unit with the processes described in the framework.
The operational risk The majority of Treasury Services Portfolio Business Unit positions were function ensures that all key risks are regularly reported to the Board.
investment assets bonds, leases and structured loans fully cash ow In line with Financial Services Authoritys guidance and industry matched with interest rate swaps and hedged to minimise interest rate best practice, the company has crisis management and disaster risk exposure.
The remaining portfolios are now being managed for recovery arrangements to ensure that critical business processes are value, and market risk management remains a key consideration in this maintained in the event of an unforeseen interruption.
Risk measurement, monitoring and control continue to be are also purchased to provide cover for a range of potential operational applied, with oversight by the market risk function.
The implementation of a board-approved environmental policy is managed as part of the operational risk framework.
Insurance risk Managing insurance risk Portfolio Business Unit The Appointed Actuary International has responsibility for managing The Portfolio Business Unit consists of businesses to be managed the pricing and reserving of insurance risk within the Portfolio for value and capital release.
The majority of the risk management Business Unit Life companies.
A process similar to that employed processes within these businesses follow the same management, in the Personal Financial Services companies is used in Portfolio measurement and control guidelines as those in Personal Financial Business Unit companies.
Services, except for credit risk in First National businesses and residual value risk, which arise solely in Portfolio Business Unit.
Operational risk A process similar to that employed in Personal Financial Services Credit risk is used in the Portfolio Business Unit.
Managing credit risk in Wholesale Banking The management of wholesale credit risk in the Portfolio Business Unit Residual value risk follows the same management, measurement and control guidelines Residual value risk occurs when the value of a physical asset at the end as that in Treasury Services, except that risk appetite is dened by the of certain contracts e. g. operating leases potentially may be worth less reducing portfolio size, and also that Credit personnel for the Portfolio than that required to achieve the anticipated return from the transaction.
Business Unit form an integral part of the Wholesale Credit Risk function.
Regular reviews of credit exposures and counterparties continue to be undertaken and Credit Risk provides advice to the respective business units in the sales process.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 81 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Managing residual value risk in Wholesale Banking business They include interest rate, cross currency and equity related in the Portfolio Business Unit swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, caps, oors, options and Residual value risk exposure in Wholesale Banking relates principally swaptions see table below.
Derivatives are used for trading and to trains and other rail assets managed by Porterbrook Leasing non-trading purposes.
These terms are dened in Accounting Company Limited Porterbrook, as well as aircraft managed by IEM policies: Derivatives.
Both Porterbrook and IEM are in the Portfolio Business Unit.
Periodic revaluations are undertaken and any Non-trading derivatives reductions in assumed values are treated in accordance with generally The main non-trading derivatives are interest rate and cross currency accepted accounting practice.
swaps, which are used to hedge Abbeys exposures to interest rates Tools such as first loss and residual value guarantees where and exchange rates inherent in non-trading assets, liabilities and appropriate aircraft, and appropriate return conditions are employed positions, including xed rate lending and structured savings products by Abbey to mitigate the associated risks.
The residual value risk within the Banking and Savings segment and medium-term note issues, management framework includes business area mandates, asset capital issues and xed-rate asset purchases within Treasury Services.
specic policies and delegated authorities agreed by risk committee Derivative products that are combinations of more basic and business area risk committees e. g. Treasury Services risk derivatives such as swaps with embedded option features, or that committee as appropriate.
have leverage features, may be used in circumstances where the underlying position being hedged contains the same risk features.
Managing residual value risk in First National businesses In such cases the derivative used will be structured to match the risks Within First National, exposure arises within portfolios of contract of the underlying asset or liability.
Exposure to market risk on such purchase agreements relating to motor vehicles.
Revaluations of contracts is therefore hedged.
motor vehicles are undertaken at least annually.
Losses, when Derivatives used for non-trading activities are accounted for on they arise, are treated in accordance with generally accepted an accruals basis consistent with the assets, liabilities or positions accounting practice.
The following table summarises activities undertaken by Derivatives Abbey, the related risks associated with such activities and the types Derivative financial instruments derivatives are contracts or of derivatives used in managing such risks.
Such risks may also be agreements whose value is derived from one or more underlying managed using on-balance sheet instruments as part of an integrated indices or asset values inherent in the contract or agreement.
Activity Risk Type of hedge Management of the return on variable rate Reduced profitability due to falls in interest rates.
Receive xed interest rate swaps.
assets nanced by shareholders funds and net non-interest bearing liabilities.
Fixed rate lending and investments.
Sensitivity to increases in interest rates.
Pay xed interest rate swaps.
Fixed rate retail and wholesale funding.
Sensitivity to falls in interest rates.
Sensitivity to increases in equity market indices.
Management of other net interest Sensitivity of returns to changes in interest rates.
Interest rate swaps and caps oors according income on retail activities.
to the type of risk identied.
profits earned in foreign currency.
Sensitivity to strengthening of sterling against Forward foreign exchange contracts.
Investment in foreign currency assets.
Sensitivity to strengthening of sterling against Cross-currency and foreign exchange swaps.
Issuance of products with embedded Sensitivity to changes in underlying rate and Interest rate swaps combined with caps oors.
rate volatility causing option exercise.
Sensitivity to weakening credit quality.
Purchase credit default and total return swaps.
Investment in, and issuance of, products with Sensitivity to changes in underlying rate and Interest rate swaps plus caps oors, and embedded interest rate options.
1 Investment in, and issuance of, bonds with Sensitivity to changes in rates causing Interest rate swaps combined with swaptions put call features.
Firm commitments e. g. asset purchases, Sensitivity to changes in rates between arranging Hedges are arranged at the time of commitments issues arranged.
if there is exposure to rate movements.
1 A swaption is an option on a swap which gives the holder the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a swap.
Exchange-traded derivatives may additionally be used as hedges in any of the above activities in lieu of interest rate swaps.
82 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Group The following tables show the contract or underlying principal 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 amounts, positive and negative market values and related book values Contract or Positive Related Negative Related of derivatives held for non-trading purposes at 31 December 2003 underlying market book market book 1 2 2 principal values value values value and 2002.
The market values represent the amount at which a contract m m m m m could be exchanged in an arms-length transaction, calculated at Exchange rate contracts: market rates current at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives classied Cross-currency swaps 23,849 835 166 1,236 330 as non-trading are entered into for the purposes of matching or eliminating risk from potential movements in interest rates and Foreign exchange exchange rates.
Accordingly, they are measured on an accruals basis, swaps and forwards 5,663 22 18 82 79 equivalent to that used for the asset, liability or position being hedged.
Foreign exchange options 29 3 The positive and negative market values reported in the following 29,541 860 184 1,318 409 table should not be viewed in isolation, therefore, because they are Interest rate contracts: substantially matched by negative and positive market values on the Interest rate swaps 99,539 2,421 906 2,306 748 assets, liabilities and positions being hedged.
Caps, oors and Group swaptions 6,278 27 70 6 2003 2003 2003 2003 2003 Futures Contract or Positive Related Negative Related exchange-traded 3,745 underlying market book market book 1 2 2 principal values value values value Forward rate m m m m m agreements Exchange rate contracts: 109,562 2,448 976 2,312 748 Cross-currency swaps 22,214 928 124 1,380 183 Equity and commodity Foreign exchange contracts: swaps and forwards 1,630 8 Equity index options Foreign exchange options and similar products 234 3 48 23,844 928 132 1,380 183 Equity and commodity Interest rate contracts: index swaps 832 44 3 62 1 Interest rate swaps 69,433 2,067 650 1,432 362 1,066 47 3 110 1 Caps, oors and swaptions 2,484 21 37 1 140,169 3,355 1,163 3,740 1,158 Futures exchange-traded 4,907 1 Included in the above analysis of non-trading derivatives are exchange rate contracts, Forward rate agreements 2,213 interest rate contracts and equity and commodity contracts, with underlying principal amounts of 1,574m, 2002: 1,955m, 47,685m 2002: 58,208m and 363m 2002: 79,037 2,088 687 1,433 362 274m respectively, which were undertaken by Abbey entities with Abbey National Financial Products.
The total net positive market value of such contracts amounted to Equity and commodity 1,425m 2002: net positive 132m.
Associated contracts which Abbey National Financial contracts: Products transacted with external counterparties are included in the analysis of trading derivatives.
Net positive market values of 1,314m 2002: net positive 132m on all Equity index options contracts held by Abbey Financial Products with other Abbey entities are included within Other assets.
and similar products 257 86 2 Positive market values arise where the present value of cash inows exceeds the present Equity and commodity value of cash outows on a contract-by-contract basis.
Negative market values arise index swaps 673 22 9 20 3 where the present value of cash outows exceeds the present value of cash inows on a contract-by-contract basis.
930 22 9 106 3 103,811 3,038 828 2,919 548 The following table analyses over-the-counter and other non-exchange traded derivatives held for non-trading purposes by remaining maturity: Group Contract or Contract or underlying Replacement underlying Replacement principal cost principal cost 2003 2003 2002 2002 m m m m Non-trading derivatives maturing: In not more than one year 36,368 806 55,737 647 In more than one year but not more than five years 47,672 1,257 56,086 1,365 In more than five years 14,864 975 24,601 1,343 98,904 3,038 136,424 3,355 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 83 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued The following table shows, by nominal amount, the activity in interest rate and cross-currency swaps entered into for hedging purposes, with third parties and Abbey National Financial Products.
cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps which are included The total receive xed nominal amount comprises 34,711m in respect in the swaps detailed above at 31 December 2003 are set forth by of interest rate swaps and 4,544m in respect of cross-currency currency in the table below.
Of these contracts 9,67 7m mature within swaps.
The total pay variable nominal amount comprises 44,064m one year and 2,487m mature after one year.
in respect of interest rate swaps and 22,394m in respect of Contract type by nominal amount cross-currency swaps.
The total receive variable nominal amount Forward comprises 34,721m in respect of interest rate swaps and 17,743m foreign Forward Options exchange rate caps and Futures in respect of cross-currency swaps.
and foreign agreeoors exchange Equity 1 exchange swaps ments OTC traded contracts A difference arises when comparing nominal contract assets and m m m m m nominal contract liabilities.
Whereas with single currency swaps there Sterling 2,185 112 are equal and opposite nominal balances on either side of the swap leg, this is not necessarily the case with cross-currency swaps.
At US dollars 2,213 209 3,843 453 contract date sterling equivalent nominal amounts should be equal Euro 1,540 87 883 357 and opposite, however, subsequent exchange rate movements will Hong Kong dollar 3 result in divergence in the nominal amounts.
This exchange rate Switzerland franc 90 181 8 divergence explains the difference between nominal contract asset Total 1,630 2,213 2,484 4,907 930 balances and nominal contract liability balances.
The weighted average interest rates presented in the tables 1 All Over-the-counter option contracts are in respect of interest related instruments.
above reect interest rates in a range of currencies.
These rates should not be analysed in isolation from the rates on the underlying instruments.
The effect of hedges has been included in the average interest rates presented in the average balance sheet included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
84 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued Trading derivatives The following table sets forth the contract or underlying principal nominal amounts, positive market values and negative market values of derivatives held for trading purposes at 31 December 2003 and 2002.
Group Contract or Positive Negative Contract or Positive Negative underlying market market underlying market market principal values values principal values values 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 m m m m m m Exchange rate contracts: Cross-currency swaps 10,572 253 428 10,801 173 218 Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 19,399 76 72 7,558 60 121 29,971 329 500 18,359 233 339 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 380,989 8,254 8,794 329,834 10,006 10,432 Caps, oors and swaptions 56,436 7 71 796 74,462 7 14 904 Futures exchange traded 5,348 32 28 25,274 8 Forward rate agreements 4,547 2 1 1,722 7 447,320 9,059 9,619 431,292 10,720 11,351 Equity and credit contracts: Equity index and similar products 11,561 538 2,535 13,639 348 1,233 Equity index options exchange traded 8,363 70 301 2,538 193 Credit default swaps and similar products 16,171 103 74 11,412 154 96 36,095 711 2,910 27,589 502 1,522 Total 513,386 10,099 13,029 47 7,240 11,455 13,212 Effect of netting 8,456 8,456 9,745 9,745 1 Fair values of contracts between ANFP and other Abbey entities 189 132 Amount included in Other assets Other liabilities 1,643 4,762 1,842 3,467 1 Associated contracts which Abbey National Financial Products has transacted with external counterparties are included in the analysis of trading derivatives.
Positive fair values arise where gross positive fair values exceed gross negative fair values on a contract-by-contract basis.
This equates to net replacement cost.
Negative fair values arise where gross negative fair values exceed gross positive fair values on a contract-by-contract basis.
The totals of positive and negative fair values arising on trading derivatives at 31 December 2003 have been netted where Abbey has a legal right of offset with the relevant counterparty.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 85 Operating and Financial Review Risk Management continued All exchange traded instruments are subject to cash requirements Deferred gains and losses on financial assets and financial under the standard margin arrangements applied by the individual liabilities resulting from hedge accounting exchanges.
Such instruments are not subject to significant credit risk.
Deferred balances relating to settled derivatives and other financial Treasury Services has a mandate to deal in credit derivatives.
transactions previously used as hedges will be released to the profit Treasury Services acts as principal under this mandate, and takes a and Loss Account in the same periods as the income and expense fee for guaranteeing the counterparty against the default of the senior ows from the underlying hedged transactions The movement in the obligations of a third party.
Amounts in respect of non-trading credit period is as follows: derivative contracts are included under note 46, Guarantees and Group assets pledged as collateral security.
Total Substantially all of Abbeys over-the-counter derivatives activity Net gains is contracted with financial institutions.
Gains Losses losses m m m The following table analyses over-the-counter and other At 1 January 2003 64 17 47 non-exchange traded derivatives held for trading purposes by remaining maturity: Previous years deferred gains and losses recognised in the year 9 3 12 Group Gains and losses deferred in the year 9 9 Contract or Contract or underlying Replacement underlying Replacement At 31 December 2003 46 11 35 principal cost principal cost 2003 2003 2002 2002 Gains and losses expected m m m m to be recognised: Trading derivatives In one year or less 10 11 1 maturing before netting : After one year 36 36 In not more than one year 105,884 1,018 122,334 994 In more than one Credit Derivatives year but not more The following table presents the notional amounts of credit derivatives than five years 219,871 3,914 186,066 4,585 protection bought and sold at 31 December 2003.
In more than five years 173,920 5,065 141,028 5,876 Protection 499,675 9,997 449,428 11,455 Purchased Sold m m Unrecognised gains and losses on financial assets and financial Notional amounts liabilities resulting from hedge accounting Portfolio Business Unit protection 1,206 Gains and losses on financial instruments used for hedging are 1 Proprietary trading activity 11,928 7,191 not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself Total 13,134 7,191 recognised.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are as follows: 1 This includes 58m notional of portfolio credit derivatives.
Group The use of derivatives to manage exposures does not reduce 2003 2003 2003 Net gains the reported levels of assets on the balance sheet or the level Gains Losses losses of off-balance sheet commitments.
m m m Gains and losses expected Portfolio Business Unit protection activity to be recognised: Within the Portfolio Business Unit, credit derivatives have been used In one year or less 633 423 210 as hedging instruments for assets held on the balance sheet.
Purchased After one year 1,561 2,071 510 protection at 31 December 2003 within the Portfolio Business Unit 2,194 2,494 300 totalled 1.2bn.
This excludes partial protection of a notional 680m obtained through synthetic collateralised debt obligation portfolio 2002 hedging activity.
These transactions are accrual accounted.
2002 2002 Net gains Gains Losses losses m m m Proprietary Trading activity Gains and losses expected Abbeys current proprietary trading activity in credit derivatives to be recognised: is proprietary driven.
The business trades in single-name credit In one year or less 678 549 129 derivatives and also a limited number portfolio credit derivative After one year 1,686 2,205 519 transactions.
The credit derivatives trading function operates within the same framework as other trading functions.
Risk limits are 2,364 2,754 390 established and closely monitored.
At 31 December 2003, the total notional amounts of protection The net gain unrecognised at 31 December 2002 and recognised purchased and sold by the proprietary trading business were 11.9bn during the year was 129m 2002: 157m.
The mismatch between notional amounts is largely attributable to Abbey using credit derivative transactions hedged with securities positions.
The overwhelming majority of positions are matched.
Consequently the amount of retained credit risk contributed by the credit derivatives trading activity is small in the context of Abbeys overall credit exposures.
86 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003
