BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Risk Factors Outlined below is a description of risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and share price Risk identification, from time to time.
Not all these factors are within our control.
Other factors assessment and besides those listed here could also adversely affect the Group.
management a key Project delivery focus across BG Group.
Project delivery is subject to technical, commercial and economic risks.
Our development projects may be delayed or unsuccessful for many reasons, including cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical and technical difficulties.
These projects may also require the use of new and advanced technologies, which can be expensive to develop, purchase and implement and may not function as expected.
In addition, some of our development projects will be located in deepwater or other hostile environments or produce hydrocarbons from challenging reservoirs, which can exacerbate such problems.
Risks in downstream activities include the timely completion of projects under construction, security of supply, 33 unscheduled outages, electricity transmission system or gas pipeline system constraints and reliable application of new technologies to our operations.
Extending the growth trajectory The principal segments of our business are E&P, LNG, T&D and Power.
E&P will remain the centre of gravity for the business.
In general, the rate of production from natural gas and oil reservoirs declines as reserves are depleted.
The Groups future oil and gas production is dependent on managing the risks in the interpretation of geological data to minimise the uncertainties in the estimation of reserves and maximise the successful drilling of exploration and development wells.
The Groups future production, and therefore cash flow and income, are highly dependent upon the level of success we achieve in finding, acquiring and developing reserves.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 LNG will also become an increasingly Political climates The Groups 2006 targets are based on important integrated business and our Group companies, joint ventures and the assumptions that: Brent oil prices growth in this area is dependent upon associates operate in countries and will be $17 per barrel: US$ UK rate the level of success we achieve in regions throughout the world that are will be US$1.55 UK1: US UK inflation connecting competitively priced gas subject to significantly differing political, rates will be 2.5% per annum: the UK to high value markets.
BG corporation tax rate will be 30%, except Group operations are subject to the UK upstream which will be 40%: and UK Venture commercialisation jurisdiction of numerous governmental uncontracted gas prices will be 17 pence Commercial risks are dependent on BG agencies in the countries in which our per therm.
Groups ability to enter into, restructure assets are located, with respect to or re-contract commercial agreements Significant adverse variations in these regulatory and environmental matters.
The Group factors from those assumed may have Specific country risks include: generally participates in business activities a material impact on the Groups ability with several co-venturers.
Operating Political and economic instability: to deliver its business targets.
agreements or shareholder agreements Government intervention in Portfolio provide for liabilities to be borne by licence awards: BG Group has a wide portfolio of assets, co-venturers according to their interests.
spread across our principal business However, host government agreements Regulatory, taxation and legal segments.
We carry out regular asset generally require joint and several structure changes: reviews to re-balance our portfolio, liability from all co-venturers.
The control of field developments both in terms of the gas oil mix and In addition, there is strong competition and transportation infrastructure: geographical weighting.
This minimises in the energy sector.
The Groups the impact of adverse changes in The receipt of permits and consents: ventures compete with other forms business conditions, taxes, governmental of energy available to customers, Cancellation of contractual rights: and regulation, the demand for gas and LNG primarily on the basis of price paid by as a source of energy and other factors Expropriation of assets.
Changes in the use of that may have a material impact on the alternative sources of energy or in the If there are adverse changes in the Groups business.
cost of gas in relation to alternative political environment in the countries Regulatory climates 34 energy sources such as fuel oil, liquefied in which we operate, it may disrupt our Generally, many of the countries in petroleum gas or hydroelectric power operations and have a material effect which the Group does and expects to do may impact on the Groups ability to on the Groups business.
business have recently developed, or are in commercialise new ventures.
Commodity prices and currency the process of developing, new regulatory If the Group is not successful in securing, fluctuations and legal structures with a view to restructuring or re-contracting Economic risks include credit risk, helping their gas and power markets advantageous long-term commercial commodity price expectations, price to develop within a clear and controlled agreements, we may be unable to indexation of gas contracts to oil-based framework.
These regulatory and legal commercialise our reserves and this may indices, the levy of royalties and taxes structures and their interpretation and have a material effect on the Groups on hydrocarbon production, exchange application by administrative agencies cash flow and income.
rates, inflation rates and UK corporation may be specific to a given market and tax rates.
The Group may be offered the Operations opportunity to help shape suitable Operational risks are dependent on the The most significant economic risks are regulations but with no guarantee incremental effect of project delivery, large fluctuations in the following: that our voice will be heard.
tariff and royalty pricing impacts, asset Commodity prices, being the risk of integrity, plant availability, plant Regulatory frameworks also tend to a significant fluctuation in oil and or shutdowns planned and unplanned, evolve as markets mature.
This can have gas prices: maintenance costs, commercial a positive or negative effect on the restrictions and the management of well Exchange rates, in particular, business.
An example of such a situation and reservoir performance.
If these risks the US$ UK: is in India, where the federal government do materialise, the Group may not meet is proposing a move from a series of US UK inflation: and its production targets or unit operating state regulatory systems to a single, costs.
All these factors may have an UK corporation tax.
effect on cost control, or the safety of These risks are managed in accordance Such changes can be beneficial but, our operations, or a material impact on with policies approved by the Finance naturally, regulatory change can result the results of the Groups operations.
Further details are provided in the reduction in prices in our gas sales in the Operating and Financial Review contracts and this may have a material on page 38.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 impact on the Groups cash flow and Our corporate reputation is an income.
important factor in our continuing success.
Any negative change in our Strategic leadership reputation may impact on our share Our continued success will depend upon price, our ability to enter new markets the strategic leadership provided by the and our success in attracting and senior management team and other key retaining the best people.
We also depend on our ability to attract, retain Health, safety, security & environment and motivate additional highly skilled The Group recognises that the and qualified people.
protection of the health and safety of its employees and others affected by its We have a succession management operations, is an essential element in system to deliver successors in a delivering business performance, as are structured way.
the security of physical and intellectual If we lose the services of key people or are assets and the protection of the natural unable to attract and retain employees environment.
with the right capabilities and experience, Core assets have completed health risk it could have a material effect on the assessments to identify and target local Groups business and operations.
Reputation During 2003, the increased threats from BG Groups reputation is based on how a international terrorism and violent crime variety of stakeholders including have presented challenges.
We have employees, investors, governments and assessed the security risks in our varied communities where we operate operating environments and have perceive our business behaviours and introduced security programmes and activities over a period of time.
contingency plans to mitigate these risks.
The individual elements contributing to 35 Policies and measures at international the business activities component of the and national level to tackle climate overall BG Group reputation for change will increasingly affect business example, project delivery are addressed conditions, presenting regulatory risks elsewhere in this Risk Factors section.
but also possible opportunities for gas, However, our reputation could also be as a relatively low carbon fuel.
The most damaged if there is a perceived or actual immediate of these is the EU Emissions conflict between our corporate values Trading Scheme, due to come into force and business behaviours.
Corporate Responsibility CR is integral Failure to maintain and improve our to how we operate and core to our performance in the areas of health, business strategy and decision making.
safety, security and environment could The BG Statement of Business Principles result in injury to people and damage to, and supporting Group Policies define our or destruction of, facilities or the corporate philosophy and determine the environment, each of which could have character of the company by providing a a material effect on the Groups foundation for CR practice.
We actively business and reputation.
communicate our Business Principles through ethics workshops, our website and printed materials.
Our Business Principles are part of our dealings with partners and suppliers.
Comgas in Brazil Targeting the future through connecting new commercial and residential customers.
Only a small percentage of the people of So Paulo have access to natural gas.
This offers potential for market growth to Comgas, our Brazilian T&D business.
Comgas, Brazils largest gas distribution company, achieved volume growth of 17% during 2003.
Comgas should see sustained average annual volume growth of 10% between 2003 and 2009 as demand continues rising in the industrial, commercial, co-generation, NGV and residential sectors.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 37
