2007 Delivering diversification: distribution of BPs production North America North Sea 1998 South America, Middle East, Africa excluding Angola Gulf of Mexico deepwater Azerbaijan Asia Pacific Trinidad Russia Angola BP projection 2003.
1998 data from BP Financial and Operating Information 1998-2002.
14 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3.
Manage risk through constant renewal In the equation for delivering long-term shareholder value in the The stakes, however, are being raised.
The opportunities that remain oil, gas and petrochemicals industry, there is one constant: the in our world are growing in their demands and complexity.
Few industries face the operating challenges the most attractive projects require a demonstration of staying that BP and its competitors experience on a daily basis: geographic, power and a scale of financial, human and physical resources to economic, technical or any combination of these.
How do we win in this environment?
For BP, maximizing value while managing risk is both a discipline It begins upstream, through renewal.
BP maintains a portfolio of and an opportunity.
It is a discipline that enables us to make the investments that offers diversified sources of growth and the ability right choices as consistently as possible.
In recent years, we to replace production while minimizing the effect on profitability.
have spoken of BPs strategy as focused on a distinctive set Diversity in investment choice also extends downstream to our of opportunities.
More explicitly, these opportunities are a series customer-facing businesses.
For BP, maximizing value is a function of large investments that allow us to direct our people, assets and of making the best investment choices in the most promising places market positions in a balanced way.
This portfolio of investments at the most advantageous moment.
helps insulate us against volatility in differing economic conditions, broadens our competitive horizons and supports consistent returns We believe that this difference in portfolio quality provides BP with to shareholders.
advantages in exploration and production efficiency and the potential both for margin improvement in all our businesses and for stronger This balance in choice continues to be a hallmark of our strategy.
