HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Regulation and Supervision HSBCs operations throughout the world are FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for regulated and supervised by approximately 370 authorisation for banks and investment businesses in different central banks and regulatory authorities in the UK.
They also set out reporting and, as those jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, applicable, consent requirements with regard to branches or subsidiaries.
HSBC estimates the cost of large individual exposures and large exposures to this regulation and supervision to be approximately related borrowers.
The FSA will periodically obtain US$400 million in 2003.
These authorities impose independent reports, usually from the auditors of the certain reserve and reporting requirements and authorised institution, as to the adequacy of systems controls for example, capital adequacy, depositor governing internal control as well as systems protection, and prudential supervision on banks.
In governing records and accounting.
The FSA has the addition, a number of countries in which HSBC right to object, on prudential grounds, to persons operates impose rules that affect, or place limitations who hold, or intend to hold, 10 per cent or more of on, foreign or foreign-owned or controlled banks and the voting power of a financial institution.
The rules include restrictions The regulatory framework of the UK banking on the opening of local offices, branches or system has traditionally been based on co-operation subsidiaries and the types of banking and nonbetween the FSA and authorised institutions.
The banking activities that may be conducted by those FSA monitors authorised institutions through local offices, branches or subsidiaries: restrictions on ongoing supervision and the review of routine and ad the acquisition of local banks or regulations requiring hoc reports relating to financial and prudential a specified percentage of local ownership: and matters.
The FSA meets regularly with HSBCs restrictions on investment and other financial flows senior executives to discuss HSBCs adherance to the entering or leaving the country.
The supervisory and FSAs prudential guidelines.
The FSA and senior regulatory regimes of the countries where HSBC executives in the UK also regularly discuss operates will determine to some degree HSBCs fundamental matters relating to HSBCs business in ability to expand into new markets, the services and the UK and internationally, including areas such as products that HSBC will be able to offer in those strategic and operating plans, risk control, loan markets and how HSBC structures specific portfolio composition and organisational changes.
In its capacity as supervisor of HSBC on a The UK Financial Services Authority FSA consolidated basis, the FSA receives information on supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis.
In the capital adequacy of, and sets requirements for, addition, each operating bank within HSBC is HSBC as a whole.
Further details on capital regulated by local supervisors.
The primary measurement are included in Capital Management regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong on pages 173 to 174.
Kong and the US, the Groups principal areas of operation.
UK depositors and investors are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme which United Kingdom regulation and supervision deals with deposits with authorised institutions in the UK, investment business and contracts of insurance.
UK banking and financial institutions are subject to Institutions authorised to accept deposits and conduct multiple regulations.
The primary UK statute is the investment business are required to contribute to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA.
In the event of the insolvency Other UK primary and secondary banking legislation of an authorised institution, depositors are entitled to is derived from European Union EU directives receive 100 per cent of the first 2,000 US$3,600 relating to banking, securities, investment and sales of a claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up of personal financial services.
to 33,000 US$59,000 the maximum amount The FSA is responsible for authorising and payable being 31,700 US$56,600.
Payments supervising UK banking institutions and regulates all under the scheme in respect of investment business investment business in the UK from retail life and compensation are limited to 100 per cent of the first pensions business to custody, branch share dealing, 30,000 US$53,600 of a claim plus 90 per cent of and treasury and capital markets activity.
HSBC any further amount up to 20,000 US$35,700 the Bank is HSBCs principal authorised institution in maximum amount payable being 48,000 the UK.
30 The European Union reached final agreement to auditors, upon request, to report on those systems a new directive regarding the taxation of savings and other matters such as the accuracy of information income on 3 June 2003.
Under the directive, each provided to the Monetary Authority.
In addition, the Member State, other than Austria, Belgium, and Monetary Authority may from time to time conduct Luxembourg, will be required, beginning in 2005, to tripartite discussions with banks and their external provide the tax authorities of each other Member auditors.
State with details of payments of interest or other The Monetary Authority, which may deny the similar income paid by a person within its acquisition of voting share capital of over 10 per cent jurisdiction to individuals resident in such other in a bank, and may attach conditions to its approval Member State.
Beginning on the same date, Austria, thereof, can effectively control changes in the Belgium, and Luxembourg will impose a ownership and control of Hong Kong-incorporated withholding tax on such income.
The withholding tax financial institutions.
In addition, the Monetary rate will initially be 15 per cent, increasing to 20 per Authority has the power to divest controlling cent from 2008 and 35 per cent from 2011.
Subject to interests in a bank from a person if they are no longer future conditions being met, Austria, Belgium, and deemed to be fit and proper, or if they may otherwise Luxembourg may cease to apply the withholding tax threaten the interests of depositors or potential and instead comply with the automatic exchange of depositors.
information rules applicable to the other Member States.
Implementation of the directive is dependent The Monetary Authority may revoke upon Switzerland, Liechtenstein, San Marino and authorisation in the event of an institution's nonAndorra applying equivalent measures.
compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, among other Hong Kong regulation and supervision things, the furnishing of accurate reports.
Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions of The Banking Ordinance requires that banks the Banking Ordinance of Hong Kong Chapter 155 submit to the Monetary Authority certain returns and the Banking Ordinance, and to the powers, other information and establishes certain minimum functions and duties ascribed by the Banking standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy see Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on The principal function of the Monetary Authority is shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, to promote the general stability and effective unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the working of the banking system in Hong Kong.
The bank and holdings of interests in land, with which Monetary Authority is responsible for supervising banks must comply.
compliance with the provisions of the Banking Hong Kong fully implemented the capital Ordinance.
The Chief Executive of Hong Kong has adequacy standards established by the Basel Accord the power to give directions to the Monetary in 1989.
The Banking Ordinance currently provides Authority, which the Banking Ordinance requires the that banks incorporated in Hong Kong maintain a Monetary Authority and the Financial Secretary to capital adequacy ratio calculated as the ratio, follow.
expressed as a percentage, of its capital base to its The Monetary Authority has responsibility for risk-weighted exposure of at least 8 per cent.
For authorising banks, and has discretion to attach banks with subsidiaries, the Monetary Authority is conditions to its authorisation.
The Monetary empowered to require that the ratio be calculated on Authority requires that banks or their holding a consolidated basis, or on both consolidated and companies file regular prudential returns, and holds unconsolidated bases.
If circumstances require, the regular discussions with the management of the Monetary Authority is empowered to increase the banks to review their operations.
The Monetary minimum capital adequacy ratio to up to 12 per cent Authority may also conduct on site examinations of for fully-licensed banks and 16 per cent for depositbanks, and in the case of banks incorporated in Hong taking companies and restricted-licence banks, after Kong, of any local and overseas branches and consultation with the bank.
The Monetary Authority requires all The marketing of, dealing in and provision of authorised institutions to have adequate systems of advice and asset management services in relation to internal control and requires the institutions external securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions 31 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Regulation and Supervision continued of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the Kong Chapter 571 the Securities and Futures BHCA, enabling it to offer a more complete line of Ordinance.
Entities engaging in activities regulated financial products and services.
HSBCs ability to by the Securities and Futures Ordinance are required engage in expanded financial activities as an FHC to be licensed.
The Monetary Authority is the depends upon HSBC continuing to meet certain primary regulator for banks involved in the securities criteria set forth in the BHCA, including business, while the Securities and Futures requirements that its US depository institution Commission is the regulator for non-banking entities.
subsidiaries, HSBC Bank USA and Household Bank be well-capitalised and well-managed, and that US regulation and supervision they have achieved at least a satisfactory record in meeting community credit needs during their most HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state recent examination pursuant to the Community supervision and regulation in the US.
These requirements also apply to and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. in which Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC and HSBC has a 20 per cent voting interest in equity the State of New York Banking Department govern capital and a 40 per cent economic interest.
Each of many aspects of HSBCs US business.
these depository institution subsidiaries achieved at HSBC and its US operations are subject to least the required rating during their most recent supervision, regulation and examination by the examinations.
In general under the BHCA, an FHC Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank would be required, upon notice by the Federal holding company under the US Bank Holding Reserve Board, to enter into an agreement with the Company Act of 1956 the BHCA as a result of its Federal Reserve Board to correct any failure to ownership of HSBC Bank USA.
HSBC Bank USA, comply with the requirements to maintain FHC is a New York state-chartered bank and a member of status.
Until such deficiencies are corrected, the the Federal Reserve System.
As such, HSBC Bank Federal Reserve Board may impose limitations on USA is subject to regulation, supervision and the US activities of an FHC and its subsidiaries as it examination by both the Federal Reserve Board and deems appropriate.
If such deficiencies are not the State of New York Banking Department.
HSBC corrected, the Federal Reserve Board may require an also owns Household Bank SB, N. A.
Household FHC to divest its control of any subsidiary bank or to Bank, a nationally chartered credit card bank cease to engage in certain financial activities.
subject to regulation, supervision and examination by HSBC is generally prohibited under the BHCA the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency from acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or OCC.
The deposits of HSBC Bank USA and control of more than 5 per cent of any class of voting Household Bank are insured by the FDIC and both shares of, or substantially all the assets of, or banks are subject to relevant FDIC regulation.
exercising control over, any US bank or bank holding The BHCA and the International Banking Act of company without the prior approval of the Federal 1978 IBA impose certain limits and requirements Reserve Board.
on the US activities and investments of HSBC and The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and certain companies in which it holds direct or indirect Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 the Riegle-Neal investments.
As a qualifying foreign banking Act permits a US bank holding company or foreign organisation under Federal Reserve Board banking organisation, with Federal Reserve Board regulations, HSBC may engage in the United States approval, to acquire a bank located in a state other in certain limited non-banking activities and hold than the organisations US home state, subject to certain investments that would otherwise not be certain restrictions, and a national or state-chartered permissible under US law.
Prior to 13 March 2000, bank to merge across state lines or to establish or however, the BHCA generally prohibited HSBC acquire branches in other states, subject to various from acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or state law requirements or restrictions.
In general, the control of more than 5 per cent of the voting shares Riegle-Neal Act provides a non-US bank with of any company engaged in the United States in interstate branching and expansion rights similar to activities other than banking and certain activities those of a US national or state-chartered bank located closely related to banking.
On that date HSBC in its home state.
became a financial holding company FHC under 32 The US is a party to the 1988 Basel Capital Treasury Secretary to develop and adopt final Accord and US banking regulatory authorities have regulations with regard to the anti-money laundering adopted risk-based capital requirements for US compliance obligations of financial institutions a banks and bank holding companies that are generally term which, for this purpose, includes insured US consistent with the Accord.
In addition, US bank depository institutions, US branches and agencies of regulatory authorities have adopted leverage capital foreign banks, US broker-dealers and numerous requirements that generally require US banks and other entities.
The US Treasury Secretary delegated bank holding companies to maintain a minimum this authority to a bureau of the US Treasury amount of capital in relation to their balance sheet Department known as the Financial Crimes assets measured on a non-risk-weighted basis.
The Federal Reserve Board has determined that, Many of the new anti-money laundering as a general matter, a US bank holding company that compliance requirements of the Patriot Act, as is owned and controlled by a foreign bank with FHC implemented by FinCEN, are generally consistent status is not required to comply with the Federal with the anti-money laundering compliance Reserve Boards capital adequacy guidelines.
HSBC obligations previously imposed on HSBC Bank USA may rely on the Federal Reserve Boards flexibility under the Bank Secrecy Act which was amended in with respect to the capital adequacy requirements certain respects by the Patriot Act and applicable applicable to such intermediate US bank holding Federal Reserve Board regulations.
requirements to adopt and implement an anti-money laundering program, report suspicious transactions and HSBC Bank USA, Wells Fargo HSBC Trade implement due diligence procedures for certain Bank, N. A. and Household Bank, like other FDICcorrespondent and private banking accounts.
Certain insured banks, may be required to pay assessments to other specific requirements under the Patriot Act the FDIC for deposit insurance under the FDICs involve new compliance obligations.
The passage of Bank Insurance Fund.
Under the FDICs risk-based the Patriot Act and other recent events have resulted in system for setting deposit insurance assessments, an heightened scrutiny of the Bank Secrecy Act and antiinstitutions assessments vary according to the level money laundering compliance by federal and state of capital an institution holds, its deposit levels and bank examiners.
On 30 April 2003, HSBC Bank USA other factors.
entered into a written agreement with the Federal The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Improvement Act of 1991 provides for extensive Banking Department to enhance its compliance with regulation of depository institutions such as HSBC anti-money laundering requirements.
HSBC Bank Bank USA, Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. USA has implemented certain improvements in its and Household Bank, including requiring federal compliance, reporting, and review systems and banking regulators to take prompt corrective action procedures and is in the process of making additional with respect to FDIC-insured banks that do not meet improvements in these areas minimum capital requirements.
HSBCs US consumer finance operations are As at 31 December 2003, HSBC Bank USA, also subject to extensive regulation in the US, and to Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. and Household laws relating to consumer protection: discrimination Bank were each well-capitalised under Federal in extending credit: use of credit reports: privacy Reserve Board regulations.
matters: disclosure of credit terms: and correction of billing errors.
They also are subject to regulations The USA Patriot Act Patriot Act signed into and legislation that limit operations in certain law in October 2001, imposes significant record jurisdictions.
For example, limitations may be placed keeping and customer identity requirements, on the amount of interest or fees that a loan may expanded the US federal governments powers to bear, the amount that may be borrowed, the types of freeze or confiscate assets and increases the available actions that may be taken to collect or foreclose upon penalties that may be assessed against financial delinquent loans or the information about a customer institutions for failure to comply with obligations that may be shared.
HSBCs US consumer branch imposed on such institutions to detect, prevent and lending offices are generally licensed in those report money laundering and terrorist financing.
jurisdictions in which they operate.
Such licences Among other things, the Patriot Act requires the US 33 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Regulation and Supervision continued have limited terms but are renewable, and are revocable for cause.
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit the ability of these licensed lenders to collect or enforce loan agreements made with consumers and may cause the consumer lending subsidiary to be liable for damages and penalties.
HSBCs US credit insurance operations are subject to regulatory supervision under the laws of the states in which they operate.
Regulations vary from state to state but generally cover licensing of insurance companies: premiums and loss rates: dividend restrictions: types of insurance that may be sold: permissible investments: policy reserve requirements: and insurance marketing practices.
Certain US source payments to foreign persons may be subject to US withholding tax unless the foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
A qualified intermediary is a financial intermediary who is qualified under the Internal Revenue Code and has completed the Qualified Intermediary Withholding Agreement with the Internal Revenue Service.
Various HSBC operations outside the US are qualified intermediaries.
