Annual Report 2003 125 risk management Management structure Global Head of Risk USA Glynn Burger John Murabito Australia Southern Africa Alan Chonowitz Robin Jacobson Israel UK and Europe David Catz Ian Wohlman 126 Annual Report 2003 Introduction Investec recognises that risk management is critical to its operations and, therefore, continuously seeks to comply with international best practice.
The group has an extensive risk management process in place, to identify, understand and manage the risks associated with its business.
Investec monitors and controls its risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary market, credit, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting systems.
In this way, Investec aims to ensure that it assumes a tolerable risk and reward profile in its pursuit of growth in all its business areas.
Furthermore, Investec continues to embed a culture of risk awareness, control and compliance in its day-to-day activities.
While each business unit is primarily responsible for managing risks associated with its business, a centralised division, Group Risk Management which forms part of Group Services, independently monitors, controls and reports on Investecs risk, as mandated by the Board of Directors.
Group Risk Management has well-developed operational divisions in South Africa and the UK, as well as smaller risk divisions in other geographies.
The primary objectives of Group Risk Management are: To be the custodian of Investecs risk management culture.
To set or approve risk parameters and limits across the group and seek to ensure that these are consistently implemented and adhered to.
To aggregate and monitor Investecs exposures across risk classes.
To co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions.
To give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks to which Investec is exposed are identified and, to the extent possible, managed and controlled.
To facilitate various risk committees as mandated by the Board of Directors.
Group Risk Management operates within a matrix structure, in line with Investecs management approach, to ensure that all risks across the group are dealt with using the appropriate processes.
Investec seeks to ensure that Group Risk Management divisions which have international responsibility, are locally responsive yet globally aware.
The objective is that all initiatives and businesses operate within Investecs defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management has grown into a function that aims to meet the international needs of Investec and has continually focused on improving its risk management techniques.
Over the past few years, a process of enhancing risk management information and implementing consolidated risk management reporting has been in progress.
This is most evident from a UK and South African perspective.
The effectiveness of any banks policies and procedures for managing risk, however, can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured.
Annual Report 2003 127 Risk management framework Investec Limited and Investec plc Board of Directors Board Risk Review Group Audit and Committee Audit Sub-Committees Group Risk Management consolidation of information Credit Risk Market Risk team team Legal Asset and Liability Operational Risk Documentary Internal Audit Compliance Management team team Risk team SA, UK & Europe, USA, Hong Kong, Australia, Israel, Botswana, Mauritius Banking, Trading, Securities, Asset Management 128 Annual Report 2003 Risk management committees and forums Investec has established various committees and forums to identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as shown in the diagram and described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management.
Investec Limited and Investec plc Board of Directors Board Risk Review Committee Group Audit and Audit Sub-Committees Group Market Executive Risk Group Deal Risk Forum Review Forum Forum Group ALCO Group Credit Country Risk Committee Committee Forum Committees Function Board Risk Review Committee The Board Risk Review Committee acts as an agent Members: executive and non-executive directors: of the board to ensure that all decisions of the senior management board on risk management policies and procedures Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO are implemented and monitored throughout Frequency: monthly Investec.
It also ensures that the risk management structure is adequate with sufficient resources and budget and will report exceptions to the board.
It also ratifies exposure limits for market and credit risk.
In addition, the committee ensures that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly regarding changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk.
Executive Risk Review Forum The forum generally meets weekly to review and Members: executive directors and senior evaluate the most significant risks Investec faces in management the ordinary course of business credit, market, Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO liquidity, operational, legal and reputational.
It Frequency: weekly ensures that limits are adhered to and agreed recommendations to mitigate risks are implemented.
It receives a weekly report from Group Risk Management to assist it in the review and recommendation process.
Annual Report 2003 129 Committees Function Group Credit Committee This committee considers and approves the Members: executive and non-executive directors: granting of credit to counterparties in excess of the senior management mandates granted to divisional and other credit Chairman: Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk forums on a global basis.
Specifically, the committee Frequency: weekly sets Investecs maximum counterparty exposures.
Country Risk Forum This forum considers and manages risks associated Members: executive and non-executive directors: with the countries in which Investec assumes senior management exposure.
New countries are reviewed as and when Chairman: Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk required.
Frequency: ad hoc Group Market Risk Forum This forum manages market risk by identifying and Members: Global head s of risk, market risk and quantifying risks, on the basis of current and future the trading desks: senior management: members expectations and ensuring that trading occurs of the market risk teams: other members of within defined parameters.
Group Risk Management Chairman: Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Group Asset and Liability Committee The committee sets and reviews Investecs funding Members: executive and non-executive directors: and liquidity framework and policies and ensures senior management: financial officers: Global compliance with these.
It also mandates the regional Treasurer: Global Head of Asset Liability Asset and Liability Committees to manage liquidity Management risk in line with Investecs parameters.
Chairman: Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Group Deal Forum This forum considers, approves and mitigates the Members: executive and non-executive directors: risks inherent in any acquisition, disposal or other senior management non-standard transaction that Investec is Chairman: Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk considering.
Frequency: weekly Group Audit and Audit Sub-Committees The duties and responsibilities of the Audit Members: executive and non-executive directors: Committee are described on page 171 and 172.
In senior management: external auditors addition, the Internal Audit, Compliance and Chairman: Donn Jowell non-executive director Operational Risk departments report to the Audit Frequency: at least six times per year Committees.
130 Annual Report 2003 Board level risk management information The executive and non-executive directors are widely represented on the various risk management committees and forums of the group see above.
Directors involvement in these committees and forums is indicative of a hands on style, which facilitates a detailed understanding of the day-to-day activities of Investec.
Detailed risk information is provided to the Board of Directors both in South Africa and the UK.
Reports from management to the board provide a balanced assessment of significant risks and the effectiveness of the risk management procedures and systems in managing these risks.
The risk management reports generally include: Balance sheet management review, including the groups liquidity position.
The analysis is presented by region and includes a high level summary and detailed supporting schedules.
Market risk review, including a desk by desk analysis of the positions on book, value at risk and expected tail losses.
Credit exposure reports, including large exposures, level of arrears, sector analysis, draw downs, provisions and recoveries.
New credit facilities approved during the period.
Property investments, corporate finance information underwriting commitments and group investments.
Assessment of risks, policies and procedures In the ordinary course of business operations, Investec is exposed to a number of risks, including credit, market, asset and liability management, operational, legal and reputational risk.
The process set up to measure, monitor and mitigate these risks is described below.
Credit risk The Credit Risk team of Group Risk Management, supervised by the Group Credit Committee, measures and manages the extension of credit.
Credit risk represents the loss Investec might incur if a counterparty or issuer of securities or other instruments Investec holds fails to perform its contractual obligations to Investec.
Credit and counterparty risk is incurred both in the traditional areas of banking and by virtue of Investecs trading activities.
Credit philosophy, policy and process Consistent adherence to the groups credit philosophy and credit policies seeks to ensure the integrity of the loan book.
The policies are designed to combine best practice methodologies with practical ground level management techniques.
The fundamental principles Investec uses to manage credit risk include: Annual Report 2003 131 A clear definition of the groups target market.
A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of the groups counterparties.
An analysis of all related risks, including concentration.
Regular monitoring of existing and potential exposures once facilities have been approved.
A high level of executive and non-executive involvement in decision-making and review.
The credit process operates as follows: The credit process has been approved by the board.
The credit philosophy and policies are developed and guided centrally by Group Risk Management in co-operation with Investecs executive directors and operational management.
The process is decentralised within prescribed limits throughout the regions in which the group operates.
The central and regional credit forums have been established with predetermined authority levels and quorums for conducting business.
All credit decisions are forum based.
Members of the forums are nominated credit officers, drawn from senior management, executive and non-executive directors, and are independent of those extending credit.
Sector and industry specialists are included where appropriate.
Facilities, irrespective of size, are extended on the basis of consensus.
No facilities are established on the judgement of only one credit officer.
Outcomes are based on unanimous, and not majority, views.
All facilities are assessed on the basis of formal written proposals.
Although external assessments may be used as credit tools, all credit decisions are based on Investecs own credit process and analysis.
Limits are set per counterparty and groups of connected counterparties, with reference to aggregate exposure, taking into account different types of exposure both in the banking and trading book, and on and off the balance sheet.
The limits set are detailed by product, with a maximum tenor specified.
Limits are reviewed at least annually.
In addition to the Group Credit Committee, the following specialist forums have been established to assist in measuring and monitoring credit risk: Intensive Care Committee, which manages assets at risk.
Watch List Committee, which oversees and manages exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision.
Country Risk Forum, which considers and manages risk associated with the countries in which Investec assumes exposure.
Measuring and monitoring credit risk For banking products such as loans, the calculation of credit exposure is clear.
The amount that the organisation can potentially lose is the net amount of money that has been lent to the counterparty plus any accrued interest, net of security at market value.
For treasury products, this calculation is more difficult.
Investec has to consider both what it stands to lose should the counterparty default at inception of the trade, plus any changes in this amount as it moves through time towards the ultimate maturity of the deal or financial instrument.
132 Annual Report 2003 The group uses the key principles of equivalent lending risk ELR to monitor and measure credit exposures.
ELR is a term specific to Investec and is defined in-house as: An attempt to translate the credit risk on treasury products into banking product equivalent terms i. e. what size value loan has the same credit risk as the treasury product being evaluated.
There are two components to the calculation of ELR, namely, current cumulative mark-to-market and potential future credit exposure PFE.
Investec incorporates a measure of PFE because the credit exposure of treasury products is strongly correlated to the volatility of the relevant market factors.
Since it is difficult in many instances to reduce credit exposure once it has been incurred, it is necessary to adjust the exposure at inception of the deal to take into account potential future movements in amounts owed by counterparties as a result of market movements.
The philosophy behind the ELR methodology is that Investec will use both historical data and future expectations to determine the expected ruling market price for the product under review, both at maturity and over the life of the product.
Improving techniques to measure and monitor credit risk The groups Credit Risk team has considerably enhanced its methods for measuring and monitoring credit risk, at both a product and portfolio level, across the group.
RICOS, a global credit risk management system from Algorithmics, has been implemented over the last four years in South Africa.
Other system related developments include the implementation of a new credit administration system iCAS.
This is a global intranet-based application that has been developed to manage preparation, approval and compliance with specific conditions during the credit proposal administration process.
A primary objective of the analytics and methodology area of credit risk has been to develop an internal credit risk model.
An internal credit scoring rating model has been implemented for corporates in South Africa.
In addition, the group has incorporated the Credit Monitor Model from the KMV Corporation, a default probability model, in order to assess credit risk exposures under stressful conditions.
Through a combination of information from Credit Monitor and RICOS, the Credit Risk team is able to calculate individual risk values, for example, expected loss values per transaction per counterparty.
To provide aggregate risk measures on a portfolio basis, the group has also purchased Portfolio Manager from the KMV Corporation.
This software provides the supplementary information such as macro-economic variables, default correlation data and sovereign related quantities that are required to measure credit risk on a portfolio basis.
The software also provides a mechanism that can be used to determine the economic capital requirements of the bank and the resulting capital allocation framework to be used for risk-adjusted pricing and other strategic purposes.
Additional work is being undertaken on an internal credit rating model to ensure the most efficient use of regulatory capital under the New Basel Capital Accord Basel II proposals.
Further information is provided on page 152.
Annual Report 2003 133 Credit risk classification system and provisioning policy Investecs board approved policy incorporates the following: An exposure is classified as non-performing when there is a prospect of non-recovery of interest or capital or it is deemed imprudent to bring interest to account.
This definition is in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Exposures in arrears are continually scrutinised.
Based on this scrutiny, if it becomes evident that the account requires additional supervision and attention, it will be included in the managed book and fall under the Watchlist Committee, comprising members of the Group Credit Committee and the Credit Risk team.
Unless there are reasonable prospects of recovering interest and capital in full, the accounts are classified as non-performing.
Each individual exposure that is in arrears is assessed on its merits and classified accordingly.
The Watchlist Committee assesses perceived and or actual deterioration in a counterpartys credit risk profile.
The watchlist is managed and monitored on an ongoing basis, with review by the relevant board s and the Board Risk Review Committee.
Interest is charged on non-performing accounts.
The corresponding amount is not brought to income but credited to a suspended interest provision.
A specific bad debt provision is made when there is a probability that Investec will not be able to collect the full amount of capital and interest due.
The amount of the provision is determined after taking into account: - The value of the asset or other collateral securing the debt.
- The value of other assets owned by the debtor after considering secured and unsecured liabilities.
- The value of any sureties or guarantees given for the debt.
- The amount, if any, already raised as a provision for suspended interest.
General provisions augment specific provisions and provide cover for loans which are impaired at the balance sheet date but which will not be identified as such until some time in the future.
- The groups general provision has been determined taking into account the structure and the risk characteristics of the groups loan portfolio.
A number of complex and changing factors are collectively weighed by management in determining the adequacy of provisions.
These factors include managements view of the extent of existing risks in the loan portfolio and prevailing economic conditions.
Quality of the groups loan portfolio and provision levels Some of the more pertinent details on the quality of the groups loan portfolio are shown on subsequent pages.
134 Annual Report 2003 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers by loan type: 31 March 2003 by geography: 31 March 2003 3.8% 3.9% 4.8% 44.8% 10.9% 3.6% 12.4% 54.3% 37.3% 24.2% Corporate and public sector South Africa and Other Commercial property UK and Europe Residential mortgages Australia Other secured private bank lending Israel Lease and instalment debtors Other loans and advances Total provisions by geography: Gross non-performing loans by geography: 31 March 2003 31 March 2003 10.3% 13.5% 3.3% 8.2% 49.9% 26.3% 60.1% 28.4% South Africa and Other South Africa and Other UK and Europe UK and Europe Australia Australia Israel Israel Annual Report 2003 135 Asset quality, specific and general provisions UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Total loans and advances to customers 4 981 210 4 844 707 Less : cash equivalent debtors 975 238 1 530 257 Core loans and advances to customers 4 005 972 3 314 450 Managed book 107 481 73 587 Net loans and advances to customers 3 898 491 3 240 863 Average net loans and advances to customers 3 569 677 3 306 779 Consolidated profit and loss provision charge 18 308 14 668 Specific provisions 30 813 27 252 General provisions 52 171 36 975 Total provisions 82 984 64 227 Gross non-performing loans 60 677 38 124 Security 36 132 11 821 Net non-performing loans 24 545 26 303 Adequacy of provisions Consolidated profit and loss provision charge as a % of average loans and advances to customers 0.50% 0.44% Specific provisions as a % of core loans and advances to customers 0.77% 0.82% General provisions as a % of net loans and advances to customers 1.33% 1.14% Total provisions as a % of core loans and advances to customers 2.07% 1.94% Total provisions as a % of gross non-performing loans 136.76% 168.47% Total provisions as a % of net non-performing loans 338.10% 244.11% Gross non-performing loans as a % of core loans and advances to customers 1.52% 1.15% As defined on page 133.
The table below presents the groups loans and advances to customers by loan type: UK GAAP 000 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Category analysis Corporate and public sector 2 233 061 2 714 679 Commercial property 1 203 448 870 443 Residential mortgages 618 020 447 822 Other secured private bank lending 541 362 425 004 Lease and instalment debtors 194 946 158 619 Other loans and advances 190 373 77 291 Margin lending 150 850 4 981 210 4 844 708 Problem country exposure Total advances to problem countries 42 493 53 516 Problem country risk provisions The advances are secured by 100% pledge over the assets with additional risk cover in the form of Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation CGIC commercial CGIC political cover and cash collateral.
136 Annual Report 2003 The table below sets out certain information on the non-performing loans NPLs by geography as at 31 March 2003.
UK GAAP 000 Gross NPLs Security Net NPLs South Africa and Other 30 266 9 980 20 286 UK and Europe 17 223 13 636 3 587 Australia 4 996 6 208 1 212 Israel 8 192 6 308 1 884 Non-performing loans 60 677 36 132 24 545 Provision charge as a % of average loans and Gross non-performing loans as a % of advances to customers core loans and advances to customers 2.10 0.80 2.1 0.75 0.75 2.0 1.9 0.70 1.8 0.65 1.7 1.65 0.60 1.6 1.52 1.5 0.55 0.54 0.50 1.4 0.50 1.3 0.45 0.44 1.2 1.15 0.40 1.1 2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 Total provisions as a % of core loans and Total provisions as a % of gross advances to customers non-performing loans 2.6 170 168.47 2.54 2.5 160 2.4 150 2.29 2.3 2.2 140 136.76 134.06 2.1 2.07 130 2.0 1.94 120 117.25 1.9 1.8 110 2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 Annual Report 2003 137 Market risk Market risk refers to the potential for change in the market value of a portfolio of financial instruments including derivatives caused by adverse movements in market factors such as interest and foreign exchange rates: equity, bond and commodity prices: and volatility and credit spreads.
Market risk exists where the group has taken on principal trading positions.
These positions result from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
Investec actively trades in the following major markets: South Africa UK USA Israel Domestic money market Money market Domestic capital markets Domestic capital markets Bonds Capital markets Equity and equity indices Equity and equity indices Foreign exchange Foreign exchange Foreign exchange Commodities Commodities Investecs Market Risk team, supervised by the Group Market Risk Forum, manages market risk by identifying and quantifying risks, on the basis of current and future expectations, and ensuring that trading occurs within defined parameters.
Management and monitoring of market risk - role of the Market Risk team The Market Risk teams act independently from those involved in the trading activities of the group.
The team manages and reviews the groups market risk across all geographic locations on a day-to-day basis.
All trading positions are marked-to-market daily.
All appropriate risk measurement indicators, values and metrics are calculated using automated processes.
Risk reports for the group are produced automatically for each desk daily through the overnight batch run of RiskWatch, a sophisticated market risk management software package from Algorithmics.
These reports broadly cover: Open position exposures per product relative to limits approved by the board.
Value at Risk VaR versus limits.
VaR at entity level, at product type level and in aggregate see table on page 140.
Expected Tail Loss see table on page 141.
Profits and losses, which are analysed to determine whether there are any unusually large movements and to ensure that all sources of revenue are understood.
138 Annual Report 2003 Numerous other reports are generated daily for the various portfolios, to facilitate the understanding and management of market risk.
The market risk managers are responsible for the detailed analysis of these reports and the consequent identification of any significant issues or potential problem areas.
Issues are discussed with the trading desks daily.
The risk managers are actively involved in the review and implementation of methodologies to reduce risk exposures.
Management and monitoring of market risk - establishment of appropriate limits The group manages trading risk through the establishment of appropriate limits.
These limits are determined by the groups risk appetite both for the markets and or products traded, the liquidity and maturity of the market and the groups desired risk return profile.
The Group Market Risk Forum and the boards, through the Board Risk Review Committee, approve trading limits.
In addition, trading book policy statements, which have been prepared and approved by the boards for the group entities, also comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
The statements outline the scope of trading activities, the trading limits in place and the procedures for monitoring risk limits.
Salient features for the establishment of limits are as follows: In general, there are two limits that are set, namely, a 95% one-day VaR and a set of stress test limits usually a 95% sensitivity and a 15 Standard Deviation disaster sensitivity.
In determining the magnitude of a limit given to a trader, special consideration is given to the disaster stress.
The limit will be set conservatively so that a disaster will not endanger the financial condition or reputation of the group nor the separately regulated entity.
Limits may also be quoted on a non-statistical basis if this adds value to the process.
These limits include product limits, tenor term limits, notional limits, liquidity limits, buckets and Greeks Delta, Theta, Rho and Vega.
Scenario analysis is also performed to evaluate disaster scenarios.
This is done by applying relevant market crises of the past to current portfolios, for example, the events around 11 September 2001 and the Rand crisis of December 2001.
Limits are reviewed at least annually by the overall Group Market Risk Forum, but may be reviewed at the discretion of this forum following periods of significant market volatility.
Trading limits are set at a global level and then sub-allocated at a desk and product level so that the sum of the sub-allocated limits can never be greater than the global limit.
Thus the global limits reflected for each major type of market risk are the summation of the limits across product groups.
Annual Report 2003 139 Market Risk forums The various Market Risk forums see above are key to the management of market risk, and meet weekly and cover all locations.
The issues primarily dealt with at the forums include: Market risk of new products, including the associated valuation of the products.
New and revised product, dealer and desk limits.
Feedback on various risk issues.
Discussion of key risks and concerns.
Requests for research and analysis of issues affecting product profitability.
Approval of all new products and strategies.
Measurement of market risk Investec measures market risk using a combination of historically simulated VaR and stress testing.
VaR is a summary measure of potential losses, based on experience in the relevant markets over a given time horizon with a specified confidence level.
A series of stress tests are applied to determine the market risk for parallel shifts and twists in the underlying yield curves, for basis risk between yield curves and for extreme market conditions.
Daily reports are produced containing this VaR and stress test information.
Daily profitability is also analysed to ensure that sources of revenue are understood.
The tables below represent the groups VaR for its trading book at the year ended 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002, for a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period, assuming no mitigating action is taken.
This means that there is a one in 20 chance that daily losses will be at least as large as the reported VaR amount.
The consolidated VaR is calculated using exponentially weighted historical simulations.
VaR, however, does not indicate how much the group can expect to lose in these cases.
Expected Tail Loss ETL quantifies the amount the group can expect to lose when the VaR threshold is exceeded.
The table for the year ended 31 March 2003 reflects the groups consolidated VaR and the VaR for the two listed entities emanating out of the implementation of the groups Dual Listed Companies structure.
As it is not possible to present the data for the year ended 31 March 2002 in the same format, the table for the year ended 31 March 2002 presents a consolidated view of the VaR exposures by type of market for the UK and SA operations, while the rest of the groups geographical operations are presented on an aggregated basis.
This is due to offsets which take place as a result of the correlation between the various asset classes.
Annual Report 2003 141 ETL 95% one-day 31 March 2003 000 Investec Limited Investec plc Consolidated Interest rates 221 14 221 Equity 355347433 Foreign exchange 712 41 730 Commodities 6969 Consolidated 856 346 968 The portfolio stress tested under extreme market conditions will result in a maximum loss of 10.3 million based on a one-day holding period.
31 March 2003 000 Investec Limited Investec plc Consolidated Interest rates 1 230.0 67.5 1 297.5 Equity 2 047.5 2 115.0 4 162.5 Foreign exchange 4 140.0 270.0 4 410.0 Commodities 427.5427.5 Consolidated 7 417.5 2 880.0 10 297.5 142 Annual Report 2003 Market risk - derivatives The group enters various contracts for derivatives, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
All interest rate contracts are transacted with other financial institutions.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range in order to take into account possible correlations.
The tables below reflect the groups derivative trading portfolio at the end of the financial year on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives.
The notional principal indicates Investecs activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at the year-end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had the rights and obligations arising from that instrument been closed out by the group in an orderly market transaction at year-end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Notional principal Fair value Positive Negative 31 March 2003 mn 31 March 2003 mn mn Foreign exchange derivatives 7 465 Foreign exchange derivatives 436 378 Interest rate derivatives 162 638 Interest rate derivatives 558 512 Equity and stock index derivatives 1 268 Equity and stock index derivatives 94 111 Commodity derivatives 3 401 Commodity derivatives 85 57 Credit derivatives 125 Credit derivatives Effect of netting 696 696 Net fair values 477 362 Further information in this regard can be found on pages 288 to 291.
Balance sheet risk management The Balance Sheet Risk Management team manages the risk reward relationship that exists between liquidity and interest rate risk.
This relationship arises from the term, structure and concentration of the assets and liabilities on Investecs balance sheet, dynamically adjusting to changing economic conditions.
The techniques employed combine traditional gap analysis and dynamic modelling.
These include quantitative models and stress tests designed to measure the range of possible future liquidity needs and potential distribution of net interest income over a range of scenarios.
The modelling process is supported by ongoing technical and economic analysis.
The objective is to identify and quantify Annual Report 2003 143 undesirable risks, which are mitigated by the implementation of appropriate on and off balance sheet strategies.
Investec maintains, wherever possible, a diversified, high quality surplus liquidity position in the short term, placing liquidity as a priority over short-term profit, and further excludes taking material interest rate and currency mismatches.
This philosophy is required for all relevant subsidiaries of the group.
Role of the Asset Liability Management committee Balance sheet risk management is carried out by the Asset Liability Management committee ALCO, which manages the risks represented by the term and structure of the groups balance sheet.
ALCO performs the following functions: Sets the groups funding and liquidity policy and ensures compliance with it.
The policy covers domestic and foreign currency funds and sets out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure continuation of Investecs operations without undue interruption, in accordance with the regulatory requirements pertaining to the jurisdiction.
Approves limits pertaining to the liquidity gaps and interest rate exposure regarding the structural commercial banking book, given current market conditions.
Implements the methodology, techniques and processes used to measure the liquidity and interest rate exposure.
Directs the development of scenarios covering risk factors and assumptions in view of expected economic conditions and market circumstances.
Independently examines the external economic and interest rate outlook, positioning in an interest rate cycle, term structure of interest rates and other socio-economic factors, together with current asset and liability mix, projected balance sheet growth, future funding requirements and liquidity projections.
Manages the sensitivity of income to risk factors in such a way that the net interest income remains materially neutral to adverse movements in interest rates.
Sets investment, funding and hedging strategies and funding targets to be implemented by Treasury, in line with the cash flow projections, thus managing the risk reward relationship that exists between liquidity and interest rate risk on an ongoing basis.
An ALCO committee is represented in all locations where the group has a banking licence.
The regional ALCOs are mandated by their respective Boards of Directors and Group ALCO to manage the regional liquidity risk on a basis consistent with pre-approved principles and policies, and the regional regulatory requirements.
Detailed policies cover domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of Investecs operations without undue interruption, while complying with the regulatory requirements of the jurisdiction.
Different levels of the balance sheet risk management functions are carried out in the groups different geographies.
The size, materiality, complexity, market maturity, access to stable funds and depth of the markets in the region will determine the level of risk management sophistication required in the location.
In addition, the specific applicable statutory requirements further dictate certain policies for each region.
144 Annual Report 2003 Investecs liquidity position is also reported to the Executive Risk Review Forum, the group executive, the Board Risk Review Committee and the Board of Directors.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the bank does not have sufficient cash to meet its financial obligations, especially in the short-term.
Liquidity risk is defined by the contractual maturity cash flow mismatch between assets and liabilities.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawal of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Investec bases its liquidity management processes on four essential steps: The maintenance of a stock of readily available high quality liquid assets and near cash.
The preparation of cash flow projections assets and liabilities, including strategy and contingency planning.
Measurement and control of Investecs funding requirements corresponding to the forecast cash flow mismatch.
Management of Investecs access to funds in the market at the level of the cash flow estimates.
Group and regional ALCOs manage liquidity risk through monitoring and or implementing the following policies and process: The group closely manages its liquid asset position in line with relevant regulatory guidelines and the relevant legal entitys liquidity policy.
Investec holds surplus prudential liquidity in excess of its statutory requirements.
The Balance Sheet Risk Management team independently models cash flow projections and the resultant liquidity mismatch, on both a static and dynamic basis, under a range of business scenarios.
Each region has further established a business strategy and contingency plans covering the going concern and name crisis scenarios.
ALCO monitors and analyses the trends in customer behaviour of the assets and liabilities contributing to the liquidity mismatch.
In so doing, it independently measures and manages the cash flow forecasts and funding requirement, in relation to the external market within each legal entity and globally.
Investec constantly reviews its capacity to raise funds in the wholesale market, the availability and reliability of standby facilities and its securitisation programme for parts of its loan portfolio.
Investec further limits the value of deposits it will take from an individual client, both on a monthly maturity basis and in aggregate, so as not to become reliant on a single source of funds.
Investec acknowledges the importance of its retail and private client base as the principal source of stable and well-diversified funding for its private banking risk assets.
Annual Report 2003 145 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that interest rates paid to depositors and yields earned from loans change at different times, with varying degrees of certainty.
Interest rate risk is defined as the impact on the net interest earnings, as a result of increases or decreases in the levels of interest rates and or changes in the shape of the term structure of interest rates, when these changes are applied to Investecs balance sheet.
Investec bases its interest rate risk management processes on four fundamental steps: Measurement and analysis of traditional interest rate mismatch gaps detailing the sources of interest rate exposure.
Dynamic Earnings-at-Risk simulation covering a wide range of scenarios within the following categories: -Investecs interest rate forecasts and house view.
-Imposed yield curve stress tests on the observed interest rate profile.
- Stochastic interest rate scenarios giving rise to a distribution of possible earnings.
Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments and trends.
Management of interest rate risk by ALCO, having been alerted to both the structural causes and yield curve scenarios that give rise to undesirable risks.
This is mitigated through the implementation of appropriate on and off balance sheet strategies.
Information on the groups repricing profile, which represents the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to interest rate movements, can be found on page 304 and 305.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems or from external events.
This definition reflects the definition of operational risk as outlined by Basel II and as adopted by the group and is expected to develop and respond to emerging operational risk management practices.
Legal and Documentation Risk is managed as a distinct risk class, as discussed below.
The key benefits of sound operational risk management practices are considered to be: Enhanced risk consciousness through the identification and assessment of operational risks.
Appropriate evaluation of and response to incidents and losses.
Predictive operational risk indicators support management decisions.
Appropriate mitigation actions and tools, including insurance.
Maintenance of stakeholder confidence and group reputation.
Suitable, considered responses to emerging issues.
146 Annual Report 2003 Operational risk is inherent in the activities of a financial institution.
Sound corporate governance practices influence the need to identify, monitor and appropriately mitigate operational risks in order to minimise the incidence and value of unexpected losses, promote risk consciousness and support market confidence.
The recent spate of corporate failures and new regulatory initiatives, such as Basel II, has increased the focus of stakeholders and regulators on operational risk.
Basel II is planned to be effective from January 2007 and will require demonstrable operational risk practices, quantification of operational risk regulatory capital and enhanced disclosures.
Business unit management is primarily responsible for the management of operational risks.
Management of the groups principal businesses are responsible for planning, controlling and reporting to the Board of Directors on key business objectives, significant internal risks, external environmental factors and incidences and events that could affect their respective business performance.
The Group Operational Risk division reports to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
In addition, the division reports emerging risk issues, which in its opinion may escalate into risk issues if not appropriately mitigated by management, to the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum.
This forum was established in the year under review in South Africa, to mirror the UK forum.
The purpose of the forum is to strengthen the control environment and facilitate timely interventions to mitigate emerging risks.
Group Operational Risk Management is responsible for: Promoting and facilitating consistent and systematic operational risk management practices across the group.
Assisting in identifying, assessing, mitigating, measuring, monitoring and reporting operational risks.
Enhancing the management of operational risk in the group.
Demonstrating sound operational risk management practices in terms of supervisory expectations.
Meeting Basel II operational risk practices and qualifying criteria.
A key focus of the division is to perpetuate and enhance the culture of operational risk, control and compliance consciousness throughout the group, in order to ensure that relevant risks are identified and managed.
In this way, the division is able to support senior management and the board in their responsibility to implement sound governance processes, including risk management and internal control monitoring, that are adequate and effective relative to the nature and complexity of the operations of the group.
The primary focus areas for operational risk are: Processes Identifying, assessing, mitigating and documenting significant risks.
Maintaining adequate and effective internal controls.
Ensuring timeous and accurate processing of transactions.
Annual Report 2003 147 Maintaining sound financial disciplines, ensuring accurate and timely reporting.
Assessing and approving new products.
People Maintaining the ability to attract, retain and develop the appropriate skills and talent.
Instilling the group values and culture.
Promoting and sustaining employee equity within the group.
Providing a healthy, safe and secure operating environment.
Implementing suitable sanctions for inappropriate behaviour.
Supporting consistent and fair employee practices.
Systems Ensuring appropriate investment in technology to support the operations of the group.
Ensuring continued availability of technology to ensure ongoing operation in the event of disruption, through an integrated business resumption plan that is regularly tested and monitored.
Maintaining a secure operating environment to protect and ensure integrity of data and information.
Maintaining appropriate processes and controls to manage changes to technology systems.
External events Ongoing monitoring of criminal activity, emerging issues and trends.
Initiating legal proceedings against perpetrators of fraud.
Recovering and protecting assets of the group.
Monitoring outsourced services, which are subject to performance agreements.
Monitoring external macro-environmental events and developments and assessing and responding to potential impacts.
Responding to developing expectations and emerging risks with regard to corporate social responsibility.
Significant loss events or incidences are reported to the board on a regular basis.
Reputational risk Reputational risk is the risk caused by damage to an organisations reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may be a breakdown of trust, confidence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
Various policies and practices are in operation to mitigate reputational risk.
These include a strong group values statement that is regularly and proactively reinforced.
In addition, the group subscribes to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on secure and carefully considered principles.
As an international banking group, leading practices are a desired outcome.
This is particularly relevant in client acceptance rules, anti-money laundering policies and processes, and risk management practices.
148 Annual Report 2003 Investec is acutely aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
The groups policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance reviews, as well as the Group Risk Management processes.
Legal and documentation risk Legal and documentation risk is defined as the risk that contracts the group enters into with its clients will not be enforceable, especially with respect to events of default by a client i. e. that the documentation will not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered into, particularly when security arrangements have been agreed.
Investecs legal teams, supported, where appropriate, by competent external legal advisers, seek to ensure that the documentation Investec enters into provides it with appropriate rights and remedies.
risk management year in review In what remains a difficult operating environment the group risk management policies and procedures kept abreast of market developments.
Key developments over the past year are outlined below.
Market risk As discussed elsewhere in this report, the group streamlined and restructured many of its trading operations during the period of review: o The UK Treasury withdrew from trading in the repo and money markets o Proprietary trading activity in foreign exchange and commodities was curtailed in the UK.
oTrading within the groups US operations was substantially reduced.
Investec started a backtesting programme to establish the accuracy of the divisions VaR model as a reliable predictor of market risk.
Investec aims to seek approval from the South African Reserve Bank during 2003 to use its internal model VaR model to calculate and allocate regulatory capital.
Balance sheet management There was continued standardisation of the balance sheet risk management policy, process and risk measures on a group-wide basis, thus improving the risk control framework and overall cost control.
The group commenced with the implementation of new software, RiskPro, to replace the existing ALMAN system.
The new system is designed to support better risk management of balance sheet risks.
Progress has been made on identifying, analysing and monitoring balance sheet risks on static and dynamic basis.
A Liquidity Management forum subset of ALCO was established, comprising senior executives, to focus on daily reporting of a wide range of balance sheet risk management issues.
Annual Report 2003 149 Investec remains a net provider of funds in the interbank market in South Africa and its percentage of fixed term funding remains substantially higher than the market average.
The group continues to hold prudential liquidity requirements of 20%, well above regulatory requirements of 0% in the UK and 7.5% in South Africa.
Operational risk Group operational risk management continued to develop during the year under review.
International industry and supervisory developments are monitored to enable the group to respond appropriately to emerging leading practices.
Board risk and control assessment process Significant focus was placed on this issue.
The process, which commenced in 2001, matured in 2003.
Significant risks were identified, controls were evaluated and key indicator data is being collated.
Inherent risks were scored in terms of the likelihood of occurrence and its impact.
Controls were assessed in terms of design strength and implementation performance.
The risks and controls were scored and a residual risk profile developed.
Higher residual risks are then subject to an appropriate action plan.
The process was completed during the second half of the year through a facilitated workshop conducted for each significant business unit.
An executive risk assessment process was completed with senior executives, focusing on risks affecting the group, including strategic risks.
These assessments are reviewed by senior management and the board, through the Audit Committee and Board Risk Review Committee, and support the board internal control representations and the board regulatory reporting obligations.
Internal Audit and External Audit reviewed the process and outputs to support the report of the board, as set out in the Corporate Governance section of this report pages 158 to 180.
This process supports the report by the Board of Directors required in terms of regulations 38 and 39 of the South African Banks Act.
Technology risk Technology risk management practices of the group were enhanced during the period under review.
The key information technology IT operations in the group undertook an externally facilitated IT risk assessment and benchmarking programme.
The programme evaluates IT activities against predetermined expectations, identifies the residual risk profile and facilitates the implementation of appropriate mitigation actions.
Business continuity risk This remains a significant focus of operational risk management.
The availability of systems and the ability to successfully restore technology platforms, resume operations and continue operating core business processes are essential for the group in the event of disruption to operations.
The group-wide business continuity programme includes a bi-annual integrated practice and evaluation of technical recovery and business resumption plans against established recovery objectives.
150 Annual Report 2003 Significant systems and operations were assessed as recoverable with ongoing inclusion of other areas.
A Crisis Management committee, with key executives as members, is in place to consider and direct activities in the event of a disruption to normal business activities.
Plans are reviewed regularly for relevance and appropriateness.
Enhancements to the process are regularly considered.
Information security risk This programme, which addresses the risk that data integrity and confidentiality may be compromised, continued to develop.
The group appointed an Information Security Officer ISO responsible for implementation of information security initiatives.
The Group Operational Risk division supports the ISO in identifying and assessing information security risks and promoting sound information security risk management practices.
No significant information security risks materialised during the period.
Risk management practices associated with changes to systems were enhanced and a revised policy and practice was implemented to manage and integrate associated risk considerations, such as business continuity and shared applications, in the change management process.
Documented processes, risks and controls The programme to maintain documented processes, risks and controls at business process level continues to evolve in South Africa, and forms the basis of the ongoing risk and control assessment process, including management self-assessment.
Internal and external audit teams use this documentation to assess and evaluate risk management processes.
Consideration is being given to the group-wide rollout of this initiative.
Incident and loss event tracking This was selectively implemented and will be rolled out across the key business units.
Various pools of data exist detailing events and incidences which form the basis of internal incident and loss event data.
Financial crime and fraud risk This risk is addressed by the Forensic Risk Management team, which is part of the Operational Risk Management division.
The key focus areas are investigating fraud incidences, maintaining a database of events and incidences, evaluating themes and emerging issues, promoting awareness of issues and supporting business units in the recovery of assets.
Incidents increased during the year under review.
Investec could be a target of organised crime syndicates.
Any cases identified are thoroughly investigated and actively pursued through the legal and judicial processes, to obtain convictions.
Terrorist financing activities received focus in the current year and regulatory requests to review terrorist names were attended to.
These reviews did not highlight any matters of concern.
The Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA came into operation during the year under review.
Annual Report 2003 151 Investec has for some time had an anti-money laundering policy in place, based on international leading practices.
Together with Group Compliance, the anti-money laundering policy was reviewed to ensure conformance with FICA, staff received appropriate training, and processes to report suspicious and threshold transactions were implemented.
All matters to be reported to the FIC are investigated by Forensic Risk Management and reviewed by Group Legal before reports are made.
Requests for information from regulatory and investigation agencies as well as requests in terms of the Access to Information Act were centralised in Forensic Risk.
This was done to facilitate consistency, completeness and objective overview in responding to such requests.
Other developments Basel II developments see below, as well as industry related operational risk management initiatives, continue to be monitored in order to assess their impact on operational risk management trends, expectations and the proposed capital adequacy requirements for operational risk.
Internal Audit reports and recommendations are reviewed for indicators of operational risk.
External insurance cover is in place to cover catastrophic and significant material losses.
A key element of sound operational risk management is the adoption and endorsement of governance standards that apply in jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In particular, the risk management principles of the South African King II Code of Corporate Practice and Conduct and the London Combined Code, especially the Turnbull Guidance relating to the accountability and audit principles of the code, form the foundation of risk and control governance practices throughout the group.
Future developments Significant areas of focus in the forthcoming year will be: Further enhancement of the risk identification process.
Development of the indicators of operational risk.
Collection and analysis rollout of incident and loss event data.
Consideration of appropriate technology solutions to facilitate the management of operational risk.
Assessment and implementation of Basel II sound practices and qualifying criteria.
Continued focus on financial crime and fraud mitigation activities.
Enhancement and further embedding of the business continuity programme.
Addressing of the impact of direct and indirect social and environmental risk, as part of the broader corporate social responsibility programme of the group 152 Annual Report 2003 Developing issues - Basel II The proposed Basel Capital Accord Basel II, with a planned implementation date of early 2007, focuses on three pillars: Pillar 1 Capital adequacy - outlines new proposals for risk-based regulatory capital adequacy requirements for credit risk and the introduction of regulatory capital requirements for operational risk.
Pillar 2 Supervisory review - sets out supervisory expectations and qualifying criteria to enable the adoption of advanced risk sensitive approaches to the determination of regulatory capital.
Pillar 3 Market discipline - details the public disclosure and reporting practices, both quantitative and qualitative, that will inform stakeholders and support the approaches adopted.
Basel II is designed to recognise the quality of risk management and internal control practices of the group in adopting more sophisticated approaches to allocating capital, and rewards the quality of practices with a lower regulatory capital requirement.
Internationally active banks are expected to migrate towards the adoption of the advanced approaches.
This adoption is required to be supported by data that has proven rigour and is demonstrable, and evidenced by proven internal processes that are embedded in daily operations.
The group monitored Basel II developments.
A global Basel Implementation Forum was established to monitor, evaluate and facilitate consistent implementation across the group.
Local forums support this process.
In South Africa, the group participated in the SARB Banking Supervision supported Basel II Quantitative Impact Study QIS 3 study.
This process assisted the group in evaluating key implementation issues as part of a supervised exercise and facilitated South African industry input into the international Basel II process.
The group is represented on all the committees of the SARB Accord Implementation Forum AIF.
The AIF will assess, recommend and formulate matters of national discretion in the implementation of Basel II.
The Financial Services Authority FSA conducted an operational risk discovery visit at Investec Bank UK in late 2002, which was designed to assist in formulating the UK supervisory approach to operational risk.
Its findings were favourable and recommendations are being addressed.
Consultative Paper 3, which was issued in April 2003 and is intended to be the final accord, was reviewed and plans are being established.
The group supports the implementation of the accord within the context of international expectations, but having consideration for the specific regulatory imperatives of the developing social and emerging economy in South Africa.
The group anticipates being in a position to adopt an appropriate advanced approach, with emphasis on the enhancements in business operations that can be obtained by adopting leading principles and practices.
Annual Report 2003 153 Additional risk information The implementation of the groups Dual Listed Companies structure did not alter Investecs attitude towards risk management, nor its underlying risk management procedures and philosophies.
As the groups primary reporting currency changed to Pounds Sterling, the salient financial and statistical information included in this section was presented on this basis.
The group, however, is also required to present its financial information in SA GAAP and denominated in Rands.
General risk information, presented in accordance with SA GAAP and denominated in Rands, can be found on pages 381 to 384. internal audit The role and objectives, authority and responsibility of the Internal Audit division is formally defined in a charter, which was approved by the Audit Committee and is reviewed annually.
Investecs Internal Audit division seeks to effectively provide an independent, objective assurance and consulting function, designed to add value and improve the groups operations.
The divisions primary role is to provide independent assurance that business processes are adequate to identify and monitor significant risks, and that the control environment is effective to manage these risks within acceptable limits, given cost-benefit considerations.
By doing so, it will reduce existing levels of risk through enhanced controls and protection of Investecs reputation.
The division also assists the group in accomplishing its objectives by employing a systematic, riskfocused, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness and appropriateness of the risk management, control and governance processes.
As a result of the regulatory reporting responsibilities arising from Investecs Dual Listed Companies structure, there are two group Internal Audit divisions, each reporting to their respective Audit Committees: Brigid Schrieder based in Johannesburg is responsible for Investec Limited.
Mark Thompsett based in London is responsible for Investec plc.
The Heads of Internal Audit operate independently from executive management, report to the Chairmen of the Audit Committees.
They have unrestricted access to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the board.
For administrative and co-ordination purposes, they report to the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Control failures are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the relevant Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum where rectification procedures and progress are monitored, as well as to the appropriate Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit division proactively reviews its scope, focus and resources to meet the increasingly demanding and evolving corporate governance and regulatory expectations facing financial institutions.
To this end, the division aims to align its strategic focus with the business and to understand what activities create the most value for stakeholders.
Together with other assurance providers, it identifies significant operating changes, issues and concerns and takes a partnership approach with business unit management, Compliance and Risk Management.
154 Annual Report 2003 The division operates under an annual audit plan that is based on a formal group-wide risk assessment, as well as issues raised by the respective Audit Committees and management.
The appropriate Audit Committee approves this plan annually.
Given the groups dependence on IT systems, there is an increased focus on auditing technology risks.
The risk-based audit approach adopted by the division will be complemented by the boards risk assessment process, as required by the South African King II Code of Corporate Practice and Conduct and the UK Turnbull Guidance.
corporate governance and compliance Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance Bradley Tapnack compliance Introduction As a result of the regulatory reporting responsibilities arising from the implementation of Investecs Dual Listed Companies structure, there are two independent group Compliance divisions.
Each Compliance division has the responsibility of ensuring that compliance risk is adequately managed within its listed entity.
Compliance risk is defined as the risk of non-compliance with the spirit and the letter of all relevant statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct to which the group is subject.
Both divisions carry out their responsibilities under terms of reference approved at board level.
A Group Compliance Officer, who has a direct reporting line to the relevant Chief Executive Officer and the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance, manages each Compliance division: Geoff Cook based in Johannesburg is responsible for Investec Limited.
Gerard Hague-Holmes based in London is responsible for Investec plc.
The Compliance divisions operate independently from executive management and have unrestricted access to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairmen of the relevant Audit Committees.
The compliance divisions of both Investec Limited and Investec plc are structured on a decentralised operating model that consists of a central Group Compliance division supported by specialist operational compliance functions within the relevant operating entities.
The operational Compliance functions report both to the head of the relevant operating unit and to the relevant Group Compliance Officer, as part of a matrix management reporting structure.
The Compliance divisions of Investec Limited and Investec plc work closely together to ensure that compliance risk is managed consistently throughout the broader group.
Investec follows a policy of constructive engagement with its regulators.
Compliance risk is addressed through the development and implementation of effective compliance processes.
These include providing Annual Report 2003 155 advice and training on regulatory matters, developing policies and procedures affecting regulatory issues, and monitoring adherence to these policies and procedures through the implementation of a risk-based monitoring methodology.
Developments Southern Africa During the past year, the South African regulatory landscape continued to evolve, with the introduction of a significant number of new acts, regulatory requirements and codes of conduct.
The most notable were the introduction of anti-money laundering legislation and regulation, bringing South Africa in line with the Financial Action Task Force requirements, legislation and codes regulating persons providing financial advisory and intermediary services, and material enhancements to existing legislation governing collective investment schemes.
Corporate governance also came under scrutiny.
This resulted in the South African Reserve Bank commissioning a review of corporate governance practices in the five largest South African banks, which included both Investec Bank Limited and Investec Limited.
All the banks were found to have sound corporate governance practices and no serious breaches of governance.
Investec intends to implement all significant recommendations made in the review.
In response to the increased regulatory focus on compliance risk management, the scope of the Compliance division was restructured to include non-financial services matters.
As a result of the increased compliance risk universe, responsibility for ensuring compliance was delegated to the relevant operating personnel who report thereon to the Group Compliance Officer.
The Compliance division also sought to manage compliance risk through obtaining high level representation on relevant industry bodies that were invited to participate in the development of the draft legislation and industry guidelines.
Education forms an important part of the compliance process and employees therefore received antimoney laundering training, to ensure that they are aware of their regulatory obligations.
Regulatory concerns on conflicts of interest were also addressed, with the implementation of a number of policies and guidelines.
Mauritius The Compliance division in Mauritius was formalised as part of the group restructuring exercise and in response to the changing regulatory environment.
Processes to identify and manage compliance risks were developed and implemented, notably anti-money laundering and banking secrecy and confidentiality.
UK Significant developments occurred in the UK regulatory environment, with the FSA issuing more than 50 consultation papers.
A number of these papers particularly those on conflicts of interest, bundling and soft commission will have an impact on the way that Investec develops its Investment Banking and Asset Management business in the UK.
Management is actively considering the proposals in the papers and their impact on the business.
156 Annual Report 2003 While none of the UK regulated entities were adversely affected by the FSAs investigations into endowment policy miss-selling, there was a limited impact from the FSAs investigations into pension miss-selling.
The group did not experience material loss as a result of this investigation.
The FSAs investigations into the industrys sales of split capital funds continue.
Investec entities involved believe that they acted wholly appropriately and it is too early to determine a potential material impact on the group as a result of the industry-wide investigations.
United States In the US, the SEC gave much attention to the conflicts arising between investment banking and research.
While none of the regulatory actions affected the group directly, it responded positively to the changes made to the regulations by reviewing and revising its internal processes.
Australia Last year, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority approved a banking licence for Investec Bank Australia Limited.
While this was a significant step in the development of the business, it also meant an increase in regulatory scope.
This increase was addressed in the annual compliance plan and the revision of a number of internal policies and procedures.
Israel Further to a Bank of Israel directive issued to the banking industry, Investec Bank Israel appointed a Compliance Officer in early 2002.
The Bank of Israel issued further directives requiring compliance officers to conduct a review of internal processes that affect client protection.
The Bank of Israel also requires banks to upgrade their internal procedures on the prevention and detection of money laundering.
The Compliance division of Investec Bank Israel is addressing both these matters, together with local management.
corporate governance For information on Corporate Governance, see pages 158 to 180. additional information Credit ratings In general, Investec was assigned strong ratings for credit quality, capacity for timely repayment and financial strength.
Historically, rating agencies tended to focus on rating the combined Investec group or just the significant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank Limited or Investec Bank UK Limited.
In terms of the implementation of Investecs Dual Listed Companies structure, however, Investec Limited and Investec plc are treated separately from a credit point of view.
Therefore, over time, one will expect to see ratings being accorded to both companies.
The group is currently engaged in discussions with the rating agencies, in this regard.
The ratings as at 31 March 2003 are set out below.
Annual Report 2003 157 Ratings for the former Investec Group Limited now Investec Limited Capital Intelligence Ratings Foreign currency - long-term rating BBBForeign currency - short-term rating A3 CA Ratings Short-term local currency debt rating A-1 Long-term local currency debt rating A Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 International short-term F3 International long-term BBB Ratings for Investec Bank Limited Capital Intelligence Ratings Foreign currency - long-term rating BBBForeign currency - short-term rating A3 Domestic strength rating AFitch Individual rating B C Support rating 4 Domestic short-term F3 Domestic long-term BBB Global Credit Ratings Short-term rating A-1 Long-term rating A Moodys Bank financial strength CLong-term bank deposit Baa2 Short-term bank deposit Prime 2 Ratings for Investec Bank UK Limited Fitch Individual rating C Support rating 5 Short-term rating F2 Long-term rating BBB Global Credit Ratings Short-term rating A2 Long-term rating Aconstrained by the sovereign rating for South Africa
