RISK FACTORS The International Organisation of Securities Commissions In all markets in which Prudential operates, its businesses IOSCO has recommended that annual reports of publicly are susceptible to general economic conditions, which can held companies include a section on risk factors which change the level of demand for Prudentials products.
Past discuss inherent risks in the business and trading uncertain trends in international economic and investment environment.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission climates which have adversely affected Prudentials business SEC has implemented this recommendation with respect and profitability could be repeated.
This adverse effect to annual statements filed with it by listed companies such would be felt principally through reduced investment as Prudential and the concept of risk factors is also reflected returns and credit defaults in fixed interest corporate bonds, in the EU Prospectus Directive due to be implemented by and may continue to affect the business unless conditions mid-2005.
Prudential has therefore decided voluntarily to improve.
In addition, falling investment returns could impair follow this recommendation and to include in the Annual Prudentials operational capability, including its ability to Report a description of risk factors: a similar description write significant volumes of new business.
will be included in Prudentials US filing.
Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity operating results, financial condition and trading price.
These factors include economic and market conditions, Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, regulation, businesses, it is subject to the risk of exchange rate government policy and legislation, competition, credit fluctuations.
Prudentials international operations in ratings, and operational systems and processes.
the US, Asia and Europe, which represent a significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, The risk factors mentioned below should not be regarded generally write policies and invest in assets denominated as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential in local currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as at exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, it can 19 March 2004, is not updated, and any forward-looking lead to significant fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated statements are made subject to the reservations specified financial statements upon translation of results into pounds on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
The currency exposure relating to the translation of Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to reported earnings is not separately managed.
Consequently, market fluctuations and general economic conditions.
this could impact on the Groups gearing ratios.
The impact In the UK, this is largely because Prudentials shareholders of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as a profit is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on its component of shareholders funds within the consolidated with-profits products, which are broadly based on historic statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The impact and current rates of return on equity, real estate and fixed of exchange rate fluctuations in 2003 is discussed in the income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of Financial Review.
Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect and associated regulatory risks, including the effects results from Jackson National Life which is predominantly of changes in the laws, regulations, policies and a spread-based business with the majority of its assets interpretations in the markets in which it operates.
invested in fixed income securities.
In particular, fixed Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory annuities and stable value products in Jackson National Life interpretation applying to companies in the financial expose the Group to the risk that changes in interest rates services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which are not fully reflected in the interest rates credited to which Prudential operates may adversely affect Prudentials customers will reduce spread.
The spread is the difference product range, distribution channels, capital requirements between the amounts that Jackson National Life is required and, consequently, reported results and financing to pay under the contracts, and the rate of return it is able requirements.
These changes include possible changes to earn on its general account investments to support the in government pension arrangements and policies, the obligations under the contract.
Declines in spread from regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements.
these products or other spread businesses that Jackson For instance, in the UK the Financial Services Authoritys National Life conducts could have a material impact on its FSA proposals on reforming the UK polarisation regime businesses or results of operations.
and consultation paper on treating with-profits policyholders fairly and the HM Treasury report on medium and long-term Similar factors can also impact on Prudentials operations retail savings could have a significant effect on types of in Asia.
products sold by Prudential, how its products are priced, distributed and sold and on shareholders return on withprofits business.
100 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Similar changes in regulation in other jurisdictions could Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly also have an impact elsewhere in the Group.
competitive environments and Prudentials continued profitability depends on its managements ability to The EU Insurance Groups Directive, which was respond to these pressures.
implemented in the UK in 2001, together with the Financial The markets for UK, US and Asian financial services are Conglomerates Directive, which will be implemented by highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials 2005, will require European financial services groups to ability to sell its products, including price and yields offered, demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and solvency requirements at the Group level in respect of product quality, brand strength and name recognition, shareholder-owned entities.
The EU is also currently investment management performance and historical bonus reviewing future solvency requirements the Solvency II levels.
In some of its markets Prudential faces competitors review.
The manner of the implementation of these who are larger, have greater financial resources or a greater directives is likely to lead to Prudential being required to market share, offer a broader range of products or have maintain a somewhat higher level of capital at the Group higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
level than currently necessary in respect of its businesses, or alternatively, to constrain the growth of those businesses, or Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life to take other appropriate action.
In addition, an inconsistent market include many of the major stock and mutual retail application of these directives by regulators in different financial services companies including, in particular, Aviva, EU member states may place Prudential at a competitive Legal & General, Scottish Widows and Standard Life.
disadvantage to other European financial services groups.
Jackson National Lifes competitors in the US include Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have major stock and mutual insurance companies, mutual fund created investor compensation schemes that require organisations, banks and other financial services companies.
mandatory contributions from market participants in some Jackson National Lifes principal life insurance company instances in the event of a failure of a market participant.
competitors in the US include AXA, Lincoln National As a major participant in the majority of its chosen markets, Corporation, Transamerica Corporation, Nationwide Financial circumstances could arise where Prudential, along with Services, Inc. SunAmerica, Inc. and Hartford Life, Inc. other companies, may be required to make such contributions.
Within Asia, Prudentials main regional competitors are The resolution of several issues affecting the UK international financial companies, including AIG, Allianz, financial services industry, could have a negative ING and Manulife.
impact on Prudentials reported results or on its Prudential believes competition will intensify across all relations with current and potential customers.
regions in response to consumer demand, technological Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, other factors.
Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate both in the UK and internationally.
This could be a review of return depends significantly upon its capacity to anticipate business sold in the past under previous acceptable market and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures.
Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings relating to aspects of Prudentials business and operations and which are typical of the business it operates, including in the latter case businesses it has closed.
Although Prudential believes it has adequately reserved in all material aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, no assurance can be provided that such reserves are sufficient.
It is possible that Prudentials future performance could be affected by an unfavourable outcome in these matters.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 101 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength Changes in mortality experienced by Prudentials and credit ratings could significantly impact its UK pension annuity policyholders could significantly competitive position and hurt its relationships affect Prudentials results of operations.
with creditors or trading counterparties.
Prudential is a major participant in the UK pensions annuity Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are market.
In exchange for a premium equal to the capital intended to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, value of their accumulated pension fund, each pension are an important factor affecting public confidence in most annuity policyholder receives a guaranteed payment, of Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
usually monthly, for as long as they are alive.
For a smaller Downgrades in Prudentials ratings could have an adverse monthly payment, certain annuity contracts extend the right effect on its ability to market products and retain current to the payment to surviving spouses.
As part of its pension policyholders.
In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays annuity pricing and reserving policy Prudential assumes on its borrowings are affected by its debt credit ratings, that current rates of mortality continuously improve over which are in place to measure Prudentials ability to pay time.
Annuity mortality assumptions have been revised in its contractual obligations.
On 20 December 2002, Moodys 2003 to assume future improvements in mortality for males downgraded the financial strength rating of Prudential and females at levels projected on the Continuous Mortality Assurances long-term fund from Aaa on review for Investigations CMI medium cohort table as published by possible downgrade to Aa1 stable outlook.
On 29 January the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
2003, Standard & Poors downgraded the financial strength As a holding company, Prudential is dependent rating of Prudential Assurances long-term fund from AAA upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses negative outlook to AA stable outlook.
believes the downgrades that it, and the rest of the UK Prudentials insurance and investment management insurance industry, experienced have not to date had a operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect discernible impact on its performance.
As a holding company, Prudentials principal Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder outlook by Moodys, AA negative outlook by Standard backed funds, the shareholder transfer from Prudentials & Poors and aa by AM Best.
Prudentials short-term debt long-term funds and any amounts that may be raised is rated as P-1 by Moodys and A1 by Standard & Poors.
through the issuance of debt and commercial paper.
Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent Certain of the subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions in Prudentials business could have a negative impact that can limit the payment of dividends.
on its results of operations.
Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential manages several outsourced operations which include certain UK processing and IT functions.
In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
Further, because of the long-term nature of much of Prudentials business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant periods.
Prudentials systems and processes are designed to ensure that the operational risks associated with its activities are appropriately controlled, but any weakness in the systems could have a negative impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational risks in its systems or processes during 2003, or subsequently which have caused, or are expected to cause, a significant negative impact on its results of operations.
