AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors Form 20-F Information 2003 135 Risk Factors Risk of loss or expiration of patents, significantly higher revenues than those not weakening of the US dollar is generally marketing exclusivity or trade marks protected by a trade mark.
We cannot ensure that exchange Scientific development and technological we have trade mark protection for many of rate fluctuations will not have a material innovation is crucial if AstraZeneca is to our most important products.
However, adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial deliver long term market success.
In the trade mark protection may expire or be condition and results of operations in the pharmaceutical market, a drug, diagnostic or challenged by third parties.
medical device is normally only subject to competition from alternative products, in the Limitations on the availability of patent Risk that R&D will not yield new products that same therapy area, during the period of protection in developing countries or the achieve commercial success patent protection or other types of marketing expiration or loss of certain patents, As a result of the complexities and exclusivity, but once patent protection or marketing exclusivity or trade marks would uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical other types of marketing exclusivity has have an adverse effect on pricing and sales research, it cannot be ensured that expired the product is generally open to with respect to these products and, compounds currently under development will competition from generic copy products.
consequently, could result in a material achieve success in laboratory, animal or Products under patent protection or other adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial clinical trials and ultimately be granted the types of marketing exclusivity usually condition and results of operations.
regulatory approvals needed to market such generate significantly higher revenues than products successfully.
For example, in 2003, those not protected by patents or other Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates development of a number of our products types of marketing exclusivity.
We believe The results of AstraZenecas operations are was discontinued due to failure to meet our that we have patent protection for many of accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately target profile: these included AZD1134, a our most important products.
52% of our 2003 sales were in the Americas serotonin antagonist for treating comprised of the US, Canada and Latin anxiety depression: AZD3582 and AZD4717, For example, during 2003, sales in the US of America with a significant proportion of that both COX inhibiting nitric oxide donators for Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex fell by figure being in respect of US sales.
The US is, the treatment of acute chronic nociceptive $2.6bn following anticipated patent expiries and is expected to remain, our largest and pain: AZD5106 for the treatment of overactive or the end of marketing exclusivity.
potentially fastest growing major market.
bladder: and AZD0275 and AZD7140 both Sales in certain other countries are also in US for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and Increasingly, manufacturers of generic dollars, or in currencies whose exchange chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
There pharmaceutical products whether based in rates are linked to the US dollar.
Major can be no absolute assurances regarding the developing countries, such as those in Asia, components of our cost base are, however, development and commercial success of any or elsewhere in the world seek to challenge located in Europe, where an aggregate of of the products in our current pipeline.
The our patents or other types of marketing approximately 60% of our employees are commercial success of pipeline products is of exclusivity in order to allow access to the based.
Movements in the exchange rates particular importance to us in view of the market for their own generic products.
used to translate foreign currencies into US recent expiry of patent protection in major dollars may therefore have a material adverse markets for a number of our key current For example, AstraZeneca was involved in effect on AstraZenecas financial condition products.
litigation in the US and elsewhere during and results of operations.
2003 relating to omeprazole, the active Competition, price controls and price ingredient in Losec Prilosec, concerning the Certain subsidiaries of AstraZeneca import reductions infringement of certain patents, including and export goods and services in currencies The principal markets for our pharmaceutical formulation patents, by generic other than their own functional currency, products are the Americas, the countries of manufacturers.
Patent litigation relating to although we minimise this practice.
The the European Union and Japan.
These other of our products is described in Note 31 results of such subsidiaries could, therefore, markets are highly competitive.
We compete to the Financial Statements.
be affected by currency fluctuations arising in all of them, and elsewhere in the world, between the transaction dates and the against major prescription pharmaceutical In addition to challenges to our patented settlement dates for those transactions.
We companies which, in many cases, are able to products from manufacturers of generic hedge these exposures through financial match or exceed the resources which we pharmaceutical products, there is a risk that instruments in the form of forward contracts have available to us, particularly in the areas some countries, particularly those in the and currency swaps.
The notional principal of R&D and marketing investment.
Recent developing world, may seek to impose amount of financial instruments used to industry consolidation has resulted in the limitations on the availability of patent hedge these exposures, principally forward formation of a small number of very large protection for pharmaceutical products, or foreign exchange contracts and purchased companies with which we compete as well.
the extent to which such protection may be currency options, at 31 December 2003 was Some of our most important products for obtained, within their jurisdictions.
We have policies that seek to mitigate future growth, such as Crestor, will compete the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on directly with similar products marketed by Trade mark protection for our products is the value of foreign currency cash flows and some of these companies.
Increasingly, we also an important element of our overall in turn their effects on the results of the also compete directly with biotechnology product marketing programmes.
Combined various subsidiaries, but do not seek to companies and companies which with patent protection or other types of remove all such risks.
In general, a unilateral manufacture generic versions of our marketing exclusivity, products protected by strengthening of the US dollar adversely products following the expiry or loss of patent a valid trade mark usually generate affects our reported results whereas a or other marketing exclusivity.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors 136 Form 20-F Information 2003 Risk Factors continued In most of the principal markets in which we the product.
In other European countries, Risk of substantial product liability claims sell our products, there is continued primarily Germany, the UK, the Netherlands Given the widespread impact ethical economic, regulatory and political pressure and, more recently, France, governments are prescription drugs may have on the health of to limit the cost of pharmaceutical products.
exerting a strong downward pressure on large patient populations, pharmaceutical Certain groups have been involved in prices by incentives and sanctions to and medical device companies have, exerting price pressure on pharmaceutical encourage doctors to prescribe costhistorically, been subject to large product companies to ensure medicines are effectively.
Efforts by the European liability damages claims, settlements and affordable to those who need them.
Commission to harmonise the disparate awards for injuries allegedly caused by the national systems have met with little use of their products.
Substantial product Currently there is no direct government immediate success, leaving the industry liability claims that are not covered by control of prices for non-government sales in exposed to ad hoc national cost-containment insurance could have a material adverse the US.
In 1990, however, federal legislation measures on prices and the consequent effect on AstraZenecas financial condition was enacted which required drug parallel trading of products from markets with and results of operations.
manufacturers to agree to substantial prices depressed by governments into those rebates in order for the manufacturers drugs where higher prices prevail.
Risk of reliance on third parties for supplies to be reimbursed by state Medicaid of materials and services programmes, and an additional rebate if The importation of pharmaceutical products Like most, if not all, major prescription manufacturer price increases after 1990 from European countries where prices are pharmaceutical companies, in some of its exceed the increase in inflation.
In addition, low to those where prices for those products key business operations, such as the certain states have taken action to require are higher may increase.
The accession of manufacture, formulation and packaging of further manufacturer rebates on Medicaid additional countries from central and eastern products, AstraZeneca relies on third parties drug utilisation and for other state Europe to the European Union could result in for the timely supply of specified raw pharmaceutical assistance programmes.
significant increases in the parallel trading of materials, equipment, contract Congress also has enacted statutes that pharmaceutical products.
Cross border manufacturing, formulation or packaging place a ceiling on the price manufacturers movements of pharmaceutical products into services and maintenance services.
may charge US government agencies, North America, in particular the movement of Although we actively manage these third thereby causing a substantial discount, as products from Canada into the US, may party relationships to ensure continuity of well as establishing a minimum discount increase despite the need to meet current or supplies on time and to our required comparable to the Medicaid rebate on future safety requirements imposed by specifications, some events beyond our manufacturers sales to certain clinics and regulatory authorities.
The effects of any control could result in the complete or partial hospitals that serve the poor and other increase in the volume of this parallel trade or failure of supplies or in supplies not being populations with special needs.
These these cross border movements could result delivered on time.
Any such failure could government initiatives together with in a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas have a material adverse effect on competitive market pressures have financial condition and results of operations.
AstraZenecas financial condition and contributed to restraints on realised prices.
There is formal central government control of Recently introduced and future US legislation prices in Japan.
New product prices are Risk of delay to new product launches concerning the Medicaid and Medicare determined primarily by comparison with AstraZenecas continued success depends programmes are likely to significantly affect existing products for the same medical on the development and successful launch our US business.
It is difficult to predict with condition.
All existing products are subject to of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated certainty the actual effect on our business of a price review at least every two years.
launch dates of major new products have a such changes to the legislation.
Regulations introduced in 2000 included significant impact on a number of areas of provisions allowing a drugs price to be set our business including investment in large In addition, realised prices are being according to the average price of the product clinical trials, the manufacture of pre-launch depressed by pressure from managed care in four major countries the US, the UK, stocks of the products and the timing of and institutional purchasers who use cost Germany and France.
anticipated future revenue streams from considerations to restrict the sale of preferred commercial sales of the products.
Any delay drugs that their physicians may prescribe as Taxation to the anticipated launch dates may therefore well as other competitive activity.
Such limited The UK is party to various double tax treaties impact AstraZenecas business and lists or formularies may force manufacturers with foreign jurisdictions which enable operations in a number of ways.
For either to reduce prices or be excluded from AstraZenecas revenues and capital gains to example, we had expected our new statin for the list, thereby losing all the sales revenue escape a double tax charge to both UK and the treatment of lipid disorders, Crestor, to from patients covered by that formulary.
If any of these double be launched in the US in the second half of use of strict formularies by institutional tax treaties should be withdrawn or 2002.
However, the approval of products in customers is increasing rapidly in response to amended, or should any member of the this class has been subject to additional the current cost-containment environment, AstraZeneca Group become involved in regulatory scrutiny partly as a result of the resulting in lower margins on such sales.
taxation disputes with any tax authority, such previous withdrawal from the market of withdrawal, amendment or a negative cerivastatin.
Crestor was launched in the US Some governments in Europe, notably Italy outcome of such disputes could have a in September 2003.
Significant delay to the and Spain, set price controls having regard to material adverse effect on AstraZenecas anticipated launch dates of new products the medical, economic and social impact of financial condition and results of operations.
could have a material adverse effect on AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors Form 20-F Information 2003 137 AstraZenecas financial condition and results launched product, it can be difficult, for a looking statements may be influenced by of operations.
period following its launch, to establish from factors that could cause actual outcomes available data a meaningful and reliable and results to be materially different from Difficulties of obtaining government assessment of its eventual efficacy and or those predicted.
Forward-looking regulatory approvals for new products safety in clinical use on the market.
Due to statements are identified in this report, by AstraZeneca is subject to strict controls on the relatively short time that a product has using the words anticipates, believes, the manufacture, labelling, distribution and been marketed and the relatively small expects, intends and similar expressions marketing of pharmaceutical products.
The number of patients who have taken the in such statements.
These forward-looking requirement to obtain regulatory approval product, the available data may be immature.
statements are subject to numerous risks based on safety, efficacy and quality before Simple extrapolation of the data may not be and uncertainties.
Important factors that such products may be marketed in a accurate and could lead to a misleading could cause actual results to differ materially particular country and to maintain and to interpretation of a new products likely future from those in forward-looking statements, comply with licences and other regulations commercial performance.
certain of which are beyond our control, relating to their manufacture are particularly include, among other things: the loss or important.
The submission of an application The successful launch of a new expiration of patents, marketing exclusivity or to a regulatory authority does not guarantee pharmaceutical product involves a trade marks: exchange rate fluctuations: the that approval to market the products will be substantial investment in sales and risk that R&D will not yield new products that granted.
The countries that constitute marketing costs, launch stocks and other achieve commercial success: the impact of material markets for our pharmaceutical items.
If a new product does not succeed as competition, price controls and price products include the US, the countries of the anticipated or its rate of sales growth is reductions: taxation risks: the risk of European Union and Japan.
Approval of slower than anticipated, there is a risk that substantial product liability claims: the impact such products is required by the relevant the costs incurred in launching it could have a of any failure by third parties to supply regulatory authority in each country, although material adverse effect on AstraZenecas materials or services: the risk of delay to new in Europe, single marketing authorisation can financial condition and results of operations.
product launches, the difficulties of obtaining govern the approval of products throughout and maintaining governmental approvals for the European Union through a centralised Environmental liabilities products: and the risk of environmental procedure.
In addition, each jurisdiction has AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at liabilities.
very high standards of regulatory approval some currently or formerly owned, leased and, consequently, in most cases, a lengthy and third party sites in the US as described in approval process.
Furthermore, each more detail on pages 101 to 102.
There is no regulatory authority may impose its own reason for us to believe that current and requirements and may refuse to grant, or expected expenditure and risks occasioned may require additional data before granting, by these circumstances are likely to have a an approval even though the relevant material adverse effect on AstraZenecas product has been approved in another financial position and results of operations country.
although they could, to the extent that they exceed applicable provisions, have a material Risk of failure to observe ongoing adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial regulatory oversight position and results of operations for the AstraZenecas products are only licenced relevant period.
In addition, a change in following exhaustive regulatory approval circumstances including a change in processes.
Once a product is licenced it is applicable laws or regulations may result in subject to ongoing control and regulation such a material adverse effect.
Although we such as the manner of its manufacture, take great care to ensure that we operate our distribution and marketing.
Regulatory business at all of our sites within all applicable authorities have wide-ranging administrative environmental laws, regulations, licences and powers to deal with any failure to comply with permits, a significant environmental incident their ongoing regulatory oversight.
These for which we were responsible could result in powers include withdrawal of a licence AstraZeneca being liable to pay approval previously granted, product recalls, compensation, fines or remediation costs.
seizure of products and other sanctions for In some circumstances, such liability non-compliance.
Regulatory sanction could have a material adverse effect on following a failure to comply with such AstraZenecas financial position and results ongoing regulatory oversight could have a of operations.
material adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial condition and results of operations.
Risks associated with forward-looking statements Performance of new products This report contains certain forward-looking Although we carry out numerous and statements about AstraZeneca.
Although we extensive clinical trials on all our products believe our expectations are based on before they are launched, for a new, recently reasonable assumptions, any forward-
