Risk factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations, and Hanson is subject to potential liabilities arising out of former consequently the price of the ordinary shares and the amount of timing of businesses and activities.
any dividends that we pay, will be inuenced by a range of factors, many Former and existing subsidiaries have engaged in businesses and of which are beyond the control of Hanson and its Board.
The risk factors activities, unrelated to the business and activities presently being carried set out below and the other information in the Annual Report and Form on by us, which give rise to bodily injury and property damage claims 20-F should be considered carefully.
There may be other risks which are concerning environmental and health issues.
Claims and lawsuits have not known to the Company or which may not be material now but could been led against these subsidiaries, either directly or as a result of turn out to be material.
indemnity obligations, relating to products incorporating asbestos, coal by-products and chemicals, in particular for the wood treating industry.
Changes in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the level of demand for Hansons products.
With respect to asbestos related claims, the Companys approach to Our performance is affected signicantly by changes in economic accounting for the asbestos claims against its US subsidiaries is to provide conditions, both globally and in the particular countries in which we for those costs of resolution which are both probable and estimable.
conduct our operations, especially in the USA and the UK where we The costs of resolving possible claims are accounted for as contingent have our most significant operations.
The demand for our products, liabilities.
At present, based on detailed analysis and the assumptions which are mainly aggregates, concrete products, asphalt, clay bricks and in the contingency note 27, the provision for those costs which are both ready-mixed concrete, is closely linked to general economic conditions probable and estimable equates to approximately eight years of gross in each of the territories in which we operate.
As a result, depressed cost at current levels.
Whilst further claims are likely to be resolved beyond economic conditions could have an adverse effect on demand for, and this eight year period, the associated costs of resolution are not able to pricing of, our products, which could result in reduced sales and be estimated and hence no provision has been made to cover these reduced profits.
Changes in Government policy or legislation could signicantly Factors which could cause actual results to differ from these estimates affect Hansons regulatory compliance and other operating costs and expectations include: i adverse trends in the ultimate number of and Hansons ability to establish additional aggregates reserves.
asbestos claims led against the Companys US subsidiaries: ii Our performance is affected signicantly by national and or local increases in the cost of resolving current and future asbestos claims as a Government policy and legislation in the regions and territories in result of adverse trends relating to settlement costs, dismissal rates, legal which we operate.
fees and or judgment sizes: iii decreases in the amount of insurance available to cover asbestos claims as a result of adverse changes in the Many of our products are subject to Government regulation in various interpretation of insurance policies or the insolvency of insurers: iv the jurisdictions regarding their production and sale, and our operating units emergence of new trends or legal theories that enlarge the scope of are subject to extensive regulation by national and local agencies potential claimants: v the impact of bankruptcies of other companies concerning such matters as zoning and environmental and health and whose share of liability may be imposed on the Companys US safety compliance.
Numerous governmental permits and approvals are subsidiaries under certain state liability laws: vi the unpredictable required for our operations.
We believe that our operating units are aspects of the US litigation process: vii adverse changes in the mix of currently operating in substantial compliance with, or under approved asbestos-related diseases with respect to which asbestos claims are variances from, various national and local regulations in all applicable made against the Companys US subsidiaries, and viii potential jurisdictions.
In the past, our subsidiaries have made significant capital legislative changes.
and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning, water, air and solid and hazardous waste regulations, and these subsidiaries may In light of such factors, the liability of the Companys US subsidiaries for be required to do so in the future.
resolving asbestos claims may be materially different from current estimates and the impact of such claims might have a material adverse The existence of these national and local regulations in many jurisdictions effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, results of in which we operate also means that it is often difficult to establish new operations and cash ow.
However, assuming that current trends greeneld aggregates reserves in areas where demand would justify continue, the Company does not expect that the liability and costs the capital expenditure required.
associated with its asbestos claims will have such a material adverse effect and, even assuming a material deterioration in current trends, on Changes in governmental regulations and the imposition of industry the evidence available to it the Company does not expect that such claims related taxes such as the Aggregates Levy in the UK could increase would impact the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern.
With respect to claims involving coal by-products and chemicals, we have Changes in governmental policy or legislation relating to public works not entered into a material settlement or been subject to a material adverse expenditure and housing could have a material adverse effect on the judgment since the Demergers as described below.
Nevertheless, in light levels of demand for Hansons products.
of the uncertainties involved in litigation and in particular in the USA, where National governments policies with regard to the development of there is the added potential for punitive damages, one or more of our US transport infrastructure and housing have a significant effect on demand subsidiaries may be required to participate in settlements or be subject to for our products and, as a result, our profitability.
For instance, the US judgments in future, the impact of which may be material on our financial Federal Government has yet to approve SAFETEA, the successor to condition, results of operations and cash ow.
TEA-21, which earmarks federal funds to be supplemented by state funds in the USA to improve the highway network.
We expect these Four companies into which former Hanson businesses were demerged funds to contribute to demand for our products in the USA, but we agreed in connection with their respective Demergers to indemnify us cannot be certain as to how much, if any, of these funds will be deployed against liabilities of the businesses transferred to these companies.
for improvements to the highway network.
Decreases in governmental We have not incurred any liability in respect of any claim that related to funding or in the allocation of those funds for transport infrastructure the above-mentioned businesses demerged by it, any such liability being and housing projects could reduce the amount of money available for borne by the relevant demerged company without liability to us.
spending on our products, potentially thereby reducing sales and profits.
The Energy Group plc, one of the demerged companies, was acquired by TXU Corp. in 1998.
In November 2002, TXU Corp. announced that several of TXU Corp. s UK subsidiaries had been placed under the administrative process in the UK similar to bankruptcy proceedings in the USA, including The Energy Group plc.
The Energy Group plc is therefore unlikely to be able to full its indemnification obligations to Hanson if it were required to do so.
We are, however, not aware of any claim against us or our subsidiaries that would give rise to an indemnity obligation on the part of The Energy Group plc.
Risk factors 45 Risk factors continued Hansons acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful due to an inability Ineffective implementation of computer software systems could to identify suitable acquisition targets and to integrate acquired signicantly reduce Hansons profitability.
The implementation of software to improve efficiency and effectiveness We plan to continue making selective acquisitions to strengthen, develop of various business processes is an important contributor to our ongoing and expand our existing aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, concrete operations and growth strategy.
Failure to design, select appropriate products, asphalt and clay brick activities.
suppliers or implement such systems effectively could result in unplanned costs or reduced levels of customer satisfaction which could adversely The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy depends affect the results of our operations and profitability.
on a range of factors, including our ability to identify appropriate opportunities, complete acquisitions and achieve an acceptable rate If Hanson is characterised as a passive foreign investment of return from those acquisitions, including past acquisitions.
company, US persons who hold Hansons ordinary shares or ADSs US shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences.
There may also be substantial challenges or delays in integrating and If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or assets which produce adding value to the businesses we acquire.
In addition, the costs of passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterised as integration, which are not presently capable of being estimated, could be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income material and the projected synergies resulting from such acquisitions may tax purposes.
This characterisation could result in adverse US tax not be realised.
Material costs or delays in connection with the integration consequences for our US shareholders, which may include having gains of the operations that we acquire or the inability to realise synergies from realised on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary those acquisitions could result in increased expenditure and, consequently, income, rather than as capital gains income and having potentially reduced profitability and rates of return for us from such acquisitions.
punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the year ended Hanson operates in an extremely competitive market.
However, the tests for determining PFIC status are Most, if not all, of the markets in which we operate are extremely applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future competitive.
The competitive environment in which we operate can be income and assets, which are relevant to this determination.
Accordingly, signicantly affected by local factors, such as the number of competitors we cannot assure US shareholders that we will not become a PFIC.
and production capacity in the local market, the proximity of natural In particular, depending on the composition of our assets and other resources to the local market and economic conditions and product factors, including our market capitalisation, there is a possibility that we demand in the local market.
The pricing policies of competitors and the may become a PFIC for the year which commenced in January 1, 2004. entry of new competitors in the local markets in which we operate can A more detailed discussion of the consequences of Hanson being have an adverse effect on demand for our products and on the results classied as a PFIC, is set out under the heading Taxation information of our operations and profitability.
for US shareholders referred to in ancillary information.
US shareholders are urged to consult with their own US tax advisors with respect to the Disruption to or increased costs of the supply of materials, energy US tax consequences of investing in Hansons ordinary shares or ADSs.
and fuel to Hanson could signicantly reduce Hansons profitability.
We are a significant purchaser of materials, including cement for use in our ready-mixed concrete and concrete products operations, bitumen for use in our asphalt activities, gas and other energy supplies for use in our cement and brick manufacturing operations and fuel for the processing and transport of our products.
The non-availability of power, as has existed in certain parts of the USA, can materially disrupt our operations in those regions.
The cost of such materials, energy and fuel uctuates, sometimes by material amounts, and increases in the costs of such materials, energy and fuel or their non-availability, could signicantly impact our operating costs and consequently reduce profitability.
Inclement weather conditions could signicantly impact levels of construction activity and hence demand for Hansons products.
Extended periods of inclement weather, especially periods of heavy or sustained rainfall during peak construction periods during the year, can result in a material reduction in demand for our products at important times, as well as impact our ability to produce our products, and consequently result in reduced revenues and profits.
Hanson is subject to risks relating to changes in exchange rates.
In the year ended December 31, 2003, approximately 68% of our pre-exceptional operating profit including joint-ventures and associates was earned in currencies other than pounds sterling and a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in US dollars.
At December 31, 2003, approximately 72% of our operating capital was located outside the UK and approximately 150% of our net debt and foreign exchange contracts was denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
Since our results are reported in pounds sterling, exchange rate movements affect our reported profits, assets, cash and debt balances.
This effect may be positive or negative depending on the nature of the actual exchange rate movement and the nature of any currency hedging instruments that we have put in place.
Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations to the extent that we have not effectively hedged against those exchange rate movements.
