Financing Policy and Risk Management Objectives Interest rate management The aim of British Lands financing policy is to fund the Group to The Group borrows principally in Sterling at both fixed and floating service its evolving corporate strategy and needs, and provide the rates of interest, then uses derivatives to generate the desired interflexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
est rate profile and to control the Groups exposure to interest rate 58 The principal objectives are to ensure that: fluctuations.
The proportion of debt held at variable interest rates is varied as significant committed undrawn facilities are available to support new transactions whether corporate, direct property or financing current and future business requirements: emerge, to rebalance the overall mix.
Normally, the Group maintains the Group is financed over the long term with debt levels supportaround 85% of debt subject to a 5% tolerance either side at fixed or ed by recurring, committed income: capped rates to provide long-term protection.
The time horizon for the Groups cost of capital is minimised: and this policy is a rolling 3-5 years.
the Group maintains a prudent financial position by active manThe use of derivatives is managed and monitored by the Board of agement of financial risks, including interest rate, liquidity and British Land Financing Limited and its Derivative Sub-Committee, counter party risks.
which includes four executive directors, and also retains a specialist external firm of consultants.
Financing policy The Groups credit exposure to each derivative counterparty is Through a mix of debt and equity finance, together with a wide varimonitored on a regular basis, as are external credit ratings.
ety of debt sources, the Group aims to minimise its cost of capital, consistent with its other strategy aims as outlined above.
Most joint Foreign currency management ventures have their own financing see pages 74 to 77, which is To manage the impact of foreign exchange movements, the Group entirely independent of the Groups financing, except for a total of borrows in currencies other than Sterling, principally Euros, and uses 12.0 million of guarantees.
cross-currency swaps to match foreign currency assets with foreign The Groups financing policy is to leverage equity returns through currency liabilities.
strategic gearing, and at the same time maintain a defensive debt When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group borrows in structure.
The mortgage ratio is maintained at or around 50% subject freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The Group fully hedges to the Boards view of the property market, the future growth prospects its foreign currency risk on such borrowings through derivatives.
of British Lands portfolio and recurring cash flows.
The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Liability management Liability management is not a profit centre and no speculative transLiquidity and cash management actions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative positions The Group maintains a high level of undrawn revolving bank facilities are continuously reviewed to meet current and expected debt to provide financial liquidity.
The property portfolio is stringently requirements.
reviewed to identify appropriate properties for sale, with a view to The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and shorterconverting non-cash assets into cash if required.
The latter provide flexibility of repayment at no Deposits are placed to optimise the rate of return, subject to the penalty.
Acquisitions are often funded initially by shorter-term creditworthiness of the counterparty.
credit facilities and then refinanced with longer-term funding when market conditions are favourable.
Profit and loss account and balance sheet management Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral and The Group monitors the current and projected financial position syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will using several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank debt maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes facilities are unsecured and on standard terms to maintain opersensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions ational flexibility.
and movement in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity Medium to longer-term financing comprises public and private and profitability ratios.
bond issues, including convertibles and securitisations.
British Lands At the Groups option, the 150 million 6% Irredeemable Conproperty portfolio is well placed to take advantage of new assetvertible Bond can be converted into preference shares, augmenting specific and cash-flow financing structures.
These preference shares can subsequently be switched back Financing risk is spread by using a range of banks and a variety of to Bonds see page 82. types of finance.
The maturity profile of debt is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending and expanding bank facilities.
The British Land Company PLC Financing Policy and Risk Management
