qxd 5 3 03 3:51 pm Page 87 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 87 proposals will be issued for public comment in the second quarter European Union directives of 2003.
The Committee intends to nalise the New Basel Capital General Accord in the fourth quarter of 2003, allowing for implementation The framework for supervision of banking and financial services at year end 2006.
The New Basel Capital Accord will need to be in the UK is largely formed by EU Directives which are required implemented into EU law through amendments to existing EC to be implemented in member states through national legislation.
A working document on capital requirements for banks Directives aim to harmonise banking and financial services and investment rms was published in November 2002.
It is regulation and supervision throughout the EU by laying down anticipated that following nalisation of the New Basel Capital minimum standards in key areas, and requiring member states to Accord the Commission will adopt a formal proposal for a give mutual recognition to each others standards of prudential directive, which will then need approval by the Council of supervision.
This has led to the passport concept enshrined Ministers and the European Parliament.
It is the intention that in the Banking codification Directive BCD and the Investment the new directive will enter into force at year end 2006.
Services Directive ISD : that is, freedom to establish branches in, and freedom to provide cross-border services into, other EU The New Basel Capital Accord will introduce a more risk sensitive member states once a bank or investment rm is authorised framework for the calculation of credit risk which will be based either on external credit ratings or banks internal models.
a result, the regulatory capital treatment of transactions will no Prudential supervision and capital adequacy longer be xed at the inception of the transaction, but may vary The BCD sets out minimum conditions for authorisation and with the changes in the credit quality of the obligor or collateral.
the ongoing prudential supervision of banks.
Minimum conditions for the authorisation and prudential supervision of investment UK regulations rms are set out in the ISD.
The overall responsibility for prudential General supervision falls on the home state regulator of a bank or The Financial Services Authority FSA is the single statutory investment rm.
Supervision of capital adequacy for both banks regulator responsible for regulating deposit taking, insurance, and investment rms is governed by the Capital Adequacy investment and most other financial services business pursuant Directive CAD.
The CAD contains detailed rules for the regulatory to the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 FSMA.
It is a capital treatment of risks arising in the trading book, that is broadly criminal offence for any person to carry on a regulated activity positions and securities that a UK bank or investment rm holds in the UK unless that person is authorised by the FSA or falls for proprietary trading purposes.
For other non-trading risks, under an exemption.
the CAD refers to the BCD, which regulates the quality and The FSA has authorised members of the Group to engage in proportions of different types of capital to be held by an certain regulated activities.
The regulated activities they are institution, the amount of capital to be held for counterparty authorised to engage in depend upon permissions granted by the exposures arising outside the trading book and restrictions on FSA.
The main permitted activities of the Group are listed below.
exposures to an individual counterparty or group of connected counterparties.
In addition, the CAD and the BCD require Banking consolidated supervision of financial groups.
Deposit taking is a regulated activity that requires a rm to be authorised and supervised by the FSA.
The Group includes a number The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has issued proposals of FSA authorised companies with deposit taking permission.
for reform of the 1988 Capital Accord and has proposed a Insurance framework to replace the existing framework for the allocation UK banking groups may provide insurance services through other of regulatory capital for credit risk.
This will also have some group companies.
Insurance business is authorised and supervised consequential changes in respect of market risk.
The consultation by the FSA.
Insurance business in the UK is divided between period on the initial proposals ended in March 2000 and the two main categories: long term assurance which is primarily Committee published its second consultation document, the investment-related and general insurance e. g. building and New Basel Capital Accord, on 16 January, 2001.
The consultation contents cover and automobile insurance.
Under the FSMA, period on the further proposals contained in the New Basel Capital effecting or carrying out any contract of insurance, whether Accord ended on 31 May, 2001.
Although the Basel Committee general or long term, is a regulated activity requiring authorisation.
had announced previously that it would release a revised proposal Dealing in, arranging deals in, managing or advising on a contract in early 2002, this has now been delayed pending the completion of insurance is only regulated where the contract of insurance is of a review assessing the overall impact of the proposals on long term assurance see Investment business below.
banks and the banking system.
Meanwhile, the Basel Committee published a revised version of the proposed New Basel Capital The Group includes a number of FSA authorised companies with Accord in October 2002 as part of a Quantitative Impact a permission to effect contracts of insurance.
Abbey National also Assessment of the New Accord.
It is anticipated that the revised acts as a broker, receiving commissions for the policies arranged.
qxd 5 3 03 3:51 pm Page 88 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 88 SUPERVISION AND REGULATION continued Investment business concerning the processing of personal data and obtain a registration Investment business such as dealing in, arranging deals in, managing prior to commencing those activities.
In addition, companies and giving investment advice in respect of, most types of securities regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998 must comply with and other investments, including options, futures and contracts for a code of good conduct called the data protection principles differences which would include interest rate and currency swaps and submit to requests from the individual who is the subject of and long term assurance contracts are all regulated activities under the data concerning matters such as access to the data and rights the FSMA and also require authorisation by the FSA.
to object to incorrect data being held or to direct marketing.
The Group includes a number of companies with permissions Other main relevant legislation to engage in a wide range of wholesale and retail investment The Consumer Credit Act 1974 regulates certain brokerage and businesses including selling certain life assurance and pension lending activities in the provision of personal secured and unsecured products, unit trust products and individual savings accounts loans.
The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, tax exempt saving products and providing certain retail equity together with the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977, apply to certain products and services.
contracts for goods and services entered into with consumers.
The main effect of the Regulations is that a contractual term covered by FSA conduct of business rules the Regulations which is unfair will not be enforceable against a The FSA conduct of business rules apply to every authorised consumer.
These Regulations apply, inter alia, to mortgages and person carrying on regulated activities and regulate the day-to-day related products and services.
The FSA has gained new powers under conduct of business standards to be observed by authorised the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and is due persons in carrying on regulated activities.
to publish guidance on unfair terms in relation to interest rates.
The conduct of business rules prescribe stringent rules relating to the circumstances and manner in which authorised persons Current and future developments may communicate and approve financial promotions, being Banking services review communications in the course of business of invitations or In November 1998, Her Majestys Treasury appointed Don inducements to engage in investment activity.
Cruickshank to chair a review of banking services in the UK, with a particular focus on competition.
The report resulting from this The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS review was published in March 2000.
The FSCS covers claims against authorised rms or any participating European Economic Area EEA rms where they As a result of the Cruickshank report, the Competition Commission are unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against them.
launched an enquiry into the provision of banking services to small FSCS covers insurance companies, deposit takers and investment and medium sized enterprises SMEs.
The report was published on rms and is funded by imposing levies on authorised persons to 15 March 2002.
It reported that a complex monopoly exists, meet its expenses.
The enquiry also commented on restrictive practices and transparency issues in the provision of Deposit taking: FSCS provides protection for customers of banking services to SMEs.
The Competition Commission has deposit taking companies when such companies default.
The imposed a pricing remedy on the UKs largest four clearing banks maximum level of compensation for a deposit claim is 31,700. which obliges them to either pay interest on in-credit SME current Investments: FSCS provides cover when an authorised accounts at 2.5% below base rate or to withdraw money investment rm defaults and cannot return customers money transmission charges.
Other behavioural remedies include measures or investment assets: or meet claims for losses arising from to increase the speed of switching, limit the bundling of services poor advice or investment management.
The maximum level and to improve information and transparency.
of compensation claim related to the above is 48,000.
As a response to the Cruickshank report the Government set Insurance: Policy holders are protected if they are insured by up a Banking Services Consumer Codes Review Group headed by authorised insurance companies under contracts of insurance Dr DeAnne Julius the Julius Group.
The Julius Group aimed at issued in the UK, or in some cases in the EEA.
The FSCS covers improving services to banking customers by reviewing the self compulsory, general and life insurance when an insurance regulatory codes banks adhere to.
The main recommendations company defaults.
The level of compensation depends on of the report published by the Julius Group on July 2001 the the type of insurance.
Julius Report were: customers should be able to switch accounts between banks more easily: and more and better routine Data protection information should be given to customers.
The Julius Report also The UK Data Protection Act 1998 limits the ability of a United recommended measures to improve the updating of, and Kingdom company to hold and use personal information relating compliance with, voluntary banking codes.
The British Bankers to its customers.
The law requires that United Kingdom companies Association appointed Elaine Kempson, a leading academic on notify the Data Protection Commissioner of their activities 3d-Sup and regulation AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:51 pm Page 89 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SUPERVISION AND REGULATION continued 89 financial services, to review the Julius Report and, as a result, some Polarisation of the recommendations have been incorporated into the new The polarisation rules control the way certain savings and Banking Code which comes into effect on 1 March 2003. investment products can be sold.
Advisers on life assurance, personal pension policies, collective investment schemes unit The OFT is currently undertaking a study of the payments system trusts and OEICS and investment trust savings schemes have to which underpins the banking industry and it is possible that the be either: independent an IFA and advise across all products and Government may use this study to introduce regulation of the companies in the market: or tied and represent just one company payments system.
or group and sell only its products.
The FSA has confirmed that it Future regulation of mortgage lending and mortgage plans to end the polarisation regime, subject to certain consumer and general insurance intermediaries protection safeguards.
It is proposed that residential mortgage lending will be brought EU developments within the scope of FSA regulation and it is currently expected There are a number of proposals emanating from the European that this will occur in October 2004.
The new rules for mortgage Union, which will affect the UK financial services industry in due lenders will cover such matters as: the tness, propriety and course.
Work continues on the Financial Services Action Plan.
The solvency of lenders: the suitability of their controllers and intention is to create a single market for financial services by 2005. managers: the advertising and other promotion of mortgages: the disclosure of the essential features of a mortgage loan: and There is also a proposal to create a single European Payments the ongoing relationship between lender and borrower.
In addition, there are proposals for a new Consumer Credit Directive and a new Consumer Policy Strategy introducing a duty In the meantime, until FSA regulation of mortgages is introduced, to trade fairly.
There have also been a number of measures which the Government has encouraged voluntary benchmark standards are aimed at facilitating the provision of financial services across for certain types of mortgages.
borders by use of e-commerce.
The Julius Group see above called for the FSA to regulate mortgage advice.
On 12 December 2001 the Government announced its Non-statutory practice recommendation decision, partly on the basis of this recommendation, to extend the Codes of practice FSAs powers to enable it to regulate mortgage intermediaries.
The UK Council of Mortgage Lenders introduced a voluntary Code of Mortgage Lending Practice in 1997 updated 1998, which is The Government also announced that general insurance designed to be followed by lenders in their relations with personal intermediaries would be regulated by the FSA following the adoption customers in the UK, and to which Abbey National subscribes.
of the EU Insurance Mediation Directive in August 2002.
The Treasury Abbey National also subscribes to the Banking Code, sponsored by have consulted on draft legislation and the FSA have consulted on the the British Bankers Association, which sets minimum standards for rules which they propose to introduce.
It is currently expected that the provision of banking services to personal customers.
this new regulation will come into effect in January 2005.
Future governance of insurance companies The FSA published its report on future regulation of insurance in November 2001.
Proposals for changes to the regulation of insurance companies cover: disclosure of information to consumers at point of sale and during the life of the product: solvency requirements: and responsibilities of senior managers.
In particular the FSA wants to improve transparency in the use of discretion in with profits funds, to make directors and senior management of life insurance companies more accountable and to make them answerable for their decisions, including those taken on actuarial advice.
Savings review The Sandler Report into long term savings was published in July 2002.
It hopes to encourage the take up of long term savings and proposes a suite of simple, low cost products, with xed charges for with profits, pensions and unit trust and proposals to establish a lower tier of authorisation for advisers selling only stakeholder products.
The Report also contemplated simplication of the Individual Savings Account ISA regime.
4a-Fin stmts contents AW2 5 3 03 3:57 pm Page 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 90 CONTENTS TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Abbey National plc 91 Consolidated profit and loss account for the years ended 31 December 2002, 2001 and 2000 92 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2002 and 2001 93 Company balance sheet at 31 December 2002 and 2001 94 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses for the years ended 31 December 2002, 2001 and 2000 95 Consolidated cash ow statement for the years ended 31 December 2002, 2001 and 2000 95 Accounting policies 96 Notes to the financial statements 101 Five year record 161
