qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 61 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT 61 Abbey Nationals risk management focuses on the major areas of Credit risk credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, insurance risk, residual value Credit risk is the risk that counterparties will not meet their risk and operational risk.
financial obligations, which may result in Abbey National losing the principal amount lent, the interest accrued and any unrealised Abbey National has a well developed structure for managing risk, gains less any security held.
Credit risk occurs mainly in the which consists of a comprehensive set of committees.
The principal Groups loan and investment assets, and in derivative contracts.
committee is the Group Risk Committee GRC, which is responsible for monitoring and controlling the level of Group balance sheet risk.
Managing credit risk in Retail Banking Below this lies the Group Credit Committee GCC, Group Market Secured lending: Abbey National lends on many types of Risk Committee GMRC and Group Operational Risk Committee property but only after a credit risk assessment of the borrower GORC which monitor relevant exposure, approve policies and and an assessment of the property is undertaken.
The systems standards for business areas and recommend Group policies to the used to manage and monitor the quality of the mortgage asset GRC for approval.
are under continual review within the Group.
Each major business area has further risk committees which report The majority of residential lending is subject to national lending into the Group committees.
Specialist risk managers within each policy and national lending authority levels which are used to business area are responsible for the management and control of structure lending decisions to the same high standard across the the risks generated within that business.
Risk control responsibilities retail network, a process further improved by the addition of are undertaken independently of the business, with the business mortgage credit scoring and underwriter accreditation and regular area risk managers reporting to the Group Risk Director.
Details concerning the prospective borrower and the mortgage are subject to a criteria-based decision making A Group Risk function ensures that policies and mandates are process.
Criteria for assessment include credit references, loan-toestablished for the Group as a whole, monitors and reports value LTV ratio, borrower status and loan size information and exposures to the Board of Directors of Abbey National the Board, the mortgage credit score.
and sets standards for risk management.
The majority of loans provided by Abbey National are secured on Management Structure UK properties.
All properties must be permanent in construction: The following chart shows the interrelationship of those of the mobile homes and riverboats are not generally acceptable.
Groups boards and committees that deal with risk management.
Abbey National can provide a mortgage for the purchase of properties outside the UK, where the property is a second home Abbey National and the loan is secured on the main property located in the UK, Board 1 or where Abbey National operates a European branch or subsidiary.
Abbey National introduced a euro mortgage in 1999 where the Group Risk loan and repayments are denominated in euros, although the Committee 2 property used as security may be in the UK.
Prior to granting any first mortgage loan on a property, Abbey Group Credit Group Market Risk Group Operational National has the property valued by an approved and qualified Committee 3 Committee 3 Risk Committee 3 surveyor who is often an Abbey National employee.
The valuation is based on set Abbey National guidelines.
In the case of a further advance when the total loan remains below 75% loan-to-value LTV Business area credit Other business area Business area market the original property value is subject to indexation and no further risk committees 4 risk committees 5 risk committees 6 survey is carried out.
For further advances between 75% 90% LTV a desk top survey may be carried out by a qualified surveyor.
1 Approves and authorises overall Group risk policies.
The basic advance value is 75% of the lower of the valuation or 2 Monitors and controls the level of risk of the Group.
the purchase price of the property.
The maximum LTV ratio is 3 Monitor and review exposure, approve policies and standards for business areas usually no more than 95% where the maximum loan is 250,000. and recommend relevant Group policies to the GRC for approval.
Abbey National typically charges a fee to customers where the 4 Approve credit transactions within mandates authorised by GCC, the divisional LTV ratio is 90% or higher.
executive committees or the GRC.
5 Divisional risk committees together with the divisional executive committees also monitor exposures, and approve transactions associated with other risks such as liquidity risk.
6 Authorise dealer mandates and monitors market risk exposures against limits agreed by GMRC and divisional executive committees.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 62 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 62 RISK MANAGEMENT continued Abbey National CML Mortgage indemnity guarantee MIG insurance and high percentage of total LTV fee.
MIG insurance is an agreement between a lender and an mortgage loans by number insurance company to underwrite the amount of every mortgage 6 months to 12 months in arrears advance that exceeds the lenders basic advance LTV ratio.
31 December 2000 0.51 0.43 31 December 2001 0.44 0.38 The MIG insurance arrangements, up to 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 0.27 0.33 for Abbey National are as follows: 12 months or more in arrears For loans originated prior to 1993, the credit risk on the amount 31 December 2000 0.17 0.19 31 December 2001 0.13 0.17 of every mortgage advance over 75% of the valuation at origination 31 December 2002 0.07 0.15 is fully insured with third party insurance companies.
The expected Properties in possession insurance recovery is factored into the provision for lending losses.
31 December 2000 0.10 0.07 For loans originated between 1993 and 2001, Abbey National 31 December 2001 0.06 0.05 has obtained almost all of its MIG insurance from its insurance 31 December 2002 0.03 0.03 subsidiary Carfax Insurance Limited Carfax.
Carfax in turn reinsures Abbey National figures shown above exclude the activities of First a portion of the credit risk where commercially appropriate.
Such National Group part of the Wealth Management & Long Term reinsurance covers a layer of risk above a level of losses that Carfax Savings segment.
The activities of First National Group account believes it can prudently bear.
At Group level Carfaxs reinsurance for 4% of the Groups total UK residential mortgage assets.
is the only insurance purchased: accordingly the Group provision for lending losses includes a provision for losses insured by Carfax.
Bank account and unsecured personal lending.
In the Group accounts fees charged to the customer to compensate Abbey National uses many systems and processes to manage the for the additional risk of mortgage advances are deferred and taken risks involved in providing unsecured personal loans and overdraft to Other operating income in the profit and loss account over lending or in granting bank accounts facilities.
These include the average anticipated life of the loan.
regular monitoring of the quality of the unsecured lending portfolio and associated scorecards as well as the use of credit As from 1 January 2002, Abbey National ceased purchasing MIG and behavioural scoring systems to assist in the granting of credit insurance from Carfax for the Retail bank mortgage book.
Existing facilities on these products.
The Retail bank continues to charge to customers high loan to value fees which are credited to the profit Behavioural scoring examines the lending and scoring relationships and loss account over the anticipated life of the loans.
MIG insurance that a customer has with Abbey National and how the customer contracts between Carfax and the rest of the Group are accounted uses their bank account.
This information generates a score which for as intra-Group transactions and are eliminated on consolidation.
is used to assist in deciding the level of risk in terms of overdraft Mortgage arrears and repossessions.
Group Debt Management facility amount, card facilities granted and preferred unsecured Operations is responsible for all debt management initiatives on the personal loan value, that the Group wishes to be exposed to for secured portfolio for the retail bank.
Debt management strategies each customer.
Individual customer scores are normally updated that include powerdialling, negotiating repayment arrangements and on a monthly basis.
concessions and debt counselling, can start as early as the day after a Abbey National has successfully extended the use of behavioural repayment falls due and will continue until legal action.
Different scoring into other areas of the business, including the refinement collection strategies are applied to different segments of the portfolio of debt management strategies, bank account transaction subject to the perceived levels of risk e. g. Loan to Value, Collections processing and the upgrade strategy for Instant Plus customers score and Account Characteristics.
If the agreed repayment arrangement is not maintained, legal proceedings may be taken which may result in the property being Abbey National business provides a varied range of products to taken into possession.
Abbey National sells the repossessed property assist with the finance requirements of businesses.
These products at market price and uses the sale proceeds net of costs to pay off include overdrafts, leasing, lease purchase, invoice discounting the outstanding value of the mortgage.
The stock of repossessed and factoring, property finance, secured and unsecured loans.
Risk properties held by Abbey National varies according to the number management policies are aligned to the business of the division of new possessions and the buoyancy of the housing market.
and the inherent risks of the specific product set.
The following table sets forth information on UK residential Managing credit risk in the Wealth Management & mortgage arrears and properties in possession as at 31 December Long Term Savings segment 2002, 2001 and 2000 for Abbey National compared to the industry First National Group activities are generally more risky than those of average as provided by the Council of Mortgage lenders CML.
This, together with the relative diversity 2h-Risk management AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 63 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT continued 63 of a finance houses business, requires a system of risk control which In addition, there is a policy framework to enable the is sensitive and close to the business generation, in particular, to collateralisation of certain derivative instruments in particular monitor intermediaries credit quality.
If collateral is deemed necessary to reduce credit risk, then the amount and nature of the collateral to be obtained is based The risk management framework reflects the diversity of products upon managements credit evaluation of the customer.
and the nature of the advances provided, which are predominantly introduced to the Group by third parties.
Market risk The business provides products to three broad sections: Market risk is the risk of a reduction in the value or income linked to a portfolio following a change in financial market conditions.
The most Motor Finance: provides funds via motor dealers acting as significant sources of market risk arise in three areas: in Wholesale introducers to individuals and businesses.
A large majority of such Banking as a result of investment, funding, trading and derivatives arrangements are secured on the vehicle involved.
In the course activities: in Retail Banking primarily from the provision of fixed rate of these operations, advances are also provided to participating and structured mortgage and savings products: and from the dealers.
Credit risk management policies and techniques mirror the management of long term structural positions in the Group balance varying forms of financial products provided by the business, and sheet.
The Group hedges substantially all of its foreign exchange risk.
include the use of credit scoring.
Within the life assurance businesses, market risk arises on funds Unsecured Lending: provides unsecured point of sale finance managed for the benefit of the customer as well as on specific facilities to customers of participating high street retailers, shareholder funds, with all exposures borne by the shareholder home improvement businesses, timeshare businesses and claims consolidated with other Group market risk exposures: such market management companies.
Various processes are utilised to assess risk arises within Retail Banking and the Wealth Management & the credit risk associated with such transactions, including credit Long Term Savings segments.
In addition, contingent exposure to the intermediary is managed via an assortment of methods appropriate to the quality Abbey National recognises that market risk is an inevitable result of of the intermediary and the nature of the exposure.
being an active participant in financial markets.
The Group manages its market risk exposure by limiting the adverse impact of market Secured Lending: provides first and second charge mortgage movements on profitability while seeking to enhance earnings within finance to personal customers via intermediaries.
Credit policies clearly defined parameters.
Abbey National ensures that business pertinent to the product and delivery channel are in place, and areas have sufficient expertise to manage the risks associated with again includes the use of credit scoring.
their operations, and to devolve the responsibility for risk taking and First National Group has a mandate set by GRC to operate within risk control within the framework prescribed by the Abbey National agreed policies and limits.
These are subject to monitoring by GCC.
GMRC ensures that the Group has an appropriate framework in place to manage market risks.
It reviews cahoot: The processes used to manage credit risks are similar to those in Retail.
and approves high level policies and related controls, and encourages a best practice approach.
Business area policies, limits and mandates Managing credit risk in Wholesale Banking are established within the context of the Group policy and monitored GRC has established a set of credit mandates and policies to by business area market risk committees with Group Risk monitoring cover asset quality in Wholesale Banking.
These are designed to the consolidated short term market risks daily and GMRC, GRC and ensure that credit exposures fall within the risk appetite of the the Board reviewing the consolidated position at least monthly.
All transactions falling within these mandates and policies are scrutinised by the appropriate credit approval authority.
Senior management recognise that different risk measures are Specific approval by GRC is required for all transactions that fall required to best reflect the risks faced in different types of business outside these mandates.
Analyses of credit exposures and credit activities.
In measuring exposure to market risk, the Group uses risk trends are provided in summary for the ANTS Risk Overview a range of complementary measures, covering both value and Committee each month, and more detailed reports are provided income as appropriate.
The market risk disclosures shown below to GCC on a regular basis.
Large exposures as defined by the FSA for trading instruments are calculated using Value at Risk VaR are reported quarterly to GRC and the FSA.
using a historical simulation approach whilst disclosures for nontrading instruments are based upon sensitivity analysis.
At both Credit risk on derivative instruments is assessed using scenario Group and business area levels such analysis is complemented by analysis to determine the potential future mark-to-market exposure stress testing.
of the instruments at a 95% statistical confidence level and adding this value to the current mark-to-market value.
The resulting loan In order to achieve consistency in measurement across business areas, equivalent credit risk is then included against credit limits along GMRC has approved a series of market risk measurement standards with other non-derivative exposures.
to which business areas are required to adhere.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 64 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 64 RISK MANAGEMENT continued Senior management receive regular consolidated market risk bases and movements in implied volatility on interest rate options.
reports covering the range of risks generated by the Group, The range of possible statistical modelling techniques and and are considered to fall into two broad categories: assumptions mean these measures are not precise indicators of expected future losses, but are estimates of the potential change in Short term market risk covers activities where exposures the value of the portfolio over a specified time horizon and within are subject to frequent change and could be closed out over a a given confidence interval.
Much of the exposure is generated by the Wholesale Banking activities, and includes both trading and From time to time, losses may exceed the amounts stated non-trading portfolios.
where the movements in market rates fall outside the statistical confidence interval used in the calculation of the sensitivity Structural market risk includes exposures arising as a result analysis.
The 95% confidence interval, used as a standard across of the structure of portfolios of assets and liabilities, or where the the Group, means that the theoretical loss at a risk factor level liquidity of the market is such that the exposure could not be closed is likely to be exceeded by one period in twenty.
The Group out over a short time horizon.
The risk exposure is generated by addresses this risk by monitoring stress testing measures across features inherent in either a product or portfolio and normally present the different business areas.
over the life of the portfolio or product.
Such exposures are a result of the decision to undertake specific business activities, can take a For Group trading instruments the actual, average, highest and number of different forms, and are generally managed over a longer lowest value at risk exposures shown below are all calculated to time horizon.
Examples of structural market risk include the exposures a 95% level of confidence using a simulation of actual one-day arising out of the uncertainty of business volumes from the launch market movements over a one-year period.
The effect of historic of fixed rate and structured retail products, or from the provision of correlations between risk factors is additionally shown below.
Although most long term balance sheet The methodology has been improved from the sensitivity analysis positions are hedged, the Group remains exposed to variances in used in prior years to take into account the significant effects customer behaviour often caused by market rate movements of correlation between risk factors, and the disclosures restated impacting new business take-up and early redemption and causing appropriately.
The use of a one-day time horizon for all risks unfavourable mismatches to arise.
associated with trading instruments reflects the horizon over which market movements will affect the measured profit and The following table shows the sensitivity based consolidated loss of these activities.
exposures for the major risk classes run by all Group companies as at 31 December 2002, together with the highest, lowest and These numbers represent the potential change in market average exposures for the year.
Exposures within each risk class values of such instruments.
Since trading instruments are reflect a range of exposures associated with movements in that recorded at market value, these numbers also represent the financial market.
For example, interest rate risks include the impact potential effect on income.
Trading instruments are held of absolute rate movements, movements between interest rate only in Wholesale Banking.
Exposure as at 31 December Exposure for the year ended 31 December Actual Average Highest Lowest exposure exposure exposure exposure 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m m m m m Group trading instruments Interest rate risks 4.0 6.7 5.2 5.4 7.9 7.6 3.7 3.0 Equity risks 2.9 1.2 2.0 1.3 4.9 2.3 0.8 0.6 Spread risk 2.6 2.4 2.3 3.3 3.0 4.4 1.6 1.9 1 Other risks 0.1 0.1 0.3 Correlation offsets 2.5 0.3 2.2 0.8 5.2 2.5 0.3 0.3 Total correlated one-day VaR 7.0 10.0 7.4 9.2 10.7 12.1 5.8 5.2 1 Other risks include foreign exchange risk and inflation risk.
These risks are not significant, and are therefore not separately disclosed.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 65 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT continued 65 In addition, a sensitivity analysis of exposures on non-trading instruments wherever appropriate, and are therefore based financial instruments is shown below.
These numbers represent the on valuation measures, using estimated discounted cash flow potential change in theoretical market values of such instruments, measures where reliable market values are not available.
and do not represent the potential effects on income for a given For Group non-trading instruments the actual, average, highest time period.
Separate income at risk measures are used to and lowest exposures shown below are all calculated to a 95% supplement these analyses for appropriate portfolios.
Non-trading level of confidence and are based upon one-day market instruments are held for collection in the form of cash over time, movements for short term market risks, and market movements and are accounted for at amortised cost, with earnings accrued of between one day and three months as appropriate to the over the relevant life of the instruments.
The Groups risk measures, however, focus on potential risks over the life of the non-trading management of each portfolio for structural market risk positions.
Exposure for the year ended 31 December Exposure as at Average Highest Lowest 31 December exposure exposure exposure 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m m m m m Group non-trading instruments Short term market risk Interest rate risks 2.4 2.0 2.2 1.9 3.5 3.2 1.0 1.1 Equity risks 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.3 Structural market risk Interest rate risks 90.0 76.9 84.4 73.9 94.2 84.2 73.1 62.6 Equity risks 5.3 5.3 9.3 9.0 12.9 20.2 5.3 2.5 Foreign exchange risks 1.8 1.7 3.5 2.8 6.1 4.2 1.8 1.7 The above sensitivity exposures should not be aggregated, as no account has been taken of the correlation between risk classes.
Managing market risk in Retail Banking independent of the risk-taking businesses, provides the risk Abbey National is able to mitigate the consequences of interest management infrastructure and framework required to ensure that these businesses have the capability to manage risk in a wellrate movements on net interest income in Retail Banking by controlled manner.
A comprehensive set of policies, procedures re-pricing separately the administered variable rate mortgages and processes have been developed and implemented to identify, and variable rate retail deposits, subject to competitive pressures.
measure, report and monitor risk across Wholesale Banking.
On a However, to the extent that variable rate assets and liabilities daily basis, market risk factor sensitivities, Value at Risk measures are not precisely matched, the Retail Banking balance sheet is and stress tests are produced, reported and monitored against exposed to changes in the relationship between administered limits for each business and at the aggregate Wholesale Banking rates and market rates.
These limits are used to align risk appetite with the In addition to administered variable rate products, Abbey National business risk-taking activities and are reviewed on a regular basis.
also has a significant volume of fixed rate and structured Early identification and measurement of risks are important mortgage and savings products.
Abbey National has a policy of elements of the risk management processes.
Measurement of hedging its fixed rate and structured product exposures.
Hedging risks can involve the use of complex quantitative methods and activity is carried out using derivative financial instruments, mathematical principles to model and predict the changes in transacted with ANFP, and the related market risks of such instruments and portfolio valuation.
These methods are essential contracts are managed within the Wholesale Banking Market Risk tools to understand the risk exposures.
However, during the period of Managing the market risk in Life Companies product launches hedging actual volume exactly is not possible, Within the Life Insurance companies market risks arise primarily so limits on the maximum exposure are maintained during that from two sources.
The business also remains exposed to variances from the expected redemption level of fixed rate and structured products Firstly there are market risk exposures on funds held for the by customers in advance of the contractual maturity, with account of the shareholder, and these risks are borne directly by the shareholder.
measures and limits in place to control the exposure.
Secondly, the shareholder is potentially exposed to market risk Managing market risk in Wholesale Banking on funds held for the account of policyholders.
Such exposures The Wholesale Banking market risk function, which is 2h-Risk management AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 66 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 66 RISK MANAGEMENT continued are indirect in that any market risk costs are initially absorbed Residual value risk by any surplus in the funds.
Residual value risk occurs when the value of a physical asset at the end of certain contracts e. g. operating leases potentially may be Risks within the policyholder fund are of two types.
Firstly the worth less than that required to achieve the anticipated return funds are exposed to both equity, property, fixed income and from the transaction.
Residual value risk arises primarily within currency mismatch to the degree that the assets invested do not Wholesale Banking and First National Group.
return the actuarially smoothed rates of return over a long term time horizon.
Secondly the funds are exposed to guarantees given Within Wholesale Banking, exposure relates principally to trains to specific customers within specific products.
Guaranteed annuity and other rail assets managed by Porterbrook Leasing Company rates were written into certain With Profit contracts until the early Limited Porterbrook and aircraft managed by IEM Airfinance BV 1990s.
MVA Market Value Adjustment free guarantees were also IEM.
Periodic revaluations are undertaken and any reductions in given, which allow certain customers on specified dates to exercise assumed values are treated in accordance with generally accepted MVA-free withdrawals of assets plus declared bonuses.
Shareholder fund risks are consolidated with other Group market Within First National Group, exposure arises within portfolios risk exposures.
Second order exposures attributable to the of contract purchase agreements relating to motor vehicles.
shareholder from the policyholder fund are not consolidated but Revaluations are undertaken at least annually and losses, when they are separately identified and analysed.
arise, are treated in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice.
Residual value exposure to motor vehicles reduced upon the sale of First National Vehicle Holdings during 2002.
Effect of repricing risks on the Group The interest rate repricing gap information is shown in the notes Tools such as residual value insurance products, repurchase to the consolidated financial statements.
agreements and appropriate return conditions are employed by the Group to mitigate the associated risks.
The Group Residual Hedging activity Value risk management framework includes business area mandates, A significant part of Abbey Nationals exposures are hedged asset specific policies, risk management standards and delegated internally offset against other categories of exposure in the balance authorities which are agreed by GRC and GCC as appropriate.
sheet, or by using derivatives as part of an integrated approach to risk management.
For further details on the use of derivatives, see Insurance risk the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Insurance risk arises when a payment is taken that offers financial protection against specified contingencies, such as life expectancy, Liquidity risk sickness, loss or damage.
As a Group, Abbey National is only Liquidity risk arises across the Group balance sheet.
Liquidity is exposed to the contingencies of life expectancy and sickness, that managed on behalf of the Group by the Group Treasury function is, mortality and morbidity.
The exposure to insurance risk arises in and the Wholesale Banking division, within the Group liquidity the Groups life assurance companies, Abbey National Life, Scottish policy laid down by the Board and monitored by GRC.
This policy is Mutual, Scottish Mutual International, Scottish Provident and reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the Sound Principles Scottish Provident International.
for Managing Liquidity in Banking Organisations issued by the Basel Committee.
Additionally, the FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity The relevant Appointed Actuary has responsibility for managing requirements are met.
Abbey National views the essential elements the pricing of and reserving for insurance risk.
The Group has two of liquidity management as controlling potential cash outflows, Appointed Actuaries one covering UK businesses and one covering maintaining prudent levels of highly liquid assets and ensuring that International businesses.
The Appointed Actuary UK chairs the access to funding is available from a diversity of sources.
These Insurance Risk Committee which consists of a team of insurance elements are underpinned by a comprehensive management and experts who aid the Appointed Actuary in his role.
An insurance risk monitoring process.
Group Treasury and Wholesale Banking policy provides the control framework within which insurance risk is management focuses on cash flow planning and day-to-day cash managed.
This policy is reviewed annually and approved by GRC.
flow control, and on balancing the maturity profiles of Wholesale The essential elements of insurance risk management which cover Bankings liquid assets and wholesale funding to ensure Group assessment as well as mitigation of the risk include underwriting from funding and liquidity ratios are adequate.
Abbey Nationals liquidity the policy proposal document through to assessment of individual position is reported to the FSA on a monthly basis.
claims, pricing taking into account the level of underwriting, market experience, external studies and reassurance data, reinsurance for Service level agreements exist between Wholesale Banking and assistance in pricing of some risks and for spreading of risks and subsidiaries or branches that require or provide funding to reserving holding sufficient funds to meet expected claims.
qxd 5 3 03 3:39 pm Page 67 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT continued 67 Operational risk management Operational risk is the risk of loss to Abbey National resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events.
It is inherent throughout the Group and is managed and controlled at business unit and support function level.
The Board approves the Group Operational Risk Strategy and Policy.
The Group Operational Risk Committee approves the Group Operational Risk Framework and Standards.
Operational risk is monitored throughout the Group, with oversight by the Group Operational Risk Committee, which considers Group Operational Risk reports.
The Group also maintains contingency arrangements for critical areas to ensure that it can continue to function in the event of an unforeseen interruption.
Special working groups manage environmental risk through monitoring and improving Abbey Nationals environmental performance.
Insurance cover is arranged to mitigate potential losses associated with certain operational events.
