qxd 5 3 03 4:21 pm Page 167 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISK FACTORS 167 An investment in the Groups ordinary shares involves a number The Groups businesses are subject to substantial of risks, certain of which are set forth below.
The factors discussed legislation, regulatory and governmental oversight.
below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
administrative actions and policies in each location in which the Group operates.
Changes in supervision and regulation, in particular Risks concerning borrower credit quality and general in the UK, could materially affect the Groups business, the products economic conditions are inherent in the Groups business and services offered or the value of assets.
Although the Group Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability works closely with its regulators and continually monitors the of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in situation, future changes in regulation, fiscal or other policies a wide range of the Groups businesses.
Adverse changes in the can be unpredictable and are beyond the control of the Group.
credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties or a See Supervision and regulation for additional information.
general deterioration in UK or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic risks in the financial systems, could reduce Risks associated with strategic decisions regarding the recoverability and value of the Groups assets and require an organic growth, the competitive environment and increase in the Groups level of provisions for bad and doubtful potential acquisitions debts.
Deterioration in the UK economy could reduce the profit The Group devotes substantial management and planning margins for the Groups banking and financial services businesses.
resources developing strategic plans for organic growth and identifying possible acquisitions.
If the outcome of these plans Market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, do not match expectations, the Groups earnings may not develop foreign exchange rates, bond and equity prices and other as forecast.
In addition, the market for UK financial services and market factors are inherent in the Groups business the other markets within which the Group operates are highly The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, competitive: the Groups ability to generate an appropriate return foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in for its shareholders depends significantly upon managements interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest response to the competitive environment.
See Business overview rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets and liabilities The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings reported by risks regarding claims provisions the Groups non-UK businesses.
Claims in the Groups life assurance businesses may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the arising from changes in demographic developments, mortality value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
In addition and morbidity rates and other factors outside the Groups control.
the Group is exposed to changes in the equity markets through its Such changes could affect the profitability of current and future final salary pension scheme closed to new entrants in 2002 and insurance products and services.
its life assurance funds including the requirement to maintain a minimum solvency margin.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and business operations.
See Risk management for a discussion of these risks.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business The Groups businesses depend on the ability to process a large number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Losses can result from inadequate or failed internal control processes, people and systems, or from external events that interrupt normal business operations.
See Risk management Operational risk.
