Risk factors This document contains certain forward-looking statements which involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to future events and circumstances.
The following risk factors, as well as those discussed on pages 45 and 46 of the finance and treasury review could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements: BOC is affected by the semiconductor business cycle Manufacturers of semiconductors represent BOC Edwards major customer base, and BOC Edwards profitability is directly linked to the demand of these manufacturers for vacuum equipment, services and industrial gases.
The semiconductor industry has experienced significant growth over the long term, but is cyclical in nature.
Owing to reduced demand from end users of technology products and excess supply of semiconductors, the semiconductor industry is currently experiencing a severe downturn, which negatively impacts the demand for BOC Edwards products and services.
A delay in the recovery of the semiconductor industry, or a further downturn in that industry, could continue to adversely impact BOCs financial results.
Acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies BOC has completed a number of acquisitions in 2002 as part of its growth strategy.
While BOC will have identified expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities prior to the acquisition and integration of acquired entities, these benefits may not be achieved owing to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets.
higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties.
diversion of the attention and resources of BOCs management.
inability to retain key employees in acquired companies.
inability to retain key customers.
assumption of liabilities unrecognised in the due diligence process.
The growth of BOCs gases business will depend on the ability to win and execute large projects profitably BOC, through its Process Gas Solutions PGS line of business, has a strategy for growth that requires significant investment each year to serve key customers in different geographies.
Failure to execute projects successfully for these customers will impact PGSs ability to win new projects from these customers, and therefore may impact BOCs future financial results.
The specific risks associated with major projects include: failure to complete the project on time owing to unforeseen construction problems which may require BOC to pay penalties under the terms of the customer contract.
failure of the plant to deliver the contracted volumes and quantities of product required by the customer because of design errors or errors in manufacturing or construction which may require BOC to pay penalties under the terms of the customer contract.
inability to operate the plant at the level of costs assumed in BOCs financial evaluation of the project.
The safety of BOCs operations is critical to success Industrial gases are potentially hazardous substances and BOC recognises that managing safety in operations, transportation and products is critical to achieve growth and financial results.
Failure to maintain high levels of safety can result in a number of negative outcomes, including: fines and penalties for breaches of safety laws.
liability payments and costs to employees or third parties arising from injury or damage.
exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business.
BOC operates in over 50 different countries and is therefore exposed to economic, political and business risks associated with international operations BOCs overall success as a business with global operations depends, in part, upon its ability to succeed in differing economic, political and business conditions.
BOC encounters different legal and regulatory requirements in numerous jurisdictions.
These include taxation laws, environmental regulations, regulations concerning operational standards and competition laws.
BOC is also confronted by political risks such as the expropriation of assets and the inability to export currency.
The business risks and challenges faced in each geography include the need to manage credit risks of local customers, appointing and retaining key staff, general local economic conditions and currency fluctuation.
Recognition of changing market conditions in local geographies is critical to BOCs long-term success.
In addition, BOCs operations are exposed to varying degrees of natural catastrophe risk, such as earthquake and flood, as well as security risk, in the different countries in which BOC operates.
29 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Risk factors BOC relies on development of, or access to, technology to support business growth BOCs success is dependent in part on its continued investment in technology to develop new products and services across all businesses, new applications for existing products or to design effective means for producing industrial gases.
Failure to access or develop technology or anticipate, manage or adopt technological changes in operations or product applications on a timely basis could have a material impact on BOCs future results.
For example, the rapid development of technology in the semiconductor sector requires BOC Edwards to be aware of changes in customer technology requirements and to introduce new products to meet those requirements in a timely manner.
Failure to do so could result in reduced market share and profitability.
BOC operates in a highly competitive environment The industrial gases market is very competitive, with several large competitors and a significant number of smaller local competitors in different territories.
Although the current trend in the industry is to seek price increases for industrial gases, the industry has experienced falling prices in previous years.
There is no guarantee that the current trend will continue and there is a risk that competitors will seek to maintain or increase market shares by reducing prices.
These price reductions would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows.
Recognising and anticipating changes in the manufacturing economy is key to BOCs success BOCs industrial gas businesses serve a wide range of manufacturing customers in major geographies such as the US, UK, Japan and Australia.
This is particularly true of the Industrial and Special Products line of business which provides products and services to customers involved in the welding and cutting of metal, the largest source of revenue for this line of business.
As customers in these traditional manufacturing-based economies seek to move their manufacturing operations to lower cost territories in, for example, Asia and Latin America, there is a risk that BOCs operations in the major geographies will have lower growth opportunities.
Failure to recognise these trends and manage the consequences, through the development of alternative markets and or meeting demand in higher growth territories, could have a negative impact on future Group results.
BOCs success depends to a significant extent on its key personnel and employees BOCs performance depends on the skills and efforts of its employees and management team across all of its businesses.
BOC recognises that failure to attract new talent and retain existing expertise, knowledge and skills in operations, products and infrastructure areas such as information technology could have a negative impact on revenues and profits.
In addition, the success of BOCs acquisitions may depend, in part, on BOCs ability to retain key personnel in acquired companies.
Litigation may have an adverse impact on financial results The global nature of BOCs business exposes it to the potential for litigation from third parties.
From time to time BOC is involved in lawsuits in the US, as well as other geographies, resulting from current and past operations or products.
The outcome of these lawsuits may result in damages and awards which could have a material impact on BOCs profitability, its business operations or financial condition.
Examples of litigation in the US for past products include allegations of injury arising from the use of welding rods previously manufactured by BOC in the US.
Increased energy costs could reduce profitability The production of industrial gases requires significant amounts of electrical energy.
Energy costs are a key component of the cost of manufacturing industrial gases, and increases in these costs can impact profitability if they cannot be passed on to customers.
Accurately predicting trends in energy costs is difficult to achieve as energy costs are, to a large extent, subject to factors beyond the companys control for example, political conditions in oil producing regions.
BOC also operates large fleets of commercial vehicles in certain major geographies.
An increase in energy costs associated with the use of these commercial vehicles may negatively impact profit levels.
30 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
