AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Risk Factors www.
com 134 Risk Factors Risk of loss or expiration of patents, Trade mark protection for our products is also seek to remove all such risks.
In general, a marketing exclusivity or trade marks an important element of our overall product unilateral strengthening of the US dollar Scientific development and technological marketing programmes.
Combined with adversely affects our results whereas a innovation is crucial if AstraZeneca is to patent protection or other types of marketing weakening of the US dollar is generally deliver long term market success.
In the exclusivity, products protected by a valid favourable.
We cannot ensure that exchange pharmaceutical market, a drug, diagnostic or trade mark usually generate significantly rate fluctuations will not have a material medical device is normally only subject to higher revenues than those not protected by adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial competition from alternative products, in the a trade mark.
We believe that we have trade condition and results of operations in the same therapy area, during the period of mark protection for many of our most future.
patent protection or other types of marketing important products.
However, trade mark exclusivity, but once patent protection or protection may expire or be challenged by Risk that R&D will not yield new products other types of marketing exclusivity has third parties.
that achieve commercial success expired the product is generally open to As a result of the complexities and competition from generic copy products.
The expiration or loss of certain patents, uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical Products under patent protection or other marketing exclusivity or trade marks could research, it cannot be ensured that types of marketing exclusivity usually have an adverse effect on pricing and sales compounds currently under development will generate significantly higher revenues than with respect to these products and, achieve success in laboratory, animal or those not protected by patents or other types consequently, could result in a material clinical trials and ultimately be granted the of marketing exclusivity.
We believe that we adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial regulatory approvals needed to market such have patent protection for many of our most condition and results of operations.
For example, in 2002 important products.
our anti-cancer drug, Iressa, unexpectedly Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates failed in clinical trials to show any benefit when For example, lisinopril, the active ingredient in The results of AstraZenecas operations are used in combination with the most common Zestril lost protection in the US in June 2002 accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately chemotherapy treatments and we and in Japan, the UK and most other major 57% of our 2002 sales were in the Americas discontinued our development of AZD7545, a markets during 2002.
As anticipated, a major comprised of the US, Canada and Latin potential anti-diabetic, due to failure to meet erosion of our sales of lisinopril products America with a significant proportion of that our target profile.
Development of a number occurred during the second half of 2002. figure being in respect of US sales.
The US is, of other drugs was also discontinued during and is expected to remain, our largest and 2002 for the same reason: these included Also, Nolvadex patent protection in the US potentially fastest growing major market.
ZD9331 a direct acting anti-folate for expired in August 2002, although the FDA Sales in certain other countries are also in US potential treatment of cancers, D5522 an requested and we submitted paediatric data dollars, or in currencies whose exchange intranasal steroid for the potential treatment of for Nolvadex which resulted in Nolvadex rates are linked to the US dollar.
Major rhinitis and NAD-299 a potential treatment being granted six months marketing components of our cost base are, however, for anxiety and depression.
There can be no exclusivity until February 2003. located in Europe, where an aggregate of absolute assurances regarding the approximately 60% of our employees are development and commercial success of any Increasingly, manufacturers of generic based.
Movements in the exchange rates of the products in our current pipeline.
The pharmaceutical products whether based in used to translate foreign currencies into US commercial success of pipeline products is of developing countries, such as those in Asia, dollars may therefore have a material adverse particular importance to us in view of the or elsewhere in the world seek to challenge effect on AstraZenecas financial condition recent and anticipated expiry of patent our patents or other types of marketing and results of operations.
protection in major markets for a number of exclusivity in order to allow access to the our key current products in the 2002-2003 market for their own generic products.
Certain subsidiaries of AstraZeneca import period.
and export goods and services in currencies For example, AstraZeneca was involved in other than their own functional currency, Competition, price controls and price litigation in the US during 2002 relating to although we minimise this practice.
The reductions omeprazole, the active ingredient in Losec results of such subsidiaries could, therefore, The principal markets for our pharmaceutical Prilosec, concerning the infringement of be affected by currency fluctuations arising products are the Americas, the countries of certain patents, including formulation patents, between the transaction dates and the the European Union and Japan.
These by four generic manufacturers.
The US Court settlement dates for those transactions.
We markets are highly competitive.
We compete for the Southern District of New York upheld hedge these exposures through financial in all of them, and elsewhere in the world, the validity of two of these patents, ruled that instruments in the form of forward contracts against major prescription pharmaceutical three generic companies infringed the and currency swaps.
The notional principal companies which, in many cases, are able to patents, but that one did not.
The amount of financial instruments used to match or exceed the resources which we infringement and non-infringement decisions hedge these exposures, principally forward have available to us, particularly in the areas of are all under appeal but, in the meantime, the foreign exchange contracts and purchased R&D and marketing investment.
Recent fourth generic company launched its generic currency options, at 31 December 2002 was industry consolidation has resulted in the omeprazole in the US market in December $47 million.
We have policies that seek to formation of a small number of very large 2002.
Other patent litigation relating to mitigate the effect of exchange rate companies with which we compete as well.
omeprazole is proceeding or pending in fluctuations on the value of foreign currency Some of our most important products for several countries.
cash flows and in turn their effects on the future growth, such as Crestor, will compete results of the various subsidiaries, but do not directly with similar products marketed by AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Risk Factors www.
com 135 some of these companies.
Increasingly, we from patients covered by that formulary.
The insurance could have a material adverse also compete directly with biotechnology use of strict formularies by institutional effect on AstraZenecas financial condition companies and companies which customers is increasing rapidly in response to and results of operations.
manufacture generic versions of our products the current cost containment environment, following the expiry or loss of patent or other resulting in lower margins on such sales.
Risk of reliance on third parties for marketing exclusivity.
supplies of materials and services Some governments in Europe, notably Italy Like most, if not all, major prescription In most of the principal markets in which we and Spain, set price controls having regard to pharmaceutical companies, in some of sell our products, there is continued the medical, economic and social impact of its key business operations, such as the economic, regulatory and political pressure to the product.
In other European countries, manufacture, formulation and packaging limit the cost of pharmaceutical products.
primarily Germany, the UK, the Netherlands of products, AstraZeneca relies on third Certain groups have been involved in exerting and, more recently, France, governments are parties for the timely supply of specified price pressure on pharmaceutical companies exerting a strong downward pressure on raw materials, equipment, contract to ensure medicines are affordable to those prices by incentives and sanctions to manufacturing, formulation or packaging who need them.
encourage doctors to prescribe costservices and maintenance services.
Efforts by the European we actively manage these third party Currently there is no direct government Commission to harmonise the disparate relationships to ensure continuity of supplies control of prices for non-government sales in national systems have met with little on time and to our required specifications, the US.
In 1990, however, federal legislation immediate success, leaving the industry some events beyond our control could result was enacted which required drug exposed to ad hoc national cost containment in the complete or partial failure of supplies or manufacturers to agree to substantial rebates measures on prices and the consequent in supplies not being delivered on time.
Any in order for the manufacturers drugs to be parallel trading of products from markets with such failure could have a material adverse reimbursed by state Medicaid programmes, prices depressed by governments into those effect on AstraZenecas financial condition and an additional rebate if manufacturer price where higher prices prevail.
increases after 1990 exceed the increase in inflation.
In addition, certain states have taken There is formal central government control of Risk of delay to new product launches action to require further manufacturer rebates prices in Japan.
New product prices are AstraZenecas continued success depends on Medicaid drug utilisation and for other determined primarily by comparison with on the development and successful launch of state pharmaceutical assistance existing products for the same medical innovative new drugs.
Congress also has enacted condition.
All existing products are subject to dates of major new products have a statutes that place a ceiling on the price a price review at least every two years.
significant impact on a number of areas of our manufacturers may charge US government Regulations introduced in 2000 included business including investment in large clinical agencies, thereby causing a substantial provisions allowing a drugs price to be set trials, the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of discount, as well as establishing a minimum according to the average price of the product the products and the timing of anticipated discount comparable to the Medicaid rebate in four major countries the US, the UK, future revenue streams from commercial on manufacturers sales to certain clinics and Germany and France.
Any delay to the hospitals that serve the poor and other anticipated launch dates may therefore populations with special needs.
These Taxation impact AstraZenecas business and government initiatives together with The UK is party to various double tax treaties operations in a number of ways.
For example, competitive market pressures have with foreign jurisdictions which enable we had expected our new statin for the contributed to restraints on realised prices.
AstraZenecas revenues and capital gains to treatment of lipid disorders, Crestor, to be escape a double tax charge to both UK and launched in the US in the second half of 2002.
Pending legislation in the US may also affect foreign jurisdiction tax.
If any of these double However, the approval of products in this the pricing of and access to pharmaceutical tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, class has been subject to additional products.
If drug importation into the US or should any member of the AstraZeneca regulatory scrutiny partly as a result of the market from other countries with lower prices Group become involved in taxation disputes previous withdrawal from the market of becomes a reality, parallel import activity will with any tax authority, such withdrawal, cerivastatin.
Although Crestor received affect realised prices.
On the other hand, amendment or a negative outcome of such marketing approval in the Netherlands in outpatient prescription drug coverage could disputes could have a material adverse effect November 2002, launch in the US is now improve access to pharmaceutical products on AstraZenecas financial condition and expected in the latter part of 2003 subject to for senior citizens, albeit at potentially lower results of operations.
the FDA being satisfied by additional trial data realised prices.
to be submitted by AstraZeneca in Q1 of Risk of substantial product liability claims 2003.
Significant delay to the anticipated In addition, realised prices are being Given the widespread impact ethical launch dates of new products could have a depressed by pressure from managed care prescription drugs may have on the health of material adverse effect on AstraZenecas and institutional purchasers who use cost large patient populations, pharmaceutical financial condition and results of operations.
considerations to restrict the sale of preferred and medical device companies have, drugs that their physicians may prescribe as historically, been subject to large product Difficulties of obtaining government well as other competitive activity.
Such limited liability damages claims, settlements and regulatory approvals for new products lists or formularies may force manufacturers awards for injuries allegedly caused by the AstraZeneca is subject to strict controls on either to reduce prices or be excluded from use of their products.
Substantial product the manufacture, labelling, distribution and the list, thereby losing all the sales revenue liability claims that are not covered by marketing of pharmaceutical products.
The AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Risk Factors www.
com 136 Risk Factors continued requirement to obtain regulatory approval addition, a change in circumstances based on safety, efficacy and quality before including a change in applicable laws or such products may be marketed in a regulations may result in such a material particular country and to maintain and to adverse effect.
Although we take great care to comply with licences and other regulations ensure that we operate our business at all of relating to their manufacture are particularly our sites within all applicable environmental important.
The submission of an application laws, regulations, licences and permits, a to a regulatory authority does not guarantee significant environmental incident for which that approval to market the products will be we were responsible could result in granted.
The countries that constitute AstraZeneca being liable to pay material markets for our pharmaceutical compensation, fines or remediation costs.
products include the US, the countries of the In some circumstances, such liability could European Union and Japan.
Approval of such have a material adverse effect on products is required by the relevant regulatory AstraZenecas financial position and results authority in each country, although in Europe, of operations.
single marketing authorisation can govern the approval of products throughout the Risks associated with forward-looking European Union through a centralised statements procedure.
In addition, each jurisdiction has This report contains certain forward-looking very high standards of regulatory approval statements about AstraZeneca.
Although we and, consequently, in most cases, a lengthy believe our expectations are based on approval process.
Furthermore, each reasonable assumptions, any forwardregulatory authority may impose its own looking statements may be influenced by requirements and may refuse to grant, or may factors that could cause actual outcomes and require additional data before granting, an results to be materially different from those approval even though the relevant product predicted.
Forward-looking statements are has been approved in another country.
identified in this report, by using the words anticipates, believes, expects, intends Risk of failure to observe ongoing and similar expressions in such statements.
regulatory oversight These forward-looking statements are AstraZenecas products are only licenced subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
following exhaustive regulatory approval Important factors that could cause actual processes.
Once a product is licenced it is results to differ materially from those in subject to ongoing control and regulation forward-looking statements, certain of which such as the manner of its manufacture are beyond our control, include, among other distribution and marketing.
Regulatory things: the loss or expiration of patents, authorities have wide-ranging administrative marketing exclusivity or trade marks: powers to deal with any failure to comply with exchange rate fluctuations: the risk that R&D their ongoing regulatory oversight.
These will not yield new products that achieve powers include withdrawal of a licence commercial success: the impact of approval previously granted, product recalls, competition, price controls and price seizure of products and other sanctions for reductions: taxation risks: the risk of non-compliance.
Regulatory sanction substantial product liability claims: the impact following a failure to comply with such of any failure by third parties to supply ongoing regulatory oversight could have a materials or services: the risk of delay to new material adverse effect on AstraZenecas product launches, the difficulties of obtaining financial condition and results of operations.
and maintaining governmental approvals for products: and the risk of environmental Environmental liabilities liabilities.
AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites in the US as described in more detail on page 102.
There is no reason for us to believe that current and expected expenditure and risks occasioned by these circumstances are likely to have a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial position and results of operations although they could, to the extent that they exceed applicable provisions, have a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial position and results of operations for the relevant period.
