Report of the Directors Financial review 39 is avoided.
There was no significant concentration of credit Some of our businesses, principally edible fats companies risks with any single counterparty as at the year-end.
in Europe, may use forward contracts over a number of oils to hedge future requirements.
We purchase forward As a result of hedging the share option plans for employees, contracts in bean, rape, sunower, palm, coconut and we are exposed to movements in our own share price.
palm kernel oils, almost always for physical delivery.
In recent years we have hedged this risk through buying We may also use futures contracts to hedge future price Unilever shares in the market when the share option is movements: however, the amounts are not material.
granted and holding these shares until the share option is The total value of open forward contracts at the end exercised or lapses.
In 2001 we also entered into a contract of 2002 was 417 million compared with 292 million with a bank for the forward purchase of Unilever shares, in 2001. further details of which are given in note 15 on page 86.
At the year-end 92% of all outstanding employee share In addition, our plantations businesses may use forward options were hedged: based on Unilevers experience with contracts for physical delivery of palm oil and tea under the exercise level of options we consider this percentage strictly controlled policies and exposure limits.
We had as being fully hedged.
no material outstanding contracts at the end of 2002.
Risk management Distribution The following discussion about risk management activities Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and and through independent brokers, agents and distributors uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from to chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent those projected.
See the Cautionary Statement on page 2. grocery accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed through distribution centres, The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the fair value satellite warehouses, company-operated and public storage of the financial and derivative instruments the Group held facilities, depots and other facilities.
at 31 December 2002, to the hypothetical changes described below.
Unilever has undertaken several initiatives to work with its customers to accelerate the development of product Interest rate risk categories, to optimise the ow of merchandise and the The fair values of debt, investments and related hedging inventory levels of its customers.
These include efficient instruments are affected by movements in interest rates.
consumer response ECR to achieve optimal stock The analysis shows the sensitivity of the fair value of management, automatic stock replenishments and interest rate sensitive instruments to a hypothetical 10% just-in-time delivery using electronic data interchange change in the interest rates across all maturities as at EDI to co-ordinate stock levels in stores and at Unilevers 31 December 2002. warehouses.
ECR is also a process used by Unilever and retailers to understand, and deliver against, consumer Foreign exchange rate risk demand and expectations.
The fair values of debt, investments and hedging instruments, denominated in currencies other than the Impact of price changes functional currency of the entities holding them, are Information concerning the impact of price changes on subject to exchange rate movements.
The analysis shows tangible xed assets and depreciation is shown in note 10 the sensitivity of these fair values to a hypothetical 10% on page 81. change in foreign exchange rates as at 31 December 2002.
Other risk factors Fair value changes: Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual Sensitivity to a results to vary from those described in forward-looking hypothetical 10% change in statements within this document, or which could impact rates as at 31 December million million on our ability to meet our published targets under the 2002 2001 Path to Growth strategy which consists of focusing resources on leading brands, closing manufacturing sites Interest rate risk 298 243 and re-organising or divesting under-performing Foreign exchange rate risk 1 28 businesses include those previously described above and the following: Further details on derivatives, foreign exchange exposures and other related information on financial instruments are Managing restructuring and reorganisation programmes: given in note 15 on pages 85 and 86.
Unilever has announced wide-ranging business restructuring initiatives.
This high level of change absorbs Supply risk and commodities contracts considerable management time and can interrupt normal Unilevers products are manufactured from a number business operations.
While materials are expected to be in adequate supply, any shortages or disruptions in supply would have a material adverse effect on gross margin.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
