Financing Policy&Financial Risk Management THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 61 Financing Policy & Financial Risk Management Objectives Liability management The use of derivatives is managed The aim of British Lands financing policy Liability management is not a profit and monitored by the Board of British Land is to fund the Group to service its evolving centre and no speculative transactions Financing Limited and its Derivative Subcorporate strategy and needs, and provide are undertaken.
The Groups debt and Committee, which includes three executive the flexibility to take advantage of derivative positions are continuously directors, and also retains a specialist opportunities as they arise.
reviewed to meet current and expected external firm of consultants.
The Groups income derives principally debt requirements.
The Groups credit exposure to each from rents on long leases, which are The Group maintains a balance swap counterparty is monitored on a subject to upward only review.
The Group between longer-term and shorter-term regular basis, as are external credit ratings.
manages downside risk by controlling its financings.
The latter provide flexibility of recurring interest cover and available repayment at no penalty.
Acquisitions are Foreign currency management liquidity against current and projected often funded initially by shorter-term credit To manage the impact of foreign exchange levels of gearing.
facilities and then refinanced with longermovements, the Group borrows in The principal objectives are to term funding when market conditions currencies other than Sterling, principally ensure that: are favourable.
Euros, and uses cross-currency swaps to Significant committed undrawn facilities Short-term financing is principally match foreign currency assets with foreign are available to support current and raised through bilateral and syndicated currency liabilities.
revolving bank facilities, which can be When attractive terms are available to The Group is financed over the long term repaid at will without penalty and redrawn do so, the Group borrows in freely available with debt levels supported by recurring, again when the need arises.
All bank currencies other than Sterling.
facilities are unsecured and on standard fully hedges its foreign currency risk on The Groups cost of capital is minimised.
terms to maintain operational flexibility.
The Group maintains a prudent financial Medium to longer-term financing The Groups policy is to have no position by active management of comprises public and private bond issues, material unhedged net assets or liabilities financial risks, including interest rate, including convertibles and securitisations.
liquidity and counter party risks.
British Lands property portfolio is well placed to take advantage of new assetLiquidity and cash management Financing policy specific and cash-flow financing structures.
The Group maintains a high level of The Group finances its activities with Financing risk is spread by using undrawn revolving bank facilities to provide a mixture of equity, securitisations, public a range of banks and a variety of types financial liquidity.
The property portfolio is and private debt issues, convertible bonds of finance.
The maturity profile of debt stringently reviewed to identify appropriate and bank borrowings.
Through a mix of is managed by spreading the repayment properties for sale, with a view to converting debt and equity finance, together with dates and extending and expanding non-cash assets into cash if required.
a wide variety of debt sources, the Group bank facilities.
Deposits are placed to optimise aims to minimise its cost of capital, the rate of return, subject to the consistent with its other strategy aims Interest rate management creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Most joint ventures The Group borrows principally in Sterling have their own financing see pages 42 at both fixed and floating rates of interest, Profit and loss account and balance to 48, which is entirely independent of then uses derivatives to generate the sheet management the Groups financing, except for a total desired interest rate profile and to The Group monitors the current and of 33 million of guarantees.
control the Groups exposure to interest projected financial position using several The Groups financing policy is to rate fluctuations.
key internally generated reports: cash flow, leverage equity returns through strategic The proportion of debt held at variable borrowing, debt maturity and derivatives gearing, and at the same time maintain a interest rates is varied as new transactions schedules.
The Group also undertakes defensive debt structure.
The mortgage ratio whether corporate, direct property or sensitivity analysis to assess the impact is maintained at or around 50% subject financing emerge, to rebalance the overall of proposed transactions and movement to the Boards view of the property market, mix.
Normally, the Group maintains around in interest rates on the key balance sheet, the future growth prospects of British 85% of debt subject to a 5% tolerance liquidity and profitability ratios.
Lands portfolio and recurring cash flows.
either side at fixed or capped rates to At the Groups option, the 150 million provide long-term protection.
The time 6% Irredeemable Convertible Bond can horizon for this policy is a rolling 3-5 years.
be converted into preference shares, augmenting equity.
These preference shares can subsequently be switched back to Bonds.
