STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 43 Corporate governance report In December 2014, we announced that as a result of the Chairmans introduction additional time commitments required for his new appointment Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and to as non-executive director and chairman designate of Drax Group the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set plc, Phil Cox had decided to resign as a non-executive director out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code with effect from 31 January 2015.
On behalf of the Board I would published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The like to thank David and Phil for their significant contributions to Company has applied the main and supporting principles set out the Board and to wish them well for the future.
An explanation of how the main principles have been Effectiveness applied is set out in this report and in the Audit Committee As reported last year, the main findings from our 2013 internal report, the Nominations Committee report including a report evaluation were to enhance our strategy reviews and risk from the Chairman Succession Sub-Committee and in the management process and continue to improve the annual Board Directors remuneration report.
The FRC published a revised UK schedule.
In 2014, the Board engaged in additional strategy Corporate Governance Code on 17 September 2014, applicable to presentations and discussions and we continued to enhance our reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the 2014 risk management process.
We have since conducted our 2014 Code, although the Board has adopted some of the new internal evaluation and a report is included on page 49. provisions in the 2014 Code earlier than required.
Accountability The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board considered the 2014 Code, and assessed our current corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our processes and reporting of risk management and internal responsibilities.
As Chairman, I encourage open and transparent control against the associated guidance issued by the Financial discussion and constructive challenge.
It is my responsibility to Reporting Council in September 2014.
In 2015, we will start ensure that Meggitt is governed and managed in the best preparing for the new long-term viability statement which is first interests of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
In this report, required for our 2015 Annual Report.
Our shareholders can read we set out our governance framework and explain how sound about our most significant risks and uncertainties and our risk and effective corporate governance practices support our management process on pages 24 to 26. strategy of creating long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
The Board have confirmed that this Annual Report is fair, Leadership balanced and understandable, and you will find an explanation of At our AGM in May 2014, I announced my intention to retire the process we have used to make this determination on page 51. following the appointment of a suitable successor, having had the privilege of chairing the Board of Directors for nearly 11 years.
Remuneration I have thoroughly enjoyed my time as the Chairman of Meggitt At our AGM in 2014, we received 98.95% votes in favour of our and am delighted to hand over to Sir Nigel Rudd, a highly Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders also overwhelmingly experienced and successful director and chairman.
With his approved our Directors remuneration report and a new prior role as a non-executive director of BAE Systems, and long-term incentive plan.
The Directors remuneration report current exposure to the industry at BBA Aviation, Sir Nigel has pages 55 to 75 provides a detailed review of the Remuneration exceptional knowledge of the aerospace sector.
I know that his Committees 2014 activities and bonus and share scheme experience across a wide range of businesses will be of performance in 2014.
For ease of reference, we have also significant benefit to the Group.
included the Remuneration Policy approved at our AGM in 2014 which is valid until the AGM held in 2017.
In terms of other Board changes, in May 2014, David Robins retired from the Board and in October 2014 we appointed Alison Goligher as a non-executive director.
Alison introduces specific oil and gas experience to our Board, which will be of great value to Meggitts energy businesses.
At the same time, her technology management expertise and experience running a wide range of functions within globally significant corporations will benefit the Group as a whole.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman of the Board of Directors 23 February 2015 93987 p42-45.
