Melrose Industries PLC 60 Annual Report 2014 Governance Governance overview Christopher Miller Chairman previously dated September 2012 and was programme to promote and embed Introduction updated by the FRC in September 2014. a more risk-aware culture across the from the Chairman Although the updated version of the UK organisation.
As part of this programme, Code only applies to financial periods the Groups risk strategy and the The Board remains committed to beginning on or after 1 October 2014, Boards risk appetite will be reviewed Melrose welcomes the changes to the UK and, if deemed appropriate, refreshed.
maintaining the high standards Code and therefore will be seeking to comply Further details on this can be found on of corporate governance with them earlier than formally expected.
pages 36 to 41 of the Annual Report.
required to ensure that the In support of this commitment, the Board Remuneration Company can continue to deliver carried out a number of actions during 2014 The revised UK Code provides that greater on its strategic goals and to designed to ensure that Melrose remains emphasis should be placed on ensuring achieve long-term success for compliant with the provisions of the UK that remuneration policies are designed Code and also to enable continuous with the long-term success of the the benefit of its shareholders.
improvement in line with best practice Company in mind.
This is a belief that corporate governance guidelines.
the Melrose Board has always held.
As part of this approach, the Board Our remuneration philosophy is that supports, applies and complies with the Risk management executive remuneration should be simple Main Principles, the Supporting Principles In 2014, the Board initiated a root and and transparent, support the delivery and the respective related provisions of branch audit of the risk management of the business strategy and pay for corporate governance contained in the framework and underlying processes performance.
This belief is reflected in UK Corporate Governance Code the UK in operation in every business in the our remuneration structure.
Base salaries Code issued by the Financial Reporting Melrose Group.
Following on from this are set at the lower end of a competitive Council the FRC and available to view audit, external risk consultants BDO LLP range, the annual bonus is deliberately on the FRCs website at: https: www.
have been engaged to support the positioned below the median maximum uk Our-Work Codes-Standards CorporateGroup in developing an enhanced risk opportunity for comparable companies governance.
The UK Code was framework and in implementing a and payments under the single long-term Board structure 1 Christopher Miller David Roper Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Perry Crosthwaite Executive Chairman Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Senior non-executive Vice-Chairman Director Director Audit Committee Nomination Committee 2 John Grant, Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt, Justin Dowley Chairman Chairman Liz Hewitt John Grant Perry Crosthwaite Perry Crosthwaite Christopher Miller Governance Melrose Industries PLC 61 Annual Report 2014 Governance Board composition Industry background Board diversity Executive Chairman 1 Finance 6 Male 7 1 1 Executive Directors 3 Industry 2 Female 1 2 Non-executive 4 Directors 4 6 3 7 incentive arrangement are entirely Engagement with shareholders Main responsibilities of dependent upon shareholder value During the second half of 2014 and the Board: generated over a five year period.
Rather continuing into 2015, the Company has than successive one year LTIP schemes, launched a programme of engagement effectively manage and control the Company we believe that a five year scheme is with major investors and the governance via a formal schedule of matters reserved for preferable in that it is closer to a typical bodies in respect of our remuneration policy its decision: ownership cycle for an acquired business.
The Board is determine and review Company strategy We believe that this remuneration strategy pleased with the support and constructive and policy: has directly driven Melroses historical feedback throughout these discussions consider acquisitions, disposals and asset out-performance of the market, supported and it is our intention to continue this requests for major capital expenditure: the Companys success and clearly led programme for the foreseeable future.
review trading performance: ensure that adequate funding and personnel A further change to the UK Code provides Christopher Miller are in place: that companies should put in place Executive Chairman arrangements that will enable the recovery maintain sound internal control systems: 4March 2015 1 or withholding of variable pay.
Malus has report to shareholders and give consideration 1 M alus is defined in the CEBS Committee of European always applied to the Melrose long-term Banking Supervisors Guidelines on Remuneration to all other significant financial matters: incentive plan and the annual bonus Policies and Practices as an arrangement that permits the institution to prevent vesting of all or part of the agree Board succession plans and consider scheme.
The Company will introduce a amount of a deferred remuneration award in relation the evaluation of the Boards performance clawback provision for the annual bonus to risk outcomes or performance.
over the preceding year: scheme with effect from the 2014 annual bonus.
In addition, clawback will apply to review the Groups risk management and any new long-term incentive arrangements internal control systems: and awarded to executive Directors of Melrose, agree the Groups governance framework in line with best practice.
and approve the Standards of Business Conduct and other Group policies.
Audit Committee report More information p72 Nomination Committee report More information p76 Justin Dowley John Grant Liz Hewitt Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director Director Director Directors remuneration report More information p78 Remuneration Committee 1 P erry Crosthwaite assumed the position of Senior non-executive 3 Director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM following the Justin Dowley, John Grant retirement of Miles Templeman.
Chairman Liz Hewitt 2 Liz Hewitt became Chairman of the Nomination Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM following the retirement of Perry Crosthwaite Miles Templeman.
3 Justin Dowley replaced Perry Crosthwaite as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
