Mitie Group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance As a Board, we are responsible to shareholders for the groups activities and its long-term success.
We recognise the importance and value of good governance in assisting us to achieve this.
In this governance report, we explain how the main principles of good governance are applied across the group and how that governance framework has been enhanced during the year to take into account the changes introduced by the September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the new reporting framework.
Statement of compliance with the Code I can confirm on behalf of the Board that: The group has complied with the main principles and all the relevant provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
Details of how we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions are explained throughout the report.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
The most significant reporting changes have been to our Directors remuneration report.
These changes include the way we are required to report some elements of remuneration for our Directors, for example, the single total figure of remuneration.
This revised reporting framework also includes a statement made by the Directors that we consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The processes in place to support our confidence in making this statement include a review of the narrative sections of the report by our Assurance function, internal and external counsel and our Independent Auditor.
As a Board we also receive drafts and working papers relating to the Annual Report and Accounts in good time in order to facilitate our review and input.
During the year the Board, with the help of the committees, considers that sufficient time has been spent reviewing and discussing strategy, risk, financial performance, investor communication and engagement and key matters of governance.
An overview of the activities and the effectiveness of each of our Board Committees are explained further on pages 43 to 67.
Key areas of governance that have been reviewed in the year include: Board composition Ensuring that a balance of views is available and that the right decisions are taken requires the right leadership.
Our Board is composed of directors from various backgrounds with a breadth of professional and sector experience.
This means that we have a balanced Board with the right range of skills and experience to contribute and, where appropriate, challenge decision making.
During the year Jack Boyer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Crawford Gillies was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board evaluation The Board is committed to reviewing the effectiveness of its performance and that of the Committees and individual Directors.
During the year, the Board engaged external consultants to assist with the review: the process followed and the outcome of the review are discussed further on page 41.
Internal audit During the year the group appointed a Head of Internal Audit, a role which was previously undertaken by the Group Enterprise Risk Director, to manage and oversee the delivery of the internal audit programme and its associated activity.
The internal audit team has since then been expanded with additional senior audit resource, moving the Audit function from an outsourced model to a co-source model with the continued support of Grant Thornton LLP.
This change in our model serves to improve the breadth of assurance being provided to the Board, while maintaining the provision of the Grant Thornton specialist expertise.
