Chairmans Governance Introduction Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code Board and Committee composition As a Board of Directors we aspire to establish a governance We have a strong and balanced Board, with a range of structure for the business which provides effective control and complementary skills to support the strategic and operational oversight of the business without harming the entrepreneurial direction of the Group.
During 2014, these skills were further spirit which has been the hallmark of the Groups success in strengthened following the appointments of Andrew Fisher in striving to help every household make the most of their money.
August and Genevieve Shore in September as additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Both Andrew and Our Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 32 to 36.
Genevieve bring digital, entrepreneurial and technology This section of the Annual Report sets out how we lead the experience from the media and technology sectors to the Board, Groupand comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate providing valuable challenge and insight during the Boards Governance Code.
It also outlines any governance initiatives deliberations.
In April 2014, Matthew Price was appointed Chief Financial Officer, Key areas of focus this year included the formation of a new Risk succeeding Paul Doughty who stepped down from the Board.
Committee to give a specific focus to the risks faced by the Group Matthew brings his diverse career experience to our Group, and to ensure that they are appropriately managed by the Group: helping us shape our strategy and future direction as we become and an external Board evaluation, with the assistance of SCT a larger and more complex business.
Consultants, which has helped the Board to understand how we work, our skills, our diversity, our key strengths and how we can Given the increasing complexity of the Group and the formation improve our effectiveness.
We will continue to focus on Board of a new Board Risk Committee, the Board reviewed the effectiveness over the coming year.
membership of all the Committees during the year and made a number of changes with effect from 1 January 2015 to ensure the Our Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Committees continue to operate effectively.
The current Code is set out on page 36. members of each of the Committees is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 33.
Board effectiveness In line with good corporate governance, during the year, I ceased As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and to be a member of each Committee with the exception of the ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Board is Nomination Committee which I chair.
The Board also agreed that responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring Sally James, as Chairman of the Risk Committee, should be a achievement of its business objectives, oversight of risk and member of all the Board Committees to ensure that risk is maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
appropriately considered in each Committee.
28 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Succession planning and diversity To maintain an effective Board, it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right individuals are appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
We recognise the importance of diversity at Board level.
The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background and experience which each individual brings to the Board.
All future appointments will continue to be based on merit, however, the Board aspires to achieve a significant level of female representation on the Board and I am pleased that we have made further progress towards this objective in 2014.
More detail on our diversity policy can be found in our Nomination Committee Report on page 40.
Details of the proportion of women on the Board, in senior leadership positions and within the whole organisation can be found on page 27 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ethics and governance There is a strong relationship between ethics and good governance.
We remain committed to operating ethically, demonstrating integrity and acting responsibly in our undertakings with our customers, our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 26 and 27.
Board operation We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between management, led by Peter Plumb, Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to management ensuring an open culture of debate that creates and preserves value for our shareholders.
During 2015 and beyond, I will ensure that the Board continues to operate in a constructive and open manner, with honesty and integrity as its core principles.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman 2 March 2015 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 29
