Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 63 Chairmans overview I am pleased with the way in which the Group has embraced and addressed the demands of the additional regulatory obligations.
In particular, the nomination and governance committee has discussed and considered issues of succession planning and suitable profiles for future Board candidates and the remuneration committee has focused a great deal of its attention this year on developing the Companys first remuneration policy, which will be put toa shareholder vote at the AGM this year in line with recently enacted regulations, and our first remuneration report.
The Board and the Group as a whole continuously take into account corporate governance considerations whenmaking plans and setting out the Groups strategy and priorities.
Dear shareholder As a result of the premium listing both Sir Christopher Codrington, Bt.
and Mark Martin joined the Board on Nostrum attaches a high priority to good practice in 19 May 2014 as non-executive directors.
I am delighted corporate governance, the system by which the Group to welcome Sir Christopher and Mark to the Board.
isdirected and managed, and is committed to I am fortunate to act as chairman of a board of directors implementing good corporate governance practices possessing diverse sectoral experience, ages and inthe interests of all of our stakeholders.
Adopting geographic and ethnic backgrounds.
We value diversity andimplementing good corporate governance is on the Board and we will seek to foster diversity, including acoreprinciple of the Groups relations with investors, gender diversity, going forward.
We believe that the employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
directors have the appropriate mix of skills, experience, I am pleased with the way in which the Group has independence and knowledge to enable them to embraced and addressed the demands of the additional discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
regulatory obligations made applicable to the Group We pride ourselves on taking a practical rather than asaresult of the Company moving to a premium listing formalistic approach to corporate governance as we on the London Stock Exchange.
In particular, as regards endeavour to act in the interests of all our stakeholders.
the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the I am pleased with the way in which the Group has Financial Reporting Council, in the few areas where complied with the higher standards of corporate Nostrum does not fully comply with the UK Corporate governance applicable to it since the premium listing Governance Code the Company has valid reasons and am looking forward to maintaining our good forsuch non-compliance which are explained in this standards of corporate governance during the year ahead.
section of the Annual Report and on the governance section of Nostrums website http: www.
The scope of activity of our Board committees has changed significantly over the past 12 months as they have worked to fulfil their obligations under their terms ofreference and those under the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other regulatory Frank Monstrey requirements applicable to the Company as a result Chairman ofitspremium listing.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
