Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Lord Rose Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER, This Statement of corporate governance We embrace the sets out how we manage the Company I am pleased to present the Companys challenge of continuing to achieve the Boards strategic objectives Statement of corporate governance on to improve our corporate and optimise shareholder value.
The Board behalf of the Board.
governance reporting recognises the increasing importance of I wrote in last years annual report of the governance to the Group, in the context to shareholders.
Boards obligation to provide assurance of both the changing responsibilities that strategy is set, risks are evaluated and under the 2014 Code and the important operations are carried out knowledgeably, transformational projects being undertaken to transparently and with accountability.
deliver the long-term success of the Group.
That remains as true today.
The Board has LEADERSHIP always taken seriously its obligation to provide entrepreneurial leadership, and Whilst the Executive Directors are View more information about articulate its pioneering online retail strategy responsible for the day-to-day management corporate governance on pages openly and determinedly.
That strategy of the business, the entire Board leads the 66 to 73 requires an ability and willingness to assess Company and provides the debate and View more information online at the risks faced by the Group and by the constructive challenge to management www.
In this context the Board welcomes necessary to create accountability and the recognition by the FRC that effective drive performance.
We are mindful that development and delivery of a companys as the Group grows and the nature of the strategic objectives, its ability to seize new challenges it faces change, we need to opportunities and to ensure its longer term ensure that the Board personnel are those survival depend upon its identification, best placed to provide the appropriate understanding of, and response to, the constructive debate on the Groups risks it faces.
FRCs Guidance on Risk strategic direction.
This year, as part of Management, Internal Control and Related the annual Board performance review, the Financial and Business Reporting.
Board conducted a review of its skills and experience.
This review will form the basis of Board discussions about the desired make-up of the Board for the future needs of the business.
com In connection with the retirement of We embrace the challenge of continuing founding director Jason Gissing from the to improve our corporate governance Board in May 2014, the Board considered reporting to shareholders.
I am pleased to its succession plans for executive report that the Group won the Corporate management.
The Board discussed the Governance Reporting in the FTSE 250 senior management roles necessary to award at the Building Public Trust Awards support the growth of the business in UK 2014 in respect of the Groups 2013 retail but also for international expansion.
We are encouraged by The Board will continue to develop its this recognition of the Groups efforts to succession plans in 2015. ensure good governance reporting.
We will continue to keep our reporting under REMUNERATION AND RELATIONS WITH review and welcome any feedback from SHAREHOLDERS shareholders.
Incentivising our management team to ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING deliver the Groups transformational technology projects is important to the Our Annual General Meeting will be future of our business.
Informed by our held at 11 am on 15 May 2015 at discussions and consultations with our large Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, shareholders, I believe that our remuneration London, EC4A 2BB.
It provides an arrangements are the most appropriate way excellent opportunity to meet the Directors to incentivise the Executive Directors and and I would like to encourage our senior management to create and sustain shareholders to attend.
Further details on Lord Rose remuneration are set out in the Directors Chairman remuneration report on page 91.
Ocado Group plc ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPORTING 3 February 2015 We have in place an effective and robust process, which enables us to ensure that this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information for shareholders to properly assess the Groups position, performance, strategy and business model.
Further details are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 75.
