Corporate Governance introduction Chairmans statement on Governance Dear Shareholder Board and Committee composition It is with pleasure I present to you the Corporate Governance The composition of a Board needs to be reviewed regularly, Report, the aim of which is to provide insight into the governance particularly in periods of rapid growth.
This year, in the context framework operated by the Board and its Committees, as well as of the appointment of the Chief Operating Officer, the management their activities throughout the year.
Ensuring that we have robust of cost and the senior resource available below Board level, your and effective governance processes in place will play a key role in Board focused on the level of executive leadership that should the future success of the Company.
be represented on the Board going forward.
Last year, I reported that 2013 was a landmark year for the It concluded that there was both sufficient financial and strategic Company as it completed its transition from a private company to expertise amongst the members of the Board for the respective a well-respected public company.
2014 turned out to be as important.
Board positions of Chief Financial Officer and Director of Corporate First, we completed the monetisation of half our stake in Blocks 1, 3 Strategy to no longer be necessary.
Accordingly, Lisa Mitchell and and 4, enabling the Company to be cash strong in times of significant Dennis McShane stood down from the Board on 17 October and opportunity in our sector.
Secondly, we started to develop the 4 November 2014 respectively and I would like to thank them, exploration footprint of the Company in Asia with acquisitions of on behalf of the Board, for their commitment and contribution to offshore licences in Myanmar and Indonesia.
Thirdly, the Board also the success of the Company.
Bill Higgs joined the Board as Chief initiated the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc, a FTSE listed Operating Officer on 10 September 2014, having previously worked company with exploration and production interests in Asia, which for Chevron Corporation for 25 years in a number of senior roles completed on 2 March 2015.
The Company has now become an and, most recently, as Chief Executive Officer of Mediterranean enlarged exploration company with maturing future cash flows Oil & Gas plc.
There are two further changes that will affect the Board in 2015.
DrCarol Bell, a Non-Executive Director of Salamander Energy plc untilits acquisition by the Company, joined the Board on 2 March 2015.
Lyn Powell, a member of the Board since 2007, will step down atthe forthcoming 2015 AGM in May.
Lyn Powell has been involved inall elements of the Companys growth since his initial appointment and, most importantly, he has chaired the Corporate Responsibility Committee previously named the HSE Committee most effectively since joining.
The Board thanks him for his continued commitment and contribution and wishes him well.
Ensuring that we have robust and effective governance processes in place will play a key role in the future success of the Company.
46 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Corporate governance framework The Board has a coherent Audit Committee corporategovernance framework 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors withclearly defined responsibilities Main responsibilities are monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and reviewing effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a Remuneration Committee robust platform to realise the 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors and Company Chairman Companys strategy.
Main responsibilities are determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration framework for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and recommending and monitoring reward of the senior management team.
Executive Nomination Committee Board Committee 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors, 1 Executive Director and Company Chairman Chairman, 2 Executive Main responsibilities are regularly reviewing structure, size and composition Directors and 6 Independent of Board and identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Non-Executive Directors Technical Advisory Committee 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and 1 Executive Director Main responsibilities are advising the Board on technical aspects of operational business proposals and their potential risks and they are consistent with the Company strategy.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 4 independent Non-Executive Directors Main responsibilities are evaluating effectiveness of Groups Corporate Responsibility policies and systems as well as social, charitable and educational community projects across the Companys operations.
UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code applies to the year under review.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
As part of the 2014 external Board evaluation conducted by Socia Limited, the results from the evaluation concluded that the Company fully met the requirements of the Code.
The Board, along with itsown assessment of compliance with the Code, therefore concludes that during the year the Company has fully complied with all provisions of the Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the 2014 Code applies to all premium listed companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 1October 2014 and will, therefore, apply to the Company for the 2015 financial year.
The Board expects the Company to comply with all provisions of the 2014 Code and will report on its compliance in 2016 for the financial year ending 31December 2015.
During the year under review, Terms of Reference for Each year, the Board conducts a review of its effectiveness, and each of our Board Committees have been reviewed, updated and after careful consideration of the findings from the second external approved by the Board.
Board evaluation also undertaken during the year, has agreed the Reflecting the importance of corporate responsibility and how it priorities for next year.
Ron Blakely, the Senior Independent Director, underpins all the Companys activities, and taking into account the has also carried out a review of my performance with input from the recommendations from the Board Committee evaluation in 2013, other Non-Executive Directors.
Further details surrounding the 2014 the Board charged the Corporate Responsibility Committee to Board Evaluation process are set out on page 54.
Following this become the key platform for mitigating against non-financial risks review, I am satisfied that there is an appropriate balance of skills, Group-wide.
In addition to its key responsibility of monitoring the experience, independence and knowledge amongst the Board to safe and ethical conduct of our operations, as this affects our discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Furthermore, employees and the environment, the Committees mandate now each Board member has sufficient time to undertake their duties includes engagement with local communities, planning around the responsibly and effectively.
recent Ebola crisis, anti-bribery and corruption policies and external Board Committees greenhouse gas reporting.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Board Nicholas Smith Committees to enable it to carry out its functions effectively.
Chairman An overview of the Boards governance framework is set out above.
Recommendations identified from the evaluation of our Board Committees in 2013 have improved each Committees effectiveness in dispensing its respective duties on behalf of Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
