82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report on directors remuneration PARt 1 lEttER FROm tHE cHAIRmAN OF tHE REmUNERAtION cOmmIttEE Introduction Chairman David Arculus I am pleased to present our report on directors remuneration for 2014.
The 2014 annual remuneration report will be put forward for your consideration and approval by advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2015.
Members David Arculus, Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis and Glen Moreno In accordance with the UK remuneration reporting requirements, this report contains: A summary of the directors remuneration policy on p85.
The committee believes that The full policy was approved by shareholders at the Pearsons remuneration policy Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2014 and can be supports the companys strategy found on the Governance page of the companys website at www.
com governance to deliver sustained performance the annual remuneration report, on p89-106, describing andcreate long-term value inthe allaspects ofremuneration practice in 2014. interests of all stakeholders.
We believe this report clearly demonstrates the link David Arculus Chairman of remuneration committee between our remuneration policyand practice, and the companys strategy and performance, as well as our commitment to .
Principles of remuneration policy In this remuneration section: The purpose of the remuneration policy is to PARt 1: lEttER FROm tHE cHAIRmAN p82 support the companys strategy to deliver sustained PARt 2: REmUNERAtION POlIcY p85 performance and create long-term value in the PARt 3: REmUNERAtION REPORt p89 interests ofallstakeholders.
This is summarised in the panel overleaf.
terms of reference We continue to keep our remuneration policy under The committees full charter and terms of reference review in light of the prevailing social and economic areavailable on the Governance page of the conditions andthe impact of these on the companys companys website at www.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 83 PARt 1 lEttER FROm tHE cHAIRmAN OF tHE REmUNERAtION cOmmIttEE We believe those are, in concert, good indicators that REmUNERAtION POlIcY PRINcIPlES we are building the long-term value of Pearson.
These measures or others that contribute to them therefore 1.
Sustainability and affordability We seek a careful and form the basis of our annual budgets and strategic plans sustainable balance between market competitiveness, and the basis for annual and long-termincentives.
affordability and the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders, whilst also being what we did in 2014 mindful of pay conditions elsewhere in the Group and We consulted with our major shareholders and with the wider social and economic context.
The process shareholder representatives on the directors for setting levels of executive remuneration is robust remuneration policy prior to its publication.
following publication a number of shareholders expressed concern that the policy allowed the committee to 2.
Pay for performance A high proportion of total exercise discretion to approve remuneration elements remuneration is delivered as variable pay that is outside of the normal limits in exceptional and unforeseen directly linked to both short andlong-term circumstances.
In response to this, prior to the Annual performance of the company, through annual General Meeting, on 9 April 2014, and following further incentives that reward the achievement ofannual consultation, we issued a RNS statement to clarify the strategicgoals and long-term incentives that drive basis on which certain elements of the policy would long-term earnings and share price growth.
apply and, in particular, to define and limit when and how Performance conditions are sufficiently stretching remuneration arrangements outside the normal terms and recognise individual contribution as well asthe of the policy might be applied.
The policy was approved companys financial results.
at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2014.
Alignment We encourage executives to acquire Performance in 2014 at a glance and hold Pearson shares in line with shareholders In 2014, despite continuing challenging market interests.
Long-term incentives reward the conditions, we had a good competitive performance.
achievement of sustainable, long-term value creation Overall, we saw: that will be beneficial to shareholders.
We actively seek feedback from shareholders onall aspects of Growth in sales of 2% and in adjusted operating profit executive remuneration.
of 5% at constant exchange rates An increase in our dividend of 6% which was Pearsons Remuneration supporting strategy 23rd straight year of increasing our dividend above the Pearsons executive remuneration arrangements rate of inflation.
were reviewed last year to align with and support the Over the past ten years we have increased our dividend companys new strategy.
Executive remuneration at acompound annual rate of 7%, returning 2.9bn decisions have been made after consultation with to shareholders.
shareholders, careful consideration ofthe needs of the business, the transformation and reorganisation of the Remuneration in 2014 at a glance company, changes in roles and responsibilities, thepay Base salary 2% markets in which Pearson operates and pay elsewhere Allowances and benefits No change in arrangements in the organisation.
from 2013 Retirement benefits Pearsons strategy informs our remuneration philosophy Pay-out below target Annual incentives and policy and complements our more traditional financial Long-term incentives Nil vesting goals, which aretoachieve sustainable growth on three Note This reflects changes to remuneration for the chief executive and the key measures earnings, cash, and return on invested chief financial officer, not for the rest of the Pearson executive.
capital andto deliver reliable cash returns to our investors through healthy and growing dividends.
84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report on directors remuneration continued PARt 1 lEttER FROm tHE cHAIRmAN OF tHE REmUNERAtION cOmmIttEE Looking back to some specific aspects of policy For2014 and beyond, awards for this group of employees andpractice in 2014: will be subject to performance based on an earnings per share growth target.
We established maximum opportunities for each element of remuneration what weve planned for 2015 We changed the weighting of the performance metrics Looking forward, for 2015: under the Pearson long-term incentive plan from oneWe will continue to operate directors remuneration third on each measure to half on earnings per share inline with the approved remuneration policy and growth, one-third no change on return on invested anticipate putting the policy to shareholder vote next capital and one-sixth on relative total shareholder return atthe2017 Annual General Meeting We introduced a mandatory restriction on participants As approved in the 2013 directors remuneration ability to dispose of the 75% of vested long-term incentive report, for performance-related long-term incentive shares that are released after three years other than to awards for2015 and onwards, the averaging period for meet personal tax liability for a further two years and the calculation of relative total shareholder return will for the remaining 25% of vested shares to be subject to be moved to the period running up to the year end and continuing employment over the same period the length of the averaging period will be increased to We increased the mandatory shareholding guidelines to three months 300% ofsalary for the CEO and 200% of salary for other On long-term incentives, we have reduced the executive directors proportion of the maximum award that vests for These shareholding guidelines were also extended to threshold performance from 30% to 25% in line with other members of the Pearson executive at 100% institutional investors preferences of salary Based on our guidance for 2015, we will face a challenge We clarified the arrangements for malus and in delivering a pay-out under the long-term incentive strengthened the clawback provisions plan award for 2013.
The annual bonus share matching plan was ceased.
The committee welcomes the positive engagement with Thelast award under this plan will vest or not, subject shareholders on our approach to this years report on to performance, during 2016 directors remuneration and, specifically, on the issue of the vote against our annual remuneration report at the We undertook a regular periodic review of base salaries 2013 Annual General Meeting.
for 2014 taking into account general economic and market conditions, the level of increases made across The committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue the company as a whole, the remuneration of executives with shareholders regarding executive remuneration in similar positions in comparable companies, and and would therefore welcome any observations or individual performance questions that individual shareholders may wish to raise.
Annual incentives paid to executives for 2014 were I would like to thank my fellow members of the below target, as they were in 2013, reflecting below committee and the people who have assisted us for target performance in a tough trading environment their contribution over the past year.
There was the second consecutive nil pay-out on longFinally, as I step down from the board and from chairing term incentives, reflecting below threshold performance the committee, I look forward to handing over the reins for 2014 against the companys three-year targets for to my successor, Elizabeth Corley.
earnings per share growth, return on invested capital Yours sincerely, and relative total shareholder return To increase alignment with shareholder interests and thelong-term growth of the company, we reviewed the operation of the long-term incentive plan for the senior David Arculus Chairman of the remuneration committee leadership population below the Pearson executive.
