58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance overview from Glen Moreno, Chairman Dear shareholders, As you may have already seen elsewhere in this report, 2014 was a year in which we completed the restructure of Pearson, laying the foundations to strengthen our position as the worlds largest education company and embedding efficacy into all we do.
I would like to take this opportunity to share with you some insights as to how our board and governance framework has operated and evolved throughout the year to complement our transformation.
Learn more about our Transformation on p4-9 Governance principles Clear board roles and governance Our role and activities As a board we organise our work processes offer balance and around four major themes where we believe we can add value: governance, strategy, business performance and experience to our strong, focused people.
Our board calendar and agenda provide ample executive team, helping to drive time to focus on these themes and we have set out some examples of the business considered by the board, as well strategic and performance progress.
as the governance practices to which we adhere, on the pages that follow.
Learn more about Board meetings and activities on p63 UK corporate Governance code This year, as is required, we are reporting against the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The board believes that during 2014 the company was in full compliance with the Code.
See page 73 for our position on audit tendering and rotation.
A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
uk and we encourage readers to view our compliance schedule on the company website at www.
com governance Board and management In this Governance section: The Pearson board consists of senior executive lEADERSHIP & EFFEctIvENESS p60-69 management alongside a strong team of non-executive directors drawn from successful international businesses AccOUNtABIlItY p70-77 and education institutions with experience of corporate ENGAGEmENt p78-81 strategy, education, emerging markets, technology and consumer marketing.
REmUNERAtION p82-106 Board changes As is best practice, we continually ADDItIONAl DISclOSURES p107-112 assess and refresh the board to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance and diversity of skills and experience.
We will soon bid farewell to two trusted advisers, David Arculus and Ken Hydon, who have signalled OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 4 Governance 59 their intentions to stand down from the board at the Engagement See full section on p78-81 upcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, having each Engagement with shareholders and society as a whole is served the company for nine years.
Wewill miss their key to Pearsons mission to help people make progress in wise counsel and rigour as chairmen of the remuneration their lives through learning.
During the year, recognising and audit committees respectively, and we thank them this, we formalised our reputation & responsibility for their service to Pearson.
committee, headed by Vivienne Cox, whose focus During the past year we have also welcomed two new includes our reputation with stakeholders including non-executive directors to our board.
Elizabeth Corley investors and the education community and oversight joined us in May 2014 and in January 2015 we welcomed of Pearsons public commitments to society.
I am delighted to say that Elizabeth and Tim welcomed a number of shareholders to our Annual are to be appointed as our new remuneration and audit General Meeting which, as always, was a valuable committee chairmen respectively, following the AGM in opportunity for our board and senior management to April 2015.
Between them, Elizabeth and Tim bring a respond to shareholders views and questions.
wealth of business, finance and technology experience Remuneration See full section on p82-106 to Pearsons board, and will no doubt contribute fresh perspectives to the boards deliberations.
Learn more Our remuneration policy was reviewed last year to align about our Board of directors on p60-61 with the companys strategy and organisation and was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
We continue Board and executive structure and balance Our board to operate executive remuneration in line with the consists primarily of non-executive directors, who approved policy and at present do not anticipate seeking bring a strong independent viewpoint, complementing shareholder approval for our policy again until required to the executive perspectives of John Fallon and Robin do so at the 2017 AGM.
In addition, we invite the Pearson executive to attend a number of the boards sessions to bring insights This years report on directors remuneration refers to and thoughts from across the business.
Learn more about the changes we made in line with policy in 2014 to better the Pearson executive on p9 align executive director compensation with the interests of our shareholders and, to put our report into context, Board evaluation During 2014 we undertook an contains a summary of the approved directors  board evaluation process.
As always, remuneration policy report from 2013 which is not this assists us in identifying opportunities to refine our subject to a vote.
The report also deals with the significant processes, but the overall findings reflected a board which minority vote against the 2013 annual remuneration functions well, is fit for purpose and which has a strong report which the company received at the 2014 AGM.
sense of collegiality and support something which has served us well through our two-year transformation.
conclusion Learn more about the Board evaluation on p67 I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is Accountability See full section on p70-77 run, and how we align governance and our board agenda with the strategic direction of Pearson.
We always Throughout our transformation, our audit committee welcome questions or comments from shareholders, has played a vital role in overseeing both risk and either via our website www.
com or in person reporting matters.
Our refocused business has seen the at our Annual General Meeting.
introduction of a new financial reporting structure along the lines of our primary geographic markets, and our shift towards digital, services and emerging markets has brought new opportunities and risks strategic, operational and financial.
Learn more about our Principal Glen moreno Chairman risks and uncertainties on p34
