Governance and remuneration Governance and remuneration Table of contents Chairman's letter to shareholders 49 Board of Directors 52 Directors' report 54 The Board and its governance framework 56 The Board and its Committees The Directors, their independence and responsibilities 57 Operation of the Board in the year and its activities 57 Performance evaluation 58 Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest 58 Board Committees and their terms of reference 58 Internal control Wider aspects of internal control 59 Risk identification 59 Internal control framework 59 Internal control review 60 Going concern 60 Directors responsibilities statements 60 Corporate governance statements 61 The UK Corporate Governance Code statement of compliance 61 Reports of each Board Committee The Audit Committee 62 Letter from the chairman of the Audit Committee 62 Audit Committee composition and meetings 62 Significant matters considered by the Committee during 2013 14 63 Effectiveness of the external audit process 65 Auditor independence 65 Provision of non-audit services 65 Audit firm tendering 66 Internal audit 66 Fair, balanced and understandable FBU assessment 66 The Sustainability Committee 67 The Nomination Committee 68 Diversity policy 68 The Remuneration Committee 69 Directors' remuneration report 70 See separate description of contents on page 70 48 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Chairmans letter to shareholders Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for 2014 on behalf of the Board.
Part of my role, together with the Board, is to ensure that Pennon Group operates to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This provides a framework for the Board to deliver effectively and efficiently the Groups strategy to add shareholder value.
This is in the interests of the long-term success of the Company.
The Annual Report remains the principal means of reporting to our shareholders on the Boards governance policies and therefore I welcome this opportunity to set out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, latest 2012 edition, have been applied in practice.
The UK Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website, www.
co. uk 2014 49 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Governance and remuneration Chairmans letter to shareholders Continued Role of the Board and its effectiveness New governance and remuneration reporting My primary role as Chairman continues to be to provide We have revised our governance and corporate reporting leadership to the Board and to provide the right environment arrangements in accordance with the requirements of the to enable the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform updated UK Code and the new reporting regulations which effectively to promote the success of the Company for the came into effect for our 2013 14 financial reporting year.
The benefit of its shareholders.
In doing so we take account of the principal changes we have made to comply with these new interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, communities reporting requirements are: in which we operate and other interested stakeholders inclusion of a strategic report in the Annual Report this year including, in particular, Ofwat in relation to the business of our instead of a business review.
The strategic report contains a subsidiary, South West Water.
fair review of the Companys business, a description of the I believe that we continue to demonstrate that we have good principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and a governance in place and that we operate effectively and balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development cohesively as a Board.
As always, there is room for and performance of the Companys business during the improvement and each year we carry out a detailed year and the position of the Companys business at the end performance evaluation of the Board and each of the of the year.
In addition we set out the main trends and Committees as well as of the Directors and the Group General factors likely to affect the future development, performance Counsel & Company Secretary.
This year we decided to revert and position of the Companys business, information about to undertaking our review internally, which enabled us to environmental matters, the Companys employees and refresh our approach to performance evaluation and to the community issues as well as a description of the Companys searching questions we ask ourselves.
The results of this strategy, its business model and diversity information review are set out later in this report.
relating to the Group: additional information in the Audit Committee report setting It remains vital that the whole Board and not just the Nonout the significant issues relating to the financial statements executive Directors continue to have appropriate up-to-date that the Committee considered and addressed during the knowledge and understanding of both South West Water, as it year as well as the key areas of focus of the Committee enters into a new regulatory period having successfully during the year: and achieved 'enhanced' status for its business plan with Ofwat, and Viridor, as it continues to transform the business into a a restructured and enhanced Directors remuneration report recycling and resources and energy EfW and landfill energy including the single total figure table which relates to the business.
Accordingly I have ensured that the Board has average remuneration of our three Executive Directors as received presentations in the last year from senior we do not have a Group chief executive officer.
management on material developments including South West Waters business plan for the next regulatory period and developments in respect of the Viridor EfW business.
Governance and subsidiary boards During the last year we have enhanced the governance in our two subsidiary boards, South West Water and Viridor, by establishing Committees to these boards chaired by these companies non-executive directors.
For South West Water this also demonstrates our support for Ofwats board leadership, transparency and governance principles which were formally published in January 2014.
Our corporate governance framework, including that of our subsidiaries, is set out on page 56 of this governance report.
50 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Shareholder engagement The Group Director of Finance continues to report to the Board regularly on major shareholders views Appropriate and regular communications with our about the Group, and every six months the shareholders is recognised by the Board as vital to Companys brokers give a presentation to the Board ensuring that we are able to explain our actions and on equity market developments and shareholder that shareholders are able to provide feedback on the perceptions.
This ensures that the Board is fully matters they consider to be important and any issues briefed on the views and aspirations of our which require addressing.
Before the AGM last year it became apparent that Those shareholders that attend our AGMs will know one of our major shareholders was concerned about that I also actively encourage their participation and the ongoing high level of non-audit fees paid to our welcome questions on any business issues affecting external auditors.
As a consequence we took steps the Group.
As usual at our 2014 AGM on 31 July all to reassure that shareholder that we would be our Directors intend to be present together with a reviewing our external audit arrangements in the number of directors and executives of South West forthcoming year.
The audit tender process we Water and Viridor to meet with shareholders to carried out, culminating in the recommendation to the further explain the business of the Group.
AGM this year of the appointment of a new external auditors, is set out in our Audit Committee report on Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance page 66 of this governance report.
Code and other requirements Regular dialogue with the Companys institutional I am once again pleased to report that throughout the shareholders is maintained through a comprehensive year the Company complied with the provisions and investor relations programme both in the UK and applied the main principals set out in the UK Europe.
During the year some 70 meetings and 11 Corporate Governance Code latest 2012 edition conference calls were held with institutional with no exceptions to report.
In My introduction to this corporate governance report addition the Company was represented at four and the following sections are made in compliance utilities conferences hosted by investment banks with the UK Code, FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FCA specifically aimed at the fund management Disclosure & Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and community.
All were attended by the Group Director cover the work of our Board and its Committees: our of Finance and the Companys Investor Relations internal control systems and procedures including Manager.
I, together with the Chief Executive of risk management: our corporate governance South West Water and the Chief Executive of Viridor, statements relating to share capital and control: and also participated when appropriate.
our going concern and Directors responsibilities statements.
Finally, this year in accordance with the new reporting requirements the Board is confirming on page 61 to shareholders that it considers that the Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Ken Harvey Chairman 23 June 2014 To view our online annual report: www.
co. uk 2014 51 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
