Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 52 Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement Full details of the performance conditions are set out on pages 56and 57.
The Companys excellent performance in 2014 has resulted Remuneration in annual bonus payments for 2014 at 91.6% of the maximum potential bonus for Jeff Fairburn, the Group Chief Executive, Introduction and at 91.3% of the maximum potential for the other Executive I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration Report for 2014, Directors.
Bonuses will be paid in cash up to the value of base which includes my statement, a summary of the Directors salary, the remainder will be deferred and paid in Bonus Share Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the AGM last Scheme awards.
year and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended Executive Directors did not have long term incentive plan awards 31 December 2014.
A resolution to approve the Annual Report on with performance conditions ending in 2014, which means that Remuneration will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
no awards will vest this year.
The Committee has previously During the year, the Remuneration Committee the Committee awarded options under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 with a undertook its regular annual review of the Executive Directors 10-year performance condition based on the Companys Capital base salaries, finalised the performance conditions and targets Return Plan to return 1.9bn of surplus capital to shareholders by for annual bonus for 2014 and undertook the annual review of the December 2021, being the market capitalisation of the Company Chairmans fees.
when the plan was announced in 2012.
The Committee also reviewed long term incentive plan awards 2015 remuneration for senior management below Board level.
The Committee originally issued awards to 130 of the Groups senior management The focus of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors below Board level.
The Committee has agreed that additional is to have a significant proportion of remuneration performanceawards should be made in 2015 to employees who have either related and linked closely to the Companys strategy.
been promoted or recruited to a senior role.
The LTIP has been Performance conditions for 2015 annual bonus will be unchanged successful in retaining many key members of the Persimmon team from 2014 and will again be primarily linked to profit and cash whilst also helping to attract new senior management at a time in generation targets, with two non-financial metrics.
Again, 10% the cycle when demand for experienced staff is high.
of the annual bonus will depend on customer care performance and the Committee will also have the discretion to reduce the 2014 remuneration outcomes total bonus by up to 10% if health and safety performance is not The Group delivered a strong performance again in 2014 and the maintained at a high level.
business is growing and continuing to meet its strategic objectives.
When Jeff Fairburn was appointed Group Chief Executive, the As set out on page 7, the Groups strategy is to build a larger, Committee deliberately granted him a lower award of shares stronger business by improving margins, investing in high quality under the LTIP 2012 than that of his predecessor, pending their land and increasing profitability, thereby generating strong cash assessment of his performance.
The Committee now considers flows.
We remain focused on our overall business performance that Jeffs excellent performance and strong leadership since his and the Groups reputation and sustainability, hence our priorities appointment merit an additional award of an option under the include customer satisfaction and health and safety.
LTIP 2012 to bring his total award to the maximum approved by In line with the policy approved by shareholders, the Committee shareholders for the Group Chief Executive.
Jeff will therefore set the Executive Directors 2014 annual bonus targets primarily be granted an option over 241,600 shares in 2015 with an initial on stretching financial metrics, being profit before tax and cash market value exercise price.
generation up to 50% and 40% of bonus potential, respectively, When undertaking the annual review of salaries for Executive but for the first time also introduced conditions relating to customer Directors, the Committee agreed that base salary should satisfaction up to 10% of bonus potential and health and safety be increased by 3% for the Executive Directors, in line performance which could act as a downward modifier of up to with the average annual review increase for Persimmons 10% of any bonus earned.
Jeff Fairburn, Group Chief Executive, salaried workforce.
could earn a potential bonus of up to 200% of his base salary for 2014: the maximum bonus potential for the other Executive The Committee would welcome your support for the remuneration Directors was 150% of base salary.
resolution to be tabled at the forthcoming AGM.
The Group achieved profit before goodwill impairment of 475m for 2014, which exceeded that of the previous year by 44%, as a result Jonathan Davie this target has been met in full.
The Group generated 388.7m of free Chairman Remuneration Committee 23 February 2015 cash generation during 2014 and this target has also been met in full.
The customer care annual bonus performance condition was based on the number of customers who would recommend Persimmon to a friend, as measured by the NHBCs Customer Satisfaction Survey.
The Committee set the targets for this part ofthe performance condition at the Group achieving a score of at least 71%.
The Groups score during the period was 71.9%, meaning that this performance condition was only partly achieved.
