Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 67 Annual report and accounts 2014 Following my appointment to the role of Chairman in August, Iam pleased to present my first Corporate Governance report for 2014.
Board effectiveness Dear shareholder At the end of 2013, an externally facilitated evaluation was carried Following my appointment to the role of Chairman in August, I am out by Sheena Crane.
The observations received as a result pleased to present my first Corporate Governance report for 2014. of this process are detailed on page 79.
This year, I conducted Having been a member of the Board for seven years, I have seen individual one-to-one interviews with each member of the Board, the Company develop considerably over the years, adapting to which focused on key themes and recommendations using the the changes required at each stage of growth and development.
feedback received from last years evaluation.
The outcome of these interviews will be presented in next years report.
This year has been a challenging one for the Company.
Whilst we have grown our backlog to a record level of US$18.9 billion, the Governance rephasing of certain eld development activities under existing As Chairman, it is my responsibility to provide our Board with the contracts and lower expectations on the delivery of some key opportunity to consider all governance developments as they projects has resulted in us having to issue two profits warnings, impact the Company and for ensuring that the Directors receive the first in May revising our earnings guidance for 2014, and the appropriate training on relevant issues.
Whilst recent statutory second in November for 2015.
The second warning gave rise changes introduced within the UK over the last few years do to a sharp drop in our share price, ultimately resulting in our exit not technically apply to Petrofac as a Jersey company, we have, from the FTSE 100 in December.
Our difficulties are not entirely where practicable, endeavoured to comply voluntarily with divorced from the current external environment but nevertheless recommended changes.
It is our view that greater accountability three projects in particular played a significant part in our poorer and enhanced disclosure improves stakeholder engagement and than anticipated performance and management is questioning will ultimately promote an overall better governance structure for how it might have executed these projects more effectively.
It is my view that the Company has maintained At the start of 2015, a lessons learned review was conducted effective governance procedures throughout the year.
to understand better some of the issues highlighted from key projects.
Priorities for 2015 Over the last few years, the development of the Companys As we head into 2015, the Boards primary focus is on execution governance framework has been extremely important and, both in terms of strategic implementation and operational delivery.
throughout this report, there are examples of how we are Together with management, the Board will ensure that project endeavouring to attain our corporate goals whilst underpinning our delivery and risk management remain key priorities as we look core values and building on our strategy as we look to the future.
towards an unpredictable industry environment.
Attention will continue on succession planning throughout the organisation to Board changes ensure we have the right people in the right roles, thereby allowing Following Norman Murrays departure from the Board in August us to continue our goal of striving for operational excellence.
for compassionate reasons, the Nominations Committee took the opportunity to review and restructure some of our Committee Rijnhard van Tets memberships.
Further details are set out in the respective reports Chairman on pages 82 to 112.
24 February 2015 I am pleased to report that after a detailed search process we will announce the appointment of Matthias Bichsel as a Nonexecutive Director on 25 February 2015.
Matthias will, subject to shareholder approval, join the Board in May 2015 and the Board looks forward to working with him.
Further details are set out on page 83.
