Chairmans Introduction to Governance The Board believes that high standards ofcorporate governance contributes to Playtechs performance and continued success.
Alan Jackson, Chairman Dear Shareholder We also held an investor day for institutional shareholders and sector analysts at which we demonstrated certain of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Playtechs Groups new products.
The Board continues to strive to ensure Governance Reports to shareholders.
The Board believes that the Groups governance structure protects the sustainability that high standards of corporate governance contributes of its businesses and the communities in which it operates, to Playtechs performance and continued success.
It has while maximising shareholder value and treating all shareholders been a busy year for the Group during which time the fairly.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way Board has been able to provide strategic leadership and I in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its would like to pass on my gratitude for the enthusiasm and definitions of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all dedication which the Directors and senior management have define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
During this busy time, we have, however, continued to focus on ensuring that we have an appropriate The Board is cognisant of the need to strike a careful balance governance framework in place.
to ensure that shareholders and other stakeholders are appropriately protected by robust processes and procedures The Board has confidence in the future of the Group and while providing an environment that fosters an entrepreneurial sees significant growth opportunities, and remains focused spirit that allows our senior management team and employees on looking for such opportunities in regulated and soon-to-be to continue to deliver the year-on-year growth that we regulated markets.
Changes in the regulatory frameworks have achieved in recent years This balance enables us to in key markets have led to enhanced engagement with clearly focus on the key risks facing the Group but to be regulators in terms of us applying for, holding and maintaining flexible enough in our approach to accommodate changes regulatory licences.
We successfully applied for all relevant resulting from developments in our strategy or changes in the licences required under the new UK licensing regime, which regulatory environment.
We also worked closely with regulators in markets such as Italy to assist with problems We have set out in the following sections how we seek faced by the local regulator arising from the proliferation of to manage the principal risks and uncertainties facing the unlicensed operators.
business, more details on our governance framework and have sought to explain how our corporate governance practises During 2014, we undertook significant work with PwC support our strategy.
on an internal audit exercise covering key areas of our business both in terms of a review of the effectiveness of The annual general meeting AGM is an important opportunity our processes and procedures, together with focused work for the Board to meet with shareholders, particularly those who on the identification and mitigation of risk.
To bolster our may not otherwise have the chance to engage with the Board efforts in this area, we have recently recruited Robert Penfold, and senior management.
Our 2015 AGM is scheduled for an experienced risk professional with significant sector 10.00 am on 20 May 2015 at The Sefton Hotel, Douglas, Isle of experience, as our Head of Internal Audit.
Man and we look forward to seeing you there.
We continued to listen to and understand the views of our shareholders.
In addition to the usual processes, we met with institutional shareholders, particularly around results announcements and at different investor conferences with a focus on the strategic vision of the Group and the quickly Alan Jackson evolving developments in our industry in terms of innovation, Chairman regulation and tax.
26 February 2015 34 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance v38.
