Chairmans introduction to governance COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE strategy, structures and processes in place to ensure In this section: good governance and stewardship, and to facilitate Relations with shareholders 50 future growth.
Leadership 51 The Groups risk management processes were further Board objectives 51 strengthened during the year with the establishment Roles and responsibilities 51 of the Governance Committee.
This is an executive Committees 53 committee responsible for oversight of all risks, Directors biographies 55 and of the risk management process, including the identification, monitoring and mitigation of risk, which Effectiveness 56 reports, via the Chief Executive Officer, to the Risk & CSR Composition of the Board 56 Committee.
Further details can be found on page 66.
Board meetings and attendance 56 Performance of the Board 57 Progress has been made with succession planning as detailed in the report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Nominations Committee 58 on page 58.
At the end of January 2014, Colin Balmer Accountability 59 stepped down as a Director after over ten years on Risk management and internal control 59 the Board of QinetiQ.
Colins in-depth experience of Management and control of US subsidiaries 61 government and knowledge of the Companys business Report of the Audit Committee 62 was an invaluable resource during a period of great Report of the Risk & CSR Committee 66 transition for QinetiQ.
In March 2014, Susan Searle was appointed as an additional Non-executive Director and Report of the Security Committee 68 her experience of commercialising new technologies will Directors remuneration report 69 provide a fresh perspective on the Companys strategy Annual statement 69 and stewardship.
Report of the Remuneration Committee 69 During the year, changes in regulation have led to Remuneration Policy 73 considerable work by the Board and the Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration 84 and Audit Committees.
The work of the Remuneration Directors report 93 Committee in relation to changes in remuneration Directors responsibility statements 96 regulation has been detailed by the Chair of that Independent auditors report 97 Committee in the Directors remuneration report on page 69.
The Board has considered the new reporting The Board continues to consider good governance to be requirement of fair, balanced and understandable and a key element in its stewardship of the Group, providing asked the Audit Committee to give assurance that the a foundation from which to build value and promote the relevant systems and processes are in place to support long-term success of the Company within a framework that requirement.
Details can be found in the Audit of prudent and effective systems of internal control.
Committee report on pages 62 to 65.
The Boards role in the oversight of strategy and During this period of change, the Board continues to leadership was pivotal during the year.
At the end of maintain a dialogue with key investors and to make itself 2013, the executive leadership team was refreshed available to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
with the formation of the Operating Committee, which The governance process will continue to evolve as the includes the leaders from the UK and EMEA businesses.
Group takes shape, and to take account of future The presentations by Operating Committee members at changes in regulation and best practice.
the Board strategy meeting in October 2013 provided a valuable opportunity for Board members to review Mark Elliott and discuss the objectives and goals of those businesses Chairman directly with the business leaders.
In addition, the 22 May 2014 strategic review of the US Services division has been a key focus of the Board, both in terms of agreeing the strategic aims of the Group and its general direction of travel, in overseeing the progress of the review and the changes which will take place as a result: and in ensuring that the re-configured Group will have the appropriate 48 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report: Governance Financial statements Additional information Compliance QinetiQ is subject to the provisions of the 2010 and 2012 versions of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
The UK Code and associated guidance are publicly available on the Corporate Governance page of the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
An overview of the Groups corporate governance arrangements can be found on the QinetiQ website at www.
The Board considers that QinetiQ has complied with the provisions of both versions of the UK Code throughout the last financial year.
This statement provides details of the way the principles of the UK Code have been applied during the year.
49 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
