GOVERNANCE 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance at the Annual General Meetings in 2014 and he joined the Boards As we evolve and transform as Chief Financial officer in September.
Duncan stood down from the Boards in September.
I would like to welcome Nick to our our businesses, we are proposing Boards and to thank Duncan for his contribution to the Group.
to simplify and modernise our Looking ahead, Lisa Hook, our Senior Independent Director, will have served for nine years as a Non-Executive Director as of this corporate structure to promote years Annual General Meetings.
Lisa has kindly agreed to serve for a further term of one year to provide continuity while the greater transparency of Nominations Committee leads the process for refreshing the Boards and to ensure there is a smooth transition of responsibilities.
shareholders economic interests I am grateful to Lisa for agreeing to this.
Further details of the work of the Nominations Committee are set out in the report on page 74. in the combined businesses of Board evaluation the Group.
An externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards and their Committees was last undertaken in 2011.
In accordance with the UK Code, the Corporate Governance Committee appointed an Introduction to Corporate Governance external facilitator, Lorna Parker, to conduct an independent The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and effectiveness review for 2014.
Details of the review, which RELXGroup plc are committed to high standards of corporate confirmed that the Boards and their Committees continue to governance and believe that such standards are integral to the function effectively, are set out on page 69. success of the Group.
Our corporate governance arrangements have been updated periodically to ensure they reect best Following the changes to the Boards during the year and taking practice as it has developed.
The corporate structure has served into account the outcome of the effectiveness review, I believe that the Group well to date, but as the businesses have evolved under the Boards and the Committees operate effectively and have an our strategy to become an information solutions provider, the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge Boards considered it an appropriate time to undertake a review of of the Group and diversity to ensure that they continue to do so.
the corporate structure to ensure it remains appropriate for the Additionally, all of our Directors continue to contribute effectively modern operating environment.
The Directors are proposing and are committed to their roles.
Therefore, on the recommendation certain changes which are designed to promote greater of the Nominations Committee, they will all stand for re-election transparency of shareholders economic interests in the atthe Annual General Meetings in April 2015.
The biographical combined businesses and comparability between both parent details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 62 and 63. companies share prices.
Importantly, these changes do not affect the economic interests or voting rights of any shareholder.
Simplied, Modernised and More Transparent Corporate Dividend and capital rights are unchanged.
A detailed description Structure, Equalisation Arrangements and Corporate of the proposed changes is set out in this introduction.
EntityNames During 2014, the Boards carried out a review of the Groups The Boards have also put in place policies and procedures that corporate structure, share listings, equalisation arrangements promote corporate responsibility, accountability and probity, and and corporate entity names to explore ways in which they might be include the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct which sets simplied and modernised.
Certain changes have recently been the standard for our corporate and individual behaviour.
The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all Directors and made and others are being proposed to shareholders at the employees of the Group and more information on its application Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier canbe found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 41.
These changes will be cost and profit neutral and none of these changes impact the economic or voting The Group is listed in the UK, the US and the Netherlands and interests of any shareholder.
In particular, dividend and capital therefore it is subject to corporate governance requirements in distribution rights are unaffected.
All parent company guarantees those jurisdictions.
This Corporate Governance Report describes over debt are also unaffected.
the Groups governance arrangements and the work of the Boards and their Committees.
It is intended to provide shareholders with Corporate Structure a clear view of how the Group has complied with the applicable Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are separate, corporate governance codes during the year.
Through the end of 2014 they jointly regard to compliance with corporate governance codes and in owned two companies, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed particular the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Finance BV.
Effective 25 February 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC and Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the UK Code Reed Elsevier NV transferred their direct ownership interests in areset out on page 68.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV to their jointly owned company Reed Elsevier Group plc and named this newly-combined single group Board changes and succession entity RELX Group plc.
As a result, RELX Group plc now holds all In last years introduction to Corporate Governance, I reported the Groups businesses, subsidiaries and nancing activities.
that Nick Luff had been identied to succeed Duncan Palmer as Together Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and RELX Group plc Chief Financial officer at a date which was to be determined.
I am and its subsidiaries and joint ventures comprise the Reed pleased to report that shareholders approved Nicks appointment Elsevier combined businesses.
indd 66 06 03 2015 09:05 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 67 Shareholders in Reed Elsevier PLC, the London and New York publicly listed entity, hold a 52.9% economic interest in the combined businesses.
Reed Elsevier PLC owns a 50% direct holding in RELX Group plc and has a 5.8% shareholding in Reed Elsevier NV, the Amsterdam and New York publicly listed entity.
All other shareholders other than Reed Elsevier PLC in Reed Elsevier NV hold a 47.1% economic interest in the combined businesses.
In order to simplify the corporate structure and make the respective economic interests ofthe two parent companies shareholders more transparent it is being proposed that Reed Elsevier PLCs 5.8% shareholding in Reed Elsevier NV be replaced by a 2.9% direct non-voting shareholding in RELX Group plc.
As a result, Reed Elsevier PLCs direct equity holding in RELX Group plc will become 52.9% and Reed Elsevier NVs direct equity holding in RELX Group plc will become 47.1%, which aligns with their shareholders respective economic interests.
Simplication of Corporate Structure Revised corporate structure, reecting the changes that became effective 25 February 2015 and those being proposed to shareholders: External shareholders economic interest in the 31 December 2014 25 February 2015 Proposed 1 July 2015 Reed Elsevier combined businesses: 52.9% 47.1% 52.9% 47.1% 52.9% 47.1% Reed Reed Reed Reed RELX RELX Elsevier Elsevier Elsevier Elsevier PLC NV 5.8% PLC NV PLC NV 50% 50% 52.9% 47.1% Reed Elsevier Group plc RELX Group plc RELX Group plc Elsevier Reed Finance BV These percentages reect the respective equity interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in RELX Group plc, subject to shareholder approval.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV will each continue to have equal voting rights in RELX Group plc, thus retaining the current 50% 50% joint voting control of the combined businesses.
Equalisation Arrangements Subject to shareholder approval of the issuance of additional Presently the equalisation ratio of Reed Elsevier PLC to Reed bonus shares by Reed Elsevier NV, the bonus issue, the changes to Elsevier NV shares is such that one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary the number of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs and the requisite amendments to the Governing Agreement, will all be share is generally intended to confer equivalent economic effective as of 1 July 2015. interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
At its Annual General Meeting in April 2015, Reed Elsevier NV is Corporate Entity Names proposing a resolution to issue additional bonus ordinary shares Along with the simplication and modernisation of the corporate to existing Reed Elsevier NV shareholders on the basis of 0.538 structure, the Boards undertook a review of the names of the bonus shares for each share held.
If approved by shareholders, corporate entities.
Following that review, as already noted, the this will result in one ordinary share of Reed Elsevier NV Boards determined that as part of the transfer of ownership of conferring equivalent economic interests to one ordinary share Elsevier Reed Finance BV from Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed ofReed Elsevier PLC.
The reduction in the per share economic Elsevier NV to Reed Elsevier Group plc it was appropriate to name interests of Reed Elsevier NV shareholders as a result of the the newly-combined single group entity that holds all businesses, increase in the number of Reed Elsevier NV shares will be subsidiaries and nancing activities, RELX Group plc.
The Boards correspondingly offset by the number of additional shares each believe this shorter and more modern name reects the Reed Elsevier NV shareholder receives in the bonus issue, leaving transformation of the Company to a technology, content and the economic interest of each shareholder unchanged.
Reed analytics driven business while at the same time maintaining the Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs on the New York Stock link with its proud heritage.
The Boards are proposing to Exchange will also be adjusted so that they each represent one shareholders at the Annual General Meetings in 2015 to also change Reed Elsevier PLC or one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share from the corporate names of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV to their current 4 to 1 and 2 to 1 ratios respectively.
RELX PLC and RELX NV, respectively.
There will not be any brand or name changes for any customer-facing products or business units.
By moving from the current 1.538 to 1 to a new 1 to 1 equalisation ratio between Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary Shareholder Approval shares, capital rights on a per share basis, dividends per share As noted, certain of the structural changes and the change of name on a gross basis including, with respect to the dividend on Reed of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax credit and NV, will require the approval of shareholders.
A more detailed adjusted earnings per share all will be readily identiable as description of the resolutions to be put to the Annual General substantially equivalent between ordinary shares as well as their Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in April 2015 respective ADRs, subject only to the prevailing currency are set out in the respective Notices of Annual General Meeting.
exchange rates between pounds sterling, euros or US dollars.
This will also make it simpler to compare the prices of Reed Anthony Habgood Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares as well as Chairman their respective ADRs.
