STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 GOVERNANCE Every year the board has a programme of key items to consider and In my statement on pages 2 and 3, I said also focuses on the strategic issues for the Company, some of which are shown on page 52.
The board delegates certain responsibilities that we need to be trustworthy and that to its committees to assist it in carrying out its functions.
During 2014 expectations of companies such as ours our remuneration committee reviewed the provisions of the updated UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 and, are, with every good reason, very high.
It is my duty, together with the board, to  ,  ensure that the principles on matters such of the sale of the Healthcare business and the subsequent return of as leadership, board effectiveness, financial cash and share capital consolidation in June 2014.
Our nomination committee led the process to recruit a new non executive accountability and risk management underpin director and Carl-Peter Forster joined the board in June 2014.
Talent everything we do and are rigorously applied.
and succession continued to be a focus of 2014 with regard to the board and senior management and the nomination committee had The proposed offer from Ball Corporation the opportunity to meet more informally with senior management.
see page 1 does not affect or alter the A key strength of our board lies in its diversity, across a range of measures, including skills, experience, gender and nationality.
The boards duties in any respect.
action plan to enhance diversity within the senior management functions The board sets the tone for the Company by the way in which continues to be successfully developed, details of which can be found itconductsitself,  on page 29. assessment of appropriate risk and ethical matters.
The board Integrity and trust continue to be more important than ever in todays believes that good corporate governance is compliance with codes business world and the board and I will continue to provide leadership of practice together with a strong sense of value and desire to do what to the business as a whole and build upon the high standards of good is right for employees, shareholders and all other stakeholders.
governance that have been implemented to date.
Our responsibilities as During the year, the board spent time reviewing the Companys a board will continue until such time as the proposed Ball transaction longer term strategy and direction and completed the divestment completes, when I and my fellow non executive directors will resign of the Companys Healthcare business as discussed in the strategic fromoffice.
The divestment of this business allows the Company to focus Stuart Chambers on being the best beverage can maker in the world, which the board is Chairman committed to achieve through its business model see pages 16 and 17.
On the approach by Ball, we established a defence committee reporting to the board.
This was a new situation for Rexam, and I am pleased at how our solid governance principles and clear processes helped guide us through and manage the approach.
The board continued its programme of visiting its overseas businesses which enables the non executive directors to deepen their knowledge and understanding of the day to day functioning of the beverage can CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT business.
The board travelled to Spain, Europes second largest This corporate governance report and other disclosures set out on beverage can market, to see our can making business, meet with pages 47 to 86 make up the directors report.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE We continued to actively engage with our shareholders to explain our This corporate governance report has been prepared in accordance business model and strategy, and the steps we are taking to deliver with the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 the Code.
The board I am pleased to be able to report that we made good progress against has also considered, in advance of the commencement date for the the actions agreed following the 2013 board evaluation.
Our 2014 Company, the principles and provisions of the updated Code published board evaluation was facilitated by myself, the senior independent by the FRC in September 2014 2014 Code to ensure that processes .
Asaboard, wehaveidentified and procedures are in place to apply the principles and provisions of areas of development to ensure that we continue to operate in an the 2014 Code.
open and transparent way and constructively challenge and support The Code and the 2014 Code can be viewed on the www.
The board evaluation process and outcomes are website.
This report, together with the remuneration report, describes more fully described on pages 53 and 54. how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
It is the boards view that throughout the year, 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, the Company has complied with the Code.
