Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman Furthermore, the board has decided to update the risk management section Dear shareholders of the Report to incorporate its policy relating to malus and claw back for On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2014 directors performance related payments.
Both sections being the only sections remuneration report the Remuneration Report, for which we seek your containing material changes to the Remuneration Policy are identified in support at our annual general meetings AGMs, in London in April, and in italics in this Report.
Other minor clarification and contextual changes have PerthinMay.
been made to reflect the revised Remuneration Policy becoming effective in The Remuneration Report is designed to demonstrate the link between our 2015, but these are not marked.
A version that shows the comparisons Groups strategy, its performance, and the remuneration outcomes for our between our 2013 and 2014 Policy Reports is, however, available on the executives, particularly the executive directors.
With a view to delivering sustainable returns to shareholders over time, In the absence of circumstances which may necessitate a change to the Rio Tinto takes a long-term approach to its activities, and this means Remuneration Policy, it is our intention that the Policy will next be put before concentrating on developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations that shareholders for a vote at our AGMs in 2018.
The contextual changes referred are capable of providing competitive returns throughout business cycles.
Our to above are designed to avoid the need to update the Remuneration Policy executives performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy only applies to the legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
remuneration of our directors, it is the Committees intention that the broad Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management policy principles will continue to inform the way in which our non-director key personnel, being those persons having authority and responsibility for management personnel on the Executive Committee are remunerated.
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key The Remuneration Policy describes among other things: our executive management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director remuneration structure: the details of the discretions available to the members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee comprises Committee: our approach to remuneration on recruitment: the details of the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group executives service contracts: and how we treat leavers.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form of listed on pages 49 and 52, which also show the positions held during the year base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund and or a cash and dates of appointment.
allowance to contribute to a pension fund, the receipt of certain benefits, and performance-related remuneration.
Each element is described in the Shareholders will be aware that we have to comply with UK and Australian Remuneration Policy.
legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules are different.
We have structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders vote on all The majority of the remuneration of executives will normally be performancethree resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
related, and is provided in the form of variable short and long-term incentives.
This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of In relation to the short-term incentive plan STIP, the Committee each year remuneration policy, which summarises our compensation policies and sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, target and practices the Remuneration Policy : and the annual report on remuneration, outstanding.
Target performance is intended to be stretching, and is typically which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been applied the equivalent to budget for the year.
I want to remind you of our policy relating to the disclosure of measures, The Remuneration Policy is once again subject to a binding vote at our 2015 weightings and targets.
In relation to the long-term incentive plan LTIP, AGMs for UK law purposes.
The Implementation Report including this these will all be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of each five-year statement is subject to an advisory vote for UK law purposes.
In relation to the STIP, we will, when it comes to Remuneration Report as a whole is subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 disclosure, distinguish between safety, financial and individual goals.
In the AGMs for Australian law purposes.
area of safety goals, we have disclosed and will continue to disclose the measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year.
In the area of For the purposes of UK regulations on remuneration reporting, the financial and individual goals, we have disclosed, and will continue to disclose, Remuneration Policy will, if the resolution is passed, become effective in at the beginning of each year, the measures and weightings only, because we respect of payments to directors from the date of the second of our AGMs regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, as we said in the 7 May 2015.
Remuneration Report last year, we intended to disclose, and have in this The board presented to shareholders a policy for the remuneration of its Implementation Report disclosed, the targets and outcomes for 2014 directors for the first time at the 2014 AGMs.
Following approval at the 2014 retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on AGMs, the Remuneration Policy, for the purposes of the UK regulations, grounds of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why and give an became effective in respect of payments to directors from 8 May 2014.
While indication of when they would be disclosed.
the board intended the Remuneration Policy put to shareholders at the 2014 The chart on page 85 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery of the AGMs to apply for three years, it has taken the decision to present you with an components of remuneration, using 2014 as an example.
This emphasises the updated Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding vote at the long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
This is because the board has decided to seek approval for the proposed change to the contractual notice periods for the chief executive and the chief financial officer announced, subject to shareholder consent, on 23 October 2014 by way of an update to the Remuneration Policy.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN You will see several mechanisms in the Remuneration Report that are 2015 decisions intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and executives.
The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executives and, for the We have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of 50 per cent of any executive directors and the majority of the Executive Committee, made annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vesting deferred for three adjustments in line with the base salary budgets applying to the broader years.
The performance measures under our long-term remuneration plans employee population.
are structured to support and incentivise the creation of long-term The base salary increases for Alan Davies and Jean-Se bastien Jacques are shareholder value.
In addition, should circumstances warrant, we have specific adjustments which reflect the additional responsibilities and broader reserved to the Committee such discretions as enable it to safeguard against portfolios transferred to them from the former Energy product group the return experience of shareholders being materially misaligned with the announced on 27 February 2015.
Details are set out on page 82 of the reward experience of executives.
We want the remuneration outcomes Implementation Report.
properly to reflect the Groups overall performance.
We also have meaningful share ownership requirements for our executives as described in the The quantum of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2015 is Implementation Report.
broadly similar to those made in 2014.
There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of how our Safety, cost and capital expenditure reductions, and cash flow management dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committees decisions.
In 2013, will continue to feature prominently in the individual objectives for executives we added a new performance measure to our Performance Share Plan PSP, in 2015. namely the relative EBIT margin improvement measure.
We did this because Further details are provided in the Implementation Report.
many of our owners had expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate some diversification beyond total shareholder return TSR.
We extended the Governance and owners views performance period of the PSP from four to five years and have materially It has been and continues to be our intention to be alert to evolving best reduced the pay-out for threshold performance.
We have ceased using share practice and to the views and guidance given to us in the conversations we options as a mechanism for long-term reward.
We adjusted our safety have with our owners.
measures in our STIP targets to reflect lost time injuries and all injury frequency rates.
Meanwhile, as you will see in the Implementation Report, our We are committed to a continuing dialogue with shareholders, including decisions relating to base pay changes for executive directors and executives listening to their views about this report, which are most welcome.
are now broadly guided by pay changes for the wider employee population.
Yours sincerely, 2014 performance and remuneration In terms of STIP for 2014, the Committee determined that the underlying unflexed earnings target set by the board had not been met.
However, the unflexed free cash flow target and flexed earnings and free cash flow targets have been exceeded.
Flexed targets are designed to take into account the impact of uncontrollable fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metals and other prices during the year, and as such may be higher or as was John Varley the case in 2014 a year in which many commodity prices fell sharply lower Remuneration Committee chairman than unflexed targets set by the board.
This is reflected in the financial component of the STIP awards at Group and product group level.
Disappointingly, the Group did not attain its goal of zero fatalities.
However, the Groups all injury frequency rate reduced from 0.65 in 2013 to an all-time low of 0.59 in 2014, bettering the Group target of 0.61.
This has led to a total safety score for the Group, excluding the impact of fatalities, of 138 per cent out of a maximum of 200 per cent.
Reductions have been applied as required for executives with portfolios where a fatality has occurred.
The net effect of these outcomes, also taking into account the achievement of individual objectives, is that STIP awards for Executive Committee members have been made in a range from at or about target to above target levels.
The Committee considered the Groups overall performance in the context of the LTIP awards that were due to vest at the end of 2014.
These were the 2011 award under the PSP, which had an indicative vesting of 73.5 per cent of face value, and the 2012 grant under the Share Option Plan, which has an indicative vesting of 100 per cent of face value.
The Committee concluded that the vesting of awards, based upon the achievement of the TSR measures, was justified.
As previously announced, Jacynthe Ct, chief executive of the Aluminium group, left the Group on 1 September.
The details of her departure terms are summarised on page 84. riotinto.
