Directors Report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION We benefit from a strong Board that has the requisite skills to manage an international business.
Strong ethical standards and behaviours, supported by good the support she will provide to me as Chairman and to the Senior governance are fundamental to a healthy company.
we have focused on reviewing and amending our governance arrangements and structures as well as continuing to reinforce In last years Annual Report, I commented that the Safety and Ethics the conduct and behaviours we expect, wherever we operate.
However, as the governance review was underway it was decided to defer this until the review We are very conscious that our governance must meet the demands was completed.
These committees were combined with effect from of our business, our shareholders and other stakeholder groups.
1 January 2015 and have assumed responsibility for sustainability Changes in our operating and risk environment are constant, arising as well as their other responsibilities detailed on page 66.
This gives from developments in technology, regulation and our relative greater focus of our vision to deliver better power for a changing competitive position in shifting markets.
Furthermore, we need to world ethically, safely and sustainably.
We see close linkages remain alert to our shareholders points of view and ensure we are between ethical behaviour, taking a responsible attitude towards well-equipped to respond to their concerns.
safety and meeting our social and environmental obligations.
During the year, the Board considered the Groups overall The Board governance structure is set out on page 59 and a full governance framework, including the work and composition of the copy of the refreshed high-level governance structure is available board committees and the structure of reporting lines, information on the Groups website.
flow and delegation of responsibilities.
We have also reviewed how we engage with shareholders and respond to their comments, The structure of the Group was changed in 2014 to bring greater particularly around the forward-looking information provided and organisational and management coherence to the work of our main setting out our strategy.
Following this thorough review, we agreed two Divisions, Aerospace and Land & Sea.
Through this change we a number of changes which took effect from 1 January 2015. are aiming to encourage better coordination across our different activities, secure benefits from greater integration and reinforce We invest over 1 billion on R&D every year.
Each of the Divisions is described in more detail innovation and managing engineering-related risks are critical to on pages 32 to 41.
As part of the ongoing work looking at our success and so we have established a Science and Technology governance across the Group, we will continue to review our Committee, under the chairmanship of Warren East.
This committee processes and structures within the Divisions and as we integrate will provide greater oversight of the development and Power Systems.
As mentioned in the Audit Committee report on implementation of our innovation strategy and provide assurance page 69, we are further strengthening governance at a divisional that we are concentrating our efforts in the right areas.
The level through our sector audit committees.
committee will review the direction of the Groups research, technology and development activities to ensure that significant Also, as part of the ongoing review, the Board is considering science and technology trends are identified and incorporated how internal controls and the risk management framework are into future plans.
operating in practice as outlined on pages 50, 62 and 71.
We view this as fundamental to understanding and discussing the main challenges to the business, both strategic and operational.
The We expanded the remit of the Nominations Committee to include Executive Leadership Team ELT will continue to review all principal the regular review of governance arrangements.
We strengthened and emerging risks.
As set out on pages 51 to 53, each identified our Company Secretarial team with the recent appointment of principal risk will also be considered by the Board who will allocate a highly experienced Company Secretary who will be overseeing the certain risks to the most appropriate board committee.
Those implementation and regularly reviewing the revised governance framework.
In particular, I am looking forward to benefiting from 56 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Report committees will then report back to the Board with their views INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD IAB on how those risks are being managed and controlled.
The IAB, formed in 2006, advises the Board on political and economic developments around the world and alerts the Company to possible The Audit Committee will continue to review all principal risks and long-term opportunities, threats and risks.
Its members are: the overall internal controls and risk management framework as part of its year-end activities.
This will remain an area of focus in LORD POWELL OF BAYSWATER DR PEDRO SAMPAIO MALAN CHAIRMAN OF THE IAB Chairman of Ita Unibancos 2015, especially as we consider our approach to the changes to the Former Foreign Affairs and international advisory board UK Corporate Governance Code regarding the Boards responsibility Defence Adviser to Prime and a member of the boards to review, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Groups risk Ministers Baroness Thatcher of EDP Energias do Brasil, management and internal control systems.
and Sir John Major Souza Cruz, Brazil, Mills Engenharia, a director of Thomson VLADIMR DLOUH Reuters Founders Share Company In September 2014, we commissioned Independent Audit, a International advisor to Goldman and a member of the Temasek Sachs for Central and Eastern specialist board and governance consultancy, to carry out an international panel Europe, European deputy chairman evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
of the Trilateral Commission, AKIO MIMURA I was particularly pleased with its conclusion that the Board was president, Czech Chamber of Senior advisor, honorary chairman working off a firm base with a strong core of highly experienced Commerce and a former member Nippon Steel & Sumitomo and committed directors, working well together as a team in an of the Czech Government MetalCorporation, Japan open and supportive atmosphere.
We identified a number of areas SIR ROD EDDINGTON LUBNA OLAYAN where we could do better and further details of the evaluation and Chairman of JP Morgan Australia CEO and deputy chairperson &New Zealand andformer chief of the Olayan Financing Company, its outcomes can be found on page 61 of this report.
executive of British AirwaysPlc Saudi Arabia DR FAN GANG RATAN TATA We benefit from a strong Board that has the requisite skills to Professor at Chinas Academy Former chairman of Tata Sons manage an international business, driven by manufacturing quality of Social Sciences and director Limited, India and innovation.
Our Nominations and Governance Committee of National Economic Research AMBASSADOR ROBERT B. regularly reviews the composition and balance of the Board in terms Institute, China ZOELLICK of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure we have MUSTAFA KO Chairman of Goldman Sachs the right mix to manage the Group.
This is particularly important Chairman of Ko Holding, A.. International Advisors, senior as we work with the Chief Executive to ensure that, at all levels of Turkey fellow at the Belfer Center at Harvard University, former the executive and senior management team, the right people are president of World Bank Group, in place.
We recruited a highly-experienced Group HR Director who US Trade Representative and will ensure that our long-term executive development and US Deputy Secretary of State succession planning and, more generally, our resourcing and retention strategies are implemented successfully.
I am confident that the Board works well together and with the THE EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM ELT ELT.
This gives us a strong platform, based on trust and confidence, on which to have rigorous discussions and hold executives The ELT is an executive forum, at which the Groups most senior business and functional leaders review, communicate and agree on issues and accountable.
Its members are: During the year we appointed Lewis Booth as the Senior JOHN RISHTON MARY HUMISTON CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP HR DIRECTOR Independent Director.
His strong capabilities and experience, CHAIRS THE ELT together with his contribution to the Board over several years, COLIN SMITH made him the right candidate for the role.
MILES COWDRY DIRECTOR ENGINEERING DIRECTOR GLOBAL CORPORATE ANDTECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT As I said in my review on page 13, I am delighted that David Smith has joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
He has an DAVID SMITH JAMES GUYETTE exceptional track record as a financial leader and since joining CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE Rolls-Royce has demonstrated determination, discipline and OFFICER ROLLS-ROYCE NORTH intellectual rigour.
ROBERT WEBB AMERICA INC. GENERAL COUNSEL LAWRIE HAYNES TONY WOOD PRESIDENT LAND & SEA PRESIDENT AEROSPACE HARRY HOLT GROUP OPERATIONS STRATEGY A copy of the governance framework is available at DIRECTOR www.
com about whoweare corporate governance 57 Directors Report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED James Guyette will be stepping down as a Board member, at the The Group has continued to implement the recommendations conclusion of the AGM on 8 May 2015 and retiring from his role as made in Lord Golds interim report in 2013 and has developed President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America an ethics and compliance improvement programme to deliver the on 31 May 2015.
John Neill has also indicated that he will not recommendations.
Lord Gold has continued to work with us and put himself forward for re-election at the 2015 AGM and will reports regularly to the Board.
Further details of our activities in therefore leave the Board having completed over six years this area are included in the Safety and Ethics Committee report as a Non-Executive Director.
I am delighted that Irene Dorner will be appointed as a NonOverall I am pleased with the progress we are making on updating Executive Director with effect from 27 July 2015.
Details of Irenes and upgrading our controls and governance.
We need to maintain experience are included in my review on page 13. our focus on risk management and compliance procedures.
We will review our governance framework annually to ensure that we are I am pleased that we have made demonstrable progress to increase well-positioned to provide effective oversight over a complex the number of women on our Board.
Most recently Ruth Cairnie business and to give our shareholders a clear view of our joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from performance and strategic direction.
The process for Ruths appointment is described on page 65 of the Nominations and Governance Committee report.
IAN DAVIS Chairman Women currently represent 7% of senior management and we will continue to focus on increasing this proportion over the coming years.
Historically, women have been under-represented in the engineering sector.
In order to achieve our aspirations we need to increase diversity in all levels of the Group, not just the Board and we are working on programmes to achieve this.
We will select future candidates based on their relevant skills, experience and knowledge and in keeping with the business needs, irrespective of gender.
Last year we began to roll-out an ethics and compliance programme where all employees were asked to certify that they had read and understood the Global Code of Conduct Global Code and would comply with it.
This was supported by a training course.
By the end of 2014, 96% of employees had provided certification in respect of the Global Code and while we are satisfied with this level of certification, we are looking to improve this figure.
58 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014
