Strategic report Governance Financial statements Community Our involvement in local communities is about more than business, so we empower our operating companies to set their own targets and goals because they know best what will really make a difference locally.
We also do more than just donate funds.
For example, Giving our time to help charities our team in Spain continued their annual support of the We support a number of charities and community National Food Bank, donating 400 kilos of food this year.
Moreover, our people We held a food donation day in Portugal in partnership with love taking the opportunity to dedicate some of their time Kelly Services as well as donating 800 toys to children with to the local causes that matter to them.
In North America cancer through the OneToy OneSmile campaign.
and the UKI, through the Volunteer Day Benefits programme, our employees are given paid days off to volunteer on Throughout the business, we also have initiatives in place programmes such as Right to Read and Code Club, to encourage our employees tocontinuesupporting the where they support, teach and develop childrens community through matching donations, providing personal learning and skills.
sponsorship and encouraging them to vote for the charitieswe should support.
Sage Day is an annual event in July, where our employees have the opportunity to get involved in local communities and Investing in young people charity work together.
This year, in South Africa, it coincided Sage has always believed in the talent of tomorrow and this with Mandela Day, soour employees chose to raise money is seen through our support of apprentices and bursaries.
to purchase homeware through Sage Day, with 50 In South Africa, we have a long-standing joint initiative with volunteers visiting Afrika Tikkuns Diepsloot community Penreach Trust and King David School Foundation.
Sages centre to deliver the parcels of homeware and entertain support provides training and resource materials for the children.
educators in rural or disadvantaged areas to help deliver Our operating companies also come up with unique and a better education.
This year, in South Africa, we have fun ways to raise money.
In South Africa, we host an annual sponsored the installation of a library at Dr Beyer Naude Shave-athon to support the Cancer Association of South School in Soweto, with employees donating books.
In Africa, who carry out research to find cures and treatments Portugal, we also held a book donation initiative labelled for cancer patients.
This year we raised R135,000 8,000. reusing is better than recycling.
In the UKI, our employees took part in three annual bike rides: Coast to Coast, London to Paris and London to Alpe dHuez.
Theyraisedan impressive 24,000 for Cancer Research, contributing to a total of 668,000 over our eight-year partnership.
Afrika Tikkun Diepsloot community centre In South Africa, Sage has supported Afrika Tikkun, a well-established non-governmental organisation whichworks in six of the most impoverished communities in South Africa, for the past sixyears.
This year our staff raised funds during Sage Day to buy homeware for the Diepsloot community and donated their time to visit the community centre.
Thank you very much for making a difference to the families that received your gifts.
The warmth and artistic flair of the Sage staff left many of our children with smiles on their faces.
These are moments of magic that allow some of our children to forget about some of the hardships they are faced with on a daily basis and enjoy life.
Afrika Tikkun The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 59
