Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees In accordance with the Companys policy, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which is designed to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
How the element Maximum potential Performance metrics Operation of supports our value and payment used, weighting and theelement strategicobjectives atthreshold time period applicable To attract Non-Executive Directors The fees of the Chairman are Over the policy period, base fees Non-Executive Director fees are not with the necessary experience and determined and approved by the for current Non-Executive Directors performance-related.
ability to make a substantial Remuneration Committee will be set at an appropriate level contribution to the Groups affairs.
excluding Chairman and fees of within the peer group and increases the Non-Executive Directors, are will typically be broadly in line with determined and approved by the market.
The base fees or fees for specific The Chairman receives a base fee.
Non-Executive Directors roles may be reviewed at any time based on The following fees are paid to the anticipated responsibility and Non-Executive Directors in addition time commitment involved.
to their base fee: Current fee levels are shown in the SID fee section on implementation of Committee Chairmanship fee policy.
Committee membership fee Fees are reviewed on an annual basis against a relevant peer group and taking into consideration market practice.
An allowance is payable to Directors for attendance at meetings outside their country of residence where such meetings involve inter-continental travel.
In addition, reasonable travel and business related expenses are paid.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive incentives and pension.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Dates of Directors Service Contracts Letters of Appointment Director Date of appointment to the Board Rupert Soames 8 May 2014 Angus Cockburn 27 October 2014 Ed Casey 24 October 2013 Alastair Lyons 16 March 2010 Angie Risley 1 April 2011 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr 30 June 2011 Malcolm Wyman 1 January 2013 Mike Clasper 3 March 2014 Tamara Ingram 3 March 2014 Rachel Lomax 3 March 2014 Notes: All Directors are put forward annually for re-election at the AGM.
Andrew Jenner was appointed to the Board on 3 May 2002 and ceased to be a Director on 30 September 2014.
