Introduction to Governance SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN In last years Annual Report I reported that the Board had discussed DEAR SHAREHOLDER in December 2013 the matter of women on Boards and had set SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and out the aim of achieving at least 25% female representation among professionalism in all of its activities.
At SIG, we believe that good the Boards membership by 2015.
I am pleased to be able to governance comes from an effective Board which provides strong report that, with the appointment of Ms. A. Abt on 12 March 2015, leadership to the Group and engages well with both management female representation on the Board will have risen to 25%.
As an essential part of this commitment, the brings significant specialist expertise, having been Head of Supply Group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
Chain Management and Chief Procurement Officer of the Siemens This section of our report outlines how the Board ensures that high sector for Infrastructure & Cities from 2011 to 2014, and held standards of corporate governance are maintained.
numerous other positions in Finance, Productivity and Supply Chain Management in Germany and internationally.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code All appointments to the Board will continue to be made on merit: The Board considers that, throughout the year under review, the however, differences in background, skills, experience and other Company has complied with the governance rules and best practice qualities as well as gender will be considered in determining the provisions applying to UK listed companies, as contained in the UK optimum composition of the Board and the aim will be to balance Corporate Governance Code the Code of September 2012 them appropriately.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Code can be accessed at www.
Governance within SIG As Chairman, I take responsibility for ensuring that good governance Board evaluation is operated at SIG in order that we can maintain the highest The Board is required, under the Code, to undertake a formal standards of corporate governance to which we continually aspire.
and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good of its Committees and individual Directors.
In December 2014 governance and this Report, the Directors Remuneration Report on the Board conducted such an evaluation.
In accordance with the pages 72 to 88, the Audit Committee Report on pages 66 to 69 and requirements, this being the third year in the cycle, the evaluation the Nominations Committee Report on pages 70 to 71 describe was externally facilitated.
Details of the process concerning how the principles of good governance set out in the Code are this evaluation and its outcome are covered on page 59 of this applied within SIG.
The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Board diversity ten provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing The Board of SIG acknowledges the importance of diversity in its Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect broadest sense in the Boardroom as a driver of Board effectiveness.
No such report has been made.
Diversity encompasses diversity of perspective, experience, background, psychological type and personal attributes.
The Board recognises that gender diversity is a significant aspect of diversity and acknowledges the role that women with the right skills and experience can play in contributing to diversity of perspective in the Boardroom.
The Board Diversity Policy is published on the LESLIE VAN fide WALLE Companys website www.
