Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Chairmans governance letter ollowing the significant changes in narrative reporting recently Dear Shareholder, introduced, we now present our Annual Report within the expanded reporting requirements, including our Strategic Welcome to the first Annual FReport and the Remuneration, Audit and Risk, and the new Clinical Governance and Safety Committee reports, together with Report in which your Board, our greenhouse gas emissions and diversity data.
We have used the reporting structure to explain the Spire Healthcare supported by the executive story, its strategy and the active ongoing management of our successful business model.
management team, embraced BOARD the challenges of governance On Admission, we formed a new Board, which will assist in ensuring we deliver the Groups strategy for the future.
as an independent public The new independent non-executive directors have each taken specific responsibility for a Board Committee and report within company following Admission the following Corporate Governance section upon the activities of the Board Committee that they have chaired since Admission.
to the London Stock Exchange I consider that the Boards composition addresses our current on 23 July 2014. requirements for expertise, diversity and experience and, as such, is well-equipped to face the challenge of setting and managing the strategic direction of the business.
EVALUATION As the Group was listed on 23 July 2014, the Board decided that an evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual directors was inappropriate, as the Board had not been in place for a sufficient length of time to provide a meaningful review across the Groups annual business cycle: the first evaluation will be carried out during 2015.
Garry Watts Chairman This will be an informal evaluation and will include strategy, succession planning and Board composition, as well as the changing governance and compliance obligations placed on PLC Boards.
As a new Board with diverse commercial skills and experience, I believe we have already developed good working relationships and Board synergies, which will aid our future stewardship of the Company and its overall governance.
We look forward to meeting the strategic challenges that the rapidly evolving healthcare sector poses for the Group.
The Board is committed to an open dialogue with our shareholders and stakeholders: I and John Gildersleeve, our Deputy Chairman, ensure we are available for effective engagement, whether at the Annual General Meeting, or other investor relations activities.
The ongoing programme of meetings in 2014 with investors, led by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, covered in excess of 130 meetings and presentations, of which 74 were subsequent to the IPO process.
Finally, my Board colleagues and I look forward to meeting shareholders at our first AGM at 11am on 21 May 2015 in Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringers offices at 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.
Garry Watts Chairman Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 59
