Governance Chairman's introduction to governance Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 30 March 2014.
The Board, as always, is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance.
This report sets out the framework of governance and the approach the Board of Synergy Health plc has taken during 2014 to achieve and maintain the standards of good corporate governance for which it is accountable and which the Groups shareholders expect.
The year has seen considerable changes to narrative and remuneration reporting regulations and we have identied in the report how the Board has met the requirements of these new regulations.
We also confirm the Groups compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the revised requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Our corporate governance framework enables effective and efficient decision making and ensures that there is the right balance of skills and experience to assess and manage the risks in the international markets in which the Group operates.
This year, in line with corporate governance best practice, the Group has engaged Lintstock Ltd to undertake an external evaluation of the performance of the Board.
Further details of the evaluation are set out on page 46.
We have strengthened the Board with the appointment of Jeff Harris as the Senior Independent Director, who brings to the Board significant corporate governance experience.
We will be making a further Non-Executive Director appointment in the near future to expand the current skills of the Board.
This corporate governance report is structured in order to demonstrate to shareholders that the Board has complied in all respects with each section of the Code during 2014.
Remuneration is dealt with in the separate Directors Remuneration Report.
Sir Duncan Nichol Chairman 4 June 2014 40 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 How we govern the Company Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, supported by the Groups standard policies and controls which are described on the following pages in more detail.
Board composition Our governance framework 1 2 The Board of Directors membership as at 4 June 2014 Meetings held during the year: 13 Sir Duncan Nichol Dr Adrian Coward Constance Baroudel Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Operating Non-Executive Director 3 officer Dr Richard Steeves Liz Hewitt Group Chief Executive Jeff Harris Non-Executive Director 1.
Non-executive 3 42.9% Gavin Hill Group Finance Director Gender ratios For full biographies, turn to page 42 1 AC Audit Committee membership as at 4 June 2014 2 Meetings held during the year: 4 Liz Hewitt Jeff Harris Constance Baroudel Committee Chairman For full biographies, turn to page 42 1.
Female 2 28.6% RC Remuneration Committee membership as at 4 June 2014 Meetings held during the year: 6 Constance Baroudel Sir Duncan Nichol Jeff Harris Committee Chairman Liz Hewitt For full biographies, turn to page 42 NC Nomination Committee membership as at 4 June 2014 Meetings held during the year: 2 Sir Duncan Nichol Jeff Harris Constance Baroudel Committee Chairman Liz Hewitt For full biographies, turn to page 42 SEB Senior Executive Board membership as at 4 June 2014 Meetings held during the year: 7 The Senior Executive Board SEB is the key management committee and comprises: Dr Richard Steeves Dr Adrian Coward Andrew McLean Group Chief Executive Group Chief Operating President, AST Americas officer officer Niclas Olsson Gavin Hill Tim Mason CEO, Asia & Africa Group Finance Director Group Company Secretary Ray Reilly Group HR Director Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
