Governance STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN The governance arrangements we have in place have proven to be sound, as evidenced in the external Board effectiveness review Introduction Dear shareholder Board effectiveness review Focus for 2015 Effective governance is a key component The last external Board effectiveness We regularly review the Boards areas of the way Tate & Lyle manages its review was conducted in 2011 and the of focus.
The key areas to which we will business and risks.
The governance Board agreed that the 2014 review continue to devote significant time at arrangements we have in place have should be externally facilitated.
We felt Board and Committee level are as follows: proven to be sound, as evidenced in the that additional benets could also be t Safety, including the effectiveness external Board effectiveness review.
derived from a review which was of new initiatives to improve hazard undertaken from a diversity and inclusion Board composition identication and accident prevention perspective and chose Schneider Ross to Robert Walker, our Senior Independent at all our sites facilitate the review.
The review concluded Director, joined the Board at the start of t The performance of the Speciality Food that the Board and its Committees 2006 and we anticipate that he will retire Ingredients division and its products, operate effectively and identied some from the Board after serving a full nine including SPLENDA Sucralose areas for further action, details of which years.
In preparation for this, we have t Customer engagement are set out on page 44. commenced work on planning for his t The Groups innovation pipeline successor as Senior Independent Director Reporting to shareholders t Strategic initiatives, including and as Chairman of the Remuneration The UK Government and other regulatory acquisition opportunities Committee.
In addition, the Nominations bodies have introduced a number of new t Talent management, senior recruitment Committee has recommended that an reporting requirements which now apply and succession planning activities.
additional non-executive director join the to Tate & Lyle.
These include a new edition Board, ideally prior to Roberts departure.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code Sir Peter Gershon To this end, a clear specication has been which provides that the Directors should Chairman drawn up and shared with the appointed state that they consider that the Annual 28 May 2014 search consultants, Spencer Stuart.
We Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, will of course announce any changes to is fair, balanced and understandable.
the Board and specic roles as soon as In preparation for this, we enhanced our the process has concluded and the Board processes for producing the Annual reaches a decision.
Each of the directors has confirmed that he or she considers the Annual Report 2014 to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Sir Peter Gershon 40 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
