18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Executive Chairmans review Q&A Our strategy for delivering long-term value In 2014, we delivered a solid set of results whilst continuing to refine the Groups strategic, operational and commercial focus.
John Hughes, CBE Executive Chairman which resulted in the loss of certain revenues.
These churn TelecityGroup in 2014 events were expected and we are confident that headline Are you satisfied with TelecityGroups churn in 2015, particularly in the UK, will return to the lower Q performance in 2014?
rates we have typically experienced.
2014 was a year of substantial change for the Group.
Did your customer dynamics change?
A Q At a management level we said goodbye to Mike Tobin What major customers did you win?
who had been a key contributor to the creation and growth Our customer base continued to include the leading of TelecityGroup as we know it, building it to where A telecoms, internet, IT and media companies, together it is today.
At a wider organisational level we cemented with organisations that require the combination of secure, the regionalised management structure introduced resilient data centres and access to a wide range of at the beginning of the year, which we expect to enable connectivity options.
Approximately three quarters of our more streamlined and effective business management, growth came from our existing customer base.
In 2014 we improved customer engagement and efficiencies of scale.
saw some particularly interesting wins in cloud services In terms of trading, our gross order wins were very strong, and bandwidth-intensive finance applications.
Crucially, reinforcing our belief that the demand for data centres whether it is born on the internet businesses whose continues to grow.
We delivered a solid set of results, while business models are 100% dependent on the internet expanding the Groups footprint in our existing markets.
or more established organisations looking to take advantage At a commercial level we made good progress with the of the economics of digital and online, it is our customers delivery of Cloud-IX and our Strategic Accounts whose requirements evolve into needing connected data Programme, demonstrating our commitment to the centre services as opposed to TelecityGroup having to ongoing evolution of the business.
However, we continue to evolve our go to market approach and services-set to augment Did churn play a major factor in the year?
Q the core foundation of our service.
Notwithstanding the significant gross order wins in the UK, A In summary, the vertical breakdown of our customer mix churn in our customer base did continue to be a constraint doesnt tend to change radically year by year, but rather on growth in that market, running at levels higher than in in themes across three to five years.
In this regard it is the Rest of Europe division.
In the UK this was significantly the cloud which we expect to have most impact on our contributed to by the closure of the Prospect House customers businesses going forward.
facility in London and the loss of sub-lease income in our Harbour Exchange facility in the Docklands.
We also disposed of a non-core, low-margin business in Finland Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19 How does Cloud-IX help you capture the growth Third, we will continue to enhance our sales development Q in demand for cloud services?
to improve pan-European engagement with customers.
We aim to nurture the customer journey: for example Our data centres have always been attractive locations A in 2014 we started a Strategic Account Programme to for cloud services operators: such operators need better serve the needs of our key customers.
We will highly-connected, resilient and secure locations in which invest in developing deep customer insights and we will to host their IT infrastructure in order to offer the service make it easier to deploy capacity across our asset base.
levels back to their end users.
This should help compound our competitive strength by As a result, our data centres across Europe host many targeting customers who truly value our offer, who will of the leading global and regional cloud operators and we reinforce our connectivity ecosystem and who will be are seeing our facilities become cloud hubs, just as they magnets for other customers.
have historically been connectivity hubs.
Finally, we intend to develop services, such as Cloud-IX, We launched Cloud-IX as an initiative in late 2013.
Cloud-IX which build on the unique nature of TelecityGroups is a service which enables customers and cloud service connected data centre estate.
TelecityGroup already providers CSPs to connect in a simple, flexible, scalable offers a full range of data centre related services, such and cost-effective way.
The service enables customers as on-site engineering support and connectivity related to access the services of the CSPs present in our data offerings.
We believe there is an opportunity to evolve centres from anywhere within the Groups estate across our managed services platform which already exists a secure, managed network.
Simultaneously it gives in our businesses in London, Dublin, Milan and Istanbul those CSPs on the platform the commercially attractive across the Group.
proposition of being able to sell their services directly to In summary, we will continue to develop our service our diverse international customer base.
The service went offering, improve our value proposition, help our live during 2014 and by year-end it already had a number customers in their data centre needs, increasing our of customers using the platform.
customers desire to grow with us.
What were the key outputs of your business review?
Q How has the Strategic Account Programme Q We conducted a review of the business in the fourth developed since its launch?
A quarter of the year which enabled us to define our The Strategic Account Programme has made a positive A commercial focus for the mid-term.
In terms of commercial impact on two levels in the business.
First, the initial set outputs there were four key conclusions to this review.
of accounts which have been included on the programme First, we recognise that our core business is based on have responded positively to our plans, enabling us to strong internal and external fundamentals.
Our analysis engage more strategically with these customers with shows that demand for colocation is strong into the a view to long-term mutual value creation.
Increasing digitization and digital flows lead to the wider impact has been to generate a greater level growth in data centre needs, further fuelled by additional of strategic account planning and approach in the sales data centre outsourcing.
Growth in internet traffic is driven teams as a whole.
Our sales management is widely by the increasing proliferation of connected people and recognised as being expert in the industry, and we believe devices.
From a system performance and commercial that the coupling of strategic planning, with their already perspective, carrier-neutral data centres deep insight in terms of data centre services, will be are typically selected by organisations as the location commercially compelling.
of choice for their  computer In 2015 we expect to make good progress engaging hardware due to the range of networks available to with our larger customers more strategically to enable which they can connect.
We believe TelecityGroup is improved longer-term planning for their midto long-term well-positioned to capture this growth.
connected data centre requirements: we will put more Second, we will focus expansion on markets where we energy into developing our proposition to capture growth have strong market positions and see greatest demand.
driven by the evolving cloud services dynamic: and We have defined strategic cohorts for our assets to continue the preparation for the roll-out of an improved inform our future investment strategy, based on market customer online experience to match that superior attractiveness and current TelecityGroup positioning.
level of service which customers enjoy in our facilities across Europe.
20 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Executive Chairmans review continued What were the key operational developments What are your near and mid-term priorities Q Q during 2014?
We continued to bring capacity online across Europe TelecityGroup has been central to the European digital A A in response to customer demand, but we retained a tight economy throughout its existence.
In essence, we have focus on our investments as we do not want our build played a major part in the development of the internet plans to outpace the rate of customer uptake.
Looking forward, our key aim is to retain to this, we are committed to operating our data centres this position as the internet grows and evolves, while at the to the highest standards.
International certifications same time creating value for our shareholders.
We intend demonstrate that best practice and high quality processes to do this by continuing to ensure that we have the are central to our business.
Customers can benchmark connected data centres in the right markets, a growth our commitment to quality through our adherence programme which combines investment in assets, new to established and recognised global standards.
services, and an improved commercial focus.
During 2014 we maintained certifications in a wide range of areas including information security management, quality management, environmental management, health and safety and management systems.
What new developments have you seen Q in the industry during 2014?
While the core underlying demand trends of our industry A remain strong, it is the increasing adoption of cloud computing that we expect to have the most important impact on the way businesses procure and utilise IT services in the future and, therefore, on their data centre strategies.
TelecityGroup already hosts many of the leading global cloud operators, and our Cloud-IX service enables us to engage with enterprise about their hybrid computing strategies.
We believe our offering of a high quality, connected data centre service combined with a secure and managed platform to interconnect into CSPs is compelling and positions us well for this shift.
