74 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Chairmans letter Our commitment to sound principles of governance Dear Shareholder We have built upon the progress we made last year by further strengthening our governance arrangements, particularly in the areas of composition of the Board and its Committees, risk management, corporate culture and engagement with Shareholders.
Our Board is at the forefront of gender diversity with an almost equal balance of four women and five men, who together represent fivedifferent nationalities.
Frank Meysman Chairman Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 The Board and Governance Risk management and corporate culture We have completed our task of building a world-class Board with Building on the progress of last year and fully supported by the 1 theappointment during the year of Carl Symon, Warren Tucker tone from the top set by Harriet and the Executive Committee, the and Annet Aris.
These appointments further strengthened the Group now has a developed risk framework and we are continuing competencies of our Board across a range of measures, including to promote and embed a risk-aware culture across the organisation.
skills, experience, gender and nationality.
Our Board is at the forefront In view of the progress with the Transformation and to take account of gender diversity with an almost equal balance of four women of the views of the new Directors, the Boards risk appetite, which is and five men, who together represent five different nationalities.
used to support ongoing decision making across the organisation, To ensure we put that diversity to best use, we also reconstituted wasreviewed and refreshed during the year.
themembership of the Boards Committees.
The Groups Code of Conduct, which is the cornerstone of our Upon the retirement of Roger Burnell and Peter Marks on improved culture, was developed and launched to all employees in 20 February 2014, Warren took over as Chair of the Remuneration early 2013 and is now fully embedded across the Group.
To ensure Committee, Emre Berkin was appointed Chair of our Health, Safety & this position is sustainable, robust arrangements are in place for all Environmental Committee and Carl became our Senior Independent new employees to be trained as part of their induction programme, Director.
Martine Verluyten remains as Chair of our Audit Committee.
and the Code will be refreshed in 2015 and additional training will be given to all employees.
More specific training programmes are Our induction and training programme has been a key priority during in place in support of our legal and regulatory compliance in areas the year.
In addition to our well-developed programme tailored to such as data protection, anti-bribery and corruption and competition the needs of the individual Director, we have also conducted a series law as we professionalise the organisation under the Thomas Cook 2 of training and strategy support presentations for the entire Board Business System.
This programme, which is detailed fully in ourGovernance report, and our normal ongoing business reviews Engagement with our Shareholders ensured that all members of the Board had sufficient knowledge Throughout the year, we have continued to engage with our major tobeable to contribute fully to the Boards review and development Shareholders and the governance bodies, mainly in respect of our ofstrategy at its two-day meeting in September 2014. remuneration policy and the performance measures for our incentive arrangements, which are fully aligned with our targets and KPIs for To reflect the new approach to managing the businesses on a our Transformation and profitable growth strategy, andwithin our Group-wide basis, we have significantly strengthened our internal pay for performance culture.
We were pleased with the support management governance arrangements with the creation of and constructive feedback throughout our discussions and the Harriets Executive Committee, a Tour Operator Council and an overwhelming votes in favour of both our Remuneration Policy AirTravel Council.
These structural changes were reflected in a andreport at the 2014 AGM.
Further details of our governance and remuneration arrangements are detailed on pages 78 to 113.
During the year, we have significantly strengthened our governance arrangements and applied the highest standards of governance in 3 all that we have done.
Our strong commitment to applying sound principles of governance will continue in the year ahead.
Frank Meysman Chairman 25 November 2014 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
