DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, ATTENDANCE I am pleased to report that our Remuneration Policy was adopted Paul Walsh 5 5 at the 2014 NV and PLC AGMs with strong levels of support and Chairman of the Compensation Committee previously called remains unchanged for 2015. the Compensation and Management Resources Committee REMUNERATION POLICY AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE Ann Fudge 5 5 To simplify this years report we have chosen not to repeat our Kees Storm 4 5 Remuneration Policy, which is available on our website.
To reflect Michael Treschow 5 5 the reward decisions taken for 2015 by the Compensation Committee we have updated the supporting information in the This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings held remuneration policy table and other contextual information.
in the year ended 31 December 2014.
If Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda www.
com ara2014 downloads items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2014 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 Annual bonus a year of resilient performance During the year Unilever faced an increasingly challenging No changes have been made to the remuneration external environment.
In addition to fierce competition, we also policy during the year.
saw weakening consumer demand across many parts of the The Committee approved the implementation world and increasing external volatility.
The business responded to the combination of these events with resilience by heightening and roll-out of the new global employee share focus on cost control and margin improvement.
Although our plan SHARES for employees below overall underlying sales growth lowered to 2.9% we continued to management level.
outperform our markets, as we have done consistently since The Committee reviewed the remuneration Paul Polmans appointment as CEO.
Through rigorous control of overheads, we delivered a core operating margin improvement of framework and concluded that it continues 0.4 percentage points despite adverse currency movements.
With to serve Unilever well, particularly in light the quality of these results in mind, the Committee exercised its of the strong level of shareholder support judgement to uplift the annual bonus outcome from 68% to 80% for Unilevers remuneration policy at the of target and decided to pay a bonus of 132% of salary 66% of maximum to the CEO, Paul Polman, and a bonus of 88% of salary 2014 AGMs.
59% of maximum to the CFO, Jean-Marc Hut.
The Committee Review of the global reward structure for believes that these awards fairly reflect the performance Unilevers Top 100 executive management delivered in 2014.
This consistency in performance delivery, now population below Executive Director level, two established over the last six years, shows that Unilever is building a more resilient company.
We are better able to withstand the years after implementation, has proven that challenges of an increasingly uncertain business environment it is delivering effectively against the objectives because we are moving towards a business model with long-term that had been set for it.
GSIP and MCIP strong financial performance over the last three years PRIORITIES FOR 2015 Over the past three years, Unilever has again delivered very strong financial performance.
Underlying sales growth during Further review and shaping of Unilevers future this period was 4.7% per annum.
Core operating margin reward framework to ensure that it remains improvement over the period was an average of 0.37 percentage points per year, demonstrating managements drive for consistent aligned with strategy and long-term shareholder top and bottom line growth.
Unilever has also generated very value creation.
strong operating cash in the period, with cumulative operating Review of relative competitive position of reward cash flow of 15.5 billion.
Total shareholder return TSR over this levels for Unilevers Top 100 executive three-year period was below the performance of our peers, and, as a result, no part of the GSIP and MCIP awards related to TSR management population.
The Committee believes the outcomes of the long-term Review of progress in implementing SHARES.
share incentive plans represent a fair reflection of Unilevers underlying performance over the last three years.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined that the GSIP awards to the end of 2014 together with MCIP awards, which were FORMAT OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT granted to Executive Directors for the first time in 2012, will vest Our Directors Remuneration Report is split into the at 121% of initial award levels ie 61% of maximum for GSIP and following sections: 81% of maximum awards for MCIP, which is capped at 150%.
Chairmans letter page 62 to 63 Remuneration Principles page 63 to 64 Annual Remuneration Report page 65 to 77 62 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
