60 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Chairmans governance letter again be fully compliant with the enhanced Succession guidance and disclosure requirements over As a Board we will always keep our the 2015 financial year.
composition and future succession Board composition requirements under review, to ensure that we are well prepared for the future needs of As I have already reported in my opening the Company.
In 2015 the focus of succession letter, Jeff Hewitt, our Senior Independent planning will turn more to executive and Director and Chairman of the Audit senior management roles.
This will continue Committee, will step down following nine to form a fundamental part of the Boards years of outstanding service to both Cookson overall review of strategy and its successful Group plc and Vesuvius plc.
of the Nomination Committee, Hock Goh and Strong corporate governance Douglas Hurt have been identified as new Training independent Non-executive Directors both to is central to the delivery As part of its ongoing training and succeed Jeff Hewitt and also to supplement of sustainable long-term development remit, the Board visited R&D, and deepen the skills and experience available manufacturing and customer facilities during shareholder value.
I am extremely pleased the year.
The Board is provided with a training to welcome them both to the Board and schedule at each Board meeting and consults John mcDonough cBE Chairman encourage you as shareholders to support with external advisers regularly and on their election at the 2015 AGM.
I believe that specific topics as the need arises.
The Board the Boards composition continues to fulfil engages directly with senior management, our requirements for expertise, experience both through business presentations at the and diversity, and is well equipped to face the Board, discussions at Board dinners and continuing role of setting and managing the In this section: through Board and individual Director visits strategic direction of the business.
We will continue to do this Board effectiveness on p63 Evaluation throughout 2015.
Board accountability on p65 In 2013, our Board evaluation identified Risk Audit Committee report on p67 the importance of spending an appropriate The methods by which we manage our amount of time dedicated to Group strategy Nomination Committee report on p73 risks and assess their impact are constantly and succession planning, particularly in light reviewed and tested as part of our ongoing of the time demands generated by increasing Remuneration Committee report on p75 risk management approach.
We have a welland evolving governance and compliance developed process that allows for regular obligations on all listed companies.
I can Board input and attention.
confirm, as evidenced by our 2014 Board evaluation, that these topics have received Looking ahead extensive attention from the Board during In 2015 we will continue to develop both theyear.
as a Board and as individual Directors.
We Dear shareholder, In 2014, the Board once again commissioned welcome our new members and look forward On behalf of the Company, I am delighted an externally moderated evaluation of to contributing towards and overseeing the to present the 2014 Governance report.
As a the Board, its Committees and individual development of Vesuvius over the next year Board we remain committed to applying the Directors.
The results showed that the and beyond.
highest standards of corporate governance Board and its Directors continue to perform within Vesuvius.
The Board continues to focus Yours sincerely effectively and were well supported by internal on legislative and regulatory developments and external resources.
Matters identified and with the assistance of our advisers, we for specific attention in the 2013 Board John mcDonough cBE, Chairman ensure that the Board captures and applies evaluation have been satisfactorily addressed, 3 March 2015 governance best practice, to enable us and the Board dynamics as a whole showed to discharge our duties as stewards of an increase in effectiveness both individually the Company.
It is considered that the Board During 2014 the Company was fully continues to deliver an open forum for debate compliant with the requirements of the UK and considered decision making.
Priorities for Corporate Governance Code.
In response to the Board identified by the 2014 evaluation the changes introduced to the UK Corporate remain the same a continuing focus on the Governance Code during the year, we delivery of Group strategy and securing the updated our Committee terms of reference future of Vesuvius through effective succession and other procedures to ensure that we will planning and talent development.
