Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 48 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 49 Chairmans overview Dear shareholder Effective corporate governance is integral to the successful delivery of business goals: for our many and diverse stakeholders, how we work is as important as what we do.
Vodafone operates under a well-developed governance framework designed to foster transparency, honesty and an informed approach to risk management across our worldwide business.
We have clear standards of behaviour we expect from everyone who works for Vodafone: further details of our mandatory Code of Conduct are set out on page 67.
The Boards role is to set the strategy for the Group, appoint the right leadership and ensure consistent implementation whilst monitoring business performance and ensuring the timely and effective assessment and management of business risk.
Our goal is to build an enduring and profitable Vodafone business admired by customers and other stakeholders, whilst achieving strong returns for our shareholders.
As I explain in my statement on page 2, this was a significant year for Vodafone, and your Board played a leading role in the conduct of the major transactions described in the Chief Executives review on page 12.
As the Groups strategy continues to evolve, the Board is focused on maintaining a strong alignment of the interests of management with long-term value creation.
Central to this is our remuneration policy explained on page 71 which for the first time will be put to a shareholder vote at our annual general meeting this year, in line with new regulations.
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year.
Andy Halford has retired from the role of Group Chief Financial Officer after eight years, during which period he developed a track record of value creation for shareholders which few, if any, CFOs could hope to match.
Andy has been succeeded by the Chief Executive of the AMAP region, Nick Read, under whose leadership our emerging markets businesses have achieved strong rates of growth.
In March 2014, it was announced that Anne Lauvergeon intended to stand down from the Board: Alan Jebson and Anthony Watson have also informed the Board they will not seek re-election at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our gratitude to Andy, Anne, Alan and Tony for their contribution to Vodafone and wish them well for the future.
Valerie Gooding joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2014, and in May 2014 we announced that Sir Crispin Davis will join the Board on 28 July and Dame Clara Furse on 1 September, both as non-executive directors.
I am delighted to welcome Valerie, Sir Crispin and Dame Clara to the Board.
I am fortunate as Chairman to be able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and Businesses must ensure perspectives around the boardroom table.
In their new composition, our Board consists absolute integrity in their business of 13Directors, drawn from six different nationalities with international leadership experience activities and decision-making across more than ten different industrial sectors.
With three female directors, I am pleased to say processes if they are to earn and that from September we will be well on our way to achieving our intention that women will hold 25% of Board roles by the end of 2015.
The recruitment of further female directors will continue retain public trust.
to be a priority in future.
Whilst your Board is confident that Vodafone is well-placed to continue to reward shareholders for their support for our strategy, we expect operating conditions to remain challenging in a number of our key markets over the year ahead.
We will remain focused on ensuring the Group maintains a rigorous and analytical approach to the management of risk whilst seeking to encourage the innovation and entrepreneurship necessary to drive growth across the portfolio.
Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman 20 May 2014 How have we complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code?
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 and to the date of this document, we complied with the provisions and applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in September 2012.
The Code can be found on the FRC website frc.
We describe how we have applied those Main Principles in this section of the annual report which includes our statement of internal control and risk management, together with the Directors remuneration section on pages 69 to 85.
How have we complied with the corporate governance statement requirements?
We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the annual report together with information contained in the Shareholder information section on pages 182 to 189.
