Strategic report 49 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 cHairmans inTroducTion MANAGING FOR sUccEss the Business is in good shape But to help support that momentum We have a dedicated Board Which takes an active involvement in providing strategic leadership.
the good governance and responsiBle practices We have in place throughout the Business start With the Board, Which sets the tone from the top.
Gareth Davis Chairman this report explains hoW the Board operates and hoW good governance contriButes to the effective running of the Business.
Supporting a business in great shape I would like to once again thank Ralph for his Maintaining an effective Board exceptional contribution and achievements.
2014 was another busy year for the Board, The appointment of James Henderson was Following an extensive process, which looked with much time devoted to the creation of not the only change in the Board during at both external and internal candidates, long-term value for our shareholders and 2014.
It is important to ensure we maintain the Board was delighted to appoint James managing the various challenges which face the right mix of talent, business background Henderson to take up the reins as CEO with the business.
The Board and management and skills on the Board and I was delighted to effect from 1 August 2014.
James not only continue to have great confidence in the announce earlier in 2014 that Sir Roy Gardner leads the business but has an Executive future of William Hill and are confident we are joined the Board as a Non-executive Director Committee team which functions very well to in a strong position going into 2015. and subsequently as Senior Independent further reinforce the executive management Director.
Sir Roy replaced David Edmonds bench strength.
Delivering leadership for the future who completed his nine years of service in In addition to getting the right blend of talent 2014 and I would like to thank David for his Ensuring the best leadership for the business on the Board and in the Executive Committee significant contribution to the Board over the was one of the most important priorities team, the Board is also conscious that there past years.
Sir Roy has extensive corporate for the Board in 2014.
The Board and in must be a robust and comprehensive plan experience and adds to the Board with his particular the Nomination Committee devoted so that we can develop senior managers in wealth of experience and insight in terms of a significant amount of time in the search for the business.
Throughout 2014 the Company governance, risk management and strategy.
a new Chief Executive Officer CEO.
We had continued to deploy a range of development The addition of James and Sir Roy to the prepared a comprehensive brief and role programmes for senior managers.
In addition, Board also provides an excellent opportunity profile so that we had a common position on during 2014 the Board visited various to infuse new thinking and to complement the the leader needed to succeed Ralph Topping.
Company operations and we saw first hand substantial experience of the other directors, the excellent and promising work undertaken all of whom have now served at least three by talented and highly motivated colleagues years on the Board.
50 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 chairmans introduction The Board has a total of eight directors, two of For the first time, 2014 saw the introduction Annual General Meeting whom are executive directors.
Diversity on the of a binding shareholder vote regarding I and the rest of the Board were pleased Board is still an important way to help ensure our Directors Remuneration Policy.
to talk to many of our shareholders at the the Boards performance remains optimised I was therefore very pleased to see, after 2014 AGM.
The AGM remains an important and I consider that we retain a wide skill set of a comprehensive engagement process opportunity for the Board to meet with experience and expertise to provide effective with some of our larger shareholders, that shareholders, particularly those who may not leadership.
In respect of gender diversity, we received a very high level of support otherwise have the chance to engage with the 25% of the Board are women, which is in line for our Remuneration Policy at the 2014 Board and senior managers.
Our 2015 AGM with the recommendations of Lord Davies Annual General Meeting AGM.
This was is scheduled for 11.00 a. m. on 7 May 2015 at following his review into women on boards.
a crucial matter to ensure we can continue The Cavendish Conference Centre in London Whilst the Board recognises the benefits to leverage on the skills and enthusiasm and we look forward to seeing you there.
of greater diversity, it is not supportive of of our highly talented management team Gareth Davis the setting of quotas and appointments will in what is a very competitive market.
Chairman continue to be made on merit.
Remuneration is discussed further in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board continues to recognise the benefits of having a regular process to assess its Another key development in corporate governance during 2014 related to the performance and I was pleased to see from the outcomes of the evaluation undertaken for services provided by external auditors.
New legislation means that listed companies 2014 that the Board continues to work well.
The Statement on Corporate Governance such as William Hill will be required to change their external auditor at certain intervals and explains in further detail how we undertook the evaluation process and has a summary that the external audit must also be put to a competitive tender at certain intervals.
As one would expect with a committed Board, there is some fine 2013 Annual Report we explained why the Board had chosen not to put the external tuning which we will implement to continue to improve our effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee has further considered this matter very carefully in 2014 and has recommended Committed to good governance and a to the Board that now would not be the right focused business strategy time to seek a tender and the Board has The Board continues to demonstrate strong agreed with this recommendation.
This is commitment to good governance to ensure further explained in the report from the Audit that our business is run in the right way.
Apart from This includes maintaining a good dialogue the foregoing, I can report that for 2014 with our shareholders, particularly with our William Hill was in full compliance with the UK larger institutional investors so we can listen to Corporate Governance Code 2012 which and understand their views.
Of particular note was applicable for our 2014 financial year.
was a successful Capital Markets Day visit In addition to ensuring good governance to Australia in October 2014 where analysts for the business, the Board of course kept and shareholders met our new Australian a strong focus on strategy.
During 2014 we management team and learned more about had a very successful Strategy Conference the Australian business.
which involved the Board and the senior management team.
This provided an excellent opportunity for James in his new capacity as CEO to work with the Board and the senior management team in finessing our strategic priorities.
