Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Chairmans letter Board effectiveness Gareth Davis Chairman Our annual Board effectiveness review assists us in highlighting areas in which improvements can be made.
The review is conducted externally every three years and the next external review is due to take place in 2015.
This year, the review was conducted internally and the outcome of this review and our progress against the areas identied for improvement in last years review are provided on page66.
Dear Shareholder Good governance This section of our report outlines how the Board ensures Last year, the Board took the opportunity, earlier than required, to that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
adopt certain changes introduced following the publication of the At Wolseley, we are committed to fostering an effective new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in governance framework that supports the Companys core September 2012.
Although the Company is not required to do so values and which underpins our ability to set the overall as a Jersey company, it meets the requirements of the regulations strategic direction of the Wolseley Group.
published by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills concerning narrative and directors remuneration reporting which Your Board came into force for companies with financial years ending on or after 30 September 2013.
We have now met all of these disclosure It is important that your Board has the right balance of skills and requirements and we continue to monitor developments and best experience in order to provide strong leadership to the Company practice in corporate governance.
In the following pages we describe and effective support to Ian Meakins and his Executive team.
how we have applied the Codes main principles.
As highlighted on page 9, during the year there have been a number of changes to the Non Executive Directors serving on the Board.
As we drive towards achieving our strategic goals, it is important Next year that we have the right balance of skills, breadth of experience The Boards priorities for 2014 15 remain consistent with last years and diversity on the Board and the Nominations Committee has priorities.
We will continue to monitor progress against our strategy continued to review the composition of the Board to ensure that this to ensure that we continue to drive growth and improve returns.
Biographical details for all Board members can be found We are committed to investing in and supporting our people so that on pages 58 and 59. the Group maintains an appropriate balance of management skills and capabilities as it grows and develops.
In May 2014, we announced that Jacky Simmonds would replace Alan Murray as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in July 2014.
There has been a successful handover of responsibilities, and Alan and Jacky will be available to answer questions at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee report can be found on pages 83 to 104.
In July 2014, we announced that Michael Wareing would be stepping down from Board at this years AGM and that he would be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Darren Gareth Davis Chairman Shapland.
Michael and Darren are working together closely and the handover of responsibilities will be completed by the AGM, where they will both be available to answer any questions.
The Audit Committee report can be found on pages 70 to 74.
The Non Executive Directors continue to be independent and objective, and to play an essential role in the composition of the Board due to the skills and expertise they bring.
Compliance with the Code Follow our strategy through this report We confirm that, throughout the financial year, the Company applied all of the principles set out in Our strategic objectives underpin and integrate our global business activities and you will see sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code and has complied with the detailed provisions numerous references and examples of our strategy in action throughout this report.
See page 71 for our explanation in relation to external audit tendering.
The Companys discuss a part of our business which is directly linked to one or more of our strategic objectives, auditors,  LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reects wehave referenced this with the specic strategic objective as below.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such 1 2 3 4 5 6 compliance.
No such report has been made.
A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk Wolseley plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
