Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Governance overview Wolseleys governance structure Ensuring good governance throughout theGroup Board and Committees of the Board These take decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
Wolseleys Group-wide policies and procedures provide a framework for governance and are underpinned by the Groups core values and its Code of Conduct.
Through the Groups core values Board we expect and ensure that we act with integrity, drive for results and improvement and value our people.
Further information on the Groups core values and a copy of the Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Groups Code of Conduct are available on the Wolseley plc website Announcements Committee Committee Committee www.
com Committee For more details see For more details For more details For more details pages 70 to 74 seepages 83 to 104 seepages 75 and 76 seepage 77 Where Wolseley plc carries on business and which rules apply to it Other committees Wolseley plc is a public company limited by shares and incorporated These implement strategic decisions and executive in Jersey with registered number 106605.
It is tax resident in or administrative matters.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, and is therefore subject to the Listing Rules of the Executive Treasury Disclosure UK Listing Authority.
The Company complies with the provisions Committee Committee Committee For more details For more details For more details of the UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant institutional seepage 77 seepage 77 seepage 77 shareholder guidelines.
Although the Company being Jersey incorporated is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board retains its standards of governance and corporate responsibility as if it were subject to the Geographic regions Group functions Act.
It continues to provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that apply to a UK registered company.
Under Wolseley plc, the Wolseley Group carries on its businesses in USA Canada 10 countries through a number of operating companies.
The Group is made up of five geographic regions: USA, Canada, UK, Nordic, IT Legal and Central Europe and France.
UK Nordic HR Finance Central Europe and France Code principles Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with Continued close A strong, open and Close scrutiny of risks Prudent oversight shareholders focus on strategy and effective Board.
of executive Open engagement its execution.
See page 67 and Principal risks and See pages See pages their management See pages See pages 61 to 64 65 to 67 on pages 42 to 47 83 to 104 68 and 69 Wolseley plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
