OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Letter from the chairman Introduction At Countrywide, we are committed to the delivery of high standards ofcorporate governance.
Dear shareholder Board effectiveness The Board appreciates the insights to be I am very pleased to introduce my first gained from an external evaluation of its corporate governance statement as chairman effectiveness and that of its Committees.
We continued to strengthen ofthe Board of Countrywide plc, having Such an evaluation has been commissioned moved from the post of chief executive officer effective corporate and will be concluded during the second on 1 September 2014.
This planned process, and the governance statement that follows intends governance procedures completion of an internal performance togive shareholders a clear understanding evaluation process, is discussed in further during 2014 and these ofthe Groups corporate governance detail on page 47. arrangements and their operation during willunderpin the continued theyear, including an analysis of the level Your Board is fully committed to supporting success of the Group ofcompliance with the principles of the both the principles and application of best UKCorporate Governance Code the Code.
I believe we continued to strengthen effective Board composition corporate governance procedures during In his Chairmans statement last year, 2014 and these will underpin the continued DavidWatson noted both my desire success of the Group.
tostepdown as chief executive officer during 2014 and agreement to accept Future priorities appointment as chairman once a new As chairman, my main responsibility is to chiefexecutive officer was in post: and lead the Board and ensure that it is operating theplan to progress the appointment effectively and focusing its time, energy and oftwoindependent non-executive directors attention on the right areas.
On completion to return the composition of the Board to of the externally facilitated Board effectiveness amajority of independent non-executive review, we will agree a set of priorities against directors and compliance with the Code.
which we will report progress in future years.
Our aim will be to ensure that we, as a Board, Further details in respect of the search and are doing the right things the right way and selection process conducted for the new chief are leading from the front in providing the executive officer and non-executive directors right example for Countrywide.
are contained within the Nomination Committee report.
As a result of the unplanned resignation of Sandra Turner, a third independent non-executive director was also sought andappointed.
Grenville Turner The Boards decision in respect of my Chairman ownappointment as chairman, having 26 February 2015 previously been chief executive officer oftheCompany, was obviously asignificant topic for consideration by the Nomination Committee and wider Board, following consultation with major shareholders in advance of that appointment.
This transition from chief executive officer to chairman doesplace us in non-compliance with provisions A.
1.1 of the Code, but additional checks and balances have been instigated to counter myinability to meet independence criteria due to employment as an executive director within the last fiveyears and participation ina long term incentive pay arrangement during that period of employment which have not yet vested.
The rationale for my appointment and the conditions in place have been detailed in the Nomination Committee report on page 46.
