Directors Report Chairmans Introduction Appointment and succession During the year, the key focus of the Nomination Committee was my succession planning.
This process was led by our Senior Independent Director, Mark Rolfe.
As announced on 11March 2014, John Allan joined our Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 1 August 2014, and subject to election by shareholders, he will succeed me as Chairman following the 2014 AGM.
Details of Johns experience and skills can be found on page 44 of this report.
Board effectiveness During the year we addressed all of the recommendations made by Mrs Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation Dear Shareholder following her effectiveness review in respect of the 2012 13 financial year.
We have assessed the performance of our Board I am pleased to provide you with an update on the Companys and its Committees during the year under review through a approach to corporate governance throughout the 2013 14 series of individual Director and external adviser assessments.
This will be my last corporate governance This process was led by me with support from the Group statement for the Company as I have decided, after six years General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The results of the of service, to step down from my position as Chairman of the review and the key areas of focus for the 2014 15 financial year Board following the annual general meeting in November 2014 are set out on page 49 of this report.
Details of my successor, John Allan CBE, and the process we followed to recruit him can be found below Diversity and in the Nomination Committee Report.
We continue to promote diversity amongst our workforce.
The Group Chief Executive and Human Resources Director Over the last six years I have been privileged to have worked provided a presentation upon our approach to this process at with a group of Directors who, through the Board and its our strategic away day and a follow-up exercise was undertaken Committees, have rebuilt the Company from the impact of the at the April Board meeting.
Further details on our Diversity 2008 downturn.
This year, we have once again delivered on policy can be found on page 55 of this report.
our strategic objectives and the Board will continue to focus on delivering sustainable shareholder value.
Risk management and internal controls Given the risks inherent with building and construction, the I can confirm that during the financial year ended 30 June 2014 awareness of risk amongst Directors remains high.
Board your Company fully complied with the main and supporting members are fully aware of the individual and collective principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code responsibility of the Board to: i determine the nature and extent issued in September 2012 a copy of which is available from of the risks the Board is willing to take to achieve the Companys www.
uk and with the revised requirements for the strategic corporate objectives: and ii to review the effectiveness Directors and Remuneration Reports, which formally apply this of the risk management systems and internal controls in year.
The Board appreciates that good corporate governance conjunction with the Audit Committee.
The commentary on is more than just awareness and adherence to the Code.
It is the management of risk and the review of principal risks and aware of the need to maintain a high standard of corporate uncertainties on pages 38 to 41 contains an analysis of how governance in terms of leadership, remuneration, accountability the risks affecting the Group have changed in the financial year.
and its relationship with shareholders and in setting the right We have also enhanced the focus upon the critical importance tone at the top.
I have, on the following pages, set out the work of seeking continuous improvement in our health and safety undertaken by the Board and its Committees to illustrate how performance.
Accordingly, with effect from 1 July 2014 we corporate governance is embedded in our culture, processes constituted a Safety, Health and Environmental Board and decision making throughout the whole business and how we Committee, chaired by Richard Akers, to assist the Board have applied the Main Principles of the Code throughout the year.
with discharging its responsibilities in this area moving forward.
42 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder engagement As a Board we remain focused on delivering long term value to our shareholders, whilst ensuring that we continue to promote sustainable developments and homes.
Accordingly, we place continuing importance upon maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders.
We achieve this through regular dialogue on key issues impacting our business, as well as annually consulting with major shareholders in respect of our remuneration policy and during the year in response to our interim management statements and results announcements.
Fair, balanced and understandable During the year, the Board and its Committees completed implementation of the changes to the Code in the context of our Governance practices.
One of these changes is the requirement for Directors to make a statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of our considerations, we reflected upon the feedback shareholders provided in respect of our 2012 13 Annual Report and Accounts and the Remuneration Policy contained in it and an appropriate timetable was established and followed to provide appropriate time for review and discussion on significant areas of the 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Audit Committee then met to: i consider all the criteria for a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report and Accounts: ii review the processes underpinning the compilation and assurance of the report, in relation to the financial and non-financial management information: and iii review the internal processes underpinning the Groups reporting governance framework, the use of content owners and external legal and auditor review.
Following the review by the Audit Committee, the Board then considered the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole and discussed the tone, balance and language of the documentation, being mindful of the new Code requirements and the need for consistency between the narrative section and the Financial Statements.
The Boards formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is contained within the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 92.
Conclusion Our strategy has delivered.
I am delighted that we have been able to announce a medium term Capital Return Plan supplementing our ordinary dividend payments with a special cash payment programme.
Looking forward, the Directors will continue to focus on delivering sustainable shareholder value.
The Groups business model and strategy to achieve this are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41.
Bob Lawson Chairman 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
