38 Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance As a result, there is now a more forward INTRODUCTION looking agenda at Board meetings As Chairman, I am responsible for the and improvements have been made in leadership of the Board and ensuring management information provided to that it conducts itself in an effective the Board, including the introduction manner.
The Board has agreed clearly of interim Board papers.
We have defined roles for the Chief Executive enhanced the level of communication and myself, and the non-executive with external shareholders.
Further work directors challenge management has been carried out on succession and contribute to the development planning at and below Board level.
Progress on these matters is ongoing.
The Board, its Committees and BOARD EVALUATION individual directors are subject to annual performance evaluation and all directors This years Board evaluation was again are subject to annual re-election externally facilitated and concluded by shareholders.
that the Board was well run and The Board considers strategy, continued to be operating effectively.
performance and risk at each Board The following areas were highlighted for meeting.
In addition, the executive further development and improvement: directors meet regularly with the i CSR performance and reporting: regional chairmen and divisional boards, THE BOARD IS ii strategy for the management which gives an appropriate level of of employees: COMMITTED TO oversight and direction to the business.
iii review of KPIs used by the Group HIGHSTANDARDS BOARD EFFECTIVENESS tomeasure performance.
These matters are already being OFCORPORATE During the year under review, the addressed and progress will be Board has been particularly focused GOVERNANCE... reportedon in next years report.
onthe following: FOR THE BENEFIT OF 1.
The continued development of BOARD COMMITTEES the executive directors and the ITS SHAREHOLDERS induction of the two new nonThe roles of the Board Committees and executive directors into their roles.
their work during the year are described AND OTHER in greater detail below in the reports of 2.
The areas highlighted for the Committee Chairmen.
improvement in last years first externally facilitated Board Last year the Board Committee on evaluation, were: Executive Directors Remuneration i the structure of acting on behalf of the Board Board meetings: substantially restructured its report John Watson ii the provision of information in advance of the new remuneration Chairman for Board meetings: regulations, and has fully complied iii communication and reporting: withthem in this years report.
and The Nomination Committee has iv succession planning.
been instrumental in the formulation of succession planning strategies, particularly below Board level.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 39 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 The Audit Committee, aside from its DIVERSITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT responsibilities in respect of the interim The Board is committed to always The Board is committed to high and annual reports also dealt with making appointments on merit, standards of corporate governance issues in relation to audit materiality, the against objective criteria, and the Board throughout all areas of the Groups Groups IT strategy and programme strongly supports the principle of operations for the benefit of its and the effect of both on the Groups boardroom diversity in all its aspects.
It also dealt The Companys female employees with issues in relation to the Groups As stated in last years Annual Report, make up 28% of the total workforce, whistleblowing procedures and Bribery Iam still very keen to encourage while 14% of the Board and 15% of its Act compliance.
effective communication with the senior management are women.
It Companys shareholders and other is interesting to note that the female COMPLIANCE WITH stakeholders, and am available profile of our graduates matches to discuss matters relevant to the THE UKCORPORATE exactly the female profile of the whole Company with interested parties.
As was GOVERNANCE CODE workforce at 28% but exceeds the the case last year, I am writing to our female management profile of 15%.
In last years report I said that I would major shareholders, advising them that provide an update this year on the Paul Hampden Smith and Denise I am available to discuss any matters Groups approach to the requirements Jagger joined the Board as nonwhich they wish toraise with me.
of the revised UK Corporate executive directors on 1 August2013 Governance Code which was published and have made a significant in September 2012 and which first contribution to the work of the applied to the Group in the financial Boardthroughout the year.
I am pleased HEALTH AND SAFETY Chairman to confirm that the Board considers 13 October 2014 that it has complied with the detailed The Board, as ever, is keen to promote provisions of the Code throughout the high standards of performance year and up to the date of this report.
in relation to health and safety The Corporate Governance Code throughout Bellway for the benefit of published in September 2012 all who work at, or visit, our offices introduced additional guidance for Audit and developments.
At the beginning Committees, in particular in relation of the year, the Board established to the rotation of auditors and I would performance targets and objectives confirm that it is the Boards current for health and safety and I am intention to put the external audit pleased to say that these were all contract out to tender within the next satisfactorily achieved.
six years, subject to annual performance Similar targets and objectives have been reviews by the Audit Committee.
set for 2014 15 and we will be working In September 2014, the Financial hard to replicate last years performance.
Reporting Council issued a new UK This demonstrates the Boards Corporate Governance Code which is commitment to raising levels of health effective from 1 October 2014 and will and safety performance in Bellway on first apply to the Group in the financial an ongoing basis.
I will be providing an update on the Groups compliance in relation to the 2014 Code in next years report.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
