Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction skills and different perspectives to the Board and to complement the experience of our longer serving Directors so as to achieve an appropriate balance and position us to continue to challenge and debate corporate strategy.
Following the retirement of Clare Hollingsworth in May 2014 we Peter Smith Chairman set out to find a suitable candidate to fill the vacancy created on the Board and its Committees.
I am pleased to report that on 24 June 2014, Liz Hewitt was appointed as a Non-Executive The Board of Savills is committed to maintaining the highest Director.
Liz has extensive experience which will complement standards of corporate governance and understands that an and further enhance the wide-ranging skills and experience of effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the the Board and its Committees.
Company to deliver its strategy and long-term shareholder value.
Further information on our strategy and business model can be The Board consisted of a majority of independent Non-Executive found on pages 2 to 27.
Directors excluding the Chairman throughout the year.
Details of all the current Directors, their skills and experience are set out on We continue to work hard to create a culture where doing the page 40.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance right thing is at the core of how we do business.
The Board Code, all Directors with the exception of Liz Hewitt who will seek recognises our duty to set the right tone at the top in order to election for the first time, will stand for re-election at the Annual guide our organisations behaviour and ensure that we live by and General Meeting AGM on 13 May 2015. demonstrate the right values which in turn enable entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources to deliver long-term Diversity success for the Group and its stakeholders.
From the Board We believe that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving down we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of the success of the business, and we fully support the Davies corporate governance.
We fully recognise that in an increasingly Reports aspiration to promote greater female representation regulated global market, at the heart of every successful on listed company boards.
During the year, the Savills Board organisation is a good corporate governance structure and we had one female Non-Executive Director, except for the period seek to create an environment in which transparency, honesty, between the retirement of Clare Hollingsworth at the conclusion integrity and fairness are valued and practiced by our people of the Companys AGM on 12 May 2014 and the appointment of every day.
Our Code of Conduct is readily accessible in all local Liz Hewitt on 24 June 2014, representing 20% of Non-Executive languages to all staff to support their day to day decision making.
We also had one other Non-Executive We demand the highest professional standards from all of our Director who is based in Hong Kong.
Our focus remains on people all of the time and we have a zero tolerance approach to attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or breaches of the Code of Conduct.
As and when Board appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures recommended by the Davies Report and Board and Committee composition by the UK Corporate Governance Code to maintain a balanced Ensuring that we do the right thing in the right way requires the Board.
Our policy on page 42 summarises our approach to right leadership and it is important in my role as Chairman to diversity and what this means for our business and our people.
ensure that the Board has the right composition.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company People and training and how it is directed and controlled, so our performance is At Savills, our people are the key to our continued success.
thoroughly tested through an annual Board evaluation.
For the As an international business, we benefit from our Non-Executive last four years we have conducted a formal, externally facilitated Directors other current roles in Hong Kong and China, the review of each Directors skills and contribution and that of the Middle East, Russia and Central Europe, and the US.
We will Board as a whole and its Committees in the context of the ensure that our employees are equipped with the skills and Companys business model and the evolving strategic needs of insight required to deliver the high quality service we demand the business.
This year we conducted an in-house evaluation of for our clients.
We do this by continuing to invest in our future by the performance of the Board.
The process and key findings are recruiting, training, developing and retaining the best people and explained on page 38.
Following this review, I am satisfied that providing them with the necessary tools and supporting systems the Board is performing effectively.
This positions us to both drive key growth and deliver our ambitions and allows our people to develop on The Board also reviews Non-Executive Director independence a professional and personal level as individuals.
Details of our on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals Corporate Responsibility activities and progress made during professional characteristics, their behaviour at Board meetings the year can be found in our Resources and Responsibilities and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All Report on pages 18 to 22. of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent, including Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding Remuneration his long service.
We have a clear and transparent approach to remuneration, including Directors remuneration.
Our approach is a simple one, We are pleased that as confirmed by this years Board review where greater emphasis is placed on the performance-related good progress has been made against the actions that the Board elements of the total remuneration package to ensure a close set itself in 2014 and we are confident that your Board has the alignment between performance and reward and so with right balance of skills, experience and diversity of personality to shareholders interests.
More details of the Remuneration continue to encourage open, transparent debate and challenge.
Committees activities during the year, a breakdown of Directors remuneration and Non-Executives fees for the year and our We recognise the importance of planning for the future.
Our forward-looking remuneration policy, can be found on pages corporate strategy and business model are underpinned by a 49 to 67. succession planning policy designed to progressively bring new Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued Monitoring risk UK Corporate Governance Code Risk management is and will remain a fundamental element of The governance rules applicable to all UK companies the Board and Audit Committees agendas and our governance admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set efforts across the Group as a whole.
We welcome the changes out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs published by the Financial Reporting Council and publicly Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related available at www.
Throughout the financial year to Financial and Business Reporting, published in September 2014.
31 December 2014 the Code remained the standard against which we measured ourselves and the Board fully supports The Audit Committees Report on pages 45 to 48 sets out the principles set out in the Code.
However, for a short period in more detail the systems of risk management and internal during the year, following the retirement of Clare Hollingsworth control which help us to safeguard the Companys assets and at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting our shareholders investment.
Details of our principal risks on 12 May 2014 and up to the appointment of Liz Hewitt on can be found on pages 23 to 26.
24 June 2014, the Company did not fully comply with the Code in respect of those provisions of the Code relating to Communication and shareholder engagement the number of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For the As a responsible organisation, we believe that engaging with remainder of the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the shareholders and encouraging open, meaningful dialogue with date of this Report, we confirm that we have applied the main the Company is vital to ensuring mutual understanding.
You can Principles and complied with the main principles of the Code.
read more about shareholder engagement in this section and in the meantime, my fellow Directors and I look forward to continued For ease of reference, we prepare a separate annual dialogue and meeting with shareholders at our AGM in May.
compliance report by reference to the main principles of the Code.
This report is available on the Groups website It has been another year of significant progress and I remain www.
com happy with the Boards activity across our governance agenda.
However, we will continue to challenge ourselves and the business Our approach to Leadership, Effectiveness and Accountability and to consider and to learn from our decisions to ensure that we is set out in more detail on pages 36 to 39 and 42 to 45. build upon the existing strength of our governance structure.
Peter Smith Chairman of Savills plc 18 March 2015 Leadership Governance structure The Groups corporate governance framework is set out below.
Board Chairman, 2 Executive Directors and 4 Non-Executive Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Chief Committee Committee Committee Executive Group Executive Board Group Risk CR Steering Executive Committee Group Committees 36 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Role of the Board Matters reserved to the Board The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters leadership and to oversee the overall strategic development of the specifically reserved to it for decision making.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards of matters reserved for the Boards decision along with the and ensures that the Groups businesses act ethically and that its Terms of Reference of the Boards principal committees can obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board be found on the Companys website at www.
delegates the management of the day to day operation of the business to the Group Chief Executive, supported by the Group Executive Board referred to on page 41, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
The Board is specifically responsible for: Strategy and objectives Risk management Reviewing and approving the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans Establishing, monitoring and regulating the levels of risk which the Group is and budgets with a view to maintaining the Groups established entrepreneurial willing to accept in return for economic success and implementing systems driven business culture.
Following implementation, the Board continuously of internal control, governance and approval authorities to safeguard monitors and analyses actual performance against desired outcomes and shareholder investments.
where necessary, agrees adjustments or changes to the strategic plan to Regularly analysing the impact of the Groups adopted risk appetite against ensure the Group achieves its short, medium and long-term objectives.
expected outcomes to ensure that the level of risk adopted by the Board is Considering, testing and approving significant capital investment projects in appropriate such that it can be effectively managed by the Groups businesses line with strategy and taking a measured approach with the aim of: maintaining and neither constrains growth nor has a negative impact on the Groups our position as a market leader: strengthening our presence in an existing reputation or finances.
In response to actual outcomes and or changes in market: or establishing the Savills brand in new markets through acquisitions the internal and external environments, regulating acceptable risk levels to or partnerships with well established high calibre local businesses with the reflect the evolution of strategy.
skills to complement our existing capabilities and the ability to sit comfortably within the Savills business model.
Where necessary, reviewing and approving divesting initiatives.
Governance Finance performance Overseeing the performance of the Board and its principal Committees Reviewing the performance of the Groups businesses profits and cash and that of individual Directors to ensure that they continue to be effective management initiatives, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, in support of Group strategy, policy and practice.
business plans and budgets to ensure that the financial resources generated by the businesses work to create additional value, costs are controlled and or Planning to refresh or replace retiring or outgoing Directors so as to ensure eliminated and that resource can be made available at the appropriate time that the different skills, experience and knowledge of the Directors is such to exploit business opportunities.
that the Group remains capable of adapting to the changing environment as a consequence of it being directed by a set of competent, well rounded Reviewing changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any individuals who have the ability to formulate sensible and practical ideas securities in the context of achieving efficiencies or reducing the cost of capable of being translated into strategies which deliver results.
In line with the Boards commitment to operate the Groups businesses on Approving annual and half year results and trading updates, and accounting an ethically, morally and legally sound basis from the top down overseeing policies so as to ensure that communication with the Groups shareholders is the development and approval of the Groups governance structure and fair, balanced and understandable: and, subject to shareholder approval, the policies such as the Groups Code of Conduct, standards of ethics and appointment and the remuneration of the External Auditors.
policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social Approving the dividend policy and interim and supplemental dividends and and community responsibilities to ensure that the Group continues to do recommending final dividends which are appropriate to the Groups strategy, the right thing and remains compliant with regulatory and legal requirements reflect the performance of the Group and give Savills the ability to continue in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 37 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board meetings In 2014, a specific area of focus for the Board was the acquisition Attendance table and integration of Studley, Inc. which substantially fulfilled our Meetings strategic requirement to have a strong services platform in the Meetings eligible to key cities of the US.
The Board also considered in detail the attended attend options for expanding Cordea Savills.
Non-Executive Directors Peter Smith 8 8 At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the duties above and received updates on the Groups financial performance: Martin Angle 8 8 key management changes, material new projects, financial plans, Tim Freshwater 8 8 and legal and regulatory updates.
Liz Hewitt 5 5 The Directors receive management information, including financial, Clare Hollingsworth 3 3 operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
Charles McVeigh 8 8 Executive Directors The Board receives presentations from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and Functions on matters of significance and Jeremy Helsby 8 8 periodically meetings are held in regional centres to give the Board Simon Shaw 8 8 greater insight into the business in that region.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary provides the Board with updates Was appointed to the Board on 24 June 2014. and reports covering legal developments and regulatory changes.
Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM on 12 May 2014.
Members of the Group Executive Board.
One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically devoted to the review and reconfirmation of the Groups strategy.
The Board met formally eight times during the year and there This meeting benefited from presentations and discussions with a was full attendance at all meetings by Directors, as shown in number of the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
The delivery of the table above.
strategic plans is continually monitored and reviewed by the Board and periodic updates on progress and market developments are Board activity presented by the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
As detailed above, although the Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for formal decision, there has to be a level The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow of flexibility to meet the evolving needs of the business and we open discussion.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all endeavour to develop our processes in order to support growth Directors receive appropriate and timely information, including and to achieve continuous improvement across the Group.
detailed papers in advance of Board meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Directors may attend by audio or video Below is a chart which shows in simple terms those areas on conference.
When Directors are unable to attend a Board or which your Board has been focused during 2014 and which Committee meeting, their views on the key items of business will remain key in the coming year.
to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance to the Chairman of that meeting in order that these can be presented Strategy Leadership and risk at the meeting and influence the debate.
Strategy setting Entrepreneurial support Target delivery Succession planning The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least once Achievement of goals Oversight of operational each year without the presence of the Executive Directors and management also meet at least once a year without the Chairman, at which Determination of time the Chairmans performance is appraised.
principal risks The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for Governance Finance advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on company Assurance and Optimising our internal law and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board compliance control framework procedures are followed, as well as ensuring that there is a smooth Board management and Capital management flow of information to enable effective decision making.
effectiveness Overview and preparation Remuneration policy in of financial statements support of strategy 38 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Access to independent advice Group Executive Board GEB All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the As mentioned above, the Group Chief Executive is supported Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and through him by the GEB.
The GEB is the key management committee for have access to independent professional advice in respect of the Group and comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group their duties at the Companys expense.
Chief Financial Officer, the Heads of the Principal Businesses and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
The GEB meets Indemnification of Directors regularly and under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the GEB is responsible for the day to day management of the and to the extent permitted by law, the Directors and the Group Group including overseeing the development and implementation Legal Director & Company Secretary are granted an indemnity, of strategy, capital expenditure, and investment budgets, for in respect of any liabilities incurred as a result of their holding the ongoing review and control of Group risks as detailed on office.
Such indemnities were in force during the financial year pages 23 to 36 and reporting on these areas to the Board for to 31December 2014 and up to the date of this Report.
The approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial and Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in operational performance of the Group and other specific respect of legal action against its Directors and Officers.
matters delegated to it by the Board.
Board Committees An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value, The principal Committees of the Board are listed below.
A more and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the detailed account of each of the Committees can be found in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 4 and 5. pages which follow.
Membership of the GEB is detailed on page 41.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for the size, structure and composition of the Board, for reviewing and progressing appointments and for succession planning to ensure that the Board is progressively refreshed such that the balance of skills and experience remains appropriate to the needs of the business.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of the principal Committees of the Board.
The Nomination Committee Report can be found on page 43.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in fulfilling its financial and risk responsibilities, in particular for ensuring that the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
It oversees financial reporting, internal control, risk management and reviews the work of the Internal and External Auditors and advises the Board on the appointment of the External Auditors.
The Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 45 to 48.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors and for reviewing that of the Group members and the Group Executive Board.
The Directors Remuneration report can be found on pages 49 to 67.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 39
