CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE DURING 2014, THE BOARD CONTINUED TO OVERSEE THE PROGRESSION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR THREE KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
OUR GOVERNANCE CULTURE IS BUILT ON THESE AND IS FUNDAMENTAL TO HOW THE BOARD ENSURES THEIR SUCCESSFUL DELIVERY.
HOW GOVERNANCE HAS SUPPORTED OUR STRATEGY DURING 2014 Strategic objective Boards governance role Related Board activity during 2014 To become the Board review and approval of our Board review and approval of the 40 million Home for most trusted core business purpose Home for Success re-investment programme, committing to a brand in the Success, which we rolled out in 2014, wide range of service improvements, systems and sector see page 4. technology upgrades across the business.
Board continued to focus on the health The Board considers health and safety at every Board and safety, wellbeing and security of meeting reviewing health and safety for our students, the 43,000 students who make Unite visitors and employees at our properties and for our Students their home.
contractors, visitors and employees at our developments and construction sites.
Health & Safety Committee a subcommittee of the Board determines our Health & Safety strategic priorities and scrutinises our Health and Safety policies and procedures ensuring they are appropriately embedded and implemented see pages 60 61.
To operate the Board oversight of new developments, Successfully allocated 100% of the development highest quality scrutinising city and site selection, as capital from the 2013 share placing and 2014 share portfolio well as ensuring these developments placing and open offer capital raise dedicated to run to budget and schedule.
new development at returns in line with our targets for regional development.
Board oversight on acquisitions and Board review and approval of site acquisitions and disposals and also our programme developments in Newcastle, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, of refurbishments and extensions to Portsmouth, Liverpool and Coventry see page 35. existing properties.
Board review and approval relating to USAFs acquisition of the Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund portfolio and disposal of OCB assets see page 36.
Board review of capital spent during 2014 on refurbishments and extensions to our existing properties.
To maintain the Board focus on capital structure and Board review and approval of the 96 million share strongest capital reducing and diversifying the cost placing and open offer to accelerate our targeted structure of funding.
regional development programme and increase our stake in USAF.
Ongoing Board review of our capital operating guidelines.
At the end of 2014 debt maturities remained broadly consistent at seven years and LTV of 43%.
44 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION OUR GOVERNANCE PRIORITIES FOR 2015 During 2014, the Nomination Committee continued to ensure the Board had the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge in order to discharge their During 2015, our Governance priorities will continue to focus respective duties and responsibilities effectively, as well as on our three strategic objectives: reviewing succession planning and senior management To become the most trusted brand in the sector: skills development.
overseeing the implementation of Home for Success As part of an orderly succession plan Elizabeth McMeikan joined and the related 40 million investment alongside the the Board on 1 February 2014, bringing significant experience in continued development of our brand and our signature customer-focused businesses to our Board and Richard Walker commitments to our customers and the digital retired from the Board in May 2014 after nine years service.
environment where we interact with our customers and prospective customers UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE During 2014, our governance framework continued to be built To operate the highest quality portfolio: overseeing our on the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as introduced new developments in particular the management of the in September 2012.
The Code remained the minimum standard build process, with a particular emphasis on planning and against which we measured ourselves during 2014.
We complied the timetable to completion and potential acquisition with all the provisions in the Code during 2014.
We also monitored and disposal opportunities the changes to the Code introduced in September 2014, for To maintain the strongest capital structure: overseeing financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2014, in the allocation of capital and development debt preparation for our financial year commencing on 1 January 2015.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available at www.
The Board meets twice a year to focus on Unites strategy, often at Universities across the UK in order to meet Vice-Chancellors PHIL WHITE and learn about their accommodation requirements and Chairman of the Board broader developments in the Higher Education sector.
23 February 2015 The Unite Board is able to oversee the setting and implementation of the Groups strategy due to its flat management structure: four members of the Board are Executive Directors and actively involved in the day to day implementation of the strategy.
This executive perspective is balanced by five Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, who bring a depth and breadth of experience in senior management, Higher Education, finance, customer service and real estate.
The Board has ultimate responsibility to Unite shareholders for all the Groups activities and a broader responsibility, extending to environmental and social issues.
This recognises that the Group is home to 43,000 students during a crucial stage of their personal development and we work with Universities across the UK.
To discharge this broader responsibility effectively the Group needs to operate in an open, harmonious and transparent manner.
One way this is achieved is by ensuring open communication between the Board and senior Unite management and members of Unite management regularly present to the Board.
This direct access to management opens dialogue beyond the boardroom itself.
Furthermore, with Board meetings located in cities across the UK, the Board visits our existing properties and new developments meeting with our Operations teams and giving them a grounded insight to the implementation of our strategy.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
