Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance Letter to shareholders In addition, Judy Lewent, who chairs our Audit & Risk Committee, provided an overview of the work of the Committee and Sir Deryck Maughan, our Senior Independent Director, provided his insights into the Boards culture and dynamics.
Listening to the views of our shareholders and receiving their feedback at these sessions that are held in the run up to the corporate reporting season, helps us to shape key areas of our Governance & Remuneration disclosures.
UK Corporate Governance Code We have reviewed our responsibilities and reporting requirements against the new standards included in the Financial Reporting Councils updated UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014, which are effective for our 2015 financial year.
The principal changes relate to going concern, viability statements and other internal control and risk management areas and to bring the Code up-to-date with new remuneration reporting practices.
Our review indicated that we are in a strong position to comply fully Dear Shareholder with these new standards and the Board will report formally in next As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to GSK seeking to years Annual Report on their implementation.
operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
We believe that it is our governance structure that underpins our ability Appointment of Chairman Designate to deliver our strategy to grow a diversied business, deliver more I welcome the appointment of Sir Philip Hampton as my designated products of value and simplify our operating model, and in doing so successor.
He joined the Board on 1 January 2015 and will become create additional long-term value for our shareholders.
Sir Philip is due to succeed me on 7 May 2015, from the end of our AGM.
He has been No less important for myself and the Board is the need to rmly undergoing a thorough and wide-ranging induction process, which embed values-based conduct and behaviour of our employees into has been tailored to his role and background, and which is detailed our governance structure.
We want to ensure that everything that on page 81.
This has provided him with a rm basis to make a we as a Board and our employees do is guided by our commitment valuable early contribution to our Board deliberations and to be fully to our values and to being in compliance with the local laws and conversant with our businesses and the environment in which we regulations within which we operate.
The foundations of these operate before he becomes Chairman.
In the meantime, I am commitments are laid out in our Code of Conduct, which we working very closely with Sir Philip, with the support of Sir Deryck strengthened and re-issued in January 2014, and which is available Maughan, our Senior Independent Director, during this handover in the governance area of our website.
It draws together a number period to ensure a smooth and seamless transition.
of key company policy principles and provides a working guide for the way in which we apply our values across our global operations.
China investigations and ABAC The Chinese authorities reached a conclusion in the investigations I highlight below key corporate governance priorities that the Board of our Chinese business in September 2014, but this has been a has addressed during 2014. deeply disappointing matter for GSK.
We cooperated fully with the Board evaluation authorities and took steps to comprehensively rectify the issues An independent external evaluation was undertaken of the Board identied at our operations in China.
The Audit & Risk Committee, and our Committees and I am pleased to report that the results of which each Board member attends, was fully appraised of Dr Tracy Longs review were positive, conrming that the Board developments and continues to closely monitor the Groups ABAC was operating well and was effective in dealing with the various activities.
Further details are set out by Judy Lewent on page 86. challenges it faces.
This is a time of significant transition for the Audit tendering company and the Board and two key priorities for the Board are to: We have regularly reviewed developments at a UK and EU level close our proposed three-part transaction with Novartis, which to reform the audit market, particularly in relation to regulations is on track to complete in the week commencing 2 March 2015, governing audit contract tendering and audit rm rotation.
We have and integrate Novartis Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare also taken into consideration the views of our shareholders.
As part businesses into our existing governance arrangements: and of its overall assessment of the auditors performance our Audit & Risk Committee reviewed the implications of tendering the external manage an orderly refreshment of the Board as a result of a audit contract.
Details of its conclusions are set out on page 90. number of planned retirements from the Board over the next two The Committee does not intend to initiate a tender exercise during to three years and address several identied additional skills and 2015 due to the significant level of change the company is experience gaps.
It expects, however, to initiate preparations for a Sir Philip Hampton, our Chairman Designate, has succeeded me tender process during the second half of 2016, in order that a new as Nominations Committee Chairman so that he can immediately auditor could take on the audit from 2018. focus on tailoring the refreshment of the Board to the requirements The following pages outline our approach to governance and how of the future reshaped Group, which he will lead through the next these practices underpin the delivery of our strategy.
The structure chapter in its development, and the evolving external landscape.
of the Corporate Governance report has been maintained, so that I continue to serve on the Committee to provide continuity and those statutory and risk disclosures that previously appeared in the support to Sir Philip.
Further details of Dr Longs key findings report can continue to be referred to in the Shareholder Information and the action points that the Board has agreed to address are section on pages 242 to 248 and the Risk Management section on set out on page 81. pages 16 to 17 respectively.
Annual investor meetings I commend this report to all of our shareholders.
At these sessions, which were held in November, I was pleased to discuss our corporate governance practices with our largest shareholders, while Tom fide Swaan, our Remuneration Committee Sir Christopher Gent Chairman, covered our executive remuneration arrangements.
Chairman 26 February 2015 78 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly dened responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Groups strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 84 to 85, and 16 to 17, are an integral part of GSKs governance framework.
Board Committees In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by the Board.
A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference of each Committee are available on our website and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees during 2014 are given on pages 86 to 95 and 108 to 109.
Board Chief Executive 1 3 12 officer Chairman Executive Independent Directors Non-Executive Directors Corporate Executive Team Corporate Corporate Administration Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews and Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and responsible for: recommends to the recommends to the External issues that approves: approves: Financial and internal Board: Board: have the potential for Annual Report and Matters in reporting processes, The overall executive The structure, size serious impact upon Form 20-F, connection with the integrity of the remuneration policy and composition of GSKs business convening of the administration of the Groups business financial statements, the Board and the AGM and the The appropriate fees Reputation system of internal appointment of quarterly results and certain for the Chairman management corporate controls, Directors, Committee announcements Annual governance identication and members and CET transactions Determines: Certain major oversight of GSKs management members Terms of service licensing and capital responsible business of risks and external and remuneration of Succession to the transactions and commitments and internal audit Executive Directors Board and the CET changes to the processes and other members Groups Investment of the CET Initiating audit Instrument and tenders, the Counterparty Limits Reviews and selection and approves: appointment of The Remuneration external auditors, report their remuneration and oversight of their work GSK Annual Report 2014 79
