Governance GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BOARD COMPOSITION Sir John Parker Chairman Your Board comprises directors representing seven nationalities with experience from a broad range of sectors, as set out in the table on page 72.
I am proud that we have achieved the Davies Report target of 25% women on the Board, and that our Board has been regularly refreshed such that no current non-executive director has served more than six years.
I am also pleased to report that we have been conscious I have long believed that good governance of the value of incorporating ethnic diversity on our Board.
I have agreed to accept an invitation from the UK equals good business.
government to set out a practical way ahead for FTSE companies to target ethnic diversity as a natural part of the recruitment process.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased once again to introduce the Governance REGULATORY DISCLOSURES section of the Annual Report, where we set out our We have taken the opportunity this year to revise the approach to directing and controlling the activities of the content and format of the Governance section to, hopefully, Group.
I have long believed that good governance equals make it clearer and more concise.
So, rather than simply good business, and I hope this report will offer readers repeat every piece of information from prior years, we some insight into how we try to achieve that.
have tried to report only what is relevant and of interest I am pleased to report that your Company has complied in for 2014.
For example, we have not reported this time full with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in on our approach to director induction as we have 2012 the Code.
previously reported on the process followed for all current non-executive directors.
The legal and regulatory requirements concerning disclosure in annual reports TONE FROM THE TOP have developed incrementally over the years and, while In this report, we describe the role of the Board and its this development has on the whole been beneficial, it committees, and of the chairman and chief executive, and has to some extent rendered sections of the report slightly we do so in terms of the tangible functions they perform redundant and repetitious.
The Directors Report is a good setting strategy, monitoring performance, etc.
Still required by law, but with much of its provides useful factual information, but it does not quite content reported elsewhere, it is difficult to decide where it capture everything.
For me, one of the most important, should sit.
We have therefore moved the Directors Report to but intangible, functions of the Board is to set the tone the Other Information section on page 212.
This is driven by the integrity, honesty and that these changes will make the format flow more logically, professionalism of the directors and the Board as a whole and be more readable, while still ensuring full disclosure.
setting the drumbeat for the behavioural expectations of I do hope the following reports convey the importance we directors and employees.
attach to our governance arrangements and that you find You cannot write a policy guide for this vital role, but you them useful and interesting.
can promote it by recruiting the right people to the Board, with the right mix of skills and experiences, coupled with committed leadership.
Sir John Parker Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 65
