Governance Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the information in the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 46.
As a result of this, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders.
We maintain a corporate website, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
It was recently refreshed and relaunched, assisting our audiences with a simpler, cleaner format and a mobile responsive capability.
The website is updated with all formal communications to the investment community immediately following their release through a regulatory news service, in compliance with Kellers obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their participation.
Roy A Franklin Chairman Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly meet with, and make presentations to, institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings following the Dear shareholder announcement of the annual and interim results with the Companys largest In this part of the Annual Report, we set out the measures that we have institutional shareholders on an individual basis.
The Finance Director and taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of Financial Controller customarily meet with our debt investors throughout corporate governance.
the year and during 2014, held a series of additional meetings with our debt investors as part of the re-financing exercise described in more detail on At Keller, the Board of Directors is accountable for ensuring that the highest page 35.
All major shareholders have the opportunity on request to meet standards of governance facilitate the success of the Company and sustain the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or, on appointment, any this over time.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of the views of the investment community through the circulation of brokers The Board believes that Kellers effectiveness should be supported by a research notes and feedback from analysts and investors, supplemented by strong governance framework.
The Group takes pride in its good reputation occasional investor perception surveys.
globally and our Business Conduct Programme continues to promote honesty, fairness and integrity in relations between employees and their The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously work colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and the communities required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency in which they work.
I hope that you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an important topic.
In June of 2014 we welcomed Nancy Tuor Moore to the Board and as Chairman of the HSE Committee.
Nancy has been spending time in the Yours faithfully business and with our HSE leadership team to gain an understanding of the Keller culture and to help shape the direction of our efforts in this area in the future.
Her report on HSE is set out on page 42.
In September 2014, Justin announced his intention to retire as CEO of Keller by 31December 2015.
Justin has been with the business for 25 years, leading the business for 11 years.
The timing of his departure allows us time to find Roy A Franklin and appoint his successor with a smooth transition.
Further information on Chairman how we are approaching the search for his successor can be found in the Nominations Committee report.
2 March 2015 Following the 2013 external Board evaluation and in line with corporate governance best practice, during the year an internal Board evaluation was undertaken.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to their role.
The resulting development themes that arose from the evaluation are discussed on page 43.
I have also set out how we have progressed against the areas we identified for improvement as part of the 2013 review.
36 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year ended 31December 2014, we have complied B.
6 Evaluation with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 During 2014, the Company Secretary assisted the Chairman in a review the Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the Financial of the performance of the Board, its Committees and Directors.
This Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts describes how we have applied the main B.
7 Re-election principles of the Code.
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 2014 AGM, as will be the case at the AGM in May 2015.
1 The role of the Board C. Accountability The Board met formally eight times during the year.
The Group is controlled C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting through its Board of Directors.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 35 provides information about the of matters reserved to it for decision.
performance of the Group, the business model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
2 Division of Responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are defined and there is a C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Controls clear division of responsibilities.
Roy Franklin, the Chairman, is responsible The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Justin Atkinson, the Chief evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
Principal risks, Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the including controls and mitigating actions are set out on pages 22 and 23 Groups business.
3 The Chairman C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, ensures that adequate time is given The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit for discussion of all agenda items, facilitates effective Board processes, and Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial ensures that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and reporting processes, internal audit and work undertaken by the external constructive part in the Board and Board Committee discussion.
The chairman of the Audit Committee provides regular updates the Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
4 Non-executive Directors D. Remuneration The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop D. 1 The Level and Components of Remuneration proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration appropriately so and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Periodically, the Chairman as to attract, retain and motivate the Board, but also structures remuneration meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby present.
Apart from the formal Board meetings, there is regular informal aligning managements interest with those of shareholders.
Effectiveness Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the B.
1 The composition of the Board Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 60.
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of E. Relations with shareholders the Directors.
E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and B.
2 Appointments to the Board has an established cycle of communication based on the Groups financial The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination reporting calendar.
This includes preliminary results in March, publication Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee of the Annual Report in March, half year results in August and Interim can be found on page 44.
Management Statements in May and November.
The Board is keen to understand the views of shareholders and ensures open dialogue B.
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment expected from them.
External directorships, which may impact existing time E. 2 Constructive Use of the AGM commitments, must be agreed with the Chairman.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their participation.
4 Development detailing all proposed resolutions, is sent to shareholders at least 20 On appointment, the Directors are provided with induction training and working days before the meeting.
information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees and the latest financial information.
This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal and other professional advisers, where appropriate, visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors understanding of the business.
Also, the Directors are continually apprised of best practice, regulatory and legislative developments.
5 Information and Support The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive timely and accurate information.
The Company Secretary ensures that there are effective information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-executive Directors.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37
