Governance Chairmans introduction Governance is at the core of our business The highest standards of corporate governance are ingrained in our culture allowing our shareholders to be confident that what we do, we do right.
Bill Whiteley Chairman Key points in this section: What governance means to us Key actions during the year We believe that good governance is about During 2014 we continued our active Our shareholders' perceptions being honest, transparent and accountable dialogue with our principal investors and in the way we run our business.
In 2014 shareholder representative bodies to Full compliance with the UK we asked external advisers, Investor ensure that we understand their views.
Corporate Governance Code Perceptions Ltd, to carry out a study to Indeed, we carried out a review of the clarify what our shareholders think about annual analysis conducted by Institutional Changes recommended by us.
One of the main findings was that Shareholder Services Inc.
The Investment shareholder representative bodies shareholders like our reliability and consider Association formerly IVIS and Pensions & implemented that we are a safe pair of hands.
High praise Investment Research Consultants Ltd. As a indeed and the Board intends to make direct result of their comments, we have Promoting Group values sure that we live up to those expectations.
introduced a cap on nonaudit fees paid to Strengthening and refreshing our To me, good governance and strong ethical the auditor of 70% of the average audit fees compliance programme values are absolutely essential to a longterm over the last three years, automatic audit reliable business.
tendering no later than every 10 years, a general statement on matters discussed In this section of the Annual Report and at the Board to ensure shareholders Accounts, we set out our approach to have adequate information and we have governance, explain how the Board and its fully disclosed in our Sustainability report Committees are structured and what they employee and health safety KPIs.
Finally, have done during the year.
whistleblowing has been fully reviewed Our Governance report explains how by the Audit Committee and a new the Group has applied the principles whistleblowing policy issued, compliant and complied with the provisions of with the Whistleblowing Arrangements the UK Corporate Governance Code Code of Practice issued by the British 1 2012 Code.
We are fully compliant Standards Institute and Public Concern at with the requirements of the Code, as Work.
We have also improved employee set out in detail on the Groups website, access to the whistleblowing process www.
com, under by the introduction of a multilingual the Governance section.
Our approach to governance Regulatory disclosures required under the As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules Governance helps us to: for the Groups performance and for 7.2.
6 can be found on page 100. overseeing the management of risk.
Ensure our shareholders receive a good The Board and the Risk Management Turning to the Remunerationreport, on return on their investment Committee will ensure that new processes pages 76 and 77, , Behave with integrity as colleagues, are in place for the ongoing monitoring the Remuneration Committee Chairman, making sure that each feels valued, of risk management and internal controls summarises our threeyear Remuneration motivated and rewarded from 1st January 2015 as a result of Code policy that was approved by 98.5% of changes published in September 2014.
Treat our customers, suppliers and local shareholder votes at our Annual General communities properly Meeting AGM in May 2014.
The Annual We acknowledge that shareholders look report on remuneration 2014 sets out to us to promote the longterm success of Respect the environment.
the details of executive compensation the Group and, as Chairman, I recognise throughout 2014, which will be subject to that it is my role to provide the leadership to 1 Compliance statement the normal advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
enable it to do so effectively.
Building on the The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, At the AGM we will also seek shareholder  independent review by published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published approval for the renewal of our Performance Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Ltd in in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ended Share Plan.
2012, the Board carried out a full anonymous 31st December 2014.
58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 selfappraisal in 2014.
As a result of this review, it was decided that, where possible, Focus on our Board Committee meetings would be held on separate days to the Board meetings to allow for more indepth discussion and the Core expertise number of meetings between all Directors and shareholders would be increased, to their mutual advantage.
We are looking Engineering 9 Operational 3 forward to Dr Long engaging with us for a second time by carrying out an independent Board effectiveness review in 2015. International 5 Sales and marketing 3 The Board takes seriously its responsibility for promoting the Groups values and, in Finance 3 Senior management 3 particular, for ensuring that all employees, and everyone associated with the Group, are aware of their responsibility to act lawfully and conduct themselves in accordance Nationality with high standards of business integrity.
These values are embedded in our Group Management Code.
1, 2 British 7 A strong anticorruption culture has long been at the centre of the Groups values.
1 American 2 In 2014 we again improved our compliance programme.
Over 3,500 employees have taken our antibribery training using a Dutch 1 specialised antibribery@work programme.
1 N. J. Anderson holds dual British and American citizenship.
We will shortly be introducing a biennial 2 K. Rajagopal also holds an overseas citizenship of India.
To ensure our suppliers comply with human Gender rights principles, we introduced a Supplier Code which is written to international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for Male 8 Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Female 1 the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation and the 10 Principles ofthe United Nations Global Compact.
In striving to achieve excellence in our health and safety performance, we appointed a Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive.
Full Board biographies can be found on pages 6061 Good corporate governance is part ofour everyday life at Spirax Sarco.
I look forward to meeting you at our AGM on Monday, 11th May 2015.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 4.
