"Corporate governance Governance overview Board governance structure Group management board ""GMB"" The Board has set up four committees, which are populated by The operational management of the Group is delegated by the non-executive directors."
The responsibilities of the committees Board to the GMB which comprises the executive directors and continue to grow in scope and complexity in response to other heads of department.
The GMB meets three times each increasing regulatory requirements.
Only the members of month, has specific terms of reference which have been approved each committee are entitled to attend its meetings but by the Board, and has responsibility for implementing the others, such as senior management and external advisors, Boards strategy.
may be invited to attend as appropriate.
A full description of their responsibilities and terms of reference are provided on the Groups website at aberdeen-asset.
Corporate governance framework and responsibilities Board of directors Group management board Set the Groups strategy, goals and objectives.
Review Group and divisional strategy plans and budgets.
Set, with advice from the risk committee, the Groups risk Review and consider risks within the Group.
appetite, ensuring consistency with the Groups strategy.
Take decisions on the day to day management of the Group Approve budgets and business plan.
except where matters are reserved for decision by the Board.
See biographies on pages 52 to 55.
Committees Audit committee Nominations committee Monitor the integrity of annual, interim and preliminary Regularly review the structure, size and composition financial statements of the Group.
required of the Board compared to its current position and in line with governance requirements.
Review and assess the annual internal audit plan and internal audit function, and monitor managements responsiveness to Consider appropriate succession planning for directors the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor.
Assess annually the independence and objectivity of the Keep under review the executive and non-executive external auditor and oversee quality of audit work.
leadership needs of the organisation.
See pages 61 to 63 for the audit committee report.
See page 64 for the nominations committee report.
Risk committee Remuneration committee Support the Board in its consideration of the business activities Determine the remuneration strategy for the Group to that expose the business to current and future material risks.
ensure staff retention and incentivisation, to meet with current best practice and to align the interests of all Advise the Board on setting risk appetite.
stakeholders, in particular shareholders and employees.
Ensure that senior management has in place procedures Determine the remuneration packages for the Chairman, and mechanisms to identify and control all fundamental all executive directors and the senior employees.
operational, financial, reputational, and regulatory risks.
Review any performance-related pay schemes and all share Oversee the compliance function.
incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
See page 65 for the risk committee report.
See pages 66 to 80 for the remuneration committee report.
