GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE WE, AS A BOARD, ARE COMMITTED TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
THE BOARD IS THE GUARDIAN OF BETFAIR, ITS REPUTATION AND ITS RELATIONSHIPS.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman Chairmans introduction As well as ensuring that the mix of skills, experience and expertise We believe that a robust corporate governance structure helps us on the Board is appropriate, we are committed to the need to to continue to maintain Betfairs reputation and relationships, and remain effective as a Board.
As most of the Directors on the to deliver sustainable value.
Board were newly appointed during 2013-2014, we decided to carry out an internal Board evaluation process this year and will I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report carry out an external review in 2014-2015.
A description of this whichincorporates reports from the Chairmen of each of our years process is set out in this report.
All Directors will be Board committees.
These reports explain our governance policies submitted for re-election or, in the case of the newly appointed and procedures in detail and describe how we have applied the Directors, election by the shareholders at our AGM.
principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was enhanced in 2012: the The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, changes apply to Betfair for the first time this year.
many of whom are also customers.
All Directors will be in attendance at our AGM on 4 September 2014, and we hope New regulations also came into force this year around the disclosure to see many of our shareholders there.
and approval of Directors remuneration.
There had already been asignificant amount of work carried out by the Remuneration Gerald Corbett Committee in 2013 to develop a remuneration policy that aligns Chairman reward with delivery of shareholder value, and in this year, considerable time and effort has been taken to ensure that theRemuneration Report provides the disclosure required.
As already mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, there have been some changes to the membership of the Board.
We have appointed three new independent Non-Executive Directors, who bring with them significant commercial and financial expertise and are well placed to support the Executive Team in implementing Betfairs strategy.
We have also refreshed the membership of our committees.
We continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that it has the skills and balance required for the proper stewardship of the business.
36 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
