CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest standards ofcorporate governance.
Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for thefinancial year ended 31 December 2014.
The Board remains committed to maintaining thehighest standards of corporate governance.
This Report sets out the Admiral framework ofgovernance and the approach the Board has taken during 2014 to achieve the standards ofgood corporate governance for which it is accountable to the Groups shareholders.
We also confirm the Groups compliance, with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was revised by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and is applicable to the year under review.
The Group is mindful that a new version of the Code was issued in September 2014 and applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The Group has considered the provisions contained in the revised Code and intends to report compliance against the revised code in the 2015 Annual Report.
We believe that having a sound corporate governance framework enables effective and efficient decision making and ensures that there is the right balance of skills and experience to assess and manage the risks in the markets in which the Group operates and inherent in the Groups activities.
However, we also believe that good governance should be proportionate and that individual responsibility and accountability should not be lost within a multi-layered committee structure thatdistances senior management from the day-to-day reality of operational activity.
As the Group undertook in 2013 an external Board evaluation facilitated by an independent external consultant, the evaluation process this year consisted of each Board member completing a questionnaire detailing the extent to which the Board had achieved each of the recommendations identified in the 2013 external evaluation together with Board members identifying areas where further review was required to ensure that the Board continued to operate effectively.
The results of the evaluation andareas for development are set out in more detail on page 46 of this report This Corporate Governance Report is structured in order to demonstrate to shareholders that theBoard has complied during 2014 in all respects with each section of the Code Leadership: Effectiveness: Accountability: and Relations with Shareholders.
Remuneration is dealt with in theseparate Directors Remuneration Report.
Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman 4 March 2015 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
