44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW 2014 has been a transitional year for the Group and onein which its governance practices havecome under close scrutiny.
ANDREW GOULD | CHAIRMAN Good corporate governance is critical in THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The global search process was led by me and helping to build a successful business that can We are reporting this year against the 2012 Sir John Hood as members of the Nominations besustained over the longer term and through version of the UK Corporate Governance Code Committee.
John and I had the benefit of the cyclical markets in which we operate.
the Code and related guidance.
Except as frequent support from, and participation referred to below, BG Group has complied of, other Non-Executive Directors and, as As Chairman, I am focused on ensuring that with all relevant provisions of the Code appropriate, the full Board in the overall BG Group has a Board that works effectively throughout the year.
and cohesively under my leadership, with the right range and balance of skills, expertise and We have not complied with Code provision Following the identification of Helge as attributes.
I am confident that our governance A.
2.1, which states that there should be a thepreferred candidate, the Board sought processes, our culture of integrity and openness, cleardivision of responsibilities at the head to agree acompetitive remuneration package and a diversity of perspective promote the ofthe company between the running of designed to promote the long-term success necessary degree of constructive challenge theboard and the executive responsibility of the Company by aligning the variable bythe Board of our Executive Directors and fortherunning of the companys business.
components of Helges remuneration with the senior management.
This has been all the more InApril2014, Chris Finlayson resigned as Companys performance and the interests of important in 2014 during my interim tenure ChiefExecutive and Executive Director with shareholders.
We consulted extensively with our asExecutive Chairman.
The Board considered shareholders on the proposed package and were carefully how best to manage the business made aware of anumber of concerns.
Based 2014 has been a transitional year for the Group while conducting an extensive global search on this feedback and following discussions with and one in which its governance practices for a world-class oil and gas chief executive.
Helge, on 1 December 2014 we announced have come under close scrutiny.
I believe The Board agreed that, in these exceptional revisions to the remuneration package that thatacompanys governance arrangements circumstances and given my industry experience brought allelements of Helges remuneration must be set appropriately for the prevailing and background, it was in the best interests within the Companys remuneration policy circumstances and, on occasions, they may of shareholders for me to step into the role approved by shareholders in May 2014.
This require some flexibility to respond to the of Executive Chairman on an interim basis removed theneed for separate shareholder challenges that thecompany faces.
until a permanent Chief Executive could be approval for the conditional award of shares With the resignation of Chris Finlayson in appointed.
It was additionally agreed that, previously proposed.
The conditional share April 2014, the Board requested that I assume in recognition of best governance practice, award was replaced by the proposal togrant the role of Executive Chairman on an interim I should step down as a member of the an initial award of shares under the Companys basis while we conducted our search process Remuneration Committee and as Chair of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which will be for your new Chief Executive.
At the conclusion Nominations Committee for the duration of subject to Company performance conditions.
of a lengthy and difficult succession process, my tenure as interim Executive Chairman.
Further details are set out in detail in the in which wesought to reconcile the need to Remuneration report on page 74.
On assuming my interim executive role, I took secure an exceptional candidate by providing the opportunity to review the existing structure In our future deliberations as a Board aglobally competitive remuneration package of the senior leadership team, and the manner including with respect to future succession with the requirements of UK governance best and frequency of their interaction.
As a result, planning, we will be mindful of the lessons practice, theBoard was delighted to secure the existing Executive sub-Committee structure learnt from the process.
As your Board, we the appointment of someone of Helge Lunds was streamlined and the Executive Management have a duty to act in the best interests of exceptional experience and calibre.
Committee and Group Leadership Team were shareholders in attracting the best possible I have now reverted to my role as Non-Executive created.
Efficiencies were also introduced tothe talent to lead the Company.
To that end, it is Chairman.
The relationship between the Groups decision-making processes to aidthe important that we can offer remuneration Chairman and the Chief Executive is a cornerstone effective use of management time.
Fulldetails that is competitive in the international market of good governance, and I am confident that of the structure within which the Group has for oil and gas executives in order to recruit Iwill establish a positive and constructive operated during 2014 are set out on pages 48 and incentivise senior executives of an working relationship with Helge as the and 49 of this report and the biographies for appropriate calibre to promote the long-term Groupsnew Chief Executive.
the members of the Group Leadership Team success of the Company.
The Board recognises who supported me during mytenure as interim that there is a balance to be struck between As the governance arrangements for the Executive Chairman are set out on page 50. meeting that business imperative and taking Company revert to a more conventional form, appropriate account of shareholder and public the Board and I also look forward to building APPOINTMENT OF HELGE LUND concern in the UK about the level ofexecutive long-term relationships with our investors that The Group announced the appointment of pay.
In designing the original package for are founded on trust and transparency through Helge Lund as Chief Executive and Executive Helge, we must acknowledge thatwe did our regular and ongoing communications Director of BG Group on 15 October 2014, and not strike the correct balance.
Helge joined the Group on 9February 2015.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW 45 STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT This report sets out how BG Group isgoverned and the key activities of the Board of Directors in promoting effective governance during 2014.
Further information on how the Group complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2014 is set out on pages 60 and 61.
The Board and I would like to express our culture is being embedded throughout AGM in early May and full details of the gratitude to Helge himself for the active the organisation to support effective risk Noticeof that Meeting are set out on pages and constructive role that he played in finding management and internal control, including 146and 147 of thisReport.
We are also grateful to our through the Groups operating model and CONCLUSION shareholders for the support they offered for initsbusiness plan and forecasting processes.
During this challenging year, I have greatly the appointment of Helge throughout the Further detail is set out in the Audit Committee valued the diverse and complementary range process, and for supporting the revised report on page 56. ofskills and experience of my fellow Board remuneration package.
I hope that the following pages of this report members.
All of our discussion and debate Helge is an excellent appointment for the provide you with greater insight into the havetaken place within a culture of openness, Company and its shareholders.
He is ideally discussions held at the Board and its Committees mutual trust and respect, and that cohesiveness suited to lead BG Group in the next phase of during the year.
They provide our view on has enabled us also to integrate successfully its growth, and to accelerate the creation and Board performance in the year following the the recently appointed Non-Executive Directors.
delivery of value for our shareholders, while internal evaluation that was carried out by I would like to extend thanks to all of my fellow delivering the Groups business plans.
He brings the Senior Independent Director.
Board members, and in particular the Senior with him, from his time at Statoil, a proven Independent Director, for their exceptional DIVERSITY track record as a leading industry executive.
support and commitment during the course As outlined in last years Annual Report and This includes akeen strategic focus and, critically, of 2014.
Accounts, Peter Backhouse retired as planned a strong commitment to a values-based culture at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General I would also like to extend my gratitude to and aleadership style that I believe will be key Meeting AGM, in recognition of his theGroup Leadership Team, who acted as todriving the future success of the Group.
animportant check and balance during my BUSINESS FOCUS tenure as interim Executive Chairman and Following the appointment of Helge Lund, Throughout the year, the Board agenda was on whose wide-ranging experience, expertise the proportion ofwomen on the Board will structured to allow for regular updates on and capability I came to rely in 2014. be 23%.
The Board retains its aspiration, as set theprogress of our major growth projects out inthe Board Diversity Statement made in ANDREW GOULD inAustralia and Brazil and the Groups December 2013, to increase the proportion of CHAIRMAN prospective LNG investment decisions on women on the Board to 25% by 2015.
However, LakeCharles, Canada and Tanzania.
We also the Board, supported by the Nominations oversaw managements initiatives, even before Committee, continues to value diversity in its the recent decline in commodity prices, todrive broadest sense when considering Non-Executive greater cost and capital efficiency within the Director appointments and, in addition to business.
We monitored the agreed disposals considering gender and ethnicity, will look to in relation to the QCLNG pipeline in Australia achieve within the boardroom the appropriate andthe CATS pipeline in the North Sea.
The balance of skills, experience, independence Board worked closely with senior management, and knowledge of BGGroup and the industry as particularly the Chief Financial Officer and Chief a whole.
Further details on the Groups gender Operating Officer, to ensure that the Group diversity statistics asat 31 December 2014 continued to make progress towards important are set out on page 52. project milestones during acritical year of delivery for the Group.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As detailed above, the Board has undertaken During 2014, the Board has remained heavily extensive engagement with our shareholders focused on ensuring that the Groups risk during 2014 and hopes to continue this positive management and internal control systems trend.
The Board welcomes the launch of areeffective in underpinning robust decision theInvestor Forum, agroup that has been making on major investments.
As we move established by a number of large investors forward, the Boards challenge will be to with the objective ofpromoting a long-term oversee the integration of these systems approach to investment and creating a model withthe Groups strategic priorities as they for collective engagement with UK companies.
continue to evolve in light of a challenging We will seek opportunities to work with commodity price environment and under new the various forums within the umbrella executive leadership.
In 2015, the Board will organisation.
Ialso hope once again to meet continue to monitor how the appropriate with many ofour retail shareholders at our BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
