1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report Our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Our remuneration policy in action each year, the Committee makes decisions regarding a range Welcome to BHP Billitons remuneration report for the financial of remuneration matters, including any changes in base salary, year to 30 June 2014. fees and benefits, and adjudicating on short-term and long-term i am pleased to introduce a revised structure to our report this incentive outcomes relating to Mr Mackenzie and other members year.
the new look is driven by revised disclosure requirements of the GMC.
in the uK, together with our constant pursuit of more accessible last year, when Mr Mackenzie was appointed to the CeO role, information.
i am equally pleased to report that there has been the Board and Committee believed that some downward rebasing no change to our underlying remuneration philosophy and of his remuneration package, relative to that of the former CeO, no change to how we reflect performance in remuneration was appropriate: a view supported by Mr Mackenzie.
outcomes 2014 marks a decade since the Company introduced its current incentive arrangements.
this year, following the Committees annual review process, the FY2015 base salary of Mr Mackenzie has not been increased.
as BHP Billiton is an australian uK dual-listed company, the likewise, other elements of Mr Mackenzies total target disclosures in our report must comply with both australian and remuneration pension contributions, benefits and short-term uK reporting requirements, which unavoidably leads to a lengthy and long-term incentive targets will remain the same in report.
However, the report is intended to be comprehensible FY2015 as in FY2014.
Mr Mackenzies annual short-term incentive is at risk.
the Structure of the 2014 Remuneration Report scorecard against which his performance is assessed is made this annual Statement introduces the 2014 remuneration up of a number of performance measures, including HSeC, report.
Following this is the remuneration Policy report, financial performance, capital project management and individual which sets out the remuneration policies applicable to personal measures.
For FY2014, the Committee has assessed the andrew Mackenzie our CeO and only executive Director performance of Mr Mackenzie and concluded it was in excess of and our non-executive Directors.
target with a bonus outcome of 115.3 per cent, against a target Our remuneration governance arrangements and the remuneration of 100 per cent, a maximum of 150 per cent and a minimum of outcomes for Mr Mackenzie, non-executive Directors and zero.
this outperformance was mainly due to positive outcomes other members of the GMC are covered in the annual report across a range of HSeC measures, together with above-target on remuneration, including the various detailed disclosures production and productivity achievements.
required under uK and australian regulatory regimes.
Mr Mackenzies long-term incentive is also at risk.
BHP Billitons the new structure of the report allows for a specific binding vote business is long term, and decisions are made that are likely by shareholders in regard to the remuneration Policy report for to have an impact for many years.
it is therefore important that the first time at our 2014 aGMs.
a significant part of senior executives pay reflects long-term performance.
BHP Billitons long-term incentive plan measures Link to strategy performance over five years.
Our BHP Billiton Charter sets out our purpose, strategy, values the Committee has now considered performance and vesting and how we measure our success.
in framing how we remunerate outcomes for the long-term incentive award granted in 2009, our executives we are guided by the measures of success contained covering the five years to 30 June 2014. the performance condition in Our Charter.
they are designed to ensure that executives take benchmarked BHP Billitons tSr against the tSr of a tailored a long-term approach to decision-making and to minimise activities comparator group of resources companies.
the five-year tSr that focus only on short-term results at the expense of longer-term performance for BHP Billiton was 60.6 per cent, exceeding the business growth and success.
the remuneration Committee has weighted average tSr of the comparator group by 17.8 per cent, considered the ways in which risk management and the long-term resulting in a 58 per cent vesting.
horizon are reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements for all executives, and is satisfied that our approach the Committee considered whether there were any circumstances reinforces the desired behaviours.
that merited it exercising its discretion to reduce this vesting this is largely achieved through the Groups approach to short-term outcome as was the case last year where the Committee reduced and long-term incentive awards, which comprise a significant vesting from 100 per cent to 65 per cent.
this discretion is an portion of total remuneration for Mr Mackenzie and other members important safeguard in circumstances where the Committee does of the GMC.
the equity component of the short-term incentive not believe that the vesting outcome truly reflects performance.
award is deferred for a two-year period, and performance under after carefully considering the relative tSr outcome and both the long-term incentive plan is measured over a five-year period.
Group and individual performance over the vesting period, the actual rewards received by Mr Mackenzie and other members the Committee determined that the tSr outcome was a fair of the GMC therefore reflect the Groups performance and share reflection of performance.
price over an extended period.
Consistent with the approach for Mr Mackenzie, the base salaries Our approach and total target remuneration packages for other GMC members Despite the reports new look, there have been no substantial have also been held constant for FY2015.
aligned with this, changes to our underlying approach we ensure that remuneration non-executive Director fees were again frozen, for the third outcomes reflect the performance of the Group, Businesses and consecutive year.
this approach has enjoyed a strong level of support Summary from shareholders, with a vote in favour for the remuneration this years remuneration report represents a change in format, report of 97 per cent at last years aGMs.
structure and content from prior years.
However, our fundamental Our approach to incentive structures has been in place for more philosophies and approaches to remuneration have not changed than a decade and has served both shareholders and participants we trust that you will agree that our long held, consistent well, delivering remuneration outcomes to executives aligned approach to aligning remuneration to performance has served to the performance of the Group and of individuals.
adopted the deferral of a substantial portion of short-term incentive as ever, we welcome your comments.
awards in equity in 2003, and a five-year term for long-term incentive awards in 2004. these approaches, which were then market leading, have since become more prevalent and acknowledged as best practice.
notwithstanding our stable approach, the Committee and the Board John Buchanan continue to pay close attention to shareholders views so they can Chairman, remuneration Committee be factored into the Groups future approach.
11 September 2014 BHP BillitOn annual rePOrt 2014 177 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.2 Introduction to the Remuneration Report the contents of this Remuneration Report are governed by legislation in the united Kingdom and Australia.
the uK Companies Act 2006 and the large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, which are generally described as uK requirements in this Remuneration Report, require BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in regard to Directors, which for BHP Billiton includes the non-executive Directors and the executive Director, being the Ceo.
the Australian Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and iFRS require BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for KMP, defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
For the purposes of this Remuneration Report, it has been determined that the KMP includes the non-executive Directors, and the members of the GMC including the Ceo.
2 Non-executive Directors the GMC makes key management decisions under the authorities Details of the non-executive Directors who held office during FY2014 that have been delegated to it by the Board.
the composition and are set out below.
each non-executive Director held office for the structure of the GMC reflects a commitment to a relentless focus on whole of FY2014 unless otherwise indicated.
the safe execution of the Groups strategy, and provides BHP Billiton with the right balance of skills and experience to lead the Group.
Name Title the members of the GMC during FY2014 are shown in the table below.
1 Malcolm Brinded non-executive Director Malcolm Broomhead non-executive Director Name Title John Buchanan Senior independent Director Andrew Mackenzie Chief executive officer and executive Director Carlos Cordeiro non-executive Director Peter Beaven President, Copper David Crawford non-executive Director tony Cudmore President, Corporate Affairs since 3 March 2014 Pat Davies non-executive Director tim Cutt President, Petroleum and Potash since 2 July 2013 Carolyn Hewson non-executive Director Dean Dalla Valle President, Coal lindsay Maxsted non-executive Director Mike Fraser President, Human Resources since 27 August 2013 Wayne Murdy non-executive Director Geoff Healy Chief legal Counsel Jac nasser Chairman Mike Henry President, HSe, Marketing and technology since 5 May 2014 President, HSeC, Marketing and technology to 4 May 2014 Keith Rumble non-executive Director Graham Kerr Chief Financial officer John Schubert non-executive Director Jane McAloon President, Governance and Group Company Secretary Shriti Vadera non-executive Director Daniel Malchuk President, Aluminium, Manganese and nickel 1 Malcolm Brinded joined BHP Billiton as a non-executive Director from 15 April 2014.
Jimmy Wilson President, iron ore Section 3.2.
1 for dates of appointment of Non-executive Directors Karen Wood President since 3 March 2014 President, Corporate Affairs from 1 December 2013 to 2 March 2014 President, Public Affairs from 27 August 2013 to 30 november 2013 President, People and Public Affairs to 26 August 2013 Section 3.2.
2 for dates of appointment of GMC members 178 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.3 Remuneration policy report this section of the report describes the overarching remuneration policy that guides the Remuneration Committees decisions.
the remuneration policy report is presented as follows.
Contents of the remuneration policy report 4.3.
8 Remuneration policy for executive Directors 4.3.
9 Remuneration policy for non-executive Directors Section 4.4.
14 for remuneration policy for the GMC excluding the CEO the contents of this section are determined by new uK legislation, under which this policy report is required to be put to a binding vote at the Groups 2014 AGMs.
Subject to shareholder approval, this remuneration policy will become effective for Directors of BHP Billiton immediately after our final 2014 AGM.
under the uK legislation, the policy will be binding only in regard to the Directors including the Ceo and not for other members of the GMC.
the uK legislation requires BHP Billiton to present the remuneration policy for this vote at least every three years.
Where the remuneration policy report includes cross-references to other sections of the Remuneration Report or the Annual Report, these are solely for the purposes of assisting the reader to locate related information.
the referenced information is not part of the remuneration policy report.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors BHP Billiton currently has a single executive Director, being the Ceo.
therefore, for simplicity, this section refers only to the Ceo.
this remuneration policy would, however, apply for any new executive Director role, in the event that one were created during the life of this remuneration policy.
in that case, references in this section to the Ceo should be read as being to each executive Director.
2 The purpose of remuneration at BHP Billiton the Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements reinforce the an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of our success, as set out in Our Charter, and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance, are designed to ensure that the Ceo takes a long-term approach aligning the activities of management to the interests of shareholders, to decision-making and to minimise activities that focus only on and in supporting Our Charter.
short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth and success.
the Remuneration Committee has considered the Inside front cover of the Annual Report: our Charter sets out ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon are our purpose, strategy, values and how we judge our success reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements the Committee determines the appropriate remuneration for the Ceo, for the Ceo and all executives, and is satisfied that the approach taking into account his responsibilities, location, skills, experience reinforces the desired behaviours.
and performance within the Group.
in doing so, the Committee this is largely achieved through the Groups approach to Sti and lti recognises that levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, awards, which comprise a significant portion of total remuneration.
motivate and retain a highly skilled Ceo, but also that the Group the equity component of any Sti award is deferred for a two-year should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
period, and performance under the ltiP is measured over a five-year the key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain period.
the actual rewards received by the Ceo therefore reflect the unchanged, are to: Groups performance and share price over an extended period.
support the execution of the Groups business strategy in it is the Committees view that this provides an appropriate focus accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate for on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end of the initial the organisation: measurement period.
this approach also provides a transparent provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event of a restatement highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: of Group results, through changes to the vesting or non-vesting apply demanding performance measures, including key financial of deferred awards.
and non-financial measures of performance: in addition, Sti and lti outcomes are not driven by a purely formulaic link a significant component of pay to our performance and the approach.
the Committee holds discretion to determine that awards creation of value for our shareholders from relative outperformance: are not to be provided or vested in circumstances where it would be ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate inappropriate or would provide unintended outcomes.
the Committee the deployment of people around the Group: has no discretion to allow vesting of equity awards when performance limit severance payments on termination to pre-established conditions have not been satisfied other than in the event of contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making death or serious injury, disability, illness that prohibits continued any unjustified payments.
employment or total and permanent disablement of the Ceo.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 179 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.3.
3 Components of remuneration the following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, how each component operates, how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Base salary Base salary is broadly aligned with salaries for comparable roles in global companies of similar 8% increase per annum global complexity, size, reach and industry, and reflects the Ceos responsibilities, location, skills, annualised, or inflation A competitive base salary is paid if higher in Australia.
in order to attract and retain performance, qualifications and experience.
a high-quality and experienced Base salary is reviewed annually with effect from 1 September.
Reviews are informed, but not led, Ceo, and to provide appropriate by benchmarking to comparable roles as above, changes in responsibility and general economic remuneration for this important conditions.
Substantial weight is also given to the general base salary increases for employees.
Base salary is not subject to separate performance conditions.
Base salary is denominated in uS dollars.
the Remuneration Committees discretion in respect of base salary increases applies up to the maximum shown.
Pension Pension contributions are benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies.
Provides a market-competitive Pension contributions are provided, with a choice of funding vehicles: a defined contribution level of post-employment plan, an unfunded retirement savings plan, an international retirement plan or a self-managed benefit to attract and superannuation fund.
Alternatively, a cash payment may be provided in lieu.
retain a high-quality the Committees discretion in respect of pension contributions applies up to the maximum shown.
Benefits Benefits may be provided as determined by the Committee.
Currently, this includes such items Benefits as determined as the costs of private family health insurance, death and disability insurance, car parking and by the Committee but Provides personal insurances personal tax return preparation in the required countries where BHP Billiton has requested that to a limit not exceeding and assistance where the Ceo relocate internationally, or where BHP Billitons Dual listed Company structure requires 10% of base salary BHP Billitons structure gives personal tax returns in multiple jurisdictions.
and if applicable rise to tax obligations across a one-off taxable the Ceo may from time to time be accompanied by his spouse partner on business related travel, multiple jurisdictions, and relocation allowance including for Board meetings.
the costs associated with spouse partner attendance are met by a market-competitive level up to uS$700,000.
in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the Ceo.
in such cases, of benefits to attract and BHP Billiton reimburses the Ceo for this tax cost.
retain a high-quality and experienced Ceo.
the Ceo is eligible to participate in Shareplus, which is BHP Billitons all-employee share purchase plan.
26 for information about Shareplus and the CEOs participation the Committees discretion in respect of benefits applies up to the maximums shown.
A relocation allowance and assistance is provided only where a change of location is made at BHP Billitons request.
the Groups mobility policies provide one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
STI Setting performance measures and targets Maximum award the purpose of Sti is to focus A scorecard of measures is set at the commencement of each financial year.
240% of base salary the Ceos efforts on those cash 120% and 120% the measures and their relative weightings are chosen by the Committee, in their discretion, performance measures and in deferred equity.
in order to appropriately drive overall performance for the coming year.
Specified financial outcomes that are priorities measures will constitute the largest weighting.
the scorecard will also include measures that Target performance for the Group for the relevant impact the long-term sustainability of the Group.
the Sustainability Committee assists the 160% of base salary financial year, and to motivate Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate HSeC measures and weightings.
cash 80% and 80% the Ceo to strive to achieve We plan to disclose the weightings of HSeC, financial and individual measures around the in deferred equity.
beginning of each performance period.
Threshold performance the performance measures the target is determined for each performance measure, at a level which will motivate the Ceo 80% of base salary for each year are chosen on to achieve an appropriately stretching annual performance outcome and which will contribute cash 40% and 40% the basis that they are to the longer-term success of the Group and shareholder wealth.
the target for each financial in deferred equity.
expected to have a significant measure is derived from the annual budget as approved by the Board for the relevant shortand long-term impact financial year.
Minimum award on the success of the Group.
For HSeC and for individual measures the target is ordinarily expressed in narrative form and Zero will be disclosed near the beginning of the performance period.
For reasons of commercial Deferral of a portion of Sti sensitivity, while we will provide a narrative description of financial target performance in awards in deferred equity over broad terms, the actual target for each financial measure will not be disclosed in advance.
BHP Billiton shares encourages However, we plan to disclose the target for each measure retrospectively.
in the rare instances a longer-term focus aligned where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain to that of shareholders.
why and give an indication of when the target may be disclosed.
3 for information Should any other performance measures be added at the discretion of the Committee, on MSR for the CEO we will determine the timing of disclosure of the relevant target with due consideration of commercial sensitivity.
Section 1.10 for a description of KPIs for the Group Section 4.4.
6 for details of performance measures and outcomes for 2014 Section 4.4.
11 for details of performance measures for 2015 180 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.3.
3 Components of remuneration continued Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum STI continued Assessment of performance At the conclusion of the financial year, the Ceos achievement against each measure is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, and an Sti award determined.
if performance is below the threshold level for any measure, no Sti will be provided in respect of that portion of the Sti opportunity.
the Remuneration Committee is assisted by the Sustainability Committee in relation to assessment of performance against HSeC measures, and considers guidance provided by other Committees in respect of other measures.
the Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
in the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to not provide all or a part of any Sti award.
this is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended award outcomes.
Delivery of award Sti awards are provided under the StiP.
the value of any Sti award is provided half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent value of BHP Billiton equity, which is deferred for two years and may be forfeited if the Ceo leaves the Group within the deferral period.
the award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in the future 2 if the Ceo is still employed by BHP Billiton at the end of the deferral period.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends 3 or other shareholder rights: however, a DeP is provided on vested awards.
the Committee has a discretion to settle Sti awards in cash.
Both cash and equity Sti awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
Relative TSR performance condition LTI Normal Maximum Award the purpose of the lti is to the award is subject to a relative tSR performance condition, which must be achieved over a five-year period.
Full vesting under the ltiP only occurs where BHP Billitons relative focus the Ceos efforts on the Face value of 400% 4 tSR significantly outperforms the tSR of the comparator group s. the comparator group s achievement of sustainable of base salary.
and the weighting between comparator groups will be determined by the Committee in long-term value creation and Exceptional relation to each grant.
success of the Group including 5 Maximum Award appropriate management Section 4.4.
8 for further detail on LTIP comparator group s Face value of 488% of business risks.
Relative tSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective it aligns the Ceos reward with external assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar to shareholders.
sustained shareholder wealth Level of performance required for vesting creation in excess of that of none of the award will vest if BHP Billitons tSR is below the Peer Group tSR being the weighted relevant comparator group s, 6 median tSR where the comparator group is a specified group of peer companies and or below through the relative tSR index tSR being the index value where the comparator group is a market index such as the MSCi performance condition.
the provision of ltiP awards For each award, the Committee will determine the level of relative tSR outperformance required over BHP Billiton shares also on a per annum basis, or on a compounded basis over the five-year period, against the peer group encourages long-term share and or market index in order for the whole of the lti award to vest.
exposure for the Ceo, and Section 4.4.
8 for details of the outperformance required for recent grants aligns the long-term interests of the Ceo and shareholders.
25% of the award will vest if BHP Billitons tSR is equal to the Peer Group tSR and or index tSR as applicable, and vesting occurs on a sliding scale between that point and the point Demonstration of this alignment of full vesting.
between the interests of the Ceo and shareholders is seen there is no retesting if the performance condition is not met.
in the event that the Committee through the five-year does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups performance period of the lti achievement of the relative tSR performance condition to be a true reflection of the underlying which is consistent with the performance of the Group, or should it consider that individual performance or other long-term nature of the circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to lapse any resources industry.
portion or all of the award.
this is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended vesting outcomes.
3 for information to ensure that the lti performance conditions continue to support operational excellence, risk on MSR for the CEO management and the execution of the Groups strategy, the Committee retains discretion to add further performance measures to supplement the existing relative tSR performance condition.
21 for a table Prior to doing so, consultation would be undertaken with key stakeholders.
Should this be the of awards held under the LTIP case, the vesting of a portion of any lti award may instead be linked to performance against Section 1.10 for a description the new measure s. the Committee expects that in the event of introducing an additional of KPIs for the Group performance measure s, the weighting on relative tSR would remain the majority weighting.
Delivery of award lti awards are provided under the ltiP approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
When considering the value of the award to be provided, the Committee primarily considers the face value of the award, 7 and also considers its fair value which includes consideration of the performance conditions.
the award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in the future 2 if the performance and service conditions are met.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder 3 rights: however, a DeP is provided on vested awards.
the Committee has a discretion to settle lti awards in cash.
lti awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
5 for how the remuneration policy considers other employees 1 uK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
2 the award may be retained if the Ceo has left the Group in certain circumstances.
8 for payments on loss of office BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 181 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.3.
3 Components of remuneration continued 3 A DeP is provided when the award vests or is exercised.
the Ceo will receive the value of dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from grant to vest or exercise.
the Committee intends that DeP will be provided in the form of shares, although the plan accommodates a cash equivalent.
A DeP is not provided in relation to any Sti and lti awards that are forfeited or lapse.
4 BHP Billitons tSR is a weighted average of the tSRs of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
5 the maximum award permitted with the ltiP rules as approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs is expressed as a fair value equal to 200 per cent of base salary.
A fair value takes into account the probability of meeting the performance condition and other factors.
the current plan design for FY2014 and FY2015 awards produces a fair value of 41 per cent of face value.
the maximum fair value of 200 per cent of base salary is therefore currently equivalent to a face value of 488 per cent of base salary 488% x 41% 200%.
this is shown as the exceptional Maximum Award in the table.
However, it is current policy to provide a maximum award of 400 per cent of base salary which is therefore shown in the table as the normal Maximum Award.
in any case, all lti awards to the Ceo will only be provided with prior approval by shareholders in the relevant AGMs.
6 the weighted median tSR means the median outcome when the companies are listed by their tSR, after weighting by market capitalisation.
7 the fair value is calculated by the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
it reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
the fair value for the current plan design current comparator groups, outperformance percentage, etc.
is 41 per cent of the face value of an award.
this fair value of 41 per cent may change should the Committee vary elements such as adding a performance measure or altering the level of relative tSR outperformance not specified in this remuneration policy report.
this fair value is different from the fair value used for iFRS disclosures elsewhere in this report.
in particular, the iFRS fair value does not take into account forfeiture conditions on the awards.
Malus and clawback the StiP and ltiP provisions allow the Committee to reduce or clawback awards in the following circumstances: the participant acting fraudulently or dishonestly or being in material breach of their obligations to the Group: where BHP Billiton becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the financial statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
these malus and clawback provisions apply whether or not awards are made in the form of cash or equity, and whether or not the equity has vested.
Legacy incentive plans under which awards may vest the remuneration policy approved by shareholders is required to cover awards which were granted under legacy plans and which may vest in the future on their existing terms.
Key terms are shown in the table below.
Remuneration component Maximum value and link to strategy Operation and performance framework on vesting STI under the GIS the terms of Sti awards provided under the GiS were similar to those provided under the StiP.
the face value of the award the former GiS was replaced by the Awards were provided to the Ceo for performance in FY2013, and are scheduled to vest on vesting plus StiP described in the previous table in August 2015. the value of any from FY2014.
20 for a table of awards held under the GIS associated DeP.
for the same purpose as the StiP.
LTI under the former LTIP the terms of lti awards provided under the former ltiP were similar to those provided under the face value the new ltiP as described in the previous table, including the performance conditions.
of the awards the former ltiP was replaced by the on vesting plus new ltiP described in the previous Awards provided to the Ceo in December 2010, 2011, and 2012 are due to vest from FY2016 the value of any table from FY2014.
Awards were to FY2018 to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
provided for the same purpose as the Section 4.4.
21 for a table of awards held under the former LTIP new ltiP.
5 Consideration of employment promotion remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group the ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited When setting remuneration for the Ceo, the Remuneration or promoted Ceo, or for another executive Director should one Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, the be appointed, will reflect the remuneration policy as set out competitive environment and the positioning and relativities in this report.
the ongoing components will therefore comprise of pay and employment conditions across the wider base salary, pension contributions, benefits, Sti and lti.
A market competitive level of base salary, benefits and pension the Committee is briefed regularly about the pay and conditions contributions will be provided to a newly recruited or promoted of the wider employee population, and takes into account the Ceo, or another executive Director.
the same maximum Sti and annual base salary increases for our employee population when lti apply as per the remuneration policy for the current Ceo.
determining any change in the Ceos base salary.
Salary increases the combined maximum level of Sti and lti that may be provided in Australia, where the Ceo is located, are particularly relevant, is 728 per cent of base salary, which is the combination of the as they reflect the local economic conditions.
maximum 240 per cent of base salary in Sti and the exceptional the principles that underpin the remuneration policy for the Ceo are maximum 488 per cent of base salary in lti as per the remuneration the same as those that apply to other employees, although the Ceos policy for the Ceo.
arrangements have a greater emphasis on performance-related pay, For external appointments, the Remuneration Committee may and a higher proportion of the Ceos total remuneration is variable determine that it is appropriate to provide additional cash and or in the form of Sti and lti.
like those for the Ceo, the performance equity components to replace any remuneration forfeited from measures used to determine Sti outcomes for all employees are a former employer.
it is anticipated that any foregone equity linked to achievement of the Groups strategy and behaviours awards would be replaced by equity.
the value of the replacement aligned to the values in Our Charter.
remuneration would not be any greater than the fair value of the Although BHP Billiton does not consult directly with employees awards forgone as determined by the Committees independent on Directors remuneration, the Group conducts regular employee adviser.
the Committee would determine appropriate service engagement surveys, which give employees an opportunity conditions and performance conditions within BHP Billitons to provide feedback on remuneration matters.
Many employees framework, taking into account the conditions attached to the are ordinary shareholders and have the opportunity to vote forgone award.
the Committee is mindful of limiting such payments on AGM resolutions.
in FY2014, more than 27,000 employees and not providing any more compensation than is necessary.
enrolled to purchase BHP Billiton shares under Shareplus, For any internal Ceo or another executive Director appointments, our all-employee share plan.
any entitlements provided under former arrangements will be honoured according to their existing terms.
182 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report Sti and lti are the two components of remuneration that are 4.3.
6 Consideration of shareholder views measured on business performance, with the outcome assessed Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance against pre-determined performance conditions.
is expressed through the approach we take to engaging and communicating with shareholders.
We encourage shareholders the minimum amount the Ceo could earn in respect of FY2015 to make their views known to us.
is uS$2.217 million, which is fixed remuneration, and made up of his base salary of uS$1.700 million, pension contributions our shareholders are based across the globe.
Regular proactive of uS$0.425 million and benefits of uS$0.092 million.
engagement on remuneration and governance matters takes the maximum is uS$13.097 million.
this assumes he earns place with institutional shareholders and investor representative organisations.
this is overseen by the Remuneration Committee the maximum under the Sti of uS$4.080 million and the normal maximum under the lti of uS$6.800 million.
All of these components Chairman who is also the Senior independent Director.
are shown in the table below at the minimum, target and maximum in addition, shareholders can contact us at any time through levels.
the normal maximum amount of the lti has been calculated our investor Relations team, with contact details available on the basis of full vesting at the share price on the date of grant.
on our website the normal maximum lti is 400 per cent of base salary.
Feedback from shareholders and investors is shared with the Before deciding on the final outcome for the Ceo and for other Board and Remuneration Committee through the Chairman and members of the GMC, the Committee first considers the outcome the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is used as input to against the pre-determined performance conditions.
it then applies decision-making by the Board and the Committee, in respect of its overarching discretion.
it can exercise discretion downwards only executive remuneration policy and application.
in particular, this i. e. to reduce remuneration.
feedback has had a direct bearing on the Committees decisions in formulating this remuneration policy report content.
When the Ceo was appointed in May 2013, the Board advised him that the Committee would exercise its discretion on the basis the Committee considers that this approach provides a robust of what it considered to be a fair and commensurate remuneration mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of matters raised, level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
have a good understanding of current shareholder views, and formulate policy and make decisions as appropriate.
to be fair to the individual, remuneration levels need to accurately reflect the Ceos responsibilities and contributions.
7 Potential remuneration outcomes for the CEO commensurate with the expectations of shareholders, remuneration levels need to reflect the expectations of our shareholders that their While the Remuneration Committee recognises that market forces Companys funds would be used to remunerate our employees in necessarily influence remuneration practices, it strongly believes a way that is proportionate to both performance and overall value.
that the fundamental driver of remuneration outcomes should be business performance.
it also believes that overall remuneration in this way, the Committee believes it can set a remuneration should be both fair to the individual and commensurate with the level for the Ceo that is sufficient to incentivise him and that is expectations of our shareholders.
also fair to him and commensurate with shareholder expectations and prevailing market conditions.
these same considerations led Accordingly, while target total remuneration is structured to attract the Committee to set the incoming Ceos remuneration when and retain a high calibre Ceo, the amount of remuneration actually he was appointed in 2013 at a lower level than the previous level received each year depends on: for this role.
the achievement of superior business and individual performance: the diagram below shows the relative proportion of each generating sustained shareholder value from relative remuneration component for the Ceo if the minimum, target outperformance: and maximum levels of performance were achieved.
the view of the Committee as to what is fair to the individual and commensurate with shareholder expectations.
the amount included for other benefits is based on FY2014 actual figures for the Ceo, excluding non-recurring items.
2 the Sti target amount is based on target performance of 160 per cent of base salary.
the Sti maximum amount is based on a maximum award of 240 per cent of base salary.
the impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of deferred Sti awards is not included.
3 the lti amount target and maximum is based on the Ceos normal maximum award equal to the face value of 400 per cent of base salary, which is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules.
the target value for the lti award is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value, as this is the expected outcome on the balance of probabilities for the current plan design as calculated by the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee, Kepler Associates.
the minimum value for the lti award is zero, and applies where the relative tSR of BHP Billiton is lower than the Peer Group and or index tSR as applicable for each grant.
the impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of lti awards is not included.
3 for more information on the components of remuneration for the CEO BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 183 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.3.
8 Service contracts and policy on loss of office the terms of employment for the Ceo are formalised in his employment contract.
Key terms of the current contract and relevant payments on loss of office are shown below.
if a new Ceo or another executive Director was appointed, similar contractual terms would apply, other than where the Remuneration Committee determines that different terms should apply for reasons specific to the individual.
the Ceos contract has no fixed term.
it can be terminated by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
BHP Billiton can terminate the contract immediately by paying base salary plus pension contributions for the notice period.
the Ceo must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
the table below sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
1 2 Leaving reason Death, serious injury, Cessation of employment with 3 4 Voluntary resignation Termination for cause disability or illness the agreement of the Board Base salary Base salary for the notice no payment will be made.
Base salary will be paid for Base salary for the notice period will be paid as a a period of up to four months, period will be paid as a lump lump sum or progressively after which time employment sum or progressively over over the notice period.
Pension Pension contributions for no pension contributions Pension contributions will Pension contributions for the the notice period will be paid will be provided from the be paid for a period of up to notice period will be paid as as a lump sum or progressively date of termination.
four months, after which time a lump sum or progressively over the notice period.
Benefits Applicable benefits may no benefits will be provided.
Applicable benefits may Applicable benefits may continue continue to be provided continue to be provided to be provided for the relevant Accumulated annual leave during the notice period.
year in which employment ceases.
entitlements and any statutory Accumulated annual leave payments will be paid.
Accumulated annual leave Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any statutory entitlements and any statutory entitlements and any statutory Applicable expenses may payments will also be paid.
payments will also be paid.
be paid for repatriation Applicable expenses may to the home location where Applicable expenses may Applicable expenses may be paid be paid for repatriation a relocation has been be paid for repatriation for repatriation to the home to the home location where requested by BHP Billiton.
to the home location where location where a relocation has a relocation has been a relocation has been been requested by BHP Billiton.
unvested Shareplus Matched requested by BHP Billiton.
unvested Shareplus Matched unvested Shareplus Matched unvested Shareplus Matched Shares will vest in full.
the Committee may determine the Committee may determine in its discretion to pay in its discretion to pay an amount Where Ceo leaves during an amount in respect of the in respect of the participants the financial year or after participants performance performance for that year.
the end of the financial for that year.
year, but before an award is provided.
unvested StiP equity Will lapse.
Will continue to be held, on the existing terms, for the scheduled deferral period before vesting subject to a Committee discretion to lapse some or all of the award.
the awards remain subject to malus and clawback.
Vested but unexercised Will remain exercisable Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for the Will remain exercisable for the StiP equity for the rest of the exercise the rest of the exercise period, rest of the exercise period.
rest of the exercise period or for period, unless the Committee unless the Committee a reduced exercise period, unless determines they will lapse.
the Committee determines they will lapse.
unvested GiS equity Will lapse.
Will vest in full, except in the case of a leaving reason not specified in the plan rules, in which case the Committee has discretion to determine the treatment of equity awards.
Vested GiS options Will be retained for the Will lapse.
Will be retained for the Will be retained for the with a market-based scheduled exercise period, scheduled exercise period, scheduled exercise period, exercise price previously and on the existing terms.
and on the existing terms.
provided to the Ceo if still held on leaving.
A pro rata portion of unvested awards based on the proportion unvested awards of the performance period served will continue to be held subject to the ltiP rules and terms of grant.
Vested but Will remain exercisable Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for the Will remain exercisable for the unexercised awards for the rest of the exercise the rest of the exercise period, rest of the exercise period.
rest of the exercise period, or for period, unless the Committee unless the Committee a reduced exercise period, unless determines they will lapse.
1 if the Committee considers it to be necessary, BHP Billiton may enter into agreements with a Ceo which may include the settlement of liabilities in return for payment s, including reimbursement of legal fees subject to appropriate conditions: or to enter into new arrangements with the departing Ceo for example, entering into consultancy arrangements.
2 in the event of a change in control event e. g. takeover, compromise or arrangement, winding up of the Company as defined in the StiP and ltiP rules: base salary, pension contributions and benefits will be paid until the date of the change of control event: the Committee may determine that a cash payment be made in respect of performance during the current financial year and all unvested Sti equity awards would vest in full: and the Committee may determine that unvested lti awards will either vest to the extent that the Committee determines appropriate with reference to performance against the performance condition up to the date of the change of control event and expectations regarding future performance or that the awards be lapsed if the Committee determines that the holders will participate in an acceptable alternative employee equity plan as a term of the change of control event.
3 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment or total and permanent disablement.
4 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Company, or such other circumstances that do not constitute resignation or termination for cause.
184 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors our non-executive Directors are paid in compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the ASX Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 3rd edition.
9 Components of remuneration the following table shows the components of total remuneration for non-executive Directors, the link to strategy, how each component operates, and how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Fees the Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
8% increase per annum annualised, or inflation Competitive base fees are paid non-executive Directors are paid a base fee and relevant committee membership fees.
if higher in the location in order to attract and retain Committee Chairmen and the Senior independent Director are paid an additional fee to reflect in which duties are high-quality individuals, their extra responsibilities.
primarily performed, and to provide appropriate All fee levels are reviewed annually and any changes are effective from 1 July.
remuneration for the Fees are set at a competitive level with advice on benchmark fees in equivalent size companies role undertaken.
Fee levels reflect the size and complexity of the Group, the Committee fees are provided multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the Dual listed Company structure, the multiple to recognise the additional stock exchange listings and the extent of the geographic regions in which the Group operates.
responsibilities, time and the economic environment and the financial performance of the Group are taken into account.
Consideration is also given to salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
13 for current fee levels provided to Non-executive Directors Pension Pension contributions provided on fees only where required by law.
Benefits Travel allowances non-executive Directors receive travel allowances on a per trip basis reflecting the considerable 8% increase per annum travel burden imposed on members of the Board as a consequence of the Dual listed Company annualised, or inflation Competitive benefits are paid structure and the resulting Board meetings in Australia and the uK, along with site visits at our if higher in the location in order to attract and retain multiple geographic locations.
in which duties are high-quality individuals and primarily performed, adequately compensate for on a per-trip basis.
Other benefits As a consequence of the Dual listed Company structure, non-executive Directors are required to up to a limit not exceeding prepare personal tax returns in both Australia and the uK, regardless of whether they reside in one 20% of fees.
Competitive benefits are paid or neither of those countries.
they are accordingly reimbursed for the costs of personal tax return in order to attract and retain preparation in whichever of the uK and or Australia is not their place of residence including payment high-quality individuals, of the tax cost associated with the provision of the benefit.
and to provide appropriate remuneration for the non-executive Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse partner to role undertaken.
the costs associated with spouse partner attendance at one business meeting per annum are met by BHP Billiton and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the non-executive Director.
in such cases BHP Billiton reimburses the non-executive Director for this tax cost.
STI and LTI non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any Sti or lti arrangements.
Payments on early termination there are no provisions in any of the non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
1 uK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised, it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
Approach to recruitment remuneration the ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited non-executive Director will reflect the remuneration policy in place for other non-executive Directors, as above.
the components will therefore comprise fees, pension contributions where required by law and benefits as set out in the table above.
no variable remuneration Sti and lti will be provided to newly recruited non-executive Directors.
Letters of appointment and policy on loss of office the standard letter of appointment for non-executive Directors is available on our website.
the Board has adopted a policy consistent with the uK Corporate Governance Code, under which all non-executive Directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually, if they wish to remain on the Board.
As such no non-executive Directors seeking re-election have an unexpired term in their letter of appointment.
A non-executive Director may resign on reasonable notice.
no payments are made to non-executive Directors on loss of office.
A legacy arrangement provides accrued retirement benefits under the now closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton limited, and this will continue to be honoured.
30 for retirement disclosures for the Non-executive Directors Considerations when setting Non-executive Director remuneration When non-executive Director remuneration is determined, the same considerations in respect of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group and shareholder views as described in relation to setting remuneration for the Ceo, are taken into account.
5 for consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Section 4.3.
6 for consideration of shareholder views BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 185 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4 Annual report on remuneration this section of the report shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2014 and how actual performance outcomes are linked to remuneration outcomes.
Contents of the annual report on remuneration 4.4.
11 Remuneration outcomes for the executive Director the Ceo 4.4.
13 Remuneration outcomes for non-executive Directors 4.4.
18 Remuneration for members of the GMC other than the Ceo 4.4.
31 other statutory disclosures Remuneration governance 4.4.
1 Board oversight and the Remuneration Committee the Board is responsible for ensuring that the Groups remuneration arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term interests of BHP Billiton and its shareholders.
in performing this function, it is critical that the Board is independent of management when making decisions affecting remuneration of the Ceo, the other members of the GMC and the Groups employees.
the Board has therefore established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making such decisions.
the Committee is comprised solely of non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
in order to ensure that it is fully informed, the Committee regularly invites members of management to attend meetings to provide reports and updates.
the Committee can draw on services from a range of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
Remuneration Committee the activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed by Remuneration John Buchanan Chairman terms of Reference most recently approved by the Board in June Committee members Carlos Cordeiro 2013, which are available on our website.
the purpose of the Pat Davies Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: John Schubert the remuneration policy and its specific application to the Ceo, Carolyn Hewson appointed 28 January 2014 the other members of the GMC and its general application to number of meetings in FY2014 Seven all Group employees: other individuals who Jac nasser Chairman the determination of levels of reward for the Ceo and approval 1 regularly attended meetings Andrew Mackenzie Ceo of reward to the other members of the GMC: Karen Wood President the annual evaluation of the performance of the Ceo, by providing Mike Fraser President, Human Resources guidance to the Group Chairman: Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President, communication with shareholders on the Groups remuneration Group Reward policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board: Jane McAloon President, Governance the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory and Group Company Secretary requirements associated with remuneration matters: Geof Stapledon Vice President, Governance the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be included 1 these individuals were not present when matters associated with their own in the Groups Annual Report: remuneration were considered.
the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
Section 3.14.2 for further information regarding the Committee The use of remuneration consultants the Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
Potential conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration consultants are selected, and their terms of engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHP Billitons management.
the advice and recommendations of external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee to act as an independent remuneration adviser to provide specialist remuneration advice, and does not provide other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates is a member of the uK Remuneration Consultants Group, and adheres to its Code of Conduct.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice and assistance to the Committee on a wide range of matters, including: advice in regard to remuneration arrangements for the Ceo and the members of the GMC: benchmarking of pay of senior executives against comparable roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: provision of information and commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: calculation of fair values for accounting and remuneration setting purposes of equity awards and performance analysis for lti awards: review of, and commentary on, management proposals: other ad-hoc support and advice as requested by the Committee.
Kepler Associates is the only remuneration consultant appointed by the Committee.
186 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
3 Share ownership guidelines and the MSR Remuneration Committee continued the share ownership guidelines and the MSR help to ensure that the interests of directors, executives and shareholders remain aligned.
Remuneration recommendations For FY2014: As part of its role, Kepler Associates provided remuneration the MSR for the Ceo was 500 per cent of annual gross pre-tax recommendations as defined in the Australian Corporations Act base salary and he met the MSR as at the date of this report: 2001 to the Committee during the year.
each time Kepler Associates the MSR for other members of the GMC was 300 per cent provides a remuneration recommendation, Kepler Associates of annual gross pre-tax base salary and they all met the MSR provides a declaration that the remuneration recommendation as at the date of this report apart from tony Cudmore, tim Cutt, was made free from undue influence by the individual to whom Geoff Healy and Daniel Malchuk.
the Board considered the processes outlined above, the constraints incorporated into Kepler Associates the value of equity awards and any other securities for the purposes terms of engagement, the implementation of a comprehensive of the MSR is the market value of the underlying shares.
unvested protocol for the engagement of remuneration advisers and the employee equity awards do not qualify, and neither do any options receipt of the declaration of no undue influence.
it is satisfied with a market-based exercise price.
that the remuneration recommendations received from Kepler the Ceo and other members of the GMC are expected to grow their Associates were made free from undue influence by any member holdings to the MSR from the scheduled vesting of their employee of the KMP to whom the recommendations related.
under the policy, employees are not required to total fees paid to Kepler Associates for the above services meet the holding requirement before awards are allocated to them.
for the period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 were 125,520, Rather, the MSR is tested at the time that shares are to be sold.
of which 51,920 was for attendance at Committee meetings the GMC members are entitled to sell sufficient shares to satisfy and commentary on management proposals, and a total of tax obligations arising from the granting, holding, vesting, exercise 73,600 for the provision of remuneration recommendations and or sale of the employee awards or the underlying shares.
However, other technical advice and support on executive remuneration.
if a GMC member wishes to sell additional shares, they will be prohibited from doing so unless they will meet the MSR after the sale.
Management also appoints external firms from time to time to assist with remuneration benchmarking, data provision and Section 4.4.
27 for details of share ownership information of the the like.
While other external firms did provide certain information CEO and other members of the GMC to management to assist them in deliberations, no remuneration Subject to securities dealing constraints, non-executive Directors adviser other than Kepler Associates provided remuneration have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent of their remuneration recommendations during the year in relation to KMP.
base fees plus Committee fees to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one 4.4.
2 Prohibition on hedging of BHP Billiton shares years remuneration.
thereafter, they must maintain at least that and equity instruments level of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All non-executive the Ceo and other members of the GMC are not allowed to protect Directors met the MSR as at the date of this report.
the value of any unvested BHP Billiton equity awards allocated Section 4.4.
27 for details of share ownership information of the to them under employee programs, or the value of shares and Non-executive Directors securities held as part of meeting BHP Billitons MSR as described below.
the policy also prohibits GMC members from using unvested 4.4.
4 Statement of voting at the 2013 AGMs BHP Billiton equity awards as collateral in any financial transaction, BHP Billitons remuneration resolutions have attracted a high level including hedging and margin loan arrangements.
Voting in regard to those resolutions Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to put to shareholders at the 2013 AGMs is shown below, in accordance restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging with uK legislation.
arrangements or used as collateral, provided that consent is obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering Votes 1 AGM Resolution % vote for % vote against withheld into the arrangement.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure Remuneration Report 97.28 2.72 19,292,876 that the policy is adhered to.
Adoption of new ltiP Rules 97.22 2.78 41,873,567 Approval of grants to 97.28 2.72 17,772,663 executive Director 1 the sum of votes marked Vote Withheld at BHP Billiton Plcs AGM and votes marked Abstain at BHP Billiton limiteds AGM.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 187 4 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration outcomes for the Executive Director the CEO the Ceo remuneration policy that applied in FY2014 is the same as set out in the remuneration policy report, and the remuneration outcomes described below have therefore been provided in accordance with that same policy.
Section 4.3 for the remuneration policy for the CEO 4.4.
5 Single total figure of remuneration this section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under uK requirements.
it is a measure of actual remuneration and is not intended to meet iFRS accounting standards.
19 for the Statutory IFRS Remuneration table this measure of remuneration is required to be reported only in relation to the performance of the services of an executive Director.
As Andrew Mackenzie assumed the role of Ceo and executive Director in May 2013, the FY2013 figures therefore relate only to a part-year period.
1 US dollars 000 Base salary Benefits STI LTI Pension Total Andrew Mackenzie FY2014 1,700 92 3,136 2,635 425 7,988 FY2013 242 702 256 1,208 60 2,468 1 Provided half in cash and half in deferred equity as shown in the table below.
For Mr Mackenzie, the single total figure of remuneration is calculated as set out below.
FY2013 10 May to 30 June 2013 FY2014 Base salary Base salary earned for the period, based on a full-year base salary Base salary earned from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 based in the Ceo role of uS$1.700 million.
on a full-year base salary of uS$1.700 million as Mr Mackenzie did not receive any salary increase for FY2014.
1 Benefits Personal tax return preparation in required countries, a pro-rated the full amount of private family health insurance and portion of private family health insurance, plus the full amount personal tax return preparation in required countries provided Section 4.3.
3 for policy of the uS$0.700 million relocation allowance paid in respect of during FY2014, together with spouse business-related travel.
for specific benefits Mr Mackenzies move from the uK to Australia.
STI A pro-rated portion of Sti awarded for FY2013 performance.
Half or uS$1.568 million will Half or uS$0.128 million was provided in cash in September 2013, be provided in cash in September 2014, and half or uS$1.568 million Section 4.4.
6 for how and half or uS$0.128 million deferred in an equity award, which deferred in an equity award subject to shareholder approval STI is determined is due to vest in FY2016.
at the 2014 AGMs, which will be due to vest in FY2017.
LTI A pro-rated portion of the value of 243,126 lti awards that vested the value of 69,600 lti awards that vested on 20 August 2014, on 22 August 2013, based on performance during the five-year based on performance during the five-year period to 30 June 2014.
7 for the LTI period to 30 June 2013. the total value of that award based on this value of that award is based on a share price on 20 August performance condition a share price on 22 August 2013 of 19.20, converted to uS dollars 2014 of 19.65, converted to uS dollars on that date plus the Section 4.4.
8 for LTI on that date plus the associated DeP of uS$1.017 million on the associated DeP of uS$0.359 million.
date of vesting and exercise was uS$8.480 million.
awarded during FY2014 Pension BHP Billitons contribution to defined contribution pension plans BHP Billitons contribution to defined contribution pension plans during the period at 25% of base salary.
1 Although eligible, the Ceo does not currently participate in Shareplus, for reasons of administrative simplicity in terms of stock exchange dealings and announcements.
When the components of remuneration are provided the following graph illustrates the usual time frame for delivery of the components of remuneration.
it shows how Sti and lti outcomes are deferred.
Timeline for allocation of remuneration components LTI Performance measured 5 yrs STI Performance measured Deferred Shares 2 yrs Base salary and pension benefits July Sep Dec Jun Aug Sep Dec STI and LTI New base LTI Performance STI award STI cash STI Deferred performance salary effective Shares allocated determined paid Shares allocated measurement starts 188 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
6 FY2014 STI performance outcomes the Ceo scorecard for the FY2014 performance year is summarised in the following table.
A description of each performance measure and the Ceos level of achievement, as determined by the Committee, are shown below the table.
the performance range is set for each measure with the level of performance determined on a range of threshold the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward outcome, target where the performance requirements are met, and Stretch where the performance requirements are exceeded.
Performance for FY2014 Weighting Percentage Performance measure for FY2014 Threshold Target Stretch outcome STI US$000 HSeC 20% 24.0% 653 Attributable profit 40% 48.8% 1,327 Capital project management Cost 10% 9.7% 264 Schedule 10% 9.8% 266 individual measures 20% 23.0% 626 Total 100% 115.3% 3,136 HSEC Performance for FY2014: Attributable profit of uS$13.8 billion was reported by BHP Billiton, which was in excess of the target.
the HSeC KPi for the Ceo is aligned to the Groups suite of HSeC the drivers of this outperformance were higher than expected sales Five Year Public targets as set out in BHP Billitons Sustainability volumes, particularly in iron ore and, to a lesser extent, in Coal, Report.
As it has done for several years, the Remuneration together with positive productivity and cost performance across Committee sought guidance from the Sustainability Committee a range of Businesses, particularly in Aluminium, Manganese when assessing HSeC performance.
the Sustainability Committee and nickel, and in Coal.
these gains were partly offset by the reviewed performance against each of the designated measures.
impact of non-cash costs in Copper.
Consistent with prior years, the Remuneration Committee then took a holistic view of how the Group had performed in critical areas.
Capital project management cost and schedule Capital project management measures based on the cost and Targets for FY2014 the schedule outcomes for major capital projects in execution are Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: nil fatalities considered to be effective measures of the delivery of our project and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
pipeline, and consistent with other companies in our sector.
the cost TRIF and occupational illness: improved performance compared KPi is adjusted for foreign exchange movements to ensure that it with FY2013 results, with severity and trends to be considered appropriately measures outcomes that are within the control and as a moderating influence on the overall HSeC assessment.
influence of the Group and its executives.
Risk management: the Group is to have all material risks with HSeC impacts recorded and controlled, and to have all critical Targets for FY2014: in respect of FY2014, the Board determined control designs and critical control assessment test plans a target for cost of uS$23.9 billion, after adjusting for foreign reviewed by the material risk owners.
exchange movements, and a target for schedule of 36.0 months Health, environment and community initiatives: All assets which are weighted averages of the portfolio of major projects to achieve 100 per cent of targets in respect of occupational under development.
exposure reduction, water and greenhouse gas reduction and Performance for FY2014: the outcome of uS$24.0 billion on cost local procurement.
was slightly behind the target.
While the performance outcome on Performance for FY2014 schedule was nominally on target at 36.0 months, the actual outcome Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: no fatalities was determined to be marginally behind target for the purposes of occurred in FY2014, with a reduction in the number of potential Sti outcomes.
While the majority of major capital projects proceeded significant events recorded as well.
no significant environmental in accordance with approved targets, cost budgets were exceeded incidents occurred, and while there was a significant community on certain projects in Copper and iron ore, while favourable cost protest at Cerro Matoso Colombia, it was well managed without outcomes were observed in respect of certain other projects in Coal any material impact.
and iron ore. negative impacts on schedule were observed on TRIF and occupational illness: tRiF performance for FY2014 certain major capital projects in Copper, iron ore and Petroleum and was a significant improvement over FY2013, with a nine per cent Potash, while certain other projects progressed ahead of approved reduction to a tRiF of 4.2 for FY2014, partly offset by an increase schedule in iron ore and Coal.
in occupational illness outcomes of 14 per cent in FY2014 Individual performance measures for the CEO compared with FY2013.
individual measures for the Ceo are determined at the Risk management: All material HSeC risks that have been commencement of the financial year.
the application of personal, identified are recorded, and critical control assessments qualitative measures remains an important element of effective have been completed.
these measures seek to provide a Health, environment and community initiatives: Greenhouse balance between the financial and non-financial performance gas reduction targets set at the commencement of the year requirements that maintain our position as a leader in our industry.
were materially exceeded, with outperformance observed across BHP Billiton.
targets set for reducing occupational health exposures, Targets for FY2014: the Ceos individual measures for FY2014 for water management and local procurement plan development comprised contribution to the overall performance of the Group and and implementation were achieved.
the management team, and delivery against projects and initiatives within the scope of the Ceo role as set out by the Board, including Attributable profit productivity and cost improvement, enhanced stakeholder relations Profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Billiton and portfolio optimisation.
Group attributable profit is the primary measure used by the Board when assessing the Groups financial performance.
For the Performance for FY2014: the Ceo has completed his first full purposes of assessing the actual reported outcome against a directly financial year in the role, and is considered by the Committee comparable target, the attributable profit KPi is adjusted for changes to have performed well against the individual measures set at in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and exceptional the commencement of the year, as set out above.
the Ceo has items to ensure that it appropriately measures outcomes that are contributed positively to the performance of the Company and the within the control and influence of the Group and its executives.
GMC, significant productivity improvements have been achieved of these, changes in commodity prices are ordinarily the most during FY2014, relations with stakeholders have improved, and material due to volatility in prices and the impact on Group revenue.
the Groups portfolio optimisation efforts are progressing well.
Accordingly, the Committee is of the view the Ceo has performed Targets for FY2014: in respect of FY2014, the Board determined ahead of target on individual measures.
a target for attributable profit of uS$13.3 billion, after the adjustments described above.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 189 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
8 for the 2009 peer group companies LTI vested based on performance to June 2014 the impact of the tSR outperformance by BHP Billiton was to the five-year performance period for the 2009 lti awards ended add uS$25 billion of shareholder value from 1 July 2009 to 30 June on 30 June 2014. the Ceos 2009 lti comprised 120,000 awards, 2014 over and above the weighted average performance of the subject to achievement of the relative tSR performance condition, comparators as shown in the graphs below.
Starting from the lti and any discretion applied by the Remuneration Committee as award scheduled to vest next year, being the lti allocated in 2010, described below.
relative tSR will be measured against both a peer group, and also a broader market index.
Testing the performance condition Application of discretion to reduce vesting For the award to vest in full, BHP Billiton was required to deliver a tSR that exceeded the Peer Group tSR by an average of 5.5 per cent the rules of the ltiP and the terms and conditions of the award per year for five years, being 30.7 per cent in total compounded over give the Committee an overarching discretion to reduce the number the five-year performance period from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2014. of awards that will vest, notwithstanding the fact that the performance condition for partial or full vesting has been met.
3 for the definition of Peer Group TSR in accordance with its overarching discretion, the Committee has in respect of the 2009 lti, the Peer Group tSR was 42.8 per cent, considered the tSR outcome in the context of the Groups performance compared to BHP Billitons tSR of 60.6 per cent.
Accordingly, over the five-year performance period and determined that the BHP Billiton outperformed its peer companies by 17.8 per cent, and recorded tSR outcome is a fair reflection of performance.
therefore 58 per cent of awards vested.
As a result, 69,600 of the Ceos 2009 lti award granted under the former ltiP vested on this qualitative judgement, which is applied before final vesting 20 August 2014. the closing price of ordinary BHP Billiton limited is confirmed, is an important risk management aspect to ensure that shares on the lSe on that date was 19.65 and so the value of the vesting is not simply driven by a formula that may give unexpected vested award was uS$2.635 million, including the associated or unintended remuneration outcomes.
the Committee considers DeP of uS$0.359 million in relation to dividends over the five-year its discretion carefully each year, taking account of the circumstances performance period in the form of shares by applying the net cash that are relevant to the five-year period under consideration.
DeP towards the purchase of ordinary BHP Billiton limited shares Section 4.4.
25 for a five-year history of BHP Billiton share prices and dividends for the Ceo.
the graphs below show BHP Billitons performance under the 2009 if BHP Billitons relative performance had been equal to or less than ltiP performance condition.
the Peer Group tSR, then threshold vesting would not have been achieved, and none of the award would have vested.
BHP Billiton outperformance of Index over the 2009 LTIP cycle BHP Billiton vs. Index TSR performance over the 2009 LTIP cycle 140 35 BHP Billiton Index 5.5% p. a.
Index Excess BHP Billiton value creation Index 5.5% 30 120 25 100 20 15 80 10 60 5 17.8% TSR outperformance 0 40 -5 20 -10 -15 0 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 Years ended 30 June Years ended 30 June the graph below shows BHP Billitons comparative performance against the ASX 100, FtSe 100 and the MSCi World index.
Value of US$100 invested over the 2009 LTIP cycle with dividends reinvested $250 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc FTSE 100 $200 ASX 100 MSCI World $150 $100 $50 $0 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 Years ended 30 June 190 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 US$ TSR rebased to 1 July 2009 Outperformance of Index TSR, % TSR since 1 July 2009, % 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report For the whole of either portion of the award to vest, BHP Billitons 4.4.
7 LTI performance outcomes continued tSR must exceed the Peer Group tSR or the index tSR as applicable LTI vested during FY2014 based on performance to June 2013 by an average of 5.5 per cent per annum.
this equates to As detailed in last years Remuneration Report, the five-year exceeding average tSR over the five-year performance period performance period for the 2008 ltiP ended on 30 June 2013. by 30.7 per cent.
threshold vesting of each portion of the award For awards to vest in full, BHP Billiton was required to deliver a occurs where BHP Billitons tSR equals the Peer Group tSR or index tSR that exceeded the Peer Group tSR by an average of 5.5 per cent tSR as applicable.
per year for five years, being 30.7 per cent in total compounded Peer Group tSR is the weighted median tSR for the companies.
over the five-year performance period.
the Peer Group tSR was each company in the peer group is weighted by market negative 44.0 per cent, which compared to BHP Billitons tSR capitalisation to ensure that it is represented appropriately of negative 9.4 per cent.
As a result, BHP Billiton outperformed its within the tSR calculation.
the maximum weighting for any peer companies by 34.6 per cent, and therefore met the requisite one company is capped as 15 per cent and the minimum is set performance condition for full vesting.
at one per cent, to reduce sensitivity to any single peer company.
3 for the definition of Peer Group TSR the sector peer group companies for the FY2014 allocations in Section 4.4.
8 for the 2008 peer group companies December 2013 are below, along with those for prior lti grants.
As described above, the Committee then considered their overarching December December discretion under the ltiP rules to reduce the number of awards that 1 2008 and 2009 2010 to 2012 December 2013 vested, notwithstanding the fact that the performance condition for 2 full vesting had been met.
the Committee, with the support of the Resources 75% Board, exercised that discretion and reduced vesting by 35 per cent Alcoa for all participants.
Accordingly, 35 per cent of the Ceos awards did Anglo American not vest and instead lapsed.
Cameco in applying its discretion, the Committee took into account a range Consol energy of factors, including the negative tSR over the five-year performance period that shareholders have experienced.
While the Committee Fortescue Metals recognised that the tSR was delivered in a difficult business Freeport McMoRan environment, it also felt that more closely aligning the experience 3 Glencore Xstrata of shareholders and executives was important.
As always, the Committee also looked at the total remuneration for executives.
norilsk While the Committee exercised its discretion in respect of the 2008 Peabody energy ltiP vesting, based on its consideration of all relevant factors, Rio tinto this does not imply that the discretion will or will not be exercised Southern Copper to reduce the vesting result in future years.
5 for the number and value of vested LTI awards for the CEO teck Cominco Vale 4.4.
8 LTI allocated during FY2014 Oil and Gas 25% Following shareholder approval at the 2013 AGMs, an lti award was Anadarko Petroleum granted to the Ceo on 18 December 2013. the face value and fair Apache value of the award are shown in the table below.
BG Group Number of Face value Face value Fair value Fair value % of 1 2 3 4 BP LTI rights US$ 000 % of salary US$ 000 % of salary max Canadian natural Res.
198,514 6,800 400 2,788 164 82 Chevron 1 the number of lti rights is calculated by dividing the face value by the average ConocoPhillips closing share price over the 12 months up to and including the grant date being A$35.33 and rounding down to the nearest number of rights.
Devon energy 2 the face value of the award was determined as 400 per cent of Andrew Mackenzies base salary of uS$1.700 million.
eoG Resources 3 the fair value of the award is calculated by multiplying the face value of exxon Mobil the award by the fair value factor of 41 per cent for the current plan design, as determined by Kepler Associates.
occidental Petroleum 4 the allocation is 82 per cent of the maximum award that may be provided under the ltiP rules.
the maximum is a fair value of 200 per cent of base Shell salary, or face value of 488 per cent of base salary, based on the fair value of 41 per cent for the current plan design 488% x 41% 200%.
Woodside Petroleum Terms of the LTI award 1 in 2008 and 2009, the share price averaging period used in the tSR calculations to account for short-term price fluctuations was three months.
3 for the terms of LTI that are set in the remuneration extended to six months from the December 2010 grants.
policy for the CEO 2 this peer group was the only comparator group for the 2008 and 2009 ltiP grants.
the index tSR was introduced as a secondary comparator for in addition to those terms, the Remuneration Committee 33 per cent of the award from the December 2010 grant.
has determined: 3 GlencoreXstrata has replaced Xstrata in the peer group for December 2008 to 2012 awards from the merger of Glencore and Xstrata in May 2013. the performance period will be 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2018. the share price averaging period of six months will be used in the tSR calculations to account for short-term price fluctuations.
BHP Billitons performance relative to peers tends to be counter-cyclical.
to provide a fair and balanced outcome, tSR relative to the weighted average tSR of sector peer companies selected by the Committee Peer Group tSR determined the vesting of 67 per cent of the award.
tSR relative to the broad MCSi World index index tSR will determine the vesting of the remaining 33 per cent of the award.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 191 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
9 CEO remuneration and returns to shareholders Five-year CEO remuneration the table below shows the total remuneration earned by Andrew Mackenzie and Marius Kloppers over the last five years, along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
As Mr Mackenzie assumed the role of Ceo in May 2013, the FY2013 total remuneration shown relates only to the period 10 May to 30 June 2013. the FY2013 total remuneration for Mr Kloppers relates only to the period 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
5 for the methodology used to calculate the single total figure of remuneration as used in this table Financial year FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Andrew Mackenzie total remuneration single figure, $000 2,468 7,988 Sti % of maximum 47 77 lti % of maximum 65 58 Marius Kloppers total remuneration single figure, $000 14,789 15,755 16,092 15,991 Sti % of maximum 71 69 0 47 lti % of maximum 100 100 100 65 Five-year TSR the graph below shows BHP Billitons tSR against the performance of relevant indices over the same five-year period.
the indices shown in the graph were chosen as being broad market indices which include companies of a comparable size and complexity to BHP Billiton.
Value of US$100 invested over the 2009 LTIP cycle with dividends reinvested $250 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc FTSE 100 $200 ASX 100 MSCI World $150 $100 $50 $0 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 Years ended 30 June 4.4.
10 Change in CEOs remuneration in FY2014 the table below sets out the Ceos base salary, benefits and Sti amounts earned in respect of FY2014, with the percentage change from FY2013.
the table also shows the average change in each element for employees of the Group in Australia being approximately 26,500 employees.
this has been chosen by the Committee as the most appropriate comparison, as the Ceo is located in Australia.
Base salary Benefits STI CEO $000 1,700 92 3,136 1 % change 0.0 87.0 23.2 Australian employees % change average 2.3 10.0 17.9 1 the percentage changes for the Ceo have been determined with reference to annualised numbers for FY2013.
192 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 US$ TSR rebased to 1 July 2009 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
11 Remuneration for the CEO in FY2015 Subject to approval of the remuneration policy by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs, the remuneration for the Ceo in FY2015 will be provided in accordance with that policy.
3 for the remuneration policy for the CEO Base salary increase in September 2014 Base salary is reviewed annually, and increases are applicable from 1 September.
the Ceo will not receive a base salary increase in September 2014 and it will remain unchanged at uS$1.700 million per annum for FY2015.
FY2015 STI performance measures Sti awards will be determined and provided on the same basis as set out for FY2014, and the HSeC, attributable profit, capital project management and individual performance measures are unchanged.
6 for a description of STI for FY2014, including the performance measures the performance measures set out in the table below have been set by the Remuneration Committee for the Ceo in FY2015.
Performance measure Weighting Target performance HSeC 20% Fatalities, Environment and Community Incidents: nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
TRIF and Occupational Illness: improved performance compared with FY2014 results, with severity and trends to be considered as a moderating influence on the overall HSeC assessment.
HSEC Risk Management: each Business is to have all material risks with HSeC impacts recorded and controlled.
For all material risks Businesses to have all critical control designs and critical control assessment test plans reviewed by the material risk owner.
Health, Environment and Community Initiatives: All assets to achieve 100% of planned targets in respect of occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse gas projects reduction and local procurement and cultural awareness targets.
Attributable profit 40% For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target for attributable profit will not be disclosed in advance: adjusted for commodity prices, however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
in the rare instances where this may foreign exchange movements not be prudent or grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give an indication of when and exceptional items they will be disclosed.
Capital project management 20% For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the targets for capital project management cost and schedule will cost and schedule not be disclosed in advance: however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
in the rare instances where this may not be prudent or grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
individual performance 20% the Ceos individual measures for FY2015 comprise contribution to BHP Billitons overall performance and the management team, and the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the Ceo role as set out by the Board, including portfolio optimisation and simplification, capital management, improvement in leadership capabilities and employee engagement throughout the Group, and GMC member development and succession.
FY2015 LTI award on the advice of the Committee, the Board has proposed an FY2015 lti award for the Ceo with a face value of uS$6.800 million, being 400 per cent of the Ceos base salary.
taking into account the performance condition as represented by the fair value factor of 41 per cent, the fair value of these awards is uS$2.788 million.
the FY2015 lti award will use the same performance and service conditions, vesting schedule and peer groups as the FY2014 lti award.
8 for a description of LTI for FY2014 if approved by shareholders, this FY2015 lti award will be granted following the AGMs i. e. in or around December 2014. the number of awards will be notified to shareholders at the time that they are provided.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 193 4 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors the remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors set out in the remuneration policy report also applied in FY2014, and the remuneration outcomes described below have therefore been provided in accordance with that same policy.
9 for the remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors the maximum aggregate fees payable to non-executive Directors including the Chairman was approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGMs at uS$3.8 million per annum.
this sum includes base fees, committee fees and pension contributions.
travel allowances and non-monetary benefits are not included in this limit.
12 Single total figure of remuneration this section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under uK requirements.
it is a measure of actual remuneration.
As non-executive Directors do not receive any equity awards as part of their remuneration, this table also meets the requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
13 for details of the fee structure for FY2013 and FY2014 2 the majority of the amounts disclosed for benefits are travel allowances for each non-executive Director: amounts of between uS$15,000 and uS$112,000 uS$59,000 and uS$119,000 for FY2013.
in addition, amounts of between uS$ nil and uS$5,000 uS$ nil and uS$5,000 for FY2013 are included in respect of tax return preparation: amounts of between uS$ nil and uS$32,000 uS$ nil and uS$25,000 for FY2013 are included in respect of costs associated with spouse partner attendance at a business meeting location: and amounts of between uS$ nil and uS$19,000 uS$ nil and uS$16,000 for FY2013 are included in respect of reimbursement of the tax cost associated with the provision of taxable benefits.
3 BHP Billiton limited made minimum superannuation contributions of 9.25 per cent of fees for FY2014 in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation increasing to 9.5 per cent of fees paid in FY2015.
4 the FY2014 remuneration for Malcolm Brinded relates to part of that year only, as he joined the Board on 15 April 2014.
194 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
13 Non-executive Directors remuneration in FY2015 Subject to approval of the remuneration policy by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs, the remuneration for the non-executive Directors in FY2015 will be provided in accordance with that policy.
9 for the remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors Fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Ceo.
the non-executive Directors do not take part in these discussions.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees for the non-executive Directors and Chairman were reviewed in June 2014 and benchmarked against peer companies, with the assistance of externally provided benchmark data.
As a result of the review, a decision was taken to keep FY2015 fees unchanged from FY2014.
the table below sets out the fee levels for FY2015, and the changes in fee levels since FY2011.
Levels of fees and travel allowances for Non-executive Directors in US dollars From 1 July 2010 From 1 July 2011 From 1 July 2012 From 1 July 2013 From 1 July 2014 Base annual fee 154,000 170,000 170,000 170,000 170,000 Plus additional fees for: Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc 35,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 Committee Chair: 55,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 Risk and Audit 1 60,000 60,000 60,000 Finance 40,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 Remuneration 40,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 45,000 Sustainability no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees nomination Committee membership: 30,000 32,500 32,500 32,500 32,500 Risk and Audit 1 32,500 32,500 32,500 Finance 25,000 27,500 27,500 27,500 27,500 Remuneration 25,000 27,500 27,500 27,500 27,500 Sustainability no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees no additional fees nomination 2 Travel allowance: 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 Greater than 3 but less than 10 hours 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 10 hours or more Chairmans remuneration 1,000,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1 the Finance Committee was created on 23 April 2012, and the fees shown are annualised and commenced from that date.
2 in relation to travel for Board business, the time thresholds relate to the flight time to travel to the meeting location i. e. one way flight time.
until 30 June 2011, the time frames were Greater than 3 but less than 12 hours and 12 hours or more.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 195 4 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for members of the GMC other than the CEO the information in this section contains details of the remuneration 4.4.
15 Components of remuneration policy that guided the Remuneration Committees decisions and the components of remuneration for members of the GMC resulted in the remuneration outcomes for members of the GMC, are the same as the Ceo, with any differences described below.
other than the Ceo or any other executive Directors should any Section 4.3.
3 for the components of CEO remuneration including be appointed in future.
how remuneration links to strategy, how each component operates and Section 4.2.
1 for members of the GMC how performance is assessed the remuneration policy and structures for the other members Fixed remuneration of the GMC are essentially the same as those already described As for the Ceo, the other members of the GMC receive: for the Ceo in previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
A competitive base salary that is appropriate to the role Where this is the case, to avoid repetition, this section of the and attracts and retains high quality executives.
report cross references that prior content.
Pension contributions to a maximum of 25 per cent of base salary.
Relocation allowance and other benefits as determined by 4.4.
14 Remuneration policy the Remuneration Committee, and of a similar nature to those in designing and determining the remuneration for members received by the Ceo, or as otherwise determined by local policy of the GMC, the Remuneration Committee applies the Groups or practice in the location where the GMC member is located.
this contains the key principles that support Section 4.4.
19 for details of significant components of fixed remuneration and reinforce the Groups strategy and ongoing performance and for each member of the GMC align activities of management with the interests of shareholders.
2 for overarching principles and purpose of remuneration at BHP Billiton Members of the GMC are entitled to participate in the StiP on the same basis as the Ceo.
the Remuneration Committee considers the appropriate total remuneration for each member of the GMC by examining the Section 4.3.
3 for details of the STIP, including the setting of performance measures, assessment of performance, and delivery of awards in cash and remuneration provided to comparable roles in organisations deferred equity including terms in relation to malus and clawback of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry.
8 for the terms of STI awards on cessation of employment each year, the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, sources and consolidates relevant remuneration data for comparable the performance measures for members of the GMC are similar roles, in relevant organisations and markets.
the adviser prepares to those of the Ceo, as determined by the Committee.
However, a comparison to current GMC remuneration, but does not make the weighting of each performance measure will vary to reflect the specific recommendations regarding the level of individual focus required from each GMC role.
in particular, there are different executives remuneration.
weightings for GMC members with specific Business responsibilities.
the relevant performance measures and weightings and the Section 4.4.
1 for more information on services provided by Kepler Associates performance outcomes for FY2014 as assessed by the Committee From this market comparison, the Committee determines the are set out in the diagram below.
appropriate remuneration for each individual, taking into account Section 4.4.
6 for a comparable table of performance measures and their responsibilities, location, skills, qualifications, experience outcomes for the CEO and performance within the Group.
in doing so, the Committee recognises that levels of remuneration should be sufficient to Section 4.4.
19 for details of the STI amount provided to each member of the GMC for FY2014 performance.
attract, motivate and retain high quality, experienced executives, but also that the Group should avoid paying more than is necessary the description of the Sti outcomes for the Ceo explains the FY2014 for this purpose.
performance outcomes against targets for HSeC, attributable profit, eBit and capital project management.
this includes the material variations from target performance for BHP Billiton and for its separate Businesses, which correspond to the Business outcomes shown in the diagram below.
FY2014 performance measures and outcomes Performance for FY2014 Weighting for GMC members Weighting for with Business other GMC Performance measure responsibility members Threshold Target Stretch HSeC Group 10% 20% Business 10% 0% Attributable profit adjusted for commodity prices, 20% 40% foreign exchange movements and exceptional items eBit adjusted for commodity prices, foreign 20% 0% exchange movements and exceptional items Capital project management Group cost 10% 20% Group schedule Business cost 10% 0% Business schedule individual measures 20% 20% l BHP Billiton Group l Aluminium, Manganese and nickel l Coal l Copper l iron ore l Petroleum and Potash 196 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
17 Employment contracts individual measures are determined at the commencement of the the terms of employment for other members of the GMC are financial year.
these comprise each individuals contribution to the formalised in employment contracts, which have no fixed term.
GMC, delivery against projects and initiatives within the scope they typically outline the components of remuneration paid to of his or her role, and his or her contribution to the overall the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are performance of the Group.
Personal performance of other GMC to be modified from year-to-year.
A GMC employment contract members was reviewed against these measures by the Committee may be terminated by BHP Billiton on up to 12 months notice.
and, on average, was considered marginally above target, with BHP Billiton can terminate a contract immediately by making a a range of 21 to 23 per cent against a target of 20 per cent.
payment of up to 12 months base salary plus pension contributions for the relevant period.
the GMC member must give six months LTI notice for voluntary resignation.
other members of the GMC receive lti awards under the ltiP, Section 4.2.
1 for members of the GMC including the date they commenced in which are made on the same basis and with the same performance their role if during the current financial year hurdles and vesting conditions as those provided to the Ceo.
lti awards granted to other members of the GMC generally have 4.4.
18 Arrangements for a GMC member leaving a maximum face value of 350 per cent of base salary, which the Group after 30 June 2014 is a fair value of 143.5 per cent of base salary under the current plan Karen Wood retired from BHP Billiton on 20 August 2014 design with an expected value of 41 per cent, taking into account Karen Wood retired from her role as President on the GMC on 19 August the performance condition: 350% x 41% 143.5%.
the exception 2014 and from BHP Billiton on 20 August 2014.
Ms Wood has received is for Jane McAloon and tony Cudmore, for whom the maximum base salary, pension contributions and applicable benefits up to the face value is 300 per cent of base salary or a fair value of date of her retirement.
She received no payments in lieu of notice 123.0 per cent of base salary.
upon retirement, but has been paid the value of the pension and Section 4.3.
3 for details of the LTIP, including the relative TSR performance superannuation funds that she has accumulated during her service condition, and the level of performance required for vesting including terms with the Group.
When determining the Sti awards for GMC members, relation to malus and clawback the Remuneration Committee resolved that Ms Wood would receive Section 4.3.
8 for the terms of LTI awards on cessation of employment a FY2014 short-term incentive award in the form of cash, which was Section 4.4.
7 for details of the performance outcomes for the 2009 LTIP assessed by the Committee, based on her performance.
no deferral period will apply in respect of this cash Sti award.
21 for details of LTI awards, that vested during FY2014 retirement, the unvested deferred shares allocated to her in respect Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan of the FY2013 GiS award vested to her in full.
in accordance with like the Ceo, other members of the GMC are also eligible to the Groups usual practice, Ms Woods unvested ltiP awards were participate in Shareplus.
For administrative simplicity in regard to pro-rated, to reflect the percentage of the performance period that stock exchange dealings and announcements, the other members had elapsed to 20 August 2014. the vesting of the retained pro-rated of the GMC do not currently participate in Shareplus.
awards will be determined by the Committee at the relevant time in future years.
the awards will only vest if the performance condition Section 4.4.
26 for information about Shareplus and the current holdings is met at the end of each five-year performance period, subject of GMC members to the Committees ability to reduce vesting through its discretion under the plan rules.
16 Remuneration mix the arrangements for GMC members leaving the Group are within the Group approach to remuneration for members of the GMC the approval provided by shareholders at the 2011 and 2013 AGMs is that a significant portion should be at risk to provide strong in regard to Australian termination benefits legislation, including alignment between remuneration outcomes and the interests the provision of performance-based remuneration in accordance of BHP Billiton shareholders.
with the rules of the relevant incentive plans.
Ms Wood will continue the diagram below sets out the relative mix of other each to provide advice and assistance to the Ceo on a consultancy basis.
remuneration component for other members of the GMC.
each component is determined as a percentage of base salary at the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance-based remuneration.
Remuneration mix for other GMC members The percentage numbers in the bars represent the percentage of base salary Minimum Base salary 25% 1.5% Target Base salary 25% 1.5% 80% 80% 143% Maximum Base salary 25% 1.5% 120% 120% 350% 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% % share of total remuneration 1 2 Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI 2 3 Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI 1 Base salary earned by each member of the GMC is set out in section 4.4.
2 As for the Ceo, the minimum Sti award is zero, with an award of 80 per cent of base salary in cash and 80 per cent in deferred equity for target performance, and a maximum award of 120 per cent cash and 120 per cent deferred equity for exceptional performance against KPis.
19 for actual cash STI awards for FY2014 performance, which are shown in the annual cash incentive column of the table 3 other members of GMC have a maximum lti award with a face value of 350 per cent of base salary as shown in the chart, with the exception of Jane McAloon and tony Cudmore, who each have a maximum lti award with a face value of 300 per cent of base salary.
21 for actual LTI awards for FY2014, which were granted on 18 December 2013 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 197 4 Remuneration Report continued Other statutory disclosures this section provides details of any additional statutory disclosures required by Australian or uK regulations that have not been included in the previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
19 GMC remuneration table the table below has been prepared in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
Remuneration data for all members of the GMC are pro-rated for the periods of FY2013 and FY2014 that each individual served as a member of the GMC.
An explanation of the share-based payments terms used in the table is provided following the table and associated footnotes.
Comparative FY2013 figures for many of the current members of the GMC therefore relate only to a small portion of the year following their appointment to the GMC.
tony Cudmore, tim Cutt and Mike Fraser joined the GMC during FY2014 and there is no relevant FY2013 comparison.
More information on the policy and operation of each element of remuneration is provided in prior sections of this report.
Share-based payments The figures included in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2013 or FY2014.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised IFRS fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives, either in relation to FY2013 and FY2014 performance or that of prior financial years.
26 for information on awards allocated during FY2013 and FY2014.
A further explanation of the share-based payments terms used in the table is provided following the table and its associated footnotes.
15 for base salary policy and operation 198 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
19 GMC remuneration table continued 2 Annual cash incentive is the cash portion of Sti awards earned in respect of performance during each financial year.
15 for STI policy and operation and for FY2014 STI outcomes Sti is provided half in cash and half in deferred equity which are included in the share-based payments columns of the table.
the minimum possible value awarded to each individual is nil.
the maximum Sti is 240 per cent of base salary 120 per cent in cash and 120 per cent in deferred equity.
For FY2014 GMC members earned the following Sti awards as a percentage of the maximum the remaining portion has not been earned i. e. has been forfeited : Andrew Mackenzie 77 per cent, Peter Beaven 71 per cent, tony Cudmore 76 per cent, tim Cutt 72 per cent, Dean Dalla Valle 78 per cent, Mike Fraser 76 per cent, Geoff Healy 76 per cent, Mike Henry 77 per cent, Graham Kerr 76 per cent, Jane McAloon 76 per cent, Daniel Malchuk 76 per cent, Jimmy Wilson 79 per cent and Karen Wood 77 per cent.
3 non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as health and other insurances and fees for tax return preparation if required in multiple jurisdictions.
4 other benefits are non-pensionable and included one-off relocation allowances with no trailing entitlements provided to Andrew Mackenzie, Mike Henry and Daniel Malchuk in FY2013 and to tim Cutt in FY2014 in regard to their international relocations, and to Dean Dalla Valle in FY2013 in regard to his domestic relocation.
5 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary for each GMC member.
6 the percentage of the total remuneration for FY2014, which is made up of equity awards, ranges from 9 per cent for tony Cudmore to 51 per cent for Karen Wood.
7 the amounts shown in this column are described in the section below these notes.
they may include awards paid in the form of cash where the individual ceases employment prior to the scheduled allocation date of the Sti awards in December 2014 for FY2014 awards.
Footnote 2 shows the percentage of the FY2014 Sti award not earned i. e. forfeited as a percentage of the maximum award.
these share-based payments may also be forfeited after allocation in specific circumstances as described in section 4.3.
8 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
the maximum possible value cannot be determined as it depends on future share price movements, but is estimated by the iFRS fair value used for accounting purposes in this table.
26 for the actual numbers of awards allocated to and held by members of the GMC 8 the amounts shown in this column are described in the section below these notes.
8 and therefore the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
24 for the actual numbers of awards allocated to the GMC this column also includes an amount allocated to remuneration in FY2013 and in FY2014 in respect of awards received by Mr Mackenzie on commencement of employment with BHP Billiton, which vested during FY2013.
the final value of the awards will be determined at the time that Mr Mackenzie chooses to redeem the award, and this column will incorporate an annual true-up amount until that time.
Full details of the award and the relevant terms and conditions were provided in the FY2013 Annual Report.
The value of STI and Shareplus awards shown in the table includes: the estimated iFRS fair value of Sti awards provided as deferred equity or cash settled share-based payments under the GiS, GStiP and StiP: Section 4.4.
23 for awards allocated to each individual the iFRS fair value of the Sti awards is estimated at grant date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
Participants who are provided with awards under the GiS are entitled to a DeP in lieu of the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time they receive ordinary shares in BHP Billiton.
Prior to FY2011 awards, a similar DeP entitlement applied to GStiP awards.
this is not the case with awards allocated since october 2011.
From FY2011, there was a change in accounting policy to account for the DeP from cash-settled to equity-settled.
Sti awards are granted to GMC participants following the relevant AGMs awards to the Ceo are subject to shareholder approval.
if employment ceases prior to that scheduled allocation of equity awards, the value of the awards may be provided in cash, but would still be included in this column of the table.
once awarded, there is a vesting condition that requires participants to remain in employment for a further two years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
the iFRS fair value of Sti awards is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the expected future service period, which is normally three years being the performance year in which the Sti is earned and the subsequent two-year service period.
the vesting of Sti awards may be accelerated in the event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected future service period is amended: the estimated iFRS fair value of rights to Matched Shares acquired during each share purchase period under the Shareplus program.
these rights are acquired on each of the quarterly share purchase dates under the program grant dates, and the iFRS fair value is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the future service period required for the Matched Shares to be allocated i. e. the vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the Matched Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
26 for awards under Shareplus The value of LTI awards shown in the table includes: the estimated iFRS fair value of awards provided under the ltiP, MAP and as transitional GMC awards which are defined as equity-settled share-based payments: Section 4.4.
24 for awards allocated to each individual the amount in respect of each award under the ltiP is the estimated iFRS fair value of the award as determined by Kepler Associates using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award and the value of the DeP that will be received on exercise of the award.
the iFRS fair value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements to lti awards are preserved on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 199 4 Remuneration Report continued Equity awards the following sections set out the interests held by members of the GMC under the Groups employee equity plans.
each equity award is a right to acquire one ordinary share in BHP Billiton limited or in BHP Billiton Plc upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
the vesting conditions will include performance and or service requirements as relevant to the purpose of the award and as described in each of the following sections.
the value of awards over BHP Billiton limited shares is shown in Australian dollars and the value of awards over BHP Billiton Plc shares is shown in pounds sterling for awards over shares on the lSe and in South African rand for awards over shares on the JSe.
Dividend Equivalent Payments the awards are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
For awards provided under the GiS and the ltiP, a DeP is provided to cover dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time that the holder receives ordinary shares in BHP Billiton in respect of the award on vesting or on exercise.
A DeP is only provided in relation to awards that have vested upon satisfaction of the relevant conditions.
this payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited or lapse.
the Securities Dealing GlD governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the provision of shares on vesting or exercise of awards.
Equity awards provided for GMC service 4.4.
20 STI awards under the GIS Awards under the GiS will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness, retirement with the agreement of BHP Billiton and redundancy retrenchment.
At the 2013 AGMs, shareholders approved a new StiP which applies from FY2014.
Awards have not yet been allocated under the StiP.
the terms and conditions of the new StiP are largely the same as those of the GiS.
Where an individual has made this choice, the option exercise price payable is shown.
the exercise price is determined by the weighted average price at which BHP Billiton shares were traded over the one week up to and including the date of grant.
A greater number of options were allocated if an individual chose this alternative as opposed to choosing awards with no exercise price.
2 Awards will vest on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the second financial year after allocation, if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
the estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
the expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
3 the market price shown for the December 2013 grant is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 18 December 2013. no price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
the grant date iFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2013, and was A$29.01.
4 the awards granted under the GiS in December 2011 became fully vested on 21 August 2013 as the service conditions were met.
the price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on that date.
5 the market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain of the total award is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their award.
6 the amounts shown in this column are the value of the DeP paid on the awards.
200 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 4.4.
21 LTI awards under the LTIP Awards under the ltiP will not deliver any value to the holder for at least five years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness.
A new ltiP was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs and was effective for grants from December 2013. the terms and conditions of the new ltiP, including the performance conditions, are described in sections 4.3.
8 and are largely the same as the former ltiP.
the rules are available on the BHP Billiton website.
the expiry date of awards is the day prior to the fifth anniversary of that vesting date.
2 the market price shown for the grants made in FY2014 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date of grant.
no price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
the grant date iFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2013, using a Monte Carlo simulation, and was A$12.35.
3 65 per cent of the ltiP awards granted in December 2008 became fully vested on 21 August 2013, following the performance condition being fully achieved and the Remuneration Committee considering its discretion over the vesting outcome, as described in section 4.3.
3. the remaining 35 per cent of the ltiP awards lapsed and cannot be exercised by the previous holders.
the price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the vesting date.
4 the market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their ltiP award.
no price is payable by the individual for exercising the award.
5 the amounts shown in this column are the value of the DeP paid on awards.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 201 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
22 Transitional GMC awards As the MAP awards that are allocated to individuals in their non-GMC management positions have a three-year service condition, and the ltiP awards provided to GMC members have a five-year service and performance condition, as a transitional step, the Committee may determine that new GMC members recruited from within BHP Billiton receive transitional GMC awards to bridge the gap between the two programs.
transitional GMC awards have two tranches.
tranche one has a three-year service and performance condition.
tranche two has a four-year service and performance condition.
the Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to determine if the performance condition has been met and whether any, all or part of the award will vest or otherwise lapse, having regard to but not limited to BHP Billitons tSR over the threeor four-year performance period respectively, the participants contribution to Group outcomes and the participants personal performance with guidance on this assessment from the Ceo.
no DeP is payable on these awards.
the treatment of transitional GMC awards on cessation of employment will depend on the circumstances and is similar to those for ltiP awards.
if the participants employment ceases due to dismissal or resignation, any unvested awards will lapse immediately.
if the reason for cessation is death, serious injury, disability or illness, then the awards will vest in full on the date of cessation.
if the participant retires from the Group with the agreement of BHP Billiton, is made redundant or employment is terminated by mutual agreement, then a proportion of the award pro-rated to reflect the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed will continue on foot and vest, subject to the performance condition, on the future vesting date.
the remaining portion of the award will lapse.
in all other circumstances, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine the portion of the award that vests or lapses.
Awards will vest on or as soon as practicable after the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the third financial year after allocation for tranche one and the fourth financial year after vesting for tranche two if the conditions for vesting are met as described above.
no exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards and there is no price payable by the individual on vesting.
Where performance conditions are not met at vesting, awards will lapse.
2 the market price shown for the December 2013 grant is the closing prices of BHP Billiton shares on 18 December 2013. no price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
the grant date iFRS fair values of the awards are estimated at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2013, and were A$28.09 for tranche one, and A$27.20 for tranche two.
202 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report Equity awards provided for pre-GMC service 4.4.
23 STI awards under the GSTIP the table below shows GStiP awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC or which were allocated in relation to performance and service before they became GMC members.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals shown in the table below received Stl awards under the GStiP which has applied for the non-GMC management of BHP Billiton since the awards allocated in FY2009 in relation to FY2008 performance.
the terms and conditions of the GStiP awards are essentially the same as those provided under the GiS.
under both plans, participants must satisfy applicable Stl performance conditions in order to be eligible for any award.
Due to changes in the GStiP, which applied to all participants in that plan, no DeP is payable on the GStiP awards that were allocated in FY2012 in relation to FY2011 performance or since that time.
A greater number of options were allocated if an individual chose this alternative as opposed to choosing awards with no exercise price to pay.
2 Awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the second financial year after allocation, if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
Where applicable, the expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
3 the market price shown for grants made during FY2014 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date of grant.
no exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards as described above the table.
4 the awards granted under the GStiP in october 2011 became fully vested on 21 August 2013 as the service conditions were met.
7 the opening balance shown for Mike Fraser reflects his holdings on 27 August 2013 rather than on 1 July 2013 being the date he joined the GMC.
8 the awards shown for Mike Henry and Graham Kerr with a grant date of 22 August 2013 had this allocation date due to administrative reasons, but were made on the same basis as if they had been made on 5 December 2012.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 203 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
24 LTI awards under the MAP and LTIP the table below shows awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals listed in the tables below received lti awards: under the MAP, which has applied for the non-GMC management of BHP Billiton since FY2009: prior to that under the ltiP, which applied to non-GMC management as well as to the GMC members before the MAP was introduced.
21 for details of LTIP awards allocated for GMC service the vesting of MAP awards is subject to a service condition of continued employment with the Group through to the vesting date as shown in the table.
Where a participant resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date, their unvested MAP awards are forfeited.
if a participants employment ends due to death, illness or injury, a pro rata number of unvested Restricted Shares will vest based on the portion of the relevant vesting period served.
Due to changes in the MAP, which applied to all participants in that plan, no DeP is payable on the MAP awards that were allocated in FY2012 or since that time.
Where applicable, expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third MAP awards or fifth ltiP awards anniversary of that vesting date.
2 the market price shown for grants made during FY2014 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the relevant date of grant.
the grant date iFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2013, and was A$28.09.
3 the awards granted under the MAP in october 2010 became fully vested on 21 August 2013 as the service conditions were met.
4 the market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain of the total award is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their award.
5 the amounts shown in this column are the value of the DeP paid on the awards.
6 the opening balance shown for Mike Fraser reflects his holdings on 27 August 2013 rather than on 1 July 2013 being the date he joined the GMC.
the awards shown with a grant date of 22 August 2013 hold this allocation date due to administrative reasons, but were made on the same basis as if they had been made on 31 october 2012.
25 Estimated value range of equity awards the current face value of Sti and lti awards allocated during FY2014 and yet to vest to be disclosed under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 is the number of awards as set out in the previous tables multiplied by the current share price of BHP Billiton limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
the actual value that may be received by participants in the future cannot be determined as it is dependent on, and therefore fluctuates with, the share prices of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the date that any particular award is exercised.
the table below provides five-year share price history for BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc, history of dividends paid and the Groups earnings.
Five-year share price, dividend and earnings history FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 BHP Billiton limited Share price at beginning of year A$33.96 A$36.94 A$43.97 A$31.72 A$30.94 Share price at end of year A$37.65 A$43.80 A$31.45 A$31.37 A$35.90 Dividends paid A$0.95 A$0.95 A$1.03 A$1.10 A$1.29 BHP Billiton Plc Share price at beginning of year 13.75 17.28 24.39 18.30 17.15 Share price at end of year 17.54 24.47 18.06 16.82 18.90 Dividends paid 0.53 0.58 0.69 0.73 0.73 BHP Billiton Attributable profit uS$M 12,722 23,648 15,473 11,223 13,832 the highest share price during FY2014 was A$39.38 for BHP Billiton limited shares and 19.95 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
the lowest share prices during FY2014 were A$30.94 and 16.67 respectively.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 205 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
26 Awards of Matched Shares under the Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan like all permanent employees, members of the GMC are eligible to participate in Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan.
For administrative simplicity in regard to stock exchange dealings and announcements, no GMC members currently participate.
this table shows Shareplus holdings previously accumulated by members of the GMC, including during the period before they joined the GMC.
Participants in Shareplus contribute from their post-tax base salary capped at uS$5,000 per year to acquire shares in BHP Billiton limited or in BHP Billiton Plc.
For each share purchased, the participant receives a right to acquire a Matched Share, which vests provided the participant remains employed by BHP Billiton on the third anniversary of the start of the relevant Shareplus Plan Year.
Differences in exchange rates in relation to the base salaries of the participants in previous financial years and the currencies of each securities exchange result in minor differences in the numbers of shares allocated.
2 the scheduled vesting of rights acquired during the 2011 Shareplus Plan Year i. e. from salary contributions from June 2011 to May 2012 in April 2014 was delayed as members of the GMC were in a prohibited period.
these Matched Shares have since vested, on 20 August 2014.
3 tim Cutts Shareplus awards are held over ADRs on the nYSe.
each ADR is equivalent to two ordinary shares in BHP Billiton limited.
4 Mike Fraser participated in the cash based equivalent of Shareplus during 2011 and 2012 when he was located in Mozambique where local jurisdictional requirements prevent the operation of a share based plan.
206 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report Other disclosures 4.4.
27 Ordinary share holdings and transactions the number of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton limited or in BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially, by each individual including shares held in the name of the spouse, superannuation fund, nominee and or other controlled entities are shown in table below as at 30 June 2014. in addition, there have been no changes in the interests of any Directors in the period to 11 August 2014 being one month prior to the date of the notice of the 2014 AGMs.
these are ordinary shares held without performance conditions or restrictions and are included in MSR calculations for each individual.
MSR calculations for members of the GMC including the Ceo also include any vested but unexercised employee awards as shown in previous sections of the report.
2 the opening balance shown for Mike Fraser reflects his holdings on 27 August 2013 rather than 1 July 2013 being the date he joined the GMC.
3 the opening balance shown for Malcolm Brinded reflects his holdings on 15 April 2014 rather than 1 July 2013 being the date that he was appointed to the Board.
BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 207 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
28 Payments to past Directors 1 uK regulations require the disclosure of payments to past Directors.
as foreshadowed in the 2013 remuneration report, the following payments were made to Marius Kloppers CeO and executive Director until 10 May 2013 : 325,000 lti awards, granted in 2008, vested on 21 august 2013. the closing price of ordinary BHP Billiton limited shares on that date was a$35.74 and so the value of the vested award was uS$12.051 million including the related DeP of uS$1.560 million.
123,250 lti awards, granted in 2009, vested on 20 august 2014. the closing price of ordinary BHP Billiton limited shares on that date was a$38.13 and so the value of the vested award was uS$5.883 million including the related DeP of uS$0.636 million.
For the period 10 May to 1 October 2013, base salary, pension contributions and applicable benefits were provided.
there were no payments made for loss of office in FY2014.
1 the remuneration Committee has adopted a fide minimis threshold of uS$7,500 in relation to disclosure of payments to past Directors under uK requirements.
29 Relative importance of spend on pay the table below sets out the total spend on employee remuneration during FY2014 and the prior year, compared with other significant expenditure items.
the table includes items as prescribed in the uK requirements.
BHP Billiton has included tax payments and purchases of property, plant and equipment, being the most significant other outgoings in monetary terms.
US dollars million FY2014 FY2013 7,038 7,356 aggregate employee benefits expense Section 7.1.
6 Note 5 6,387 6,167 Dividends paid to BHP Billiton shareholders Section 7.1.
4 6,465 8,574 income tax paid and royalty-related taxation paid net of refunds Section 7.1.
4 15,993 22,243 Purchases of property, plant and equipment Section 7.1.
30 Retirement disclosures for the Non-executive Directors the following table sets out the accrued retirement benefits under the now-closed retirement Plan of BHP Billiton limited.
the retirement Plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and entitlements that had accumulated in respect of each of the participants were frozen.
these will be paid on retirement.
an earnings rate equal to the five-year australian Government Bond rate is being applied to the frozen entitlements from that date.
Lump sum entitlement at Change in lump sum Completed service at entitlement during 1 US dollars 000 30 June 2014 years the year 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 David Crawford 20 41 601 560 John Schubert 14 20 300 280 1 no further entitlements have accrued since the closure of the retirement Plan in 2003. the movement reflects the application of the earnings rate and foreign exchange rate the translation from australian dollars to uS dollars for the remuneration report to the lump sum entitlement at the date of closure.
31 Transactions with KMP During the financial year, there were no purchases by KMP from the Group 2013: uS$ nil: 2012: uS$ nil.
there are no amounts payable at 30 June 2014 2013: uS$ nil.
Loans with KMP there are uS$nil loans 2013: uS$ nil with KMP.
Transactions with personally related entities a number of Directors of the Group hold or have held positions in other companies, where it is considered they control or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those entities.
there have been no transactions with those entities and no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities 2013: uS$ nil.
this remuneration report was approved by the Board on 11 September 2014 and signed on its behalf by: John Buchanan Chairman, remuneration Committee 1 1 September 201 4 208 BHP BillitOn annual rePOrt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report Our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 5 Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Report relates to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
Section 1 Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans Review in section 1.3 and the Chief Executive Officers Report in section 1.4, and incorporates the operating and financial review, section 2 Our Assets, section 3 Corporate Governance Statement, section 4 Remuneration Report, section 7 Financial Statements and section 9 Shareholder information of this Annual Report are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
The Directors confirm, on the advice of the Risk and Audit Committee, that they consider the Annual Report including the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
