| 62 62 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Chairmans governance letter This ensures that your investment and the assets of the Company are protected.
As a Board we take these governance Dear responsibilities seriously and they are particularly important when significant or transformational transactions are being considered.
shareholder This is clearly the case in respect of the proposed acquisition of Friends Life.
Given the materiality of the transaction, the Board as a whole carefully deliberated the merits Your Board firmly believes that a sound of the transaction, ensured that a robust due diligence process was followed and fully governance framework is essential in considered the risks, mitigations and opportunities presented by the transaction.
supporting management in delivering If the proposed acquisition completes the Groups strategy to drive business successfully the Board will oversee the integration to ensure that robust systems of success internal control and risk management are implemented throughout the enlarged Group to support its long-term success.
I believe management has a clear plan to achieve the strategy agreed by the Board and this will continue to evolve as we integrate Friends Life if the proposed acquisition completes.
Key activities during 2014 Board Reflecting on the results of the Board and committees effectiveness evaluation conducted at the end of 2013, the Board considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and its committees.
The committees were all considered effective, however the Board agreed there was merit in making some changes to the membership of some of the committees.
Governance Committee We further refined the Governance Committees remit during the year to include oversight responsibility for conduct risk, in particular in relation to those risks that may impact customer outcomes and have a potential reputational impact.
This has been a key focus of the committee during the year with a push for consistent management information on conduct risk.
The committee also became responsible for Our governance talent management and development Our governance programmes, and during the year responsibilities are responsibilities are implemented initiatives to ensure robust succession plans are in place and a p particularly articularly iimportant mportant sustainable future workforce is created.
when significant when significant Audit Committee The Audit Committee continued to monitor transactions are being transactions are being the internal control environment and the nine key control topics identified by considered considered management see the Audit Committees report for further details.
In particular, new John McFarlane protocols are being developed to improve John McFarlane, oversight of the Groups joint ventures.
The Chairman Chairman committee is also overseeing the rollout of the Integrated Assurance Framework IAF across the Group.
In time this will provide a Governance | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 63 63 central mechanism to further improve the Nomination Committee Length of tenure of monitoring and management of the The principal role of the Nomination Non-Executive Directors Groups control environment.
Committee is to keep under review the The committee also continued to composition of the Board to ensure that it monitor the integrity of the Groups has the right balance of skills, knowledge, financial reporting, focussing on their fair experience and diversity.
Increasing female presentation, the reasonableness of financial representation on the Board to at least 25% assumptions and judgement factors and the remains our firm aim: however appropriate application of accounting appointments will not be made on the basis policies.
of gender alone and will be made on merit In the 2013 Annual report and and have regard to other criteria identified accounts we reported that we had by the committee.
identified controls failings in Aviva During the year, Scott Wheway chaired Investors that happened between August committee meetings to consider candidates 2005 to June 2013.
In February 2015, to be appointed as Chairman upon my Aviva Investors reached a settlement with retirement following the 2015 AGM.
Details the FCA in relation to this and agreed to regarding the process by which Sir Adrian 0-3 years 5 pay a fine of 17.6 million.
Aviva Montague was recommended to the Board 3-6 years 2 Investors has committed significant are set out in the Nomination Committees 6-9 years 1 resources to enhancing its control report.
Aviva Investors has fixed the The proposed acquisition of Friends Life issues, improved the systems and gave the committee an opportunity to controls and made substantial changes to consider the composition of the Board of Geographical mix the management team.
As a result, the committee recommended to the Board that Risk Committee Andy Briggs and Sir Malcolm Williamson be During the year the Risk Committee closely appointed as directors of the Board scrutinised the Groups work towards following successful completion of the compliance with Solvency II SII, reviewing transaction.
and approving interim measures on the Having considered each Non-Executive path to compliance, including an Internal Directors independence, each directors Model Validation Business Standard and, contribution to the Board, and their later in the year, the methodology and suitability for re-election, the committee assumptions for the Individual Capital supports the re-election of all Board Adequacy submission to be made in 2015. members standing for re-election at the With the Groups designation as a 2015 AGM.
Global Systemically Important Insurer GSII, it was important for the committee to UK Corporate Governance Code scrutinise the GSII recovery and resolution During the year the Company has been UK 6 plans.
The committee also reviewed compliant with all relevant provisions of the US 2 management plans to address potential 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Australasian 3 future capital requirements that might be Code.
A new version of the Code was required as a result of either being classified published in September 2014 and the as a GSII or the transition to Solvency II.
Company intends to be compliant with all new relevant provisions in the timeframes Remuneration Committee dictated by the Code.
We disclose details of As advised in last years Annual report, how we comply with the Code throughout during 2014 the Remuneration Committee the Directors and corporate governance undertook a strategic review of executive report and the Directors remuneration remuneration to ensure the Directors report in the Annual report and accounts.
remuneration policy remained fit for purpose, aligned to the achievement of John McFarlane strategy, competitive, consistent with good Chairman governance and regulatory practice and 4 March 2015 compliant with relevant regulation.
It was recognised at the time that such a strategic review might require the Company to propose changes to the policy at the 2015 Annual General Meeting 2015 AGM.
Details of the review process, consultation and conclusions reached by the committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report, as can detail of the proposed revised policy.
We are confident that we now have a fair and balanced set of policy changes, which align the interests of executives with the long term success of the Company, and hope you support these at this years AGM.
