68 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 69 Letter from ourchairman The corporate governance report is my opportunity, as chairman, to explain how Beazley has been managed during the year: how the board has performed and how our systems of governance, internal control and risk management have operated throughout the year.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and believe the groups robust system of governance has been designed to establish, implement and maintain effective controls, internal reporting and communication of information across all levels within the group.
These are fundamental to the long term success of the company.
The boards role is to set the companys strategic aim, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The board met regularly through the year, set direction and risk appetite and provided oversight and control of management in the day-to-day running of the business.
As chairman, I seek to ensure open and collective discussion and debate of significant issues is achieved, and that appropriate decisions are then reached, we empower management to then execute that decision, with our on-going oversight and support.
In May we held a board strategy day and reviewed the 2015 business conditions and plan together with our strategic objectives and long term plan.
The board and its committees met regularly during the year with near 100% attendance from all members.
We promote a culture of openness and debate at each meeting and seek to receive constructive challenge from the non-executive directors to help develop proposals on strategy and other matters.
The group recognises the value from regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the board.
We conducted a self assessment in 2014 through a questionnaire.
Whilst there are no matters of significance to report, we have developed some actions to support continuous improvement in our governance processes.
In 2015 an external board effectiveness review will be undertaken.
We ensure directors continually update their skills through individual development plans and board training.
Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the boardroom.
It is vital that we have on the board the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives, in addition to independence of thought and action.
The group believes in the importance of diversity for board and group effectiveness and has developed a diversity strategy to support our commitment to being an equal opportunities employer.
We are committed to ensuring appointments are made on merit against selection criteria.
Further details of our policy are set out in the nomination committee report.
The provision of timely, accurate and appropriate information to the board and committees is key to good governance.
During the year all board and committee papers were issued electronically which ensured that information was easily available through a secure medium.
I am pleased to confirm the company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and explained the independence of Rolf Tolle on page 73.
Details of the activities of the board and its committee are set out on pages 73 to 81.
