Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Chairmans Introduction to Governance Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance which are socritical to the delivery Simon Miller of value.
Chairman Good corporate governance is critical to the delivery of value to the Groups stakeholders and this section of the report describes how Brewin Dolphin is governed and managed.
It also addresses how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code havebeen applied.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management and oversight of the Group and for its long-term success.
In particular, the Board is responsible for agreeing the Groups strategy, monitoring financial performance, setting and monitoring the Groups risk appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls.
The Board has appointed three Non-Executive Directors during the year, partly as a planned cycle of refreshing the Board, but also to improve the overall balance by having a majority of Non-Executive Directors.
The Board of a financial services firm needs to be strong in relevant expertise and the new additions, together with a strengthened senior management team, ensure that it is well placed to oversee the Groups activities.
The Board has spent some time looking at the roles and responsibilities of its Committees, to ensure that each is operating efficiently and providing an effective framework for the Board to operate within.
The composition of each Committee was reviewed and changes made to utilise the experience of our newly appointed Directors and ensure that undue reliance was not placed on any particular individual.
I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting which will be held at 11.30 am on 20 February 2015, atTheLincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
It provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Board.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
