Chairmans introduction Dear shareholders and other stakeholders Our commitment to good corporate governance Corporate As Chairman, I want to ensure that Direct Line Group is well governed.
I am pleased to report that we have complied with substantially all of the provisions of the UK Corporate governance Governance Code September 2012.
The Board has worked hard during the year seeking to ensure that high governance standards have been maintained throughout the Group.
The following Corporate governance report gives shareholders a clear and comprehensive view of the Groups governance arrangements and how we have operated within them over the past year.
The way we do business The way we do business and our underlying values are central to Direct Line Groups success.
Our Code of Business Conduct governs the way we interact with our stakeholders and our values determine our behaviours.
Both determine how we do business throughout the Group and define our corporate identity.
They also influence our business relationships and reputation, which are key to our long-term success.
Our Code of Business Conduct is set out below, our values are on the following page and you can also view them and our Ethical Code for Suppliers at www.
Relationship with RBS Group It was another significant year for Direct Line Group.
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold its entire remaining Mike Biggs, shareholding in the Company, save for a small number of Chairman shares it retained to satisfy long-term incentive awards issued by RBS Group to Direct Line Group management.
As explained in last years Annual Report, a European We have a strong team in place to Commission obligation required RBS Group to sell its continue delivering our strategy, to shareholding by the end of 2014.
As such, Direct Line Group capitalise on opportunities and meet is no longer owned by RBS Group and our operations are now largely separate.
The sale does not affect our business the challenges ahead.
We will continue our journey towards our goal of becoming the leading personal and small business general insurer in the UK.
Our Code of Business Conduct Business practices Dealing with customers Dealing with shareholders Dealing with employees We shall engage in honest, We shall treat customers and other stakeholders We shall maintain a working professional and ethical fairly, openly and honestly, We shall seek to maximise environment that attracts, conduct and maintain and operate an effective shareholder value over time, motivates and retains effective procedures to complaints process to address recognising that wealth employees, and shall be prevent confidential any perceived departure generated also benefits intolerant of any type of information being misused.
customers, employees and discrimination, harassment the communities where or victimisation.
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Board composition Our values A number of changes in the composition of the Direct Line Insurance Group plc Board took place during 2014.
Following RBS Groups sale of substantially all of its shareholding in the Do the right thing Company, Mark Catton, RBS Groups nominated Non-Executive For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider Director, stepped down on 7 March 2014. stakeholders: make decisions based on what is right, not what is easy: demonstrate personal and professional integrity: do I would like to thank Mark for his excellent contribution to whats right for the long-term sustainability of our business.
the Company during his time on the Board and wish him well in the future.
Aim higher Following a review of the Boards balance of skills, knowledge Strive to be the best in every area of the business: be and experience, and a rigorous selection process, Sebastian ambitious, courageous and innovative: relentlessly challenge James joined the Board on 28 August 2014.
With digital and improve: seek and embrace change: learn from our marketing and customer service increasingly important to our mistakes: persevere, always deliver our promises and dont business, Sebastian brings valuable experience in these fields settle for second best.
and is an important addition to the Board.
On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to welcome him as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Work together You can find further information on diversity at Board level and Collaborate across all levels and across all functions: leverage the Board effectiveness review in the Corporate governance the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, report on page 57. to deliver the best possible results: develop relationships based upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise I am confident we have a strong team in place to continue and celebrate success.
delivering our strategy, capitalise on the opportunities and meet the challenges ahead.
Take ownership Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, if you can see a better way, go and make a difference: take decisions, be accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry out: take responsibility for your own personal development and performance.
Michael N Biggs, Chairman 2 March 2015 Say it like it is Be real, authentic and true to self: have adult to adult conversations with all audiences: listen, seek to understand and respect diversity of views: be open, call out issues we see: share information and keep things as simple as possible.
Bring all of yourself to work Be the best you can be, the real and whole you: celebrate our diversity of skills, experiences and personalities: be a role model to others, demonstrate can do spirit, have fun and make this a great place to be: be excited about our Company and our future: believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
Dealing with suppliers of Dealing with communities Dealing with competitors Dealing with regulators goods and services and and the environment We shall compete with We shall maintain a business partnerships We shall contribute to the competitors honestly and in constructive and open We shall maintain the social and economic wellaccordance with the relevant relationship with our regulators highest possible standards of being of those communities competition law.
to foster mutual trust, respect integrity in business where we are an employer, and understanding, and will relationships with suppliers and encourage employees not offer anything to officials in and partners by treating them to participate in projects return for favourable treatment.
honestly and with respect, and initiatives to strengthen and avoiding compromising those communities.
offers of gifts and hospitality.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
