40 Corporate Governance Chairmans letter Peter Wood Dear Shareholder As a prelude to their departure from the have the right mix of skills, experience Board, Dame Helen and Anthony Hobson and background.
Currently 40% of our I am pleased to present the Groups stepped down as Chairman of the Board members are women.
This Corporate Governance Report for the Remuneration Committee and compares extremely favourably with our year ending 31 December 2014.
We remain committed to diversity am pleased to report that Mike Evans and equality at the top of our As a Board we are committed to high was appointed Chairman of the organisation, whilst continuing to make standards of corporate governance that Remuneration Committee and Anne appointments based on objective criteria underpin our sound framework for the Richards was appointed as Chairman of to ensure we appoint the best individuals control and management of our Business.
the Investment Committee with effect with diverse experience and Our Board Committees play a vital role from 1 January 2015. backgrounds for the role.
At our in ensuring the effectiveness of our executive and senior management level, corporate governance.
Each Committee Dame Helens role as Senior Independent 25% and 23% respectively are women.
Chairman has provided a report on the Director will pass to Shirley Garrood at Committees role: you can read these the conclusion of the 2015 Annual After three successful years, Peter Ward reports on pages 46 to 51.
decided to step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee but agreed to remain a As previously announced, Dame Helen I would like to take this opportunity to member.
I would like to take this Alexander and Anthony Hobson have thank Dame Helen and Anthony for their opportunity to thank Peter for his decided to step down as Non-Executive support over the years: they have both commitment during his chairmanship of Directors of the Company at the been exceptionally valuable members of the Audit Committee.
I am delighted to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting the Board.
report that Shirley Garrood was appointed on 13 May 2015.
Dame Helen will as Chairman of the Audit Committee with continue as Deputy Chairman and Senior I continue to keep the membership of effect from 1 October 2014.
our Board under review, ensuring we esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 41 As a Board we Our governance structure are committed to The Board high standards of corporate governance Audit Nomination Investment Risk Remuneration Chief Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive that underpin our Officer Read the Read the Read the Read the Read the Read the sound framework Report Report Report Report Report statement on page 46 on page 49 on page 50 on page 50 on page 51 on page 14 for the control and management of our Business.
Group Executive Committee The UK Corporate Governance Code corporate governance practices and principles expected of a listed We are firmly committed to high company as many have been long standards of corporate governance established in the Business.
and maintaining a sound framework for the control and management of The Group also complies fully with the the Business.
Throughout the period corporate governance requirements of As part of our ongoing succession from 1 January 2014 to 31 December the Companies Act 2006 and Financial planning I am pleased to report that 2014, the Group has been in Services and Markets Act 2000 and Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed compliance with the principles and regulations made thereunder applicable as a member of the Nomination provisions of the UK Corporate to it as a result of its insurance and Committee with effect from Governance Code.
As a major UK general insurer, the Further information on the UK I believe this report demonstrates how, Group has, since 2000, been Corporate Governance Code can be through its actions, the Board and its regulated, most recently by the FCA found at www.
uk Committees fulfil their governance and the PRA.
We are, therefore, responsibilities and how the Board works familiar and comfortable with the proactively to embed good governance practices across the Group on an ongoing basis.
Governance contents Leadership Accountability P. 42 P. 46 Effectiveness Directors Remuneration Report Peter Wood P. 44 P. 52 Chairman esure Group Annual Report 2014
