Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement We are responding to these concerns and are committed to making as full a retrospective disclosure of those targets that we are able to, subject to condentiality.
I believe that this is demonstrated in this years report, particularly in the tables relating to annual bonus and performance shares.
In terms of overall quantum of remuneration, I have previously made clear that the committee understands the concerns felt in society and by some shareholders.
The committee, however, believes that these concerns are properly recognized and balanced in the way in which the policy is framed and implemented.
At the time of our last report, the outcome for the performance shares was based on an estimated second place for relative reserves replacement.
Once results for the oil majors were publicly available it was assessed that BP was in first place, resulting in a vesting of 45.5%.
The awards were adjusted and announced accordingly.
Finally, in July, Iain Conn agreed with the board that he would stand down as a director on 31 December 2014.
Iain has made a significant contribution to the company over his long career and, on this basis, the Dear shareholder, terms of his departure were agreed with the committee within the policy.
2014 started strongly but, as others have commented in this report, ended The terms were promptly communicated on BPs website and are set out more turbulently as the price of oil fell, mainly in the last quarter.
This again later in this report.
formed the backdrop for the decisions of the committee at the end of 2014.
The work of the committee is governed by a number of overriding 2014 outcomes principles.
Key among these is seeking a fair outcome in reward that is BP has performed well in increasingly difficult circumstances.
This has linked to BPs immediate and long-term performance and strategy delivery.
been demonstrated by the delivery of the 10-point plan, which the board As part of this, the committee seeks to ensure that variable remuneration approved as BPs strategic direction in 2011.
In considering performance in is based on underlying performance and is not driven by factors over which 2014 and its effect on remuneration, two areas stand out.
Firstly, a key the directors have no control.
All of this work is carried out within the policy milestone in delivery of the plan was achieving $32.8 billion of operating framework that was approved overwhelmingly by shareholders earlier in cash ow.
The excellent performance in this measure had a strong the year.
inuence on both the annual bonus and the performance share element.
In this context: The second area with an equally strong inuence was safety.
Over the three years of the performance share element, performance improved by t 2014 saw the end of an improving three-year period for BP.
This is more than 15% on two of the measures and over 60% on one measure.
demonstrated elsewhere in the report.
The high-performance gearing in remuneration of the executive directors reects good business results Annual bonus through an overall increase in remuneration compared to last year.
Measures for the annual bonus that focused on safety and value were t The world is a more uncertain place in 2015.
BP has responded broadly largely unchanged from previous years to encourage continuity of to this, including freezing salaries, and the committee has refocused the performance and delivery.
There had been a strong safety performance in measures for the annual bonus to reect new challenges.
We seek continuous improvement in this area and the targets for 2014 were ambitious.
Against that background, performance was mixed t There are clear concerns in society and among shareholders that and showed a modest improvement.
remuneration for executive directors is simply too much.
The policy, now approved by shareholders, is clear and recognizes these concerns Operating cash stood out as being well ahead of target but underlying particularly by placing limits on the amounts that can be awarded.
replacement cost profit was below.
Seven projects started up in 2014, Equally, this remuneration has to be appropriate to be aligned with the making 16 major projects start-ups since the beginning of 2012.
All of global market for talent in which BP works.
Here the committee has to this resulted in a group performance score of 1.10, compared with a score strike a balance.
The committee felt that this score reasonably reected the overall performance for the year.
Following elections by the executive 2014 in retrospect directors, one third of this bonus will be paid in cash and two thirds in shares that are deferred for three years and matched.
There is Our remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM for a three-year period.
At the same meeting, a number of shareholders voted against or retrospective disclosure of many of the targets for the annual bonus later in this report.
withheld their votes on our annual remuneration report.
There were several reasons for this.
There were concerns around our commitment to Deferred bonus disclosure of targets, whether prospectively or retrospectively, and the 2011 deferred bonus share awards became eligible for vesting at the end need for additional disclosure when the committee was exercising of 2014.
Vesting is dependent on safety and environmental sustainability judgements around qualitative measures.
Some shareholders believed that performance over that period.
The committee reviewed this in consultation the overall remuneration of the executive directors was excessive.
Based on strong and consistent improvement and no significant incidents, the deferred and matching shares vested in full.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Performance shares Policy issues The 2012-2014 performance share plan was, as in the previous year, based In 2014, the UK Corporate Governance Code was revised.
The Code on three sets of measures equally weighted: relative total shareholder introduced, on a comply or explain basis, a requirement to introduce return TSR, operating cash ow and nally strategic imperatives, which malus and clawback provisions into all performance related elements of include relative reserves replacement ratio RRR, safety and operational directors remuneration.
The committee has reviewed the terms of the risk and rebuilding trust.
The committee made its assessment of executive directors remuneration and confirmed that malus and clawback performance over the three-year period against the agreed targets and its provisions exist in all terms save the cash element of the annual bonus.
It view of the achievements over that time.
There were no shares awarded will propose an appropriate provision on the next occasion that it renews for TSR as the minimum threshold was not reached.
As I have mentioned the remuneration policy.
The committee also undertook a detailed above, there was strong performance against the safety measures and the examination of its tasks.
The changes that have been made are set out in committee exercised its judgement based on qualitative data in respect of more detail later in this report.
the need to rebuild trust.
As for 2013, the assessment was preliminary as Conclusion the final results from the comparator group for RRR were not available.
On Whilst BP has performed well in recent years and momentum has been the basis of information available, second place was recorded.
Based on building, there are clearly more challenging times ahead.
We have set out this preliminary assessment, 60.5% of the shares are expected to vest.
our approach in this changing world.
It is likely that, within our policy, we The committee believes that this represents a fair outcome for a will need to exercise judgement and discretion based on solid data.
Should continually improving performance over the period.
Again, there is we be required to do so, it will be done within our policy and with retrospective disclosure of many of the targets used for the 2012-2014 subsequent disclosure so that our shareholders are clear on the decisions performance share plan in this report.
2015 and the future Finally, I will be standing down as the chair of the committee in June and I During 2014, BP set out a clear proposition to shareholders aimed at will be succeeded by Professor Dame Ann Dowling.
Ann has sat on the delivering value rather than volume through active portfolio management, committee after joining the board in 2012 and I look forward to introducing growing sustainable free cash ow through capital discipline and growing her to our shareholders.
I would like to thank our shareholders for the distributions for shareholders.
The companys key performance indicators support, and the challenge, over the past four years.
KPIs are designed to measure performance against this proposition.
The committee is determined that the remuneration of the directors remains Antony Burgmans clearly linked to the companys strategy.
There has been a refocus of some Chairman of the remuneration committee of the measures for the 2015 annual bonus to reect this and the current 3 March 2015 short-term imperatives facing BP.
The graphic below sets out BPs strategic priorities and links them to the measures used for short and long term remuneration with further detail in this report.
Previously, the committee reviewed the executive directors salaries in May each year.
In future, it will do so in January for implementation in April, at the same time as the rest of the organization.
Given the general company pay freeze, no salary increases were awarded to directors for 2015.
Strategic priorities Focus on Grow our high-value Safe, reliable and exploration upstream Advanced compliant operations position assets technology Clear priorities Quality portfolio Distinctive capabilities Proven Strong Competitive Disciplined Build high-quality expertise relationships project financial downstream businesses execution choices 2015 bonus and equity plans supporting BPs strategic priorities Short-term: annual bonus Long-term: performance share plan Safety and operational risk Safety and operational risk Operating cash ow Operating cash ow Underlying replacement Net investment organic Total shareholder return cost profit Major projects delivery Corporate and functional costs Major projects delivery Reserves replacement Creating long-term shareholder value Group key performance indicator.
Safety and operational risk KPIs include loss of primary containment, tier 1 process safety events and recordable injury frequency.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 73
