Governance overview The nomination committee has continued to assess the mix of the skills and experience on the board, in particular for the future, and in line with our aspiration for diversity.
Your board has a diverse membership and we continue to work to increase its diversity.
As I have previously commented, while candidates can be identied, it is often the case that the timing of appointments is dependent on those candidates becoming free from current commitments.
You should expect us to make progress in the current year.
Finally, we have again this year, considered whether all our narrative reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
We have applied the process adopted last year and concluded that this report meets that test.
I believe that the system of governance used by the board has assisted it to meet the challenges of past years and will do so in the future.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman I believe that the system of governance used by the board has assisted it to meet the challenges of past years and will do so in the future.
Board diversity BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at the board and all levels of the group.
BP is committed to increasing diversity Introduction from the chairman across its operations and has in place a wide range of activities to support 2014 was another active year for the board as we continued to work with the development and promotion of talented individuals, regardless of gender and ethnic background.
Bob Dudley and his team in reshaping the way that BP operates.
The board operates a policy which aims to promote diversity in its Once again, I have been impressed by the time and commitment given by composition.
Under this policy, director appointments are evaluated against my board colleagues.
We have built on the progress made in 2013 in the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board, with developing how the board works in supporting and challenging executive directors asked to be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy management.
We have had the benefit of being a settled group for several considerations when examining nominations to the board.
years now and I believe that this allows us to spend our time wisely.
Later in this report there is a breakdown of our activities.
I would, however, like Implementation of this policy is monitored through agreed metrics.
During to highlight several areas.
its annual evaluation, the board considered diversity as part of the review of The 10-point plan set the direction of travel for the group through to 2014. its performance and effectiveness.
We worked through the year with executive management to determine our The board is supportive of the recommendations contained in Lord Davies strategic direction for 2015 and beyond.
To do this, we regularly reected report Women on Boards for female board representation and has an on the impact of economics and geopolitics both in the world and the aspiration to increase this to 25% by the end of 2015.
At the end of 2014 markets in which we operate.
there were two female directors on the board.
The nomination committee is actively considering diverse candidates as part of its wider search for This has particularly been the case as the oil price fell during the last board candidates and it is anticipated that an appointment is likely to be quarter of the year and action was needed to reset the business to a made in 2015. lower-price environment.
During the year, we reviewed and enhanced the regular information which comes to the board.
This is in response to feedback from directors which came from our 2013 board evaluation.
Board diversity as at 31 December 2014 We also considered, in some depth, the manner in which the remuneration committee operates.
We have adopted a revised set of tasks for the Gender 1 committee which reect the need to balance development and 1.
Female directors 14% implementation of the remuneration policy for the directors while 2 2.
Male directo 86% rs overseeing the approach to reward for executives below the board.
BP, with input from board members, has revised its code of conduct with the aim of simplifying and clarifying its requirements without weakening their effect.
As a board, we are committed to BPs values and the code, and have received training on its application.
In 2014 the UK Corporate Governance Code was revised.
We have taken this into account at the board and in the committees whose work it Geographic background 1 4 impacts.
There is particular focus on how risk is governed and managed.
UK 36% As a result there is much for us to consider here and we will be reviewing 3 2.
US 43% our systems ahead of its implementation in 2015.
Rest of world 7% 2 58 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Board and committee attendance in 2014 Remuneration Gulf of Mexico Nomination Chairmans Board Audit committee SEEAC committee committee committee committee A B A B A B AB AB AB AB Non-executive directors c c Carl-Henric Svanberg 10 10 6 65 5 1 c Paul Anderson 10 10 7711106655 Alan Boeckmann 4 42 25 52 2 Frank Bowman 10 10 7 7 11 11 5 5 2 c Antony Burgmans 10 7 7 7 556654 3 Cynthia Carroll 10 9 7 7 6 6 5 5 4 George David 10 10 13 12 5 5 11 11 5 5 c Ian Davis 10 10 5 5 11 11 6 6 5 5 Ann Dowling 10 10 7 7 5 5 5 5 c Brendan Nelson 10 10 13 13 6 6 5 5 5 Phuthuma Nhleko 10 10 13 12 55 6 Andrew Shilston 10 9 13 12 55 Executive directors Bob Dudley 10 9 Iain Conn 9 9 Brian Gilvary 10 10 A Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
B Total number of meetings the director did attend.
Includes a joint audit committee-SEEAC meeting to review BPs system of internal control and risk management.
1 Paul Anderson attended all scheduled Gulf of Mexico committee meetings in 2014: however he was unable to attend the meeting on 15 September that was called at short notice due to long-standing travel arrangements.
2 Antony Burgmans was unable to attend the board teleconference scheduled at short notice on 5 September due to a prior commitment.
He was unable to attend the telephone board meeting on 27 October 2014 for health reasons and the board and chairmans committee meeting on 4 December 2014 due to a conict with other board meetings on the same day.
3 Cynthia Carroll was unable to attend the telephone board meeting on 27 October 2014 due to a conicting board meeting.
4 George David was unable to attend the telephone audit committee meeting on 26 February 2014 due to a clash with travel arrangements.
5 Phuthuma Nhleko was unable to attend the telephone audit committee on 24 April due to a clash with the AGM of another company.
6 Andrew Shilston attended all scheduled board and audit committee meetings in 2014: however he was unable to attend the board and audit teleconferences scheduled at short notice on 5 September 2014 due to a prior overseas commitment.
Key roles and responsibilities How the board works The chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg Board governance in BP The board operates within a system of governance that is set out in the BP t Provides leadership of the board.
These principles define the role of the board, Acts as main point of contact between the board and management.
its processes and its relationship with executive management.
t Speaks on board matters to shareholders and other parties.
t This system is reected in the governance of the groups subsidiaries.
Ensures that systems are in place to provide directors with accurate, See bp.
com governance for the board governance principles.
timely and clear information to enable the board to operate effectively.
t Is responsible for the integrity and effectiveness of the BP boards Role of the board system of governance.
The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business and the directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs articles The group chief executive of association.
Bob Dudley t Is responsible for day-to-day management of the group.
The primary tasks of the board include: t Chairs the executive team ET, the membership of which is set out Active consideration and direction of long-term strategy and on pages 56-57. approval of the annual plan.
Monitoring of BPs performance against the strategy and plan.
The senior independent director Andrew Shilston Obtaining assurance that the principal risks and uncertainties to t Is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be BP are identied and that systems of risk management and addressed through normal channels.
control are in place to mitigate such risk.
Board and executive management succession.
During 2014 Antony Burgmans, BPs longest serving non-executive director, has acted as an internal sounding board for the chairman and The board seeks to set the tone from the top for BP by working with served as an intermediary for the other directors with the chairman when management to agree the company values and considering specic issues necessary.
He has also led the chairmans evaluation.
From the 2015 AGM, including health, safety, the environment and reputation.
Andrew Shilston will assume these tasks as part of his role as senior independent director.
Board composition On 1 January 2015 the board had 14 directors the chairman, two Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director is employed as executive directors and 11 independent, non-executive directors NEDs.
an executive of the group.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 59 Appointment and time commitment Board activity The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment: there is no term limit The boards activities are structured to enable the directors to full their on a directors service as BP proposes all directors for annual re-election by role, in particular with respect to strategy, monitoring, assurance and shareholders a practice followed since 2004. succession.
At every meeting, the board receives reports from the chair of each committee that has met since the last meeting.
The main areas of While the chairmans appointment letter sets out the time commitment focus by the board during 2014 are shown below.
expected of him, letters of appointment for NEDs do not set a xed time Board activities commitment.
It is anticipated that the time required of directors may uctuate depending on demands of BP business and other events.
"It is t BP Energy Outlook 2035. t 'VFMT WBMVF DIBJO expected that directors will allocate sufficient time to BP to perform their t PJOU NFFUJOH XJUI ""# t 0SHBOJ[BUJPOBM DBQBCJMJUZ Strategy duties effectively and that they will make themselves available for all on geopolitical issues."
t &DPOPNJD BOE regular and ad-hoc meetings.
tPOH UFSN UFDIOPMPHZ competitor outlook.
Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board view.
appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
Fees received for t $IJFG FYFDVUJWF T SFQPSU t 3FMBUJPOTIJQT XJUI an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are t 6QTUSFBN QSPKFDUT SFWJFX strategic contractors.
reported in the annual report on remuneration see page 72.
Performance t &GGFDUJWFOFTT PG t 3FWJFX PG BDUJWJUJFT Independence and conicts of interest investment review.
in Azerbaijan, Caspian NEDs are expected to be independent in character and judgement and free t 3PTOFGU and Turkey.
from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere t SPVQ SJTL QSPDFTT t EFOUJmDBUJPO BOE with the exercise of that judgement.
It is the view of the board that all t Geopolitical risk.
allocation of risks to the non-executive directors, with the exception of the chairman, are Risk t %FMJWFSZ PG UIF QPJOU board and committees independent.
See page 239 for a description of BPs board governance plan.
for 2015. principles relating to director independence.
Antony Burgmans joined the board in February 2004 and by the 2015 AGM t SPVQ mOBODJBM PVUMPPL t QMBO will have served 11 years as a director.
In 2012, the board asked him to t 2VBSUFSMZ BOE GVMM-year t 4IBSFIPMEFS EJTUSJCVUJPOT Finance and remain as a director until the 2016 AGM.
The board continues to consider results.
planning that his experience as the longest serving board member provides valuable t Annual Report and Form insight, knowledge and continuity, that he continues to meet its criteria for 20-F 2013 and 2014. independence and will keep this under review.
t &NQMPZFF GFFECBDL t OWFTUPS BVEJU The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence of, survey.
t 0UIFS JOWFTUPS GFFECBDL and nothing to give rise to conicts of interest for, those directors who Reputation t #1 CSBOE BOE HMPCBM serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who hold reputation.
"The nomination committee keeps the other interests of the NEDs under review to ensure that the effectiveness of the t #PBSE FWBMVBUJPO t 7JTJUT UP ""[FSCBJKBO BOE board is not compromised."
Board t $PEF PG DPOEVDU BOE the Whiting renery.
GFFECBDL Alan Boeckmann joined the board in July 2014 as a non-executive director.
He is a member of the Gulf of Mexico and the safety, ethics and environment assurance committees and attends the remuneration Risk and assurance committee.
During the year the board, either directly or through its committees, Iain Conn, chief executive of BPs Downstream segment, retired from the regularly reviewed the processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated board on 31 December 2014. and managed.
The effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and risk management was also assessed see Internal Control Revised At BPs AGM in 2015, George David will retire from the board following Guidance for Directors Turnbull on page 63. seven years service as a non-executive director.
The annual plan, group risk reviews and strategy are central to BPs risk Professor Dame Ann Dowling will take the chair of the remuneration management programme.
They provide a framework by which the board committee when Antony Burgmans stands down in 2015. can consider principal risks, manage the groups overall risk exposure and Andrew Shilston and Alan Boeckmann will join the remuneration underpin the delegation and assurance model for the board in its oversight committee after the 2015 annual general meeting.
of executive management and other activities.
The board and its committees principally the audit, SEEAC and Gulf of Mexico committees monitored the group risks which were allocated following the boards review of the annual plan at the end of 2013.
Those group risks reviewed by the board during 2014 included risks associated with the delivery of BPs 10-point plan and geopolitical risk associated with BPs operations around the world.
The board considered at the half year whether any changes were required to the allocation of group risks and confirmed the schedule for oversight of these risks.
The boards monitoring committees the audit, SEEAC and Gulf of Mexico committees were also allocated a number of group risks for review over the year.
These are outlined in the reports of the committees on pages 64-71.
For 2015, the group risks allocated for review by the board include geopolitical risk and the delivery of major projects, particularly in the Upstream.
Further information on BPs system of risk management is outlined in Our management of risk on page 46.
60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
