Corporate governance The committee considered the feedback from its own evaluation.
There Nomination and chairmans committees were several actions including a greater focus on executive succession and the interaction between the chairmans and nomination committee in this respect.
The committee also wishes to make agenda time to consider broader issues such as succession and diversity.
Future searches for non-executive directors should generally focus on industry expertise and also consider the split between former chief executive ofcers and directors with others skills on the board.
Chairmans committee Role of the committee To provide a forum for matters to be discussed among the non-executive directors.
Key responsibilities t Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief executive.
t Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
t Review the systems for senior executive development and determine Chairmans introduction the succession plan for the group chief executive, the executive I am pleased to report on the two board committees that I chair.
Both have directors and other senior members of executive management.
been active during the year in seeking to develop the membership of the t Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered board and its governance.
by all of the non-executive directors.
t Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees Nomination committee comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Role of the committee Members The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for directors The committee comprises all the non-executive directors who join and the company secretary.
the committee at the date of their appointment to the board.
The chief executive attends the committee when requested.
Key responsibilities t Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or Activities during the year reappointment as directors.
The committee met five times in the year to: t Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as t Assess the effect of sanctions on Russia on BPs relationship company secretary.
Keep under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the t Monitor the progress of the Gulf of Mexico litigation.
board to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
t t Determine the framework for board evaluation in 2015. Review the outside directorship commitments of the non-executive t Review the background to the 2015 plan in light of the decline directors.
Members t Consider the chief executives plans for the succession and organization Name Membership status of the executive team.
t Evaluate the performance of the chairman and chief executive.
Carl-Henric Svanberg chair Member since September 2009: committee chair since January 2010 Paul Anderson Member since April 2012 Antony Burgmans Member since May 2011 Cynthia Carroll Member since May 2011 Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Brendan Nelson Member since April 2012 Andrew Shilston, as the senior independent director, attends all meetings of the committee.
Activities during the year The committee met six times during the year.
It continued to reect on the rhythm of the meetings.
As in 2013, the committee held one longer meeting during the year and reviewed board composition and skills in light of BPs strategy.
In 2014 the committee considered the sequencing of board retirements over the coming years and potential board candidates.
It is pursuing several promising individuals and appointments are likely to be made in 2015.
As part of this, letters of appointment for all non-executive directors were reviewed and amended.
The committee considered the chairmanship and membership of each committee.
As a result it was agreed that Dame Professor Ann Dowling would take the chair of the remuneration committee when Antony Burgmans steps down from that role in 2015, and that Andrew Shilston and Alan Boeckmann will join the remuneration committee after the 2015 annual general meeting.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 71
