STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance overview from the Chairman Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance, as befits a FTSE 100 company entrusted with looking after the investments of its valued clients.
This section of the Report and Financial Statements provides an insight into the governance of the Company.
Michael Evans Chairman The Group complies with the vast majority of the UK Corporate the diversity required for an effective Board, including diversity of skills, Governance Code the Code.
The statement of compliance can be experience, background and gender.
Details of our diversity policy can found on page 32.
The Audit Committee report has also been updated be found on page 28, and a copy of our full statement on Board Diversity this year to incorporate the revisions to the Code.
Key areas of note can be found on www.
are the disclosures surrounding the support that that Committee has provided to the Board in making the statement that the Report and This year has seen the introduction of new remuneration rules, in regard Financial Statements when taken as a whole are fair, balanced and to both the process for setting and agreeing Directors remuneration understandable, and the further disclosures on the Audit Committees policy and how this is reported.
This represents the biggest change role in the appointment and interaction with the external auditor.
in this field for some time.
The new Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 55 addresses this new legislation and will assist with providing shareholders with a clearer picture on the processes that are used to STRATEGY determine how Directors are remunerated, and how these processes link with strategic goals.
The new report has three key sections: As a Board, we set strategic direction, define risk appetite and provide oversight of the day-to-day running of the business.
As Chairman, I seek The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration to ensure that adequate time is set aside at Board meetings for the Committee: This provides an overview of the work of the discussion and debate of proposed strategic initiatives and direction.
Remuneration Committee during the year.
Once a decision is reached, management are responsible for executing Directors Remuneration Policy: This articulates the policy that, that decision with the Boards ongoing oversight and support.
This subject to shareholder approval, will be effective from the AGM and will govern the way we set and manage Directors remuneration.
process underpinned our decisions around the operational and pricing Annual Report on Remuneration: This report shows the level of changes arising from the implementation of the requirements of the remuneration paid to the Directors in the financial year.
FCAs Retail Distribution Review during the year.
The new rules have introduced a new concept of a single figure of In this 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the new Strategic remuneration for each Director, and now provides more analysis over Report replaces the old Strategic Review and Performance Review the pay of the Chief Executive, including comparison to other financial section of the 2013 Report and Financial Statements and has been metrics, coupled with a 5-year history of his pay.
used to articulate a number of key aspects of our business, such as our strategic aims, our business model, a business and financial review of the year, our approach to risk management and an insight into Hargreaves WORKING EFFECTIVELY Lansdowns approach towards corporate and social responsibility.
As Chairman my prime responsibility is to ensure that the Board is operating effectively and focusing its time, attention and efforts on PEOPLE AND REMUNERATION the right things.
Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own effectiveness.
The 2014 Board Effectiveness Review Within the Group we want to ensure that we have the right talent, and was completed in August 2014, and the Board has agreed a set of the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, background, gender priorities against which we will report progress in next years Corporate and perspectives.
This year we have set out on page 28 improved Governance Report.
reporting on this to give better insight into Our People such as training, development and diversity.
It is also vital that we have on the Board this Michael Evans Chairman right diversity, and also independence of thought and action.
All Board 16 September 2014 appointments are made on merit, while at the same time considering Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 29
