Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Directors Report Chairmans introduction Risk management forms an important I have had useful engagement with part of the Board agenda as well as the shareholders over the course of the year.
agendas for our Audit Committee and CSR Meetings with shareholders took place in the Committee.
Your Board has confidence that period before our last AGM and also more the Groups processes strike a good balance recently when I accompanied the Chairman between encouraging entrepreneurship of the Remuneration Committee on his in management and safeguarding the consultation with shareholders in connection Richard Burrows Companys assets and its shareholders with the remuneration policy.
Risk appetite for the Group I value these meetings which are, of course, will continue to be addressed by the Audit only a small part of our annual investor Committee and the Board and our required Dear Shareholder relations programme.
It is important to us as viability statement willalso beformally In 2014, the Group continued to perform a Board that we are fully aware of the views addressed by them in the year ahead.
well and to follow the strategy set out in the of our shareholders on the business and previous year.
Reported results bear the effects As usual, the key Group risk factors are on governance issues and can reflect these of currency values changing as the pound reported upon in detail in our Strategic Report in our decision making.
As reported in the sterling strengthened substantially against the on pages 3036, and the Audit Committee Remuneration Report, such feedback from currencies of many of our important markets.
reports in this Governance section, on page investors in relation to our remuneration 59, on thesignificant issues it considered in proposals has now resulted in these This movement in currency values was relation to the Annual Report.
the reason we decided to review our long-term remuneration policy, a task We carried out our Board effectiveness Finally, at the end of this section, your the Remuneration Committee undertook reviewas an internal exercise this year.
Directors state their belief that this in theautumn.
Details of this and our This self-assessment found that the Board AnnualReport presents a fair, balanced and discussions with shareholders are set out fully is continuing to function well and that its understandable assessment of the Company intheRemuneration Report.
members, individually and collectively, are and its prospects.
In making this statement effective in discharging their duties and wereconsidered and confirmed our Following on from our Board effectiveness responsibilities.
Detailed comments on this confidence in the long-established processes reviews, and the identification of ways of review are set out in this section of the Annual that underpin its production.
The Audit strengthening our Board, the Nominations Report, on pages 56 and 57, withcomment Committee also fulfils a role in considering Committee engaged in the identification on further action points.
itsaccuracy, key messages and tone.
and recruitment of three new Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board on2 February Board policy is to reflect the diversity of Richard Burrows 2015.
These three newcomers, Sue Farr, thegeographic and consumer profile Chairman Pedro Malan and Dimitri Panayotopoulos, of ourbusiness at the Board.
Full details add significant consumer goods marketing ofthisarealso set out in this section on experience, and business and geopolitical page 54. skillsto our Board, as well as strengthening the Boards diverse composition.
An important function of the Board is Compliance statement to approve major policy.
This year we Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of this document, we approved changes to our Standards of applied the Main Principles ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code adopted in June 2012 Business Conduct Policy by introducing new the Code.
The Company was compliant with all provisions except C. 3.7, as the Group provisions in relation to human rights and had not, during 2014, submitted its audit to a tender process within the last 10 years.
mutual respect in the workplace.
Employment Principles already contained these provisions but they are now given An updated version of the Code was issued in September 2014, which will apply to greater weight by being included in our accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
With regard to the changes global policy.
They underline the principles relevant to risk management and internal control, the Audit Committees workplan for ofworkplace human rights which are equality, 2015 will include reviewing its objectives against the revised Code.
The Remuneration diversity and mutual respect, and supply Committee will also focus on its future obligations under the revised Code during 2015. chain human rights, particularly with regard The Board considers that this Annual Report, and notably this section, provides the totheelimination of child labour.
information shareholders need to evaluate how we have complied with our current obligations under the Code.
For ease of reference, we prepare a separate annual compliance report by reference toeach provision of the Code.
This report is available at www.
We comply with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue of the information included in this section, together with theinformation contained in the Other Corporate Disclosures section.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
