CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Scheduled meetings Scheduled eligible to meetings attend attended Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Stephen Hill 2 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors Jim Newman 2 2 Stephen Hill, Chairman of the Board Risk Sam Tymms 2 2 Committee, gives his review of the committees Roger Yates 2 2 activities during the financial year.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW BOARD RISK COMMITTEE - MEMBERSHIP Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the The committee reviewed updates to the ICAAP and the AND ATTENDANCE alignment of the remuneration policy to risk performance ILAA, as well as updates to the RAS and associated KRIs.
During the year, we formed the Board Risk Committee Review the scope and nature of the work undertaken by to provide the Board with further opportunity to review All Board Risk Committee members are independent The committee received the annual report from the the control functions in connection with business model and challenge the Groups risk management framework in Non-Executive Directors who can draw on recent and Client Money Committee, and also reviewed the risks and and industry risks, and specifically regulatory, compliance, relation to the current and potential risk exposures.
processes around client money in relation to potential new client money,  and conduct risks is becoming increasingly important for IG as we continue business and product developments.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, to expand globally and extend our product range, while Review and approve the statements to be included in the Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Legal and Compliance, The following chart highlights how the committee spent its regulators around the world are engaged in strengthening Annual Report concerning controls and risk management Head of Internal Audit and Deputy Company Secretary time during the year ended 31 May 2014. their regimes.
Review and monitor risk-related control recommendations attend the Board Risk Committee by invitation appropriate to ensure they are being actioned appropriately The formation of the Board Risk Committee is an to the matters under consideration.
Other Directors, BOARD RISK COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME important step in the enhancement of our Risk Governance representatives from the finance function and other areas of The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each Framework as we continually strive to improve our the business attend the Board Risk Committee as necessary.
committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of Reporting, risks and controls management of risk, though our underlying approach reference is covered at least once in the financial year, and The committee is scheduled to meet three times a year and remains unchanged.
The challenge and review of our risk more frequently if required.
Governance additionally as and when required.
management processes, which were previously carried out ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ICAAP and ILAA either directly by the Board or under the auspices of the ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE The committee met twice during the year.
During these Audit Committee, now vest in the Board Risk Committee as Compliance and initial committee meetings the focus was on ensuring it has a dedicated forum for risk matters.
The committees responsibilities are to: conduct risk the correct governance structure in place to discharge As Chairman, it is my responsibility to report to the Board Consider and recommend for approval by the Board, the its responsibilities.
Operational risk on matters discussed by the committee and to refer Risk Appetite Statement RAS and Key Risk Indicators The committee also provided input to the Remuneration recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration KRIs for the current and future strategy Committee on the risks associated with our remuneration Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital policy, paying particular attention to the design and Risk appetite Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal monitoring of sales-incentive schemes.
This includes In addition, the committee discussed the Groups stress-testing, the liquidity and regulatory capital operational risk framework and risk appetite.
The Group has positions of the Group, the size of the liquidity and invested in operational risk over the year to develop and capital buffers, and the appropriateness of management clearly document the control environment across the Group.
mitigation actions The committee reviewed and challenged the proposal to Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of introduce a capital model to further strengthen operational the Groups business and receive reports that explain the risk capital component calculations.
Stephen Hill impact of identified risks and threats Chairman, Board Risk Committee Updates were received from Compliance regarding their Ensure a sufficient level of risk mitigation is in place 22 July 2014 monitoring programme as well as current regulatory themes Review the Groups major risk exposures and thematic reviews, including how the department has Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the been working across the business to embed conduct risk technology infrastructure and supporting documentation both in the Groups day-to-day activities and its strategic in the Risk Management Framework objectives.
The internal audit function also provided updates on the risks highlighted in its reports.
94 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 95 Corporate Governance Report | Board Risk Committee
