Governance 83 Reports of the Board committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report Warren East joined the committee on 1 May 2014.
What we have done We met six times during the year and in addition we held a joint meeting with the Nominating & Governance Committee.
You can read about what we discussed at this joint meeting in the Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on page 88.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time, including at the joint meeting.
We set time aside at each meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Nick Rose Allocation of Time 13% 28% Internal audit matters Financial matters This year the Audit 5isk Committee paid 15% External audit matters special attention to several overseas locations that are important to BT Global Services, including Italy and Brazil, to data security and to the increasing cyber security threat.
We have received detailed presentations 20% 24% from key personnel in each of these areas and Governance Risk and controls reviewed managementos mitigation plans.
The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing items that the committee considers regularly in addition to any specic Who we are matters that require the committees attention and topical items on I chair the Audit & Risk Committee.
Our membership and meeting which we have chosen to focus.
For example, in 2013 14 we asked attendance during the year are set out below.
The diverse backgrounds of management to provide us with greater analysis of our operations in the committee members and their combined skills and experience enable Latin America and reports on major contracts in BT Global Services, us to full the committees remit, as set out in its terms of reference.
customer data handling, data security and current trends on security We regularly meet with external experts frequently the big four risks facing BT.
We also requested a brieng in relation to the regulatory accounting rms to keep ourselves fully aware of market best practices.
financial statements, including areas of key judgement or estimate.
Although not members of the committee, the Company Secretary, Group Some of the more significant matters we discussed during the year are Finance Director, Deputy Finance Director, Director Group Financial set out below.
Control and Director Internal Audit attend each meeting as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external auditors.
I meet with Financial reporting this group ahead of the meetings to review key areas for discussion with We the committee.
The external auditors are not present when we discuss r reviewed the Annual Report & Form 20-F, together with annual, their performance and or remuneration.
half-year and quarterly results announcements for recommendation We are keen to interact with senior managers below executive level to the Board and representatives from finance and internal audit attend meetings at r considered the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies and our invitation.
critical accounting estimates and judgements and r considered the Annual Report in the context of advising the Board that The Board has agreed that I have recent and relevant financial experience the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view as required by the provisions of the Code and that I constitute an naudit of the business and its performance.
The processes and controls that committee financial expert for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
underpin our consideration include appropriate senior managers across After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we the business providing the content, having been fully briefed on the discussed.
nfair, balanced and understandable requirement a dedicated core team of senior managers responsible for overall co-ordination, consistency, Committee members and detailed review and challenge of content submissions verication Meetings of all facts, tested by the internal auditors conrmation from the line a of business CEOs, CFOs and key functional heads that they consider the Member Eligible to{attend Attended content in respect of their area of responsibility to be fair, balanced and Nick Rose chairman 7 7 understandable and the Disclosure Committees review and assessment of the Annual Report as a whole.
We also received an early draft of the b Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 76 report to enable timely review and comment, and all of this allowed us Karen Richardson 7 7 to provide positive assurance to the Board.
Jasmine Whitbread 7 7 The significant issues we considered in relation to the financial a statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 are set out below.
Includes a joint meeting with the Nominating Governance Committee in March 2014. b Patricia ewitt retired from the committee on 23 March 2014.
We have discussed these with the external auditors during the year Governance 84 Governance as well as their areas of particular audit focus as described in the revisions to presentation of other operating income and the trading Independent Auditors Report on pages 118 to 120. results of the lines of business see note 1 to the financial statements.
We also reviewed the restatements required under IAS 19 nEmployee Group accounting policies, critical accounting estimates Benets Revised 2011 prior to the publication of these in June 2013, and judgements and considered the groups bad debt provisioning policy, focusing on We reviewed the accounting policies, including a paper from particular areas where management had undertaken detailed reviews.
management and the disclosures in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements that relate to critical accounting estimates and judgements, External audit and re-confirmed they remained appropriate for the group.
This included We a review of the accounting policies in respect of revenue and programme rights recognition for BT Sport.
We also considered the basis on which r considered and approved the auditors group audit plan this the recoverability of the groups investment in BT Sport is assessed.
followed discussion with the auditors on the scope of the work to be undertaken as well as their consideration of risk informing their plan Going concern r requested that the audits of smaller operations in Bra]il and Singapore We considered managements forecasts of group cash ows and net and Plusnet plc a UK subsidiary be accelerated to the groups yeardebt as well as the nancing facilities available to the group.
Following end reporting timetable this review and a discussion of the sensitivities, we confirmed that r reviewed reports on internal and external audit findings it continues to be appropriate to follow the going concern basis of r considered the independence of the auditors and their eectiveness accounting in the financial statements.
taking account of responses from a questionnaire targeted at specic stakeholders as well as our own assessment we concluded they were Goodwill impairment independent and recommended they be re-appointed by the Board and We reviewed managements process and methodology for assessing the r considered and approved the letter of representation issued to the carrying value of goodwill.
This included consideration of the impact of external auditors.
the segmental reporting changes following the simplication of internal trading and the split of BT Retail into BT Business and BT Consumer see The committee and the external auditors have discussed the issues note 1 to the financial statements.
We also considered the resulting addressed by the committee during the year and the areas of particular revisions to cash generating units CGUs and cash ow forecasts for audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on BT Global Services, BT Business and BT Consumer.
We considered the pages{118 to 120. key assumptions, resulting headroom and the sensitivities applied by management in forming its assessment that no goodwill impairment We discussed these areas of focus with them when they presented their charges were required.
We agreed with managements assessment that audit plan and again at the time of their review of the half-year results there was no impairment of goodwill this year.
We also discussed and and at the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements for the agreed with managements disclosures in respect of the headroom in BT year.
As they concluded their audit, they explained Global Services in note 12 to the financial statements.
r the work they had done to test managements assumptions and BT Pension Scheme BTPS estimates, in particular in relation to the identied areas of audit focus We reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the pension set out above liabilities in the financial statements and considered the financial r they had reviewed the appropriateness and application of the groups assumptions including the discount rate, future ination, salary accounting policies and increase expectations and pension increases as summarised in note 19 r the results of their testing of the controls and other procedures carried to the financial statements.
We also considered sensitivities around out in the relevant overseas locations and any other issues they had the assumptions and reviewed the accounting impacts, as well as the found there.
impact of the assumptions on the 2013 14 and 2014 15 income Management reported to the committee that it was not aware of any statements and the related disclosures.
We were satisfied that these material misstatement and the auditors also reported the misstatements were appropriate.
they had found in the course of their work.
The committee confirmed Revenue, including major contracts that these unadjusted misstatements were not material to the financial In addition to our review of the appropriateness of accounting policies, statements.
management provided regular updates on the performance of major Auditor eectiveness contracts within BT Global Services.
This included an overview of the We discussed the quality of the audit throughout the year and consider trading and operational performance of the contracts, the assessment the performance of our external auditors, , of the recoverability of dedicated contract assets, the assessment of annually, taking into account feedback from a survey targeted at various the future performance of the contracts and any requirement for loss stakeholders across the business and the committees own assessment.
We agreed with managements assessment that no additional The evaluation focuses on audit scope and planning performance provision for loss or impairment of assets was required this year.
of the lead audit partner and the audit team audit reporting and Asset verication and asset lives communications added value and the audit fee.
The external auditors We considered the results of managements annual review of asset lives, performance was rated as meeting or exceeding expectations and, verication of assets and fully depreciated assets.
We considered the overall, the relationship between management and the external auditors judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the methodology applied is viewed as constructive with robust challenge by the auditors on areas to consider asset verication.
We were satisfied that the proposed which require management judgement.
The committee did feel that we adjustments were appropriate.
would benefit from more detailed industry and benchmarking insight and we asked the external auditors to provide us with these.
Other matters Each quarter, as part of our review of the quarterly results, we are Audit tender provided with a summary of specic items and managements view of  and its predecessor rms have been BTs the quality of earnings and of the eective tax rate.
At the half-year auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984. and full-year, a detailed assessment of provisions is also provided and The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every discussed.
We considered whether specic items are appropriately five years and other partners that are responsible for the group and categorised.
In each quarter and for the full year, the committee was subsidiary audits must change at least every seven years.
Such changes satisfied with the information, analysis and explanations provided are carefully planned to ensure business continuity without undue risk or in relation to the results.
We reviewed managements paper on the ineciency.
The partner responsible for BTs audit is completing his fifth Governance 85 year within the group audit team and his second year as lead partner We reviewed promptly all reports from the internal auditors and ensured which is a role he can continue for a further two years.
that management took appropriate action on issues arising from such reports.
We monitored managements responsiveness to the findings and The comply-or-explain provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations of the internal auditors.
Examples included physical and has eectively been superseded by the UK Competition Commissions logical security, data segregation and financial controls in overseas entities.
final report and recent developments in Europe.
EU legislation requires We have discussed with management the actions required to bring these mandatory rotation of audit rms every ten years, extendable, if there matters to resolution and agreed that delivery plans are in place.
is a tender process, up to 20 years.
The transitional rules under the EU legislation will require an initial change of audit rm no later than for the We monitor the relationship between the internal and external auditors 31 March 2021 year-end audit.
and at the end of the year we received a report on the performance of internal audit.
The Competition Commission had previously proposed mandatory audit tenders at least every ten years with dierent transitional rules, but has Internal controls and risk management now announced a delay in its implementation programme to consider BT has in place an internal control environment to protect the business fully the implications of the EU rules on its proposals.
There is therefore from material risks which have been identied within the group.
uncertainty as to whether BT will be required to go to tender prior Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate to{2021. internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the eectiveness of these controls.
To enable us to do this, each Until this uncertainty is resolved, the committee will continue to quarter the lines of business certify compliance with the Turnbull guidance consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or and Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
The outcomes of these reviews are reported independence reasons.
to us and no significant weaknesses were identied in the annual review.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict our choice of BTs risk management processes which have been in place throughout statutory auditor.
the period under review identify and monitor the risks facing the group.
Independence and objectivity The risks which are considered material are reviewed regularly by the BT has agreed policies in place on what non-audit services can be Operating Committee and the Board.
provided by the external auditors and the relevant approval process.
The external auditors are not permitted to perform any work which they Enterprise-wide risk management may be later required to audit or which might aect their objectivity We give risk management special attention and during the year heard and independence or create a conict of interests.
There are internal from the Chief Executive on the enterprise-wide risk management procedures in place for the approval of work given to the external process and the key risks facing the group as a whole.
We heard from auditors, the key points of which are each line of business CEO on the key risks in their part of the business as well as the actions they are taking to address them.
r No work may be placed with the external auditors without the concurrence of the Group Finance Director or his delegate.
r Certain non-audit work cannot be given to the external auditors.
I reported last year that the committee had given particular focus to BTs Other work may be agreed if there are clear business benets of using operations in Italy.
We have continued to monitor the position there and the external auditors rather than an alternative supplier.
significant progress has been made to improve the control environment.
r Specic approval is required in advance from the committee or We also undertook a review of BTs operations in Latin America, where committee chairman for all audit and non-audit services unless it is improvements were identied.
A remediation plan is in place and it is included on the list of pre-approved services or is below 10,000. regularly reviewed by the committee.
We have also kept under review r Non-audit fees are reported quarterly to the committee.
the current trends of security risks facing BT and the progress made to manage these risks.
During the year, there were no non-audit fees which required the approval of the committee or the committee chairman.
We monitored compliance We also consider any whistleblowing reports including the condential, with the agreed policies and the level of non-audit fees paid to the anonymous submission by employees regarding accounting, internal auditors in order to satisfy ourselves that the types of services being accounting controls or auditing matters, ensuring arrangements are in provided and the fees incurred were appropriate.
You can see details of place for the proportionate, independent investigation and appropriate non-audit services carried out by the external auditors in note 7 to the follow-up of such matters.
We discussed the findings from the external consolidated financial statements.
In this context audit-related assurance review and benchmark of BTs condential hotline programme at the services are considered to pose a low threat to auditor independence and joint meeting with the Nominating & Governance Committee.
therefore the proportion of other non-audit services to total services is considered the most suitable measure of the non-audit services provided.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups systems of internal These represented 15% of the total fees 2012 13 17%.
Further details controls and risk management.
You can nd details of the Boards of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under the policy and our review of the groups systems of internal control and risk can be found in the corporate governance section of the BT website.
The committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and non-audit Governance fees are not material relative to the income of the external auditors as Our performance is reviewed annually by inviting members, a whole and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the key executives and the external auditors to complete questionnaires.
external auditors was not compromised.
The results show that the level of discussion and challenge led to a healthy debate at meetings and that the committee continues to Internal audit be eective in terms of behaviours and processes.
Enterprise risk In April 2013, we endorsed the internal audit plan of work.
management risk attitude continues to be an area of focus over the This integrates the assurance requirements for the internal financial next 12 months.
controls testing programme, the companys overseas footprint, and the groups risk assurance mapping.
It includes coverage of static and dynamic risks.
The audit plan for 2013 14 included 145 audit reviews Nick Rose in addition to the testing of 113 Sarbanes-Oxley processes.
Key areas of Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee focus across the plan included financial management and controls, 7 May 2014 next generation access, governance and compliance, customer service and major contracts for networked IT services.
