76 Governance Chairmans governance report I am delighted to welcome two new non-executive directors to the Board.
Warren East, previously chief executive of ARM Holdings, brings in-depth experience of the technology industry and joined the Board on 1 February.
We have also announced that Iain Conn of BP will join us on 1{June 2014, bringing a wealth of experience in international technology and energy markets.
I led the recruitment process in each case with the full involvement and support of the Nominating & Governance Committee as we explain in more detail on page{86.
I continue to review the membership of, and range of skills on, our Board and look to appoint outstanding candidates with a diverse mix of experience, as we recognise the importance of diversity in its widest sense in Board eectiveness.
In the year, we separated BT Retail into two new lines of business BT Business and BT Consumer.
This will allow us to better serve our SME Sir Michael Rake and consumer customers and to better deliver against our strategic Chairman priorities.
The Board made two appointments to the Operating Committee in September Graham Sutherland CEO, BT Business and John Petter CEO, BT Consumer.
Both have considerable experience in their respective businesses.
We continue to have a strong and dynamic Lastly, Joe Garner previously head of the UK bank at HSBC joined us in February as the new CEO, Openreach, as Liv{Gareld moved on Board with the right mix of skills and to become chief executive of Severn Trent.
Liv made a significant diversity to deliver and further develop contribution to BT and in particular to Openreach and I would like to thank her and wish her every success in her new role.
Joe has a proven our{strategy.
track record in customer service improvement and programme delivery and brings substantial commercial, operational and regulatory experience.
Every year the Board has a forward programme of key items to consider and also focuses on the strategic issues for the company.
This year This year we have seen a number of changes, both on the Board and in we had in-depth discussions on our network and systems, BTs brand, the executive team.
culture, customer service, BT TV and BT Sport and our mobility strategy.
You can read more about our activities on pages{80 to 82.
After five years as Chief Executive and 11 years at BT, Ian now Lord Livingston was honoured to be asked to take on a new role as Minister We continue to enhance our eectiveness as a Board and we set of State for Trade and Investment in the UK Government and to be out the progress we have made on a number of areas of improvement its spokesman in the House of Lords.
I would like to thank Ian for the on page{82.
We have gained greater insight into customer service, significant personal contribution he made both to the development including a visit to BTs Newcastle contact centre, and have reviewed and the execution of our strategy over his time as our Chief Executive.
The succession plans that we had in place enabled us to move We continue to take an active role in the debates surrounding the quickly and appoint Gavin Patterson as the new Chief Executive from changes in corporate reporting, including the changes in executive September.
Gavin was previously CEO, BT Retail and joined the Board in remuneration reporting and voting regimes and the introduction of June 2008.
Gavin has a detailed knowledge of all parts of our business the strategic report.
We also responded to a number of consultations and a track record of success.
He also has considerable previous including the Financial Reporting Councils integrated guidance experience in the communications sector with Telewest now Virgin on risk management, internal control and the going concern basis Media and in marketing with Procter & Gamble.
I would also like to thank The Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt, who retired I am confident that we have a strong team in place to continue the from the Board in March 2014, for the advice and service she gave successful delivery of our strategy and to make the most of the the company since joining in 2008 and in particular as our Senior opportunities and challenges ahead.
Nick Rose, former chief financial ocer of Diageo and a Board member since January 2011, is now our Senior Independent Director.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman 7 May 2014
