CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear shareholder, Following Jamie Dundas retirement from the Board on 1 September 2014 and my appointment as Chairman from that date, I am delighted to present the key highlights arising from the Boards work on corporate governance in 2014.
Introduction Effective corporate governance is fundamental to delivering the Groups strategic objectives within a well-controlled environment.
The Boards role is to set the strategy for the Group, appoint the right leadership, monitor business performance and oversee its risk management structure.
As Chairman, my role is to lead the Board, ensure it operates effectively and to set its agenda.
I encourage inclusive and open dialogue, looking to create a diverse environment where we can blend effective, independent non-executive oversight with our strong executive team.
I trust you will find the following pages helpful and insightful on how we have performed these roles.
Board changes The composition of the Board has undergone significant change this year, reflecting the benefits of thoughtful succession planning over a number of years at both executive and non-executive levels.
These included Maarten Slendebroeks appointment as Chief Executive Officer in March and my own appointment as Chairman, and Chairman of the Nominations Committee, following Jamie Dundas unplanned retirement in September.
As a result of this, Lorraine Trainer, who has been on the Board since 2010, replaced me as Senior Independent Director.
Michael Wilson left the Board in May, following the sale of TA Associates shareholding in Jupiter, which meant that it was no longer entitled to nominate a non-executive Director.
From that point, all our non-executives were independent, bringing Jupiter into line with that part of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Jonathon Bond joined us as a non-executive Director in July 2014, bringing with him significant financial and business experience, and Matteo Dante Perrucio will retire from the Board at our 2015 Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my gratitude to Jamie, Michael and Matteo, who all played crucial roles during their times on the Board in our evolution from a private equity portfolio investment to a well governed, successful plc.
Our Committees Our Committees play an integral role in supporting us manage our agenda, as discussed throughout the governance section.
We therefore undertook an independent, external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness during the year to test our performance.
Further details of the above changes, the Board evaluation and the projects we are initiating this year arising from its findings can be found in the Nomination Committee report.
Our Audit Committee has also had a busy year, including overseeing an audit tender process.
My elevation to Chairman of the Company meant temporary Compliance Statement non-compliance with the Code whilst we sought a successor to my position as The Company fully supports the principles Chair of the Committee.
I am pleased to say that this is progressing well and, in of corporate governance as set out in early 2015, we announced the appointment of Polly Williams as a non-executive the UK Corporate Governance Code the director.
She will join in March and chair the Audit Committee, meaning that we will Code issued by the Financial Reporting again be fully compliant with all aspects of the Code.
The FRC published a revised version of the Code in September 2014 Finally, Jupiters success as a listed company depends on us ensuring our and we are taking steps to comply with the remuneration structure is aligned with shareholders but can attract and motivate new Code requirements that will apply in the most talented individuals on whom we depend for success.
Further details of the next financial year.
A copy of the Code our work here can be found in the Remuneration Committee report.
can be found on the FRC website at: www.
The Board is confident that Jupiter is well-placed to capitalise on its attractive growth prospects, and I look forward to reporting back to you next year on progress.
Having reviewed the main principles of the Code, the Board is satisfied that throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2014, the Company complied with the main Liz Airey principles of the Code other than relating to Chairman the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and the number of independent non-executive 25 February 2015 30 Directors.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
