| 60 GOVERNANCE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Letter from the Chairman Good corporate governance is not just about following the rules and regulations.
It is about how we conduct ourselves as a Board, our culture, behaviours and how we do business.
In todays environment, it is evident that good governance makes sense: for us as a business and for our customers, shareholders and the wider community.
John Stewart, Chairman Chairmans letter Board appointments and succession In recent years, corporate governance best practice has A strong governance framework alone is not enough continued to evolve, most recently with the publication to deliver our strategy.
This framework needs to be of the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate managed by an effective Board that sets the tone for Governance Code the Code.
Our business has evolved the groups culture, values and ethical behaviours.
too as we continue to pursue our strategic objectives and respond to the changing regulatory environment and Our Board has continued to evolve in 2014.
As Chairman, it is my role to ensure we have seen a number of non-executive director that our internal governance framework keeps pace and changes: Mike Fairey retired from the Board at the that it remains strong and balanced in order to support conclusion of the 2014 AGM in May, Olaf Swantee joined the growth of the business.
us as a non-executive director on 1 August 2014 and, most recently, we announced the appointments of This year, we have continued to develop our governance Richard Meddings and Carolyn Bradley who joined the practices and embed the delegated authority framework Board as non-executive directors on 1 December and which we implemented last year.
This has resulted in 8 December respectively.
We will also see change to more robust decision making processes and a stronger the executive make up of our Board with John Pollock and clearer governance framework.
We have once again retiring from his role as a director and chief executive reviewed our approach to governance and compliance officer, Legal & General Assurance Society at the 2015 with the provisions of the Code.
Johns career has spanned over thirty years at 31 December 2014, the September 2012 edition of the Legal & General and I am extremely grateful for the Code remained the standard against which we were excellent contribution he has made and continues to required to measure ourselves.
I am pleased to report make to the Board and to Legal & General more broadly.
that we have complied with all principles of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
In 2015, we expect to be fully compliant with all provisions of the September 2014 Code.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 61 We have always remained conscious of the need We also place great value on the engagement we to maintain a well balanced and diverse Board and have with our retail shareholders and in September we believe that our Board has a strong mix of individuals Mark Gregory, chief financial officer, hosted a UK in terms of thought, background, experience and Shareholders Association event at our head office gender.
Taking gender in particular, although we do in London.
This was a well-attended event and an not have a set target in respect of the number of women excellent opportunity for some of our retail shareholders on our Board, we incorporate all types of diversity to be updated on our strategy, governance and considerations into our thinking on the composition of performance during the first half of the year.
We are strong believers in ensuring that we get the right person for the job and that this has to be The AGM also provides an effective communication based on merit above all else.
forum and an opportunity for our shareholders to meet with Board members in person.
I look forward to These considerations do of course go beyond Board sharing with you our successes during 2014 and would level and the Board remains committed to developing encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the pipeline of talent from within the business.
Board is regularly updated on the progress that is being made and we have a full suite of development The future programmes to continue to support the development As the economic and regulatory environments continue of the leadership pipeline.
The Legal & General 50 50 to change, governance best practice and guidance will by 2020 Network, in particular, demonstrates our continue to emerge.
Our investment management commitment to gender equality and making us a more business, as one of the largest institutional asset diverse workplace.
I am also pleased to continue to managers in Europe, has a key role to play in shaping support the 30% Club and the encouraging progress the environment and leading governance best practice that has been made in bringing more women on to and is fully supportive of the principles of the UK FTSE 100 boards.
By voting responsibly and engaging directly with companies, the LGIM governance team The Nominations Committee report on page 68 sets out promotes best management practice thereby driving in further detail the Board changes that have taken place standards up.
We are very supportive of the work during the year.
carried out by LGIM and their commitment to the UK Stewardship Code and will continue to ensure that we, Shareholder engagement as a company, strive towards the highest standards As well as a strong governance framework and an and monitor and respond to new developments as effective Board, we also recognise the role our investors they emerge.
play in supporting the company: open, constructive and effective communication is of considerable importance to us.
Continual engagement provides our investors with an opportunity to discuss particular areas of interest and to raise any concerns.
This year we have met with a number of institutional shareholders and during the early part of the year the Remuneration Committee John Stewart welcomed the opportunity to consult with shareholders Chairman on our executive remuneration policy, which was put to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
We believe this engagement was constructive for both us and the institutions involved and provided us with the opportunity to respond to feedback, which we believe is an important part of a two-way engagement process.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
