Strategic report Governance Financial performance 49 Chairmans governance statement 2014 was an eventful year for the Board one that has resulted in significant change to its composition.
I was appointed an independent Non-Executive Director on 9 April 2014 on the basis that I would succeed Simon Duffy, the then Chairman of the Board, when he stepped down at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 22 May 2014.
On 16 April 2014 one of the Groups major had commenced a search for three new Following an extensive international search shareholders, SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners independent Directors with a view to supported by Spencer Stuart, a leading B Limited SpringOwl chose to requisition completing their appointment before the executive search firm, it was announced on resolutions at the AGM proposing the next AGM.
Two of these new candidates 1 March, 201 5 that Barry Gibson and Liz appointment of four new directors and would succeed Rod Perry, Deputy Chairman, Catchpole had been appointed to the Board a proxy battle ensued.
Whilst this period Senior Independent Director and Chairman with immediate effect.
Following their proved eventful, it meant that I was able of the Remuneration Committee, and induction and a period of handover, Barry and to engage face-to-face with many of the Helmut Kern, Chairman of the Audit & Risk Liz will succeed respectively as Chairs of the Groups top shareholders and accelerate my Committee.
Rod has been a Director since Remuneration Committee and Audit & Risk involvement inthe Board.
2005, whilst Helmut has served on the board Committee when Rod and Helmut both retire of bwin.
party and its predecessor, bwin at the AGM on 21 May 201 5.
More details One of SpringOwls areas of criticism Interactive Entertainment AG, since 2004. concerning the background and experience was poor Board performance and of Barry and Liz are contained in the notice so, as Chairman of the Nominations During the course of the review it was of the AGM.
Committee, I initiated and led a thorough mutually agreed that Manfred Bodners Board evaluation process supported future contribution to the Company would We are also well advanced in our search for by Lintstock Limited, an independent be most effectively obtained by way of a third candidate with extensive knowledge corporate governance advisory firm which an annual consultancy agreement, which and expertise in information technology works with a number of listed companies.
This arrangement and market trends and technology delivery The review focused particularly on the permits the Board and the Chief Executive in consumerfacing digital businesses.
Boards performance in the areas of to receive advice at key times in connection The Nominations Committee has identified strategy formulation and execution, risk with strategy, brand management and a number of short-listed candidates and an management and what additional skills digital marketing.
As a consequence of this announcement is expected to be made in might be required to best support the new arrangement Manfred Bodner stepped due course.
During the down as a Director at the 2014 AGM.
I should also report to shareholders that during course of this accelerated review, each Our shareholders expressed their support 2014, recognising the financial pressure on the Director answered a detailed questionnaire, for these changes and following a business, the Board unanimously supported following which I met individually with each productive dialogue with SpringOwl, they a reduction in the fees paid to Non-Executive Director to discuss his or her opinions about decided to withdraw their four resolutions Directors, reducing the annual fees by 30% the Boards performance and how best to prior to the AGM.
In addition, SpringOwl with effect from 1 July 2014. draw on their expertise.
agreed to exercise their right under the The dynamics of the online gaming industry At the same time, I met with a number of the PartyGaming Relationship Agreement to mean that while the business continues to Companys major shareholders and was nominate a non-executive director to the face a variety of challenges, I remain focused able to discuss their concerns or questions Board.
This resulted in the appointment of on ensuring that the Boards ability to navigate regarding previous and future governance Daniel Silvers to the Board on 9 June 2014, through them will be supported by good of the Company.
since when he has made a valuable governance.
Despite all the changes reported contribution to the Boards deliberations.
Whilst there were no material adverse above, the Board is continuing to press ahead Daniel together with Georg Riedl, a Director findings from the Board review, the with a number of initiatives designed to ensure appointed under a separate relationship conclusions were that the increasing that shareholder value is delivered.
agreement, were granted observer status at complexity of the Groups business and the Nominations Committee whilst it I would like to thank shareholders for their regulatory environment, combined with searches for the planned support in my first year as Chairman of the length of service of a number of the Board appointments.
the Board and I look forward to continued Non-Executive Directors and the need engagement with them during 201 5. to prevent the Board from becoming too Not all shareholders will be familiar with the large and unwieldy, meant that change detail of the Relationship Agreements.
On 16 May 2014 and on the More detail concerning these agreements Chairman recommendation of the Nominations may be found on page 62.
11 March 2015 Committee, the Board announced that it
