s l e b a l R s e e g N u m l e a a t o G o e r s t m t i i n s r e m a d l t o h m i e r o a h o S n C s N o k C n - s o c i o r R m e b u & P s m i a n r t t e t i n i s n e s t r d s e t u m e n m n e o e A i a G g t o c e r a s u t o : n e r u s i n o e t p r s t a e l i p s i e t y d a n l b o o t R i h a n l m h i a s d l e p s e r 52 Corporate governance overview The roles on the Board The graphic below illustrates how the Board executes its duties through a structured cascade of responsibilities across the Group.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 53 How is the Board organised and how does it oversee management?
CEO CFO Runs the Companys business Ensures future business decisions are grounded in solid financial criteria Proposes and develops bwin.
partys strategy and overall commercial objectives Provides insight and analysis to support in conjunction with the Chairman the CEO and leadership team Responsible, with the leadership team for Leads key initiatives in finance that implementing the decisions of the Board support overall strategic goals and its committees Funds, enables and executes the strategy Management Promotes and conducts affairs of set by the CEO bwin.
party with the highest standards of Develops and defines the overall integrity, probity and corporate governance strategy of the organisation Manages the leadership team and promotes Presents the organisations progress on the strategic mission and goals to all strategic goals to external stakeholders employees Engages with external stakeholders to explain the corporate goals and progress of Chairman the business strategy Oversees the effective running of the Board Ensures that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of bwin.
partys strategy and overall commercial objectives Acts as a guardian of the Boards decision-making Promotes the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level Oversees the effective engagement with the Companys various stakeholders SID NED As well as performing the normal duties Constructively challenges and contributes expected of an NED the SID also: to the development of strategy Is available to shareholders if they have Scrutinises the performance of concerns which contact through the management in meeting agreed goals and Chairman, CFO or CEO has failed to resolve or objectives and monitors the reporting of for which contact is inappropriate performance Leads the NEDs in evaluating performance Satisfies themselves that financial of the Chairman, taking into account the information is accurate and that Oversight views of Executive Directors both controls and the systems of risk management are robust and defensible Maintains sufficient contact with shareholders to understand their issues Is responsible for determining appropriate andconcerns l evels of remuneration of Executive Directors and has a prime role in succession Performs such other tasks and planning, appointing and where necessary responsibilities as may be contemplated by removing senior management the code or best practice from time to time 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW CONTINUED The division of responsibilities between approval of the Groups remuneration How does the Board ensure it is effective?
the Chairman and Chief Executive is policy following recommendations Composition clearly established and their respective from the Remuneration Committee : The Board has a majority of Non-Executive roles are set out in writing and agreed by approval of the Groups risk Directors.
Drawing on their various the Board.
management and control framework backgrounds and extensive executive and The Board currently comprises of 11 and the appointment re-appointment business experience, the Non-Executive Directors and their biographies are set out of the external auditors following Directors engage with the Executive on pages 50 and 51. recommendations from the Audit& Risk Directors, who manage the day-to-day Committee : and business, in formulating the direction and The Directors have adopted a formal strategy of the Company.
The Nonschedule of matters reserved to the Board, approval of the Groups policies Executive Directors oversee the setting out which issues must be referred in relation to corporate and social implementation of this strategy and to the Board for decision.
These can be responsibility, health and safety and challenge management when appropriate.
categorised into a number of key areas the environment.
In accordance with the UK Corporate including but not limited to: In addition, the Board has adopted Governance Code, a majority of the Directors, long-term business plan, strategy, a formal delegation of authority excluding the Chairman, are deemed budgets and forecasts: memorandum which sets out the levels to be independent, helping to ensure the of authority for the Executive Directors Company is run in the interests of all restructuring or reorganisation of and employees below Board level to shareholders.
The Chairman was deemed the Group and material acquisitions follow when, managing the Groups to be independent on appointment.
the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above certain levels: financial reporting half-year and annual financial results andinterim management statements : dividend policy: Chairman shareholder circulars, convening Philip Yea of shareholder meetings andstock exchange announcements: Independent Non-Independent 1 Rod Perry Non-Executive 3 Per Afrell Georg Riedl 3 2 Liz Catchpole Daniel Silvers Executive Sylvia Coleman 2 Norbert Teufelberger Barry Gibson 1 Helmut Kern Martin Weigold 1 Will retire at the Companys 2015 AGM 2 Appointed with effect from 1 March 2015 3 Nominated for appointment by major shareholders under terms ofrelationship agreements with the Company see page 62 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 55 Knowledge and experience Diversity Tenure and succession The Directors have a wide range of The Board is also diverse nationally, which To ensure the independent Directors backgrounds and extensive knowledge aids the Boards discussions and decisioncontinue to be independent in character of many sectors: making process given our businesses and judgement, the UK Corporate operate in international markets.
Governance Code recommends that Non-Executive Directors should not Accountancy Board nationality prior to 2015 AGM serve for more than nine years from the Banking Investment date on which they are first elected by AMERICAN Education shareholders.
The tenures of the current AUSTRIAN 9% 9% BRITISH Directors deemed by the Board to be Electronic payments SWEDISH independent are as follows: Energy Utilities 27% Director First Election Tenure years Entertainment Per Afrell June 2011 4 55% Gaming Elizabeth Catchpole Proposed to be elected at Health 2015 AGM 0 Insurance Sylvia Coleman June 2013 2 For the last four years there has been general Law Barry Gibson Proposed to encouragement for companies to appoint be elected at Printing Publishing 2015 AGM 0 more women as directors, in recognition that they may encourage an improved Property Helmut Kern June 2011 4 Board decision-making process, with Rod Perry May 2006 9 Retail and Consumer more insightful and balanced deliberations.
Technology Telecoms In March 2015 the Company achieved its Per Afrell and Helmut Kern served from 2007 and 2004 stated objective of appointing at least two respectively on the supervisory board of bwin Interactive Transport Entertainment AG, which merged with PartyGaming Plc in women to the Board by the end of 2015.
Denotesone Director with relevant experience Gender diversity at 2015 AGM As reported on page 21, Helmut Kern and Rod Perry will be stepping down as MEN WOMEN Directors at the 2015 AGM.
22% 78% 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW CONTINUED Regular Meetings During 2014 the Board had five scheduled meetings in Gibraltar to consider the following business: Month Business Discussed the entry of SpringOwl onto the share register Considered a proposed acquisition MARCH and their acquisition of a Board nomination right.
Received an update from the independent Directors Received reports from the Audit & Risk, Remuneration on the search for a new Chairman and SID in the event and Nominations Committees.
Reviewed and commented on the draft 2013 annual Reviewed the latest management reports and accounts, including report and 2014 AGM notice.
Considered the Companys distribution policy.
Unanimously agreed changes to the composition of the Board Authorised the Executive Directors to proceed with Kalixas MAY announced on 16 May 2014. acquisition of PXP.
Reviewed the latest management reports and accounts, including Received reports from the Audit & Risk, Remuneration an investor relations update.
The CEO and Strategy Director presented a strategic review report Nominations Committee Chairman presented the results of the proposing a reorganisation of the Groups businesses to simplify interim Board performance evaluation.
The Board authorised the Executive Considered a proposal to reduce the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors to prepare a transformation plan.
Directors subsequently approved on 19 June 2014.
Received an update on the disposal of non-core assets.
Prepared for the AGM and agreed the action to be taken in respect of SpringOwl.
Reviewed the latest management reports and accounts, including Received an update on Kalixas proposed joint venture deal with JULY an investor relations update.
Millicom and authorised management to proceed with negotiating and executing final terms.
Conducted a strategic review with Deutsche Bank AG and agreed to identify sector consolidation targets, with a view to creating Reviewed the Companys strategy on share buy-backs.
Received reports from the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Reviewed and approved the proposed US business strategy.
Received a report on how to implement a management Appointed the IT Committee see page 58. reorganisation and authorised management to proceed.
Reviewed and commented on the draft 2014 half-year results and The Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without discussed the options for the half-year dividend payment.
the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and General Approved certain unbudgeted capital expenditure relating Counsel present.
Reviewed the latest management reports and accounts, including The Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without OCTOBER an investor relations update.
the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and General Counsel present.
Received an update on the project with Deutsche Bank AG to identify potential consolidation partners.
Discussed senior management succession and retention measures.
Received an update on the US business strategy.
Received an update on the implementation of the business reorganisation and agreed to postpone a review of the 2015 Received an update on the disposal of non-core assets.
budget from the December meeting to a meeting in January 2015 Received reports from the IT and Nominations Committees.
to allow the implications of the reorganisation to be fully taken into account.
Reviewed the latest management reports and accounts, including Reviewed and approved the updated tax strategy and DECEMBER an investor relations update.
Reviewed the status of the discussions with third parties regarding Received an update on the disposal of non-core assets.
Reviewed and agreed a proposal for the next Board Received a business presentation from the head of bwin labels.
Received an update on the implementation of the Received reports from the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and business reorganisation.
Reviewed the implications of a change to the EU VAT rules on the supply of electronically supplied services and requested that management take further legal advice.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 57 In addition to the scheduled meetings Meeting attendance described above, the Directors held Total number of meetings to which unscheduled meetings, some of which Director theDirector was entitled to attend Comment were called at short notice, to carry out Per Afrell 5 5 the following: Manfred Bodner 2 2 Resigned at the conclusion of the AGM on 22 May 2014.
Approve the appointment of Philip Yea Sylvia Coleman 5 5 and the release of the Q1 2014 Interim Management Statement.
Simon Duffy 1 2 Unable to attend the May meeting owing to a family bereavement just prior to the meeting.
The May meeting Approve and authorise the release was chaired by the Deputy Chairman.
of an amended 2014 AGM Notice Helmut Kern 5 5 putting forward SpringOwls four Rod Perry 5 5 requisitioned resolutions.
Georg Riedl 4 5 Unable to attend the July August meeting owing to a Approve a reduction in the fees family bereavement just prior to the meeting.
payable to the Non-Executive Daniel Silvers 3 3 Appointed on 10 June 2014.
Directors, the appointment of Daniel Norbert Teufelberger 5 5 Silvers, the execution of a 20m bank guarantee facility and the allotment Martin Weigold 5 5 of 583,000 shares to Velasco Services, Philip Yea 4 4 Appointed 9 April 2014.
Inc. in respect of the final deferred consideration payable for certain assets acquired in 2012.
Meetings without Executive The Defence Committee coordinated Directors present with the Nominations Committee in Approve an unbudgeted capital considering SpringOwls arguments for During the year the Chairman has expenditure project relating to new four of its nominees to be appointed to met with the Non-Executive Directors production and development licences the Board at the 2014 AGM.
without the Executive Directors present.
to be acquired from Oracle and a related Whilst the UK Corporate Governance Code Following SpringOwls withdrawal third party financing arrangement.
recommends these meetings be held at of its AGM resolutions proposing the Authorise the Executive Directors least once a year, the Chairman conducts appointment of their four nominees, to either negotiate the sale to a these meetings on a more frequent the Defence Committee was redirected third party of all or a majority of the basis, as they prove useful in reviewing by the Board to oversee the process of Groups interest in the WIN social strategy and its implementation and engaging with third parties to explore gaming business or to close the the performance of management.
with Deutsche Bank possible industry operation down.
The Chairman reports back to the full consolidation options.
The Committee Board any recommendations arising from was renamed the July Committee and these meetings.
members meet regularly with Deutsche Bank representatives to review and Did the Board appoint any ad hoc direct potential transaction discussions.
The overall strategy adopted by the July Committee is set by the Board and the The Defence July Committee terms of any potential transaction are a The Board appointed the Defence matter for the Board to decide.
Committee on 5 March 2014 to enable the Company to engage quickly and Since Simon Duffy stepped down from the effectively with SpringOwl.
The members Board and the July Committee on 22 May were initially Simon Duffy who chaired 2014, the July Committee has been chaired the committee, Norbert Teufelberger, by Philip Yea.
Martin Weigold and Rod Perry.
Philip Yea was also appointed a member on 16 April 2014.
58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW CONTINUED The IT Committee How does the Board decide on making New Directors may also meet with the changes to its membership?
Companys external auditors and advisers The Groups technology operation has as part of the induction process.
After the become increasingly sophisticated in The Board has adopted a formal induction programme from time-to-time recent years, as the Group has entered and transparent procedure for the the Company Secretary notifies Directors more nationally regulated and or taxed appointment of new Directors by of courses and seminars conducted markets, each with their own regulatory appointing a Nominations Committee by corporate governance bodies and requirements, multiple operational and to lead the process of appointment professional advisers that Directors may server locations and a range of channels and make recommendations to the find helpful.
and devices through which players Board.
The Nominations Committee also can gamble.
As technology is critical to Working with the Chairman, the Company advises the Board on its structure, size, the business, in August 2014 the Board Secretary ensures good information flows composition and matters of Director appointed an IT Committee to oversee the within the Board and its committees and and senior management succession.
delivery of certain key technology-related between senior management and the A report from the Nominations Committee projects including disaster recovery Non-Executive Directors.
The Company appears on pages 64 to 66. arrangements and a high availability Secretary is the guardian of all Board improvement programme to reduce the procedures and advises the Chairman How do Directors develop in the role amount of platform down-time to an and other Directors when required.
The current members Agendas and accompanying reports are of the IT Committee are Helmut Kern who prepared for each Board or committee A full induction programme is provided chairs the Committee, Rod Perry who has meeting and circulated via a secure to new Directors, which is specifically a background in technology and Martin data-room in advance of each meeting.
tailored to the needs and experience of Weigold.
The IT Committee members Between scheduled meetings Directors the new Director and the committees on meet regularly with senior technology are updated on business developments which they sit.
The programme provides executives to receive updates on projects with email reports, management corporate governance information and give guidance on prioritisation and accounts and regulatory updates and provided by the Company Secretary overall direction.
where necessary the Chairman of the which is both general in nature e. g. Board or the chairman of a committee UK Corporate Governance Code, will convene a conference call to discuss remuneration best practice and specific and reach agreement on material to the Company e. g. the delegation of urgent matters.
authority mandate, the risk register, etc..
In addition, new Directors are educated The Company Secretary is available to all on how the Group does business and Directors to offer guidance and advice this process includes meetings with on corporate governance, company law and presentations from the Executive and share plan matters.
The Company Directors and senior members of Secretary presents a report at each management, such as the heads of bwin Board meeting updating the Directors on labels and gaming labels, head of US, head share capital and shareholder changes, of Studios, head of operations, General Group corporate structure changes and Counsel, head of internal audit & risk corporate governance developments.
management, head of regulatory affairs, bwin.
partys General Counsel is also investor relations director, tax director available to all Directors to provide advice and HR director.
on general legal and regulatory issues.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 59 In addition, a formal procedure has also 2014 evaluation process been adopted allowing Directors to seek independent professional advice where A list of evaluation questions is drawn up by the Chairman in consultation with Lintstock and the they believe it is necessary in order for Company Secretary.
Any questions relating to the performance of the Chairman of the Board are set them to fulfil their duties to the Company.
by the SID in consultation with Lintstock and the Company Secretary.
Board committees are also authorised by the Board under their terms of reference to retain external advice as required for each committee to carry out its duties.
The questions are circulated to the Directors via Lintstocks secure website and are answered online.
In accordance with best practice the Board conducts an evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, Lintstock advisers may interview each of the Directors.
This does not individuals and the Chairman.
For the happen every year, but does happen at least once every three years.
2014 and 2015 evaluation process, the Lintstock did interview Directors for the evaluation in 2014.
Board engaged Lintstock Limited, an independent corporate governance advisory firm which works with a number of UK-listed and non-UK listed companies, Lintstock prepare a report on the results of the evaluation of the to facilitate the process, which adopted Board, committees and individuals, which is passed to the Chairman.
the following process: Lintstock also prepares a report on the results of the review of the Chairmans performance, which is passed to the SID.
The Chairman discusses the results The SID meets with the Non-Executive of the evaluation with individual Directors to review the results of Directors where necessary and the evaluation of the Chairmans possible options for addressing any performance.
The SID then discusses issues arising from the review.
The SID with the Chairman these results and does the same with the Chairman any further feedback from the Nonin respect of the report on the Executive Directors.
The Lintstock reports are circulated to the Directors, together with any recommendations from the Chairman or the SID.
For 2014 the results were circulated to the Nominations Committee first and then the Nominations Committee made recommendations to the Board.
The Board reviews the Lintstock reports and any recommendations and agrees any action to be taken.
60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW CONTINUED What came out of the 2014 and 2015 performance evaluation processes?
The 2014 performance evaluation was conducted in April 2014 rather than earlier in the year, to allow time for the new Chairman to be chosen and ensure the process was directed to assist him with taking up the role.
This 2014 process was also undertaken in conjunction with the Chairman-elect meeting with the Companys major shareholders to understand their views on the Company and the way it was governed.
A follow-up evaluation process was conducted in the first quarter of 2015.
The issues identified in each process are set out below, together with the action taken.
2014 matters identified Action taken Rod Perry and Helmut Kern decided to retire at the 2015 AGM and the Nominations Committee Although there was no criticism of any Director, given implemented a search with Spencer Stuart, an international executive search firm, for three the tenure of some of the independent Directors, the new Directors: composition of the Board could benefit from some a successor to Rod Perry, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: fresh blood and appointing someone with executive a successor to Helmut Kern, Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee: e-commerce experience.
an independent Director with experience as an executive in technology in the e-commerce digital world.
Manfred Bodner agreed to step down at the 2014 AGM.
Reduce the number of non-independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board held a strategic session with its investment bankers, Deutsche Bank AG in July 2014 and an Adopt a formal process for discussing strategic all-day strategy session was held on 3 March 2015, facilitated by a third party adviser.
issues on a continuing basis through a set-piece Strategy Day.
This matter has been clarified, so the Board focuses on the key business risks identified on pages 43 and That the respective roles of the Audit & Risk Committee 44 assisted by the Audit & Risk Committee, whilst the latter monitors the remaining 34 major risks on and the Board in the area of risk management and the Groups risk register see page 72. oversight be more clearly defined.
The Board reviewed with the CEO the businesss operational shortcomings and supported the CEOs That the Board focuses on supporting the CEO in plan to simplify the Group to reduce complexity and improve execution, leading to the Transformation accelerating delivery and restructuring the Group so Project being launched in July 2014. that it can best exploit both organic and inorganic business opportunities.
2015 matters identified Action taken Suggested improvements to the management The Executive Directors and Company Secretary are reviewing the management reports and, in consultation with the Chairman, will develop and adapt reports to address the requests made.
These include a CEO dashboard format to highlight more clearly the key issues and KPIs.
Competitor performance analysis and more information on high-level technology and operational developments were areas upon which the Directors requested more information.
The Board met with the Head of Investor Relations and representatives from Deutsche Bank AG in The Board would like to meet formally with the March 2015. of Investor Relations Director and the Companys brokers at least once a year.
The Nominations Committee will focus in the first half of 2015 on developing the succession plan for the Improve succession planning for senior executives.
senior executives to ensure the plan is thorough and coherent.
The Board is adopting a more disciplined and formal approach to reviewing past key decisions, which will Improve the process of reviewing past key Board be led by the Chairman.
The Board has already reviewed in 2015 the build or buy technology strategy and decisions with a view to finding out what have endorsed the recommendation to build less, focusing on developing proprietary sports book technology we learned?
and unique differentiating products and buying in casino products.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 61 How does the Board engage with shareholders?
How does the Board oversee financial reporting, risk management and The Company keeps shareholders there were more than 300 such meetings, internal controls?
informed of business developments hosted in the UK, mainland Europe and and developments via its annual report, the US.
The Board is required to present a half-year statement and quarterly key fair, balanced and understandable In addition, during 2014, the independent performance indicator announcements.
assessment of the Companys position Directors met with certain major In addition, other price sensitive and prospects.
This responsibility shareholders regarding the process for information is publicly disclosed via to present a fair, balanced and recruiting candidates to succeed Simon a regulatory news service.
All these understandable assessment extends to Duffy as Chairman.
items of information are available on interim and other price-sensitive public the Companys corporate website, The Senior Independent Director is also reports and reports to regulators as well www.
The website also available to shareholders if they have as to information required to be presented contains other information about the concerns which contact through the by statutory obligations.
The Board is also Group and its business.
Chairman, CEO or CFO fails to resolve or if responsible for determining the nature contact is inappropriate.
and extent of the significant risks it is Throughout the year the Chairman, CEO, willing to take in achieving its strategic CFO, and Investor Relations Director Major shareholders also have the objectives and as a consequence it has meet with shareholders on request or via opportunity to meet newly appointed to maintain sound risk management and organised investor roadshows supported Non-Executive Directors should they wish, internal control systems.
partys brokers as well as by but in practice our shareholders have not appointed a committee of independent attending and presenting at industry to-date made such a request.
Directors, the Audit & Risk Committee and investor conferences.
During 2014 to monitor these areas and report and make recommendations to the Board.
Please see the Report of the Audit & Risk As at 6 March 2015, bwin.
partys major shareholders were: Committee on pages 67 to 76.
Number of % of Issued % of Total 1 How does the Board decide what Shareholder Shares Share Capital Voting Rights Directors and employees should be paid?
Janus Capital Management LLC 98,841,200 11.99 12.01 The Board is responsible for setting the 2 Emerald Bay Limited 48,744,578 5.91 5.92 levels of remuneration for the Chairman, SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners B Limited 42,850,000 5.20 5.21 Executive Directors and the senior executive team, which should be sufficient Standard Life Investments Limited 37,424,746 4.54 4.55 to attract, retain and motivate directors of Androsch Privatstifung 33,147,090 4.02 4.03 the quality required to run the Company Orbis Investment Management Limited 26,724,927 3.24 3.25 successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than is necessary for : Notes this purpose.
The Board has delegated 1 A s at 6 March 2015 the Company had 824,106,369 shares in issue.
Each share carries the right to one vote, with the these remuneration matters to a exception of shares held by the Companys employee benefit trust, bwin.
party Shares Trust the Employee Trust, which has waived the voting rights in respect of the shares it holds.
As at 6 March 2015 the Employee Trust held 1,357,278 shares committee of independent Directors, the and therefore the total number of shares with voting rights was 822,749,091.
The Directors 2 Remuneration Report prepared by the O n 29 July 2013, bwin.
party applied to the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement DGE for a Casino Service Industry Enterprise Licence.
As part of the application process, certain substantial shareholders of bwin.
party were required Remuneration Committee is set out to submit individual Licence applications to the DGE or otherwise dispose of their shareholdings.
Emerald Bay Limited on pages 77 to 86.
The fees paid to the Emerald, wholly-owned by Ruth Parasol DeLeon, and Stinson Ridge Limited Stinson, wholly-owned by James Russell DeLeon elected, pursuant to a divorce settlement and for reasons of privacy, to enter into a divestiture agreement with Non-Executive Directors excluding bwin.
party and the DGE, rather than submit individual licence applications.
Under the terms of the divestiture agreement the Chairman are a matter for the executed on 30 October 2013, it was agreed that Emerald and Stinson transfer their entire holdings of bwin.
party shares 58,498,667 shares in respect of Emerald and 58,498,666 shares in respect of Stinson into separate trusts when the DGE Board on a recommendation from the granted the Group a transactional waiver in respect of its licence application.
The transactional waiver was granted on Executive Directors.
The trusts have to divest their bwin.
party shares over 24 months commencing on the date that the first online wagers were allowed to be taken in New Jersey under the new regulations, which was 21 November 2013.
In the event the trusts have not disposed of all their bwin.
party shares by the end of the 24 month period, the Company will take control of the divestiture process and dispose of any remaining bwin.
party shares in accordance with the disposal provisions in the articles of association over a 12 month period.
62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW CONTINUED What are the relationship agreements Under the terms of the Relationship Does the Company comply with the with certain major shareholders?
Agreement if a nominee is appointed then UK Corporate Governance Code?
the nominating shareholder is subject Emerald Bay Limited Emerald and bwin.
party endeavours to comply to the Companys share dealing code Stinson Ridge Limited Stinson entered with all the recommendations of whilst they maintain a representative on into a relationship agreement with the the Code.
From 1 January 2014 to the Board.
Company when it floated on the London date bwin.
party has not complied Once transferred, the shareholder Stock Exchange in 2005, governing with these recommendations in the that acquired the right cannot sell the their combined rights to nominate a following respect.
nomination right and must hold shares representative for appointment to the Prior to the Merger, fair market value equivalent to 5% of the Companys Board and governing the process for FMV options were granted by bwin issued share capital in order to maintain them selling their shares.
This agreement Interactive Entertainment AG to Per Afrell, this right.
was superceded by a new relationship Helmut Kern and Georg Riedl, members agreement the Relationship Agreement Androsch Privatstifung, New Media of that companys supervisory board.
which took effect on 29 January Gaming and Holding Limited as well as bwin was an Austrian company listed 2011, having been approved by the founder shareholders of bwin Interactive on the Vienna stock exchange and not shareholders at an extraordinary Entertainment AG also entered into subject to UK corporate governance general meeting.
Under the Relationship a relationship agreement with the conventions.
The rules of the bwin Agreement, Emerald and Stinson had the Company on the same terms as detailed FMV option plans did not provide for right whilst they both held in aggregate above.
This relationship agreement crystallisation of value on a merger and 5% or more of the Companys issued came into effect on 31 March 2011. therefore the value had to be rolled into share capital, to nominate a suitable Their representative on the Board is new FMV options under the individual for appointment to the Board.
party Rollover Option Plan ROP, This nomination right could be transferred a new Company share plan adopted to another party where Emerald and When is the AGM?
for bwin option holders at the time of Stinson transfer 6% or more of the the Merger.
This plan was approved by Thursday 21 May at 11.30 a. m. CET Companys share capital to that other shareholders in January 2011.
On 20 February 2014 Emerald and A separate notice convening the AGM has concluded that the legacy FMV Stinson sold 8,304,977 and 41,524,886 in Gibraltar will be dispatched to options held by Per Afrell and Helmut Kern shares respectively in total equivalent shareholders more than 20 working days do not undermine a determination that to 6.10% of the Companys issued share before the AGM.
The AGM notice will list both these Directors are independent, capital to SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners each item of business, which will be dealt given the circumstances of the grant, B Limited SpringOwl, together with the with by its own separate resolution.
the quantum of the awards relative to Board nomination right.
In conjunction With the exception of Rod Perry and the size of their annual fees and that no with this purchase, SpringOwl executed Helmut Kern who will both be retiring at further share awards will be made to any a deed of adherence in respect of the the conclusion of the AGM, the Directors of the Non-Executive Directors.
On 22 May 2014 will each stand for re-appointment be noted that Per Afrell, Helmut Kern and SpringOwl nominated Daniel Silvers for and there will be separate resolutions Georg Riedl have not exercised their FMV appointment to the Board and he was proposed for each re-appointment.
options and will only do so once they formally appointed as a Non-Executive have left the Board and then only after All Directors will be present at the Director on 10 June 2014.
12 months from their departure date.
AGM to answer questions from those shareholders that attend.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman will exercise his discretion under the articles and call for all resolutions to be decided on by a poll vote rather than a show of hands.
The voting results will be announced via a regulatory news service and published on the Groups corporate website shortly after the AGM closes.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 63 Has the Company allotted or acquired any of its shares during 2014?
Shares allotted Total Shares purchased in issue 1 January 2014 817,085,465 Shares allotted in respect of share plans during 2014 7,619,257 824,704,722 Shares bought back for cancellation during 2014 1,556,867 823,147,855 Shares allotted in respect of share plans during 2015 958,514 824,106,369 Shares bought back for cancellation during 2015 0 824,106,369 The share figures for 2015 are for the period to 6 March 2015 Are there any other statutory or good practice disclosures?
Customer and creditor payment policy The Group has considerable financial Directors Report resources together with a large number The Group is committed to prompt Together with the CEOs Review and of players and long-term contracts with payment of customer cash-out requests Review of 2014 sections of this Annual a number of corporate customers and and maintains adequate cash reserves Report and this corporate governance suppliers across different geographic to cover customer withdrawals and section pages 52 to 63 constitutes the areas and industries.
Normally payments will be Directors report for the year ended the Directors believe the Group is well made to customers within seven days of 31 December 2014 for the purposes placed to manage its business risks receiving a customer instruction.
In the of satisfying the obligations under successfully in the current climate case of other creditors, it is the Groups the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 despite the uncertain and challenging policy to agree terms at the outset of as amended.
a transaction and ensure compliance Robert Hoskin with such agreed terms.
In the event that After making enquiries, the Directors Company Secretary an invoice is contested then the Group have a reasonable expectation that the informs the supplier without delay and 11 March 2015 Company and the Group have adequate seeks to settle the dispute quickly.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Going concern Accordingly, they continue to adopt the The Groups business activities, together going concern basis in preparing the with the factors likely to affect its future Annual Report.
development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic report section Audit of this annual report.
The financial The Directors who held office at the position of the Group, its cashflow, date of approval of the 2014 Annual liquidity position and borrowings are Report, confirm that, so far as they are set out in the aforementioned section.
each aware, there is no relevant audit In addition, note 29 to the financial information of which bwin.
partys auditor statements on pages 132 to 139 includes is unaware: and each Director has taken the Groups objectives, policies and all steps that they reasonably ought processes for managing its capital: its to have taken as a Director in order to financial risk management objectives: make themselves aware of any relevant details of financial instruments and audit information and to establish hedging activities: and its exposures to that the Companys auditor is aware of credit risk and liquidity risk.
