48 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Enrico Cucchiani was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2014.
Chairmans Enrico has extensive experience and services sector and the insurance governance sector including over 15 years at Allianz in a variety of international roles, and a number of publicly quoted companies.
the Company had met the Davies Report OVERVIEW requirement of 25% of women on the We have further on reviewing the Companys business enhanced our 78% male and 22% female but with priorities and identify a clear recovery governance structure programme.
A Global programme will again revert to 75% male and 25% was commissioned by the Group Audit globally to ensure female.
We recognise the importance consistency Chairs to enhance the effectiveness and remain committed to meeting of the Internal Control system and of oversight the Davies Report requirement.
We have made All appointments are made on merit and reporting.
tremendous headway on our journey to against the agreed selection criteria.
recovery, but there is still a way to go.
There have also been some changes LEADERSHIP to the Executive Committee during the The Company is led by a strong, year with the introduction of the new experienced leadership team with wide-ranging expertise and capability.
up by Paul Whittaker, formerly CEO of bringing a wealth of experience and Chief Executive, Scandinavia: Neil Lightbown, Group Global Specialty Lines Director: and Paul Donaldson, our action plan forward.
Subsequently, Patrick leave the Group and will step down Scandinavia: Darren Price as Group Chief continue his role until a leaving date as CEO UK & Western Europe.
I would like to recognise Derek Walsh took on the role of Global his contribution to the Group over MARTIN SCICLUNA the past three years.
Chairman As reported last year, Edward Lea and and is currently handing over to William retired as directors of the Company in him.
In addition, Caroline Ramsay will retire from the Group in June 2015. resigned as a director of the Company in April 2014 after 25 years service.
of the Executive Committee and we I would like to take this opportunity look forward to working with them in the coming year.
for their services to the Company.
EFFECTIVENESS Throughout the year, the Company balance of skills and experience h as c om p lie d w ith th e Pr in cip les and required, and that these Committees under review with the aim of improving Provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate effectiveness.
An external performance Governance Code 2012 Code, with composition of each of the Committees evaluation was undertaken during the exception of the period from was reviewed in the light of Edward working on actions arising from the when I performed the role of Executive Johanna Waterous succeeded Edward recommendations.
Progress against Chairman on an interim basis until Lea as Senior Independent Director.
Ka t h C a te s s uc ce e fide d Edward as the Effectiveness section on pages 58 to 61 of this report.
During 2014, an internal a nd b ec ame a m emb e r o f t he Group 20 1 2 C o fide is c on ta in ed in th is re port, Remuneration Committee.
Jos Streppel its Committees and individual directors the Directors Remuneration Report was conducted.
Details of the key focus and the Group Audit Committee the Group Investment Committee and areas are set out in the Effectiveness Report as applicable.
became a member of the Group Audit section.
The review concluded that we Committee.
All have embraced their The Company has familiarised itself new roles and you will hear from Kath with the updated 2014 UK Corporate who work well together, aligning and Jos giving an overview of their Governance Code.
The Group risk management to strategy.
Committee activity later in the report.
Remuneration Committee has taken Upon appointment, Enrico Cucchiani In January 2014, the PWC Report made steps to include provisions to extend the a number of recommendations which Clawback Policy into its Remuneration Group Remuneration Committee.
have been incorporated into a Global Policy with effect from January 2015, programme, commissioned by the to enable the Company to recover su m s pa id to E xe c ut ives, in addition Risk Committee Chairs to enhance the to withholding payments due to be Terms of Reference have been reviewed effectiveness of the Internal Control In ce n tiv e Plan an d N onE x ec utive appropriate and, where necessary, the standards of corporate governance Directors remuneration are detailed changes have been made.
The Terms of put in place globally and the solid in the Directors Remuneration Report.
governance framework in place enables have been aligned to the three pillars ENG A GEM ENT of Solvency II.
The role of the Group with clear responsibilities.
Throughout the year, the management Nomination Committee has been team have had open discussions expanded to include a review of Our Remuneration Policy was approved with our stakeholders: including Governance matters.
In addition, a employees, investors, the regulators review of Committee membership has following a review of our incentive and rating agencies.
been undertaken to strengthen the programmes to simplify arrangements and improve transparency.
The Policy example, the Chair of the Group Audit reporting disclosure to keep the market is well aligned to our business strategy, Committee is now a member of the informed of the strategic progress we incorporating stretching measures, have made in our recovery plan, with Risk Committee Chair is a member of management reinforcing the messages and the long-term success of the the Group Audit Committee.
through discussions with institutional business.
Responding to shareholder shareholders and analysts.
During feedback, we will, in 2015, additionally CONCLUSION the year, over 500 meetings have include TNAV:NWP into our incentive been held with institutional investors key objectives, to demonstrate our focusing on the outlook and strategic the Directors Remuneration Report on resilience in these challenging times, direction of the Group.
pages 80 to 106. and to re-emerge as a stronger Group.
I wo u ld lik e to th an k m y fel lo w directors ACCOUNTABILITY the experience of the customer and for the contribution and commitment As mentioned earlier in the Annual providing an exceptional service.
they have made to this end.
wide review of governance and control BOARD COMMITTEES fully involved in this programme with the Group Nomination and Governance Non-Executive Directors participating Committee, I am responsible for ensuring in Steering Group meetings.
MARTIN SCICLUNA Chairman operate effectively, have the right
