Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance The annual review of Board effectiveness is an important process Your Board remains strongly for helping to identify key areas for future improvement or focus.
committed to ensuring that Carillion The 2014 review was led by myself and facilitated by Linstock Limited, an independent corporate advisory firm.
The results from our 2014 maintains and continuously improves evaluation are detailed on page 44, but the following areas were, inter alia, identified as being key future priorities for the Board: the structures and processes required to underpin the effective delivery of its Senior management development and succession The potential effects of a changing political environment in the UK growth strategy.
We believe that good Opportunities for growth governance is an essential part of the Management of the Groups pension liabilities.
way we undertake our business on More details of our compliance with the leadership and effectiveness a day-to-day basis, while maintaining provisions of the Code can be found on pages 41 to 45. effective risk management, control The Board understands the importance of presenting a fair, balanced and and accountability.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects and of the importance of effective reporting, risk management and In my first governance report as Chairman, I am pleased to report that internal control procedures.
Further details on the Groups reporting, our commitment to business integrity, safety, strong governance and internal control and risk management processes are provided in the sustainability remains a key strength of our business.
In this section of Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 51. the Annual Report we provide details of our governance policies and practices, highlights of our governance activities and the status of our We also remain committed to regular and active dialogue with our compliance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code shareholders.
Steve Mogford and I continue to make ourselves available September 2012. to facilitate such dialogue and in addition we also consult with our shareholders on any significant changes to remuneration for the Executive Your Company continues to be led by a strong and balanced Board, Directors and other matters of a strategic nature.
Further details on our which is well qualified to challenge, motivate and support the business.
2014 interaction with our shareholders are set out on page 45.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the Groups overall strategy and has in place clearly defined structures for the allocation of responsibilities Recognising the importance of right behaviours to long-term relating to the various elements of the Groups strategy.
Please see page performance and our reputation, the Board continues to remain 40 for an overview of the governance and management structure for committed to maintaining high standards of ethics and business the Group.
The 2014 report from the Business Integrity Committee is set out on page 47.
The Group also continues As we identified in our 2013 governance report, managing rotation to put sustainability at the heart of all operational activity.
In order to of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors was one of the key improve further the Boards focus on this important area, we have priorities for the Board in 2014.
Our Chairman since May 2005, Philip established a separate Sustainability Committee which will Rogerson, stood down in 2014 and Vanda Murray, who chaired our commence work in 2015.
Remuneration Committee, also retired from the Board in 2014 after serving for almost nine years on the Board.
We thank both Phillip and Compliance with the 2012 code Vanda for their significant contributions to the Group during a period During the year to 31 December 2014, as detailed in our Corporate of considerable change and growth for our business.
Governance report on page 45 and in the Remuneration report on page 52, the Company complied fully with the requirements of the Following my appointment as Chairman, Steve Mogford was appointed UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012.
Full details of this Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Alison Horner, who was Code can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Councils website appointed to the Board in 2013, assumed, in May, the chairmanship of the at www.
Remuneration Committee in succession to Vanda Murray.
In addition, in April 2014, Ceri Powell joined the Board and became a member of all five committees of the Board.
These changes have all been implemented seamlessly.
Alison, Ceri and Steve will be available at the 2015 AGM to answer any questions about their new roles.
Biographical details of all of the Directors are provided on pages 38 and 39.
The 2014 report from the Nominations Committee is set out on page 46.
The Nominations Committee will continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that we have the right balance of skills, experience, Philip Green diversity and independence in place to support the future development Chairman of the Group.
4 March 2015 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
