Strategic report Group overview Governance overview Exemplary governance supports our decisions and guides our behaviours Our approach to governance Our Board and its committees Code compliance We have an integrated approach to governance, which is The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees to assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring independent We apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance oversight.
The Board agreed a number of changes to its committee structure during 2014 to ensure it is more effectively aligned applicable to both our subsidiaries and our branches.
This Code 2012 issued by the Financial Reporting Council ensures that the Group is effectively managed and controlled tosupport the work of the Board, reects our drive to raise the bar on conduct and provides a more comprehensive framework theCode.
We also apply the Hong Kong Corporate ofoversight.
With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Committee which, in keeping with the provisions of the UK inline with our refreshed strategy and our values and culture, Governance Code as set out in Appendix 14 of the Hong and with regard to the requirements of our key stakeholders.
Corporate Governance Code, is chaired bythe Group Chairman, all of the Board committees are made up of independent Kong Listing Rules and have complied with its code non-executive directors and play a key role in supporting the Board.
In addition to five independent non-executive directors, Inaddition to clients, these key stakeholders include provisions, save that the Board Risk Committee is theBoard Financial Crime Risk Committee also comprises three independent advisors.
governments, regulators, shareholders, employees and the responsible for the oversight of internal control other than communities in which we operate.
A list of individual directors and their biographies are set out on pages 128 to 131 internal control over financial reporting and risk management The Group operates in a diverse range of markets with inherent systems Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code provision differences in revenue, size of balance sheet, complexity of C. 3.3 paragraphs f, g and h. If there were no Board Risk products, clients, operating environment, branch distribution How the Group Board committee structure has changed Committee, these matters would be the responsibility of the and corporate structure.
Our one governance approach Audit Committee.
combines formal structures applied across the Groups multiple Subject to the below, the directors confirm that the Group locations, businesses, functions and legal entities.
These Standard Chartered PLC Board has complied with all of the provisions of the Code during As at 31 December 2013 aresubject only to variations in local laws and regulations and theyear ended 31 December 2014.
By way of explanation aredelivered within a culture of transparency, accountability we advise that: and collaboration.
The Groups approach to governance is Primary Enabling Special purpose underpinned by the legal and regulatory framework in Oliver Stocken did not seek re-election at the 2014 AGM as committees committees committee eachofthe countries in which we operate.
he was due to step down from the Board before the end of 2014.
However, following John Paynter stepping down from Exemplary corporate governance supports decisions and the Board in December 2014, and to support the smooth guides behaviours within the Group.
As a leading international Audit Board Risk Brand and Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Regulatory transition of the Boards composition, Oliver agreed to Committee Committee Values Committee Committee Committee Compliance bank, we strive for best practice in corporate governance Committee Oversight remain onthe Board for a short period, before stepping across our footprint.
We believe that simply complying with Committee down on 28 February2015.
written corporate governance standards is not enough.
It is vital for companies to have an underlying culture with behaviours Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight of Oversight of Richard Meddings did not seek re-election at the 2014 review of review of review of brand review of review of Board overall Board matters relating and values that support effective corporate governance.
It is AGM, following an announcement made in January 2014 financial, audit fundamental positioning, remuneration, and executive effectiveness and to the Groups theresponsibility of all of our employees to be responsive and thathe would step down from the Board in June 2014. and internal risks including treating share plans and succession governance compliance with vigilant to ensure compliance with both the letter and the spirit control issues credit, market, customers fairly, other incentives issues its obligations of our governance framework.
At Standard Chartered, every We have reviewed the new provisions set out in the UK capital, liquidity, reputational risk, under the employee is expected to live the Groups brand promise, operational, ethics and settlements with Corporate Governance Code 2014, which we are not 1 country crosssustainability the US authorities Herefor good, and be part of a culture that is open and formally required to report against until December 2015. border and issues in relation to challenging, yet cohesive and collaborative.
We take care Throughout the Corporate governance report, we have pension risks US sanctions toensure that all employees have, and demonstrate, the provided a narrative statement of how governance operates and anti-money necessary skills, values and experience commensurate with within the Group and our application ofthe principles set out laundering their responsibilities.
We place as much emphasis on the way compliance and in the Hong Kong Listing Rules and the main principles of employees behave as on what they deliver.
Further details on our approach to corporate governance and The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct an overview of the activities of the Board and its Committees regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no can be found on pages 133 to 209 Standard Chartered PLC Board less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong As at 1 January 2015 Kong Listing Rules.
Having made specic enquiry of all Who is on our Board directors, the Group confirms that all directors have complied Audit Committee Board Risk Brand, Values Remuneration Governance and Board Financial with the required standards of the adopted code of conduct.
We have continued to enhance the shape and dynamic of the Committee and Conduct Committee Nomination Crime Risk Board and its committees through 2014, both in line with our Committee Committee Committee multi-year Board succession plan and to support our drive to raise the bar on conduct through the committee structure.
Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight and review of financial, audit and of fundamental risks of brand positioning, of remuneration, of Board and of all financial crime Asat4 March 2015, there are 17 directors on the Board.
internal control issues including credit, conduct, treating share plans and executive compliance matters On26 February 2015, we announced a comprehensive series market, capital, customers fairly, other incentives succession, overall ofchanges to the composition of the Board as part of the liquidity, operational, reputational risk, Board effectiveness nextphase of its transition.
See page 137 for more details of country cross-border ethics and and governance the changes.
and pension risks sustainability issues issues 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, theUnited States Department of Justice DOJ and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 16 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 17
