CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction We have a reputation for our COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD entrepreneurial management style andit isessential that we have the SIR CHARLES DUNSTONE CHAIRMAN ROGER TAYLOR DEPUTY CHAIRMAN necessary controls and procedures in ANDREW HARRISON CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER place to steer this entrepreneurial drive NIGEL LANGSTAFF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER and ambition.
The Board of directors is INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS JOHN GILDERSLEEVE ultimately responsible for the strategic JOHN ALLWOOD direction, management and control ofthe BARONESS MORGAN OF HUYTON GERRY MURPHY FROM 2 APRIL 2014 Group's activities.
The Board recognises the importance of achieving high standards Since 28 October 2013 the Company has held a premium listing of corporate governance, to help facilitate onthemain market of the London Stock Exchange, and as such the success of the business.
"isrequired to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"" published by the UK Financial Reporting Council."
"The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority ""Listing Rules"" the Board confirms that, except to the extent stated below, the Company has throughout the year and as at the date of this annual report complied with the provisions set out in the Code."
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the relevant parts of this Report have been reviewed by the Companys auditors and their opinion iscontained in the Independent auditors report on pages 57 to 59.
RESPONSIBILITIES The overriding responsibility of the Board is to provide PROPOSED MERGER WITH DIXONS RETAIL PLC clear, entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the The Prospectus and Circular, which will be sent to our shareholders Group within a framework of efficient and effective controls in respect of the Merger with Dixons Retail plc, set out the proposed so as toallow the key issues and risks facing the changes to the Board of directors and to the Board Committees business to beassessed and managed.
Other governance matters will also be changed accordingly.
All such changes will be set out in next year's Specifically the Board: annual report if the Merger completes and therefore this Corporate Governance Report should be considered by shareholders in this regard.
determines the overall strategic direction fortheGroup: INDEPENDENCE AND COMPLIANCE manages the Groups investments, including The Board has eight members, four of whom, excluding the Chairman, reviewing theirperformance: are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
These reviews and challenges management performance: directors are John Gildersleeve, John Allwood, Baroness Morgan ensures that the necessary operational, financial of Huyton and Gerry Murphy.
Therefore more than half of the directors andhumanresources are in place to enable the excluding the Chairman are considered to be independent.
Although Group tomeetitsobjectives: John Gildersleeve was a non-executive director of Old Carphone Warehouse for more than nine years, the Board does not believe develops an understanding of the views of major this affects his independence given that he satisfies all of the other shareholdersabout the Group: and tests of independence set out in the Corporate Governance Code communicates with shareholders in conjunction with and that Carphone is a company completely separate from itsdedicated internal investor relations department.
Executive directors and the Chairman have service contracts thatcan be terminated by either the Company or the director on12months notice.
The non-executive directors have three-year periods of appointment, the terms of which are substantially in the same format as suggested by the Code, with three month notice periods and no compensation for loss of office.
Further details on each directors remuneration and notice period are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 51.
Each of the directors will stand for re-appointment at the Companys annual general meeting.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 34 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEETINGS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board had ten formal meetings during the year as well as other The internal annual review of the balance of skills, knowledge and meetings as were appropriate for approving certain announcements experience of the directors was conducted as usual during thecourse toshareholders and other matters from time to time.
All directors of the year.
In addition, the Code recommends that the performance attended each meeting with the exception of John Gildersleeve, who of the Board be reviewed externally every three years.
The first external was absent from the Board call on 20 January 2014 to approve the review of the Company was carried out by NJMD Corporate Services Q3 trading statement, due to a prior commitment.
in May 2013: therefore the next external evaluation is due in 2016.
EXPERIENCE Internally, using the Higgs Report Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, the individual directors completed separate questionnaires The wide range of experience and expertise of the non-executive and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive directors, combined with the skills of the executive directors, provides Officer and the Board as a whole then collated and analysed the results.
vast retailing, mobile industry and general business experience, strong The areas covered included the roles of the executive and non-executive personal skills and independence of thought and perspective.
directors, the Board, Board Committees, the Chairman, preparation for and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of each director, John Allwood is the Senior Independent Director and non-executive leadership, culture and corporate governance.
The results were director with relevant financial experience.
then considered by the Board as a specific item of business.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Chairman meets regularly with all the non-executive directors, There are three key Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration and usually on an evening prior to a Board meeting.
The Committees are provided with sufficient resources opportunity to raise any questions regarding the performance of via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have direct access theexecutive directors or in respect of any other matters.
to independent professional advisers to undertake their duties.
Following the results of the internal evaluation, the Chairman Baroness John Morgan of John Gerry confirms that all directors continue to be effective and demonstrate Gildersleeve Huyton Allwood Murphy a commitment to the role, including having time to attend all necessary meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
Audit p38 Remuneration p37 The Senior Independent Director also met with the non-executive Nomination p36 n a n a directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness, having first reviewed the results of a performance Chair Member evaluation questionnaire completed by all of the directors apart from the Chairman.
The Board is of the opinion that the Chairman The Consumer Regulatory and Compliance Committee was instituted had no other significant commitments during the year that affected during the year, to monitor and control the Groups compliance in his performance in his role.
respect of regulation affecting its customers, primarily in relation toits insurance business and data protection.
The chair ofthe COMMUNICATION WITH INVESTORS Committee is Baroness Morgan of Huyton and one meeting was held during the year.
The Board believes that it is important to explain business developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand RESERVED MATTERS shareholder concerns.
The principal communication media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases including results There are documented schedules of matters reserved to the Board announcements, investor presentations and Company publications.
and matters delegated to Committees of the Board.
Such reserved matters include: The Chief Executive Officer has lead responsibility for investor relations.
He is supported by a dedicated investor relations department approval of published financial statements: that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and declaration of interim and final dividends: institutional investors.
There is a full programme of regular dialogue approval of budget and strategy: with major institutional shareholders and potential shareholders as well as sell-side analysts.
In all such dialogue, care is taken to ensure appointment and remuneration of directors and auditors: that no price sensitive information is released.
The Chairman ensures approval of major acquisitions and disposals: that the Board receives regular shareholder updates at Board meetings.
approval of authority levels for expenditure: and The Board also receives periodic reports on investors views of the approval of treasury and risk management policies.
The Chairman and all the non-executive directors, in particular the Senior Independent Director, are available EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The Board supports executive directors taking up non-executive The Company also communicates with shareholders through the directorships as part of their continuing development, and the Board annual general meeting, at which the Chairman gives an account believes that this will ultimately benefit the Company.
Further details ofthe progress of the business over the last year, a review of current are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 49. issues, and provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
BOARD GOVERNANCE MATTERS Further financial and business information is available on the All Board papers are sent out on a timely basis with sufficient Groups website, www.
information for the directors to be able to discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary ensures that all Board papers are sent to non-attending directors and that, where possible, any comments they have are received beforehand so that they can be expressed atthe meeting.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 35
