Chairmans introduction to governance Mike Evans, Non-Executive Chairman We are committed to the highest standardsof corporate governance.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce Zoopla Property Group Plcs first Corporate governance report since our successful IPO in June 2014.
The Company listed its Ordinary Shares on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 23 June 2014 Admission.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, including the UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code, have only therefore applied tothe Company since that date.
On listing, the Board committed itself to the highest standards of corporate governance and undertook to The key constituents maintain a sound framework for the control and management of the Group.
In this report we provide details of that framework.
Since the necessary to deliver Company listed only recently, ithas not been practicable to fully comply arobust structure are with the provisions of the Governance Code: however, we shall endeavour to progress towards full compliance in a reasonable period of time.
constituents necessary to deliver a robust structure are in place and, accordingly, this report includes a description of how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Governance Code since 23June 2014 and how it intends to apply those principles in the future.
Board composition The Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and eight other Directors, of whom three are considered to be wholly independent.
The Governance Code recommends that at least half theboard of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
As such, the Company does not currently comply with the requirements of the Governance Code.
On Admission, we stated that the Company intends to move towards compliance with this requirement within areasonable period of time and this remains our intention.
Board Committees In accordance with the Governance Code, the Company has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
AtAdmission, the Companys Committees were not compliant in respect of the composition requirement.
However, on 9 July 2014 theBoard passed a resolution to appoint Robin Klein to the Remuneration Committee and Duncan Tatton-Brown and SherryCoututo the Nomination Committee and, bydoing so, havemade the Committees compliant.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank David Dutton for his work as Chairman prior to the IPO, particularly in respect to the preparation of the Company for Admission.
Mike Evans Non-Executive Chairman 24 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Governance framework The Board The Board comprises nine Directors.
We have two Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Directors and three further Non-Executive Directors.
Board Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committees role is The Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee toassist the Board with the assists the Boardin reviewing recommends the Groups policy discharge of its responsibilities thestructure, size and on executive remuneration and inrelation to financial reporting.
determines the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, the Chairman andManagement.
Leadership Team Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
