Governance 89 BT Pensions Committee Chairmans report What we have done We met four times during the year.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
The most significant workstream this year was our review of pension scheme risk management activities.
Allocation of time 48% 6% Risk management BTPS administration 8% Phil Hodkinson BTPS performance 16% Other Our primary role is to oversee BTos relationship with the BT Pension Scheme in{the interests of BT, scheme members, shareholders and other stakeholders.
22% Governance, legal and regulatory Who we are Our work fell into five main areas I chair the BT Pensions Committee and on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank The Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt for her contribution Risk management to the work of the committee over the past six years, the last four as{chair.
We received updates on an exercise that commenced in the year giving Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
pensioners the option to receive a higher pension now in exchange for lower future pension increases.
We reviewed various risk management Committee members strategies in the year and, where appropriate, agreed proposals for risk reduction activities.
We also undertook a review of our risk position, Meetings including considering the extent to which certain scheme risks Member Eligible to{attend Attended eg{longevity were naturally hedged by BTs business model.
a Phil Hodkinson chairman 43 Governance, legal and regulatory Sir Michael Rake 4 4 We received reports on the approach being taken to meet our b Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 33 requirements under new auto enrolment legislation.
In addition, c Tony Chanmugam 44 we{considered other legal, regulatory and policy developments such as{the European Commissions review of the current Pensions d Clare Chapman 44 Directive, and dealt with various governance matters including a Phil odkinson was appointed chairman from 24 March 2014. trustee{appointments.
b Patricia ewitt retired as chair on 23 March 2014. c Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the committee from 1 October 2013. d BTPS performance Group People Director.
We received regular reports on the performance of the BTPS, and held a joint meeting with the BTPS Trustee Board to discuss the BTPS Warren East joined the committee on 1 May 2014. performance and investment strategy.
Further information BTPS administration Further details about BTs Retirement benefit plans are included in We received regular reports on the administration of the BTPS during the note 19 to these accounts.
year including day-to-day service delivery and progress of a number of significant projects carried out by the administrator.
In addition to the work of the BT Pensions Committee, BT provides regular updates on BTs performance and strategy at BT Pension Other Scheme BTPS Trustee meetings and holds additional sessions with We received reports from management and had discussions on the the Trustee Board.
funding position and preparation for the 30 June 2014 triennial funding{valuation.
ou can nd details of the BT Pension Scheme at www.
co. uk Phil Hodkinson Chairman of the BT Pensions Committee 7 May 2014 Governance
