86 Governance Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report Nominating Board membership and succession At each meeting we considered succession planning and the composition of the Board.
We agreed the importance of having diversity on the Board, including cultural and geographic experience.
We noted that the Chairman continues to review executive director succession with the Chief Executive, who also briefed us on the active management of the careers of BTs high potential individuals.
As a result of our succession discussions, we were able to move quickly when the need arose to appoint a new Chief Executive.
Patricia Hewitt also met with Sir Michael Rake non-executive directors to discuss succession plans for BT Groups chairmanship.
We have a skills matrix against which we evaluate candidates whether identied by the Board or external consultants during the year.
We continue our focus on having the We{refreshed our skills matrix and assessed the relevant skills that the right range of skills on the Board and Board has against a set of criteria the technical skills required for running a listed company customer sectors industry knowledge monitoring the eectiveness of a number stakeholder engagement and regional experience.
We believe the Board of BTos core compliance programmes.
has strong technical expertise and a good range of experience across dierent customer and industry segments, though would benefit from further financial expertise.
We identied a need for a broader range of technology experience on the Board.
Who we are I chair the Nominating & Governance Committee at the request of the We instructed external search consultants MWM Consulting to identify Board.
I would not participate in any discussion concerning the selection potential non-executive directors.
MWM Consulting are instructed and appointment of my successor.
from time-to-time by BT for search assignments but otherwise have no connection with the company.
Having considered potential candidates Our membership and meeting attendance during the year are set against our skills matrix, the committee recommended Warren Easts out{below.
I separately identied though not through The Company Secretary and, where appropriate at my invitation, an external search consultancy that Iain Conn might be available to the{Chief Executive attend our meetings.
join our Board in the summer of 2014.
I considered Iain to be a highly regarded and potentially excellent candidate and I moved quickly to secure his services.
Members of the committee and the Board met Iain Committee members Conn and we recommended his appointment to the Board.
Meetings With the appointments of both Warren East and Iain Conn, we have a Member Eligible to{attend Attended enhanced the technology experience and financial expertise on our Sir Michael Rake chairman 5 5 Board.
We continue to look to strengthen some areas of regional and sector experience on the Board.
Tony Ball 5 5 b Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 55 We recommended to the Board that the appointments of Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread each be extended for three years following the expiry Phil Hodkinson 5 5 of their first three-year term in January.
Nick has recent and relevant Nick Rose 5 5 financial experience for the purposes of the Code and constitutes an a audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the SarbanesIncludes a joint meeting with the Audit 5isk Committee in March 2014. b Patricia ewitt retired from the committee on 23 March 2014.
Jasmine has experience in UK and international businesses, corporate social responsibility and sustainable business with particular expertise in building high-performance teams.
Both recommendations What we have done followed a rigorous evaluation of their performance and a review of their We met four times during the year and in addition we held a joint other roles, to assure ourselves that they continue to be independent meeting with the Audit & Risk Committee.
You can read about what in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or we discussed at this joint meeting later on in this report.
The chart circumstances that are likely to aect this judgement.
All non-executive below shows how we allocated our time, including at the joint meeting.
appointments are terminable on three months notice and are subject We{covered the same key themes as last year.
to automatic termination in the event of a director not being elected or re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
Allocation of time Our policy for the composition of the Board is to support diversity in its 4% 41% widest sense.
We wish to attract Board members with a diverse range of Other Governance & compliance programmes backgrounds who will contribute a wealth of knowledge, understanding 11% Governance structure and experience of the communities to whom BT provide services.
& eectiveness Our{gender diversity policy for the Board is to aim to have at least 25% 17% female representation on the Board.
During the year we had at least Regional Governance 30% female representation on the Board, until the retirement of Committees Patricia{Hewitt in March 2014 when it declined to 22%.
We will look to{address this in line with our diversity policy.
We ensure that diversity is{considered as part of any shortlist process drawn up by external search{consultants.
You can read more about BTs approach to diversity on page{24.
27% Board membership & succession Governance 87 Governance structure and eectiveness We continue to keep the membership of BTs Board committees under Key areas Actions review.
The Board approved in April 2014 a number of changes to Continued training on The Board had a governance seminar committee membership following Patricia Hewitts retirement and our good governance and in June 2013.
This covered regulatory new non-executive director appointments.
You can read about this on compliance practices challenges and opportunities data page 81.
Earlier in the year, we recommended to the Board that Tony privacy the new regime for voting and Chanmugam become a member of the BT Pensions Committee, which he reporting on directors pay changes in did from 1 October 2013. narrative reporting and an update on recent enforcement actions regarding We reviewed our terms of reference and recommended some changes disclosures and inside information.
to the Board, which they approved in April 2014.
The changes reect a further renement of some of our governance and compliance activities The Company Secretary provides a report and have made explicit our relationship with BTs Director of Compliance, to each Board meeting and this includes whom we hold to account for the eective application and continued updates on governance and compliance performance of many of BTs significant compliance programmes.
We evaluated our eectiveness through a questionnaire sent to committee members, the Chief Executive and Company Secretary in We recommended to the Board that, in line with the Code, the Boards March 2013.
Over 70% of responses rated the committees overall evaluation for 2014 15 be undertaken externally by Lintstock.
eectiveness as good or above.
We discussed the results and proposed This{followed a tender exercise conducted by the Company Secretary.
In December, we reviewed the action plan and highlight Board members and the Company Secretary have completed separate our progress in key areas in the table below electronic questionnaires on the Board, the Committees, the role of the Chairman and on their own individual contribution.
The Board questionnaire includes a focus on Board composition and expertise, Key areas Actions how{the Board works, its role in setting strategy, its understanding of{the{key risks facing the group, succession planning and a case study Continued focus on We have further strengthened the Board on{the Boards role in the purchase of football broadcasting rights.
succession planning with the appointments of Warren East This{was followed by individual interviews with Lintstock during March and Iain Conn. Patricia Hewitt as the then and a report to the Board in May 2014.
Senior Independent Director met with the non-executive directors to discuss The Board will discuss the results of the evaluation at a future Board the succession planning for BT Groups meeting.
The Chairman will also conduct one-to-one interviews with chairmanship.
directors on their performance and the Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose, will conduct the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
Keep under review We held a joint meeting of the Audit & We noted the list of external directorships and other interests held by the potential areas of Risk and the Nominating & Governance similar duties of some Committees in March 2014 and plan to the{members of the Operating Committee as at March 2014.
Board committees hold this annually.
Governance and compliance Regional Governance We have noted a number of Governance and compliance programmes Committees to include enhancements to the reporting As part of our governance oversight role, we have reviewed a number a broader range of information reviewed by the Regional of BTs core compliance programmes.
We received a presentation on the matters and metrics Governance Committees, which now increasingly important data governance programme and endorsed the includes tracking the resolution of data current areas of focus.
We also reviewed BTs proposed conict minerals governance, security, environment, compliance programme and received an update on BTs programme to anti-corruption and bribery issues.
monitor international trade and sanctions.
At each meeting, we received We{received a report measuring the an update on the implementation of our anti-corruption and bribery progress and maturity of BTs core compliance programme for agents agents programme and highlighted compliance programmes.
the important oversight role that the Regional Governance Committees Carry out deeper We have reviewed BTs programmes RGCs have to play.
reviews of core on conict minerals compliance We endorsed a move to a new approach for mandatory compliance compliance data governance international trade training.
This includes annual assessment to allow people to demonstrate programmes and sanctions human rights and their competence, followed by focused learning in areas which the UK telecommunications regulatory compliance.
assessment highlights is required as well as re-assessment to provide assurance that learning has been eective.
We received an update on Publication of more The company has published in the the programme of externally conducted in-country risk reviews and the case studies of good annual Better Future report the number proposed next steps.
and bad behaviour in of people who leave BT in the UK as relation to compliance a result of ethical misconduct.
The programmes company will use this information and regular reporting on the numbers of compliance ethics-related misconduct cases to help understand root causes and potential trends in non-compliance and drive compliant behaviour.
BT promotes examples of good behaviour on its compliance champions webpage.
Governance 88 Governance Our Regional Governance Committee RGC Structure Nominating & Governance Committee UK & Republic of Europe RGC AsiaPacic & Middle US & Canada RGC Latin America RGC Ireland RGC East &{Africa RGC India Sub-Committee South East Asia Sub-Committee We reviewed the condential hotline process, which is a key tool in BTs Regional Governance Committees whistleblowing procedures.
We supported the proposal to undertake an The structure of our RGCs is set out in the diagram above they each external review and benchmarking exercise of the hotline.
At the joint oversee and monitor governance and compliance in their region.
meeting with the Audit & Risk Committee see below, we reviewed the We{received an update at each meeting on the work of our five RGCs.
Also at each meeting we received an overview This included a review of their performance against the agreed of the condential hotline statistics and trends, as well as a summary of objectives{and progress on the rollout of governance and compliance key cases and outcomes.
RGC chairs presented at our meetings, with focus this year on Europe, Joint meeting with the Audit & Risk Committee Latin America, the US & Canada.
The presentations included progress We held a joint meeting in March 2014 with the Audit & Risk in the region on the implementation and running of core governance Committee to cover areas of common interest to both committees.
and compliance programmes including mandatory compliance training We discussed adherence to BTs gifts and hospitality policy the position on ling of tax and statutory accounts and the rollout of the agents programme.
r the findings from the external review and benchmark of BTs We were also updated on the regions governance and compliance risk condential hotline programme and endorsed the proposed management framework, with particular focus and discussion on the action{plan top five governance and compliance risk areas and the progress of r the design and controls of the sales teams pay plans in BT Global corresponding mitigation plans and actions.
Services and the review under way of sales pay plans across the group and We also approved some changes to the terms of reference of the RGCs to r our UK telecommunications regulatory compliance programme provide more detail on the governance and compliance areas which the and how BT manages and mitigates regulatory risk.
RGCs oversee and monitor include a quarterly review of governance and compliance recommendations from group internal audit promote the We also received an update on BTs human rights compliance rollout of compliance and ethics consequence management programmes programme.
across their regions and provide greater clarity on the roles and accountabilities of the members of each RGC.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman of the Nominating & Governance Committee 7 May 2014
