governance and remuneration c hairmans governance review This annual report marks the end of my Delegation of responsibilities to Board-level first full-year as chairman of British Land.
and management committees within our During the year i have visited a wide range governance structure ensures that the Board of the companys assets and developments, has sufficient oversight of all key aspects of including the grade a office space of the the business, with well-established reporting Leadenhall Building, scheduled to achieve lines allowing all necessary information practical completion in mid-2014, and the to flow from the committees to the Board.
opening of whiteley shopping, witnessing our governance framework and each our vision of next generation retail come to life.
committees responsibilities are regularly i have also had the opportunity to meet with a reviewed to monitor their effectiveness, and number of our major shareholders to discuss improvements are made as necessary to meet British Lands performance, strategy and the changing requirements of the company.
objectives, and take on board their comments.
The financial year ended 31 march 2013 saw The Board has continued to apply good the establishment of the risk committee, governance practices throughout the year, reporting into the audit committee, with the operating in compliance with the UK corporate specific remit of focusing on the management Dear ShareholDer, governance code the code and embracing the of strategic and operational risk.
This year, welcome to the corporate changes to the code that have come into force, a new management committee, the operations including stating the Boards Diversity Policy committee, has been formed to improve the governance section of our page 79, enhanced disclosures in the flow of information between the executive annual report.
report of the audit committee page 74 and committee and the wider company, to confirmation from the Board that they believe improve the strategic and tactical decisions that this annual report is fair, balanced and that are made.
The process undertaken to The design of our governance structure enable the Board to provide this confirmation ensures that the right people have access to to shareholders is described in the the right information.
internally, this means accountability section, on page 71. that matters can be discussed and agreed This years remuneration report has been at the appropriate level of the business, prepared in accordance with new regulations in the appropriate level of detail, allowing the and includes a specific statement of our business to operate with maximum efficiency.
remuneration Policy, which will be presented stringent systems of control are in place to to shareholders for approval at the 2014 agm.
ensure that decisions are taken by people with we have endeavoured to provide a clear and the appropriate authority to do so, and that all in-depth description of our approach to relevant information is reported to the Board.
Directors remuneration and explain how the major decisions taken by the Board during different elements are carefully designed to the year include the acquisition of the majority support our strategic objectives and reward of Paddington central, which increased our performance that will benefit shareholders exposure to London and replenished our over the long-term.
development pipeline, and the sale of our stake good governance is about much more in Puerto venecia, Zaragoza, a significant part than sitting in a boardroom.
while the of our exit from europe both of which are chief executive and executive Directors take fully aligned with the companys strategy.
responsibility for day-to-day management, it is essential that our strategy is understood the entire Board must have sufficient throughout the company, to enable our people engagement with the business to allow to work to source and deliver opportunities us to lead the company with an in-depth such as these.
monthly company meetings understanding of its strengths and presented by executive Directors and senior capabilities, and the challenges it faces.
executives, tailored training sessions and an annual company conference are all used to share our vision and objectives with employees.
60 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration These opportunities are also used to seek communication with other key stakeholders governance review 60-81 employees ideas and feedback, which help is another important aspect of our governance our governance structure 62 the Board further develop the company vision framework.
This includes maintaining a regular Board of Directors 66 and improve the running of the business.
and open dialogue with our lenders to help governance review 68 us understand their appetite and investment were proud to employ highly-skilled individuals report of the audit committee 74 criteria, and building close relationships throughout British Land, with the competencies report of the nomination committee 79 with our occupiers to develop a deeper and expertise necessary to implement the remuneration report 82 understanding of their requirements.
This Boards strategy to its maximum effect.
During additional disclosures 108 accumulation of knowledge and experience the year a number of initiatives have been is fundamental if we are to create places people implemented which focus on developing and prefer and meet our objective of generating growing talent within the company, detailed long-term sustainable total returns for our in the report of the nomination committee shareholders.
This is particularly important from the perspective of succession planning, as on a final note, Tony Braine, who has been with the Board and nomination committee identify British Land since 1987 and has been group people with the potential to fill Board, senior secretary since 1995, will be retiring in July executive and executive vacancies which may 2014.
The Board wishes Tony a long and happy arise in the future.
retirement with sincere thanks for his support and diligent service over the years.
externally, our governance structure facilitates open, two-way dialogue with shareholders.
This is another key element in the successful development of our vision: shareholder views and preferences set the boundaries in which John gildersleeve the Board constructs strategy.
conversation non-executive chairman with shareholders is ongoing throughout the year, and shareholder views are conveyed to the Board as a whole.
The executive Directors regularly communicate with investors through meetings and conference calls, with the chief executive relaying shareholder opinions back to the full Board, both positive and negative.
Together with the rest of the Board, i look forward to addressing shareholders at the agm and responding to any comments or questions they may have in person.
The agm also presents an opportunity for all shareholders to meet Tim score, who was appointed a non-executive Director of British Land on 20 march 2014.
Details of Tim scores appointment process can be found in the report of the nomination committee on page 80.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
