HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 94 Corporate Governance Chairmans Corporate Governance Statement Introduction As Chairman, I am responsible for the Groups corporate governance framework.
During the year the Board achieved and maintained high standards of corporate governance and will continue to adapt this framework as necessary in 2015.
BOARD EVALUATION SUCCESSION PLANNING Stephen Gee retired as a Non-Executive Director The Board formally evaluates its performance and of the Company at the Annual General Meeting in that of its Committees annually.
Having undertaken 2014 and Richard Mully will retire as a Non-Executive its first externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2013 Director of the Company at the Annual General in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Meeting on 8 June 2015.
Governance Code, the Board undertook the 2014 evaluation using a series of questionnaires.
In addition, As part of the process of succession planning for NonI met with each of the Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca on a one-to-one basis to evaluate their individual Worthington were welcomed to the Board on 10 June performances and the Non-Executive Directors all met 2014.
Melvyn and Rebecca were also appointed as without me present to evaluate my performance as members of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Chairman.
Committee effective from the same date.
Overall, the findings of the evaluation were positive, Also at the Annual General Meeting Richard Cotton will retire as Chairman of the Remuneration recognising the amount of work that the Board and Committee and be succeeded by Melvyn Egglenton.
senior management team has undertaken during the year to improve procedures in a number of areas.
The I would like to take this opportunity to thank Richard Board is con dent that the performance of the Board Mully for his substantial contribution and commitment and the Committees was and is effective and that to Hansteens growth and success over the past nine all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their years.
Following the Board evaluation, I remain satis ed that the performance of all the Directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates commitment to their role.
