Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 75 Board attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board scheduled Board other Committee Committee Committee 1 1 6 meetings 6 meetings 3meetings 11meetings 6meetings Chairman 2 Martin Scicluna 6 6 3 6 6 2 2 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 6 6 Nick Sanderson 6 6 Neil Thompson 6 6 Non-Executive Directors Charles Irby 5 5 2 10 5 Elizabeth Holden 66 116 Jonathan Nicholls 6 6 3 11 6 Jonathan Short 6 6 9 6 1.
As a result of a number of significant transactions during the year, there were six unscheduled Board meetings during the year seeBoard activities on pages 75 and 76.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Audit or Remuneration Committees, in his role of Chairman, he attends key meetings of the Remuneration Committee relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half year and year-end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive all relevant papers in advance and their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
Board activities Excluding the Annual General Meeting, the Board meets for scheduled Board meetings six times a year.
Regular matters reserved for consideration by the Board at these meetings include: July September November January April May Standard reports Shareholder analysis Chief Executives Report including investment market and propositions, asset strategies and market conditions dashboard Portfolio Directors Report including valuation, leasing activity, major developments summary, approved vs. actual development spend, longerterm pipeline and sales review Finance Directors Report including forecasts, finance initiatives and tenant watch list Subjects reviewed Strategic review and setting of Business Plan Review of market conditions dashboard, implementation ofBusiness Plan and forecasts Review of half year or annual results, going concern, dividend policy andanalyst presentation Review of AGM Trading Statement Formal review of risk management and internal controls Feedback from shareholders and analysts Corporate governance matters including Board evaluation, authority levels, Terms of Reference, UKCorporate Governance Code compliance Annual Health and Safety and Sustainability Reports includingapproval of the Companys Health and Safety  Annual Corporate Responsibility Report including approval ofthe Companys Ethics and Whistleblowing policies and sustainability objectivesand targets Conicts of interest 76 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Board activities continued Committees of the Board Other ad hoc matters for consideration by the Board at scheduled The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Board meetings in addition to the above may include: which deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the major potential acquisitions and disposals: Board.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on written significant leasing arrangements: request and on the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors approval of major developments: governance significant financing arrangements: The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the senior management appointments: and meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee memberships are appointment of principal advisers.
included in the directors biographies on pages 46 and 47.
Additional approvals sought outside of the scheduled Board meetings Board induction and development this year included, amongst other things: On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to the pre-let and commitment to develop for 12 14 Fetter Lane, EC4 provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 days see pages 14 and 15 and page 33: ayear, are provided with a detailed induction programme.
This the sale of Park Crescent West, W1 see page 30: coversthe Companys operations, including social, ethical and the sale of 90 Queen Street, EC4 see page 30: environmental matters, and meetings with Senior management andtours of the Groups main properties.
the acquisition of Oxford House, 76 Oxford Street, W1 seepages 16 and 17 and page 31: As part of his induction, Charles Philipps: the creation of a 50:50 joint venture with HKMA see pages 30 met with each of the directors and the Company Secretary: and38: prior to joining the Board, attended the GPE Investor Conference sale of 20 St Jamess Street, W1 see page 30: held at Oxford House in February 2014: the issue of the 150 million Convertible Bond see pages 36 met with the Investment Director, Heads of Investment and37: Management, Asset Management, Leasing, Development, Project Management, Financial Reporting and Investor Relations and the appointment of a Development Manager: Corporate Finance either as part of tours of the portfolio or in the development of Rathbone Square, W1 see pages 18, 19 and 33: separate meetings: a change in one of the Companys joint corporate brokers to Bank met with the auditors to gain an insight into Deloittes relationship ofAmerica Merrill Lynch: and with the team and key accounting matters: the appointment of Charles Philipps as Non-Executive Director met with the valuers to understand CBREs valuation process: see page 83. undertook two property tours of the Groups key buildings: and At least once a year, the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters went through the 2013 and 2014 Strategy Review with Toby reserved for its decision.
No changes have been proposed for this Courtauld in advance of the 2014 Annual Strategic Review coming year.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executives meet inApril2014.
regularly without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year the Non-Executives meet without the Chairman.
In addition, individual The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent directors meet regularly outside the formal Board meetings as part of professional advice and are encouraged to continually update their each directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy professional skills and knowledge of the business.
Senior managers and review of operations.
The Executive Directors meet weekly as the and external advisers presented to the Board during the year on a Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with range of subjects including acquisitions, developments, the outlook the ongoing management of the Group with copies of the minutes for the economy, the property market, the West End and City ofthese meetings being distributed to the Chairman and markets and potential and impending legal and regulatory changes.
The directors also individually attend seminars or conferences associated with their expertise or responsibility and each quarter To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive areprovided with a list of relevant upcoming seminars provided by appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers various professional firms.
The level and nature of training by the distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property directors is reviewed by the Chairman at least annually.
tourswhich, this year, included a tour of City Tower, EC2, residentialflats built by other developers to better understand the potential purchasers requirements of the apartments to be built at RathbonePlace, W1 and both the office and residential elements at240Blackfriars Road, SE1.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of which are reviewed annually.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 77 Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of Conicts of interest theframework of how the Groups risks are managed through In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of by the Executive Committee, and Board review and oversight.
The interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This made by non-conflicted directors those who have no interest in the involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and matter being considered and in making such a decision the directors financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise promote the Companys success.
The Company has established a those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout procedure whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest of current the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial and proposed roles to be undertaken by the directors with other controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of both the nature of theregulatory environment.
Review is also carried out as to how the those roles, and their time commitment, and for proper authorisation controls and reporting procedures have operated during the year.
to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director.
The Board Keyrisks tothe business, how these have changed during the year consider these procedures to be working effectively.
and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risksare described in more detail on pages 61 to 69.
Internal controls and risk management The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of Fair, balanced and understandable internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
As part of its considerations as to whether the 2014 Annual Report Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, the assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed Board takes into account the following: tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve individual sections of the Annual Report and financial statements businessobjectives.
are drafted by appropriate senior management with regular review There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, meetings to ensure consistency of the whole document: evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual Report these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year and financial statements are undertaken by the Executive Directors: under review and up to the date of the approval of the AnnualReport, a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and discussed and accord with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance Internal with the Finance Director and Senior management prior to Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
consideration by the Board: Key features of the system of internal control include: the Finance Director, in his May Board paper, includes a checklist a comprehensive system of financial reporting and business of areas that the Board should take into consideration in planning: considering the fairness, consistency and balance of the Annual Report and financial statements, including whether the Board a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board: considers that there are any omissions in information.
an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: formal documentation procedures: the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with Senior management to review all operational aspects of the business and risk management systems: the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and formal sign-off on the Groups Ethics and Whistleblowing policies by all employees annually.
78 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Relations with investors Month Investor Roadshows Industry Conferences Other 2013 April May London, Amsterdam Amsterdam Equity sales force meeting 1 June Edinburgh, US, Canada London 2 Equity sales force meeting 2, sell side analyst property tour July Netherlands Equity sales force meeting 2 August September Paris, US, London Equity sales force meeting 1 October London November London, US Equity sales force meeting 3 December Zurich London Convertible bond investor meeting 2014 January London Equity sales force meeting 1, East End of Oxford Street presentation to investors February Hong Kong, Singapore, Amsterdam Equity sales force meeting 1, Investor Conference March US, London Communication with investors is given a high priority and the The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, and potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts through private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is acomprehensive investor relations programme.
The Executive available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet Directors and the Head of Financial Reporting & Investor Relations new directors.
are the Companys principal representatives with investors, analysts, The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration fund managers, press and other interested parties, and independent Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual shareholders and analysts is provided to the Non-Executive Directors General Meeting on 3 July 2014 can be found in the Notice of on a regular basis.
After the Annual General Meeting, The investor relations programme is executed through a the Companys Registrars will count and verify the poll votes.
The varietyofroutes and across a number of geographies, including results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will roadshowmeetings, meetings at industry conferences, property bepublished on our website.
tours bothwith individual investors and also as group tours Investor contact by method andcommunication with analysts and investment banks equity salesteams.
Roadshow meeting In February 2014, for the first time, we held an Investor Conference Conference meeting 9 9 for shareholders and analysts to provide a deeper insight into the Property tour Other development process and our activities at the East End of Oxford Street.
We had more than 70 attendees at the event and the feedback received was very positive.
83 225 124 Meetings During the year, the Executive Directors and Senior management had 225 formal meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders asdetailed opposite.
The Executive Directors and corporate finance team also have regular dialogue with our debt providers, including relationship Investor contact by location banks, private placement investors, debenture holders and convertible bond holders.
United Kingdom United States 22 Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also meets with major shareholders, Rest of Europe as appropriate, during the course of the year.
Rest of World 34 Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys website at www.
As Chairman and Senior 225 Meetings Independent Director, respectively, Martin Scicluna and Charles Irby 131 are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
38 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 79 Audit Committee January 2014 Review of Interim Management Statement Dear fellow shareholder Meeting with the valuers Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee.
Review of Interim Management Statement Announcement The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on the February 2014 Year-end planning update Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems and the independence and effectiveness of the auditors.
Meeting with the auditors Review of: Audit Committee and advisers significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 80 During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Charles Irby, developments in accounting and reporting Jonathan Short, Elizabeth Holden and myself.
The Audit Committee requirements and proposed disclosure in the provides a forum for reporting and discussion with the Groups 2014 Annual Report in relation to the Directors external auditors in respect of the Groups half year and year-end remuneration report results and meetings are also attended by the valuers, certain Audit Plan update Executive Directors and senior managers by invitation.
Martin Agreement of 2014 audit fee Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings in May 2014 Review of year-end results connection with the half year and year-end results.
Meeting with the valuers The Committee meets regularly during the year, in alignment with Meeting with the auditors the financial reporting timetable.
Review of: significant accounting, reporting and judgement Key activities of the Committee during the year matters see page 80 Month Principal activities Group tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance July 2013 Review of Interim Management Statement internal controls and risk management process Meeting with the valuers see pages 61 to 69 Review of Interim Management Statement the potential need for internal audit Announcement Annual Report Preliminary Announcement September 2013 Annual planning meeting Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy Meeting with the auditors seepage 51 Review of: the Committees effectiveness effectiveness and independence of the auditors relationship between the auditors and see pages 80 and 81 GPEmanagement 2013 management letter including sustainability reappointment of the auditors significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 80 2014 Audit Plan November 2013 Review of half year results Meeting with the valuers Meeting with the auditors Review of: si gnicant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 80 t he Groups tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance in ternal controls and risk management process ha lf year result announcement a ppointment and allocation processes for agents and lawyers 80 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance After reviewing the reports from management and consulting Internal controls and risk management wherenecessary with the auditors and valuers, the Audit Committee The Audit Committees role in reviewing internal controls and risk is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the management is covered on page 77. critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that Accounting and key areas of judgement theprocesses used for determining the value of the assets and A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently on .
Internal audit The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings in September Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal and February each year to consider proposed accounting treatments audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the for major transactions, significant reporting judgements and key Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, a assumptions therein in advance of the half year and year-endresults.
rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted through As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the acombination of the external audit process or through reviews by Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee, together with Martin members of the finance team and or external advisers as appropriate.
Scicluna, meets with the valuers along with the auditors to discuss thevaluation included within the half year and year-end financial The external audit, review of its effectiveness, statements.
This includes the valuation process undertaken, changes non-audit services and auditor reappointment in market conditions and recent transactions in the market and how The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the these have impacted upon GPEs valuation, valuation movements on external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, individual buildings and the valuers expectations in relation to future and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and rental growth and yield movement.
The external auditors meet with discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external the valuers separately from the Audit Committee, using real estate auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of the external specialists where appropriate, and provide the Audit Committee with audit process, a formal evaluation process incorporating views from a summary of their review as part of their report on the half year and the Audit Committee and relevant members of management is year-end results.
The Audit Committee also meets with the valuers considered by the Audit Committee and feedback is provided to todiscuss the valuation included in the interim management theauditors.
Areas covered by this review include: statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related the calibre of the external audit firm including reputation, accounting policies see note 10 and note 1.
Although going concern is coverage and industry presence: a matter for the whole Board, see page 107, review is made of the quality controls including review processes, partner oversight, Groups headroom under its covenants andundrawn facilities in reports from the Audit Inspection Units and regulators, and use relation to Groups financial forecasts andsensitivity analyses.
ofspecialists: Acquisitions, disposals and revenue recognition from significant lease transactions are considered to the extent that there are any unusual the audit team covering quality of individuals, knowledge, terms and conditions or judgements made in relation to timing.
resources, partner involvement, team rotation, the audit scope Other significant issues specifically reviewed by the Audit Committee including planning and execution, scope adequacy and for the year ended 31 March 2014 were: specialistareas: the accounting for the 150 million Convertible Bond issued audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: inSeptember 2013.
This review included the Convertible Bond audit communications and effectiveness planning, new beingcarried solely as debt as a result of it being able to be settled developments regulations, approach to critical accounting policies, physically in shares or cash see note 17, and the recognition of issues and risks, quality of processes, timely resolution of issues, thefair value of the whole instrument through the profit and loss freedom of communication with the Audit Committee and seenotes 7 and 18.
Managements treatment was reviewed in feedback on management performance: detail by Deloittes financial instruments specialists who have governance and independence internal governance agreed with managements approach: and arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit Committee, the appropriation of the residential element of Rathbone Square integrity of the audit team, Audit Committee confidence in the from investment property to trading property following the audit team and transparency: decision to start the marketing campaign for the residential ethical standards including conflicts of interest, non-audit work salesin2014 15.
For more details see note 11. and partner rotation: and The Audit Committee has concurred with the accounting treatment potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they were not aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, made to achieve a particular presentation.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 81 The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management in In addition to ensuring compliance with the Groups policy in respect the external audit process in respect of the timely identification and of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the Audit resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from the Committee also receives confirmation from Deloitte LLP that it auditors and the Audit Committee as appropriate: and the timely remains independent and has maintained internal safeguards to provision of the draft half year results announcement and Annual ensure its objectivity.
Report and Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
Following a tender process, Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor In addition to the review of the formal management letter from the since 2003.
The Audit Committee is mindful that under the UK auditors which outlines how points raised by the auditors have been Corporate Governance Code, the audit should be put out for tender addressed by management, feedback is sought from the auditors on every ten years: however, the exact timing remains at its discretion.
the conduct of members of the finance team during the audit process.
Itis a requirement that the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits is rotated every five years and a new lead audit In addition, I meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal partner took responsibility for the audit in June 2013.
Under the Committee process during the year on a regular basis.
transitional arrangements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, The auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audit and other the latest date the Audit Committee would need to consider putting services which the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to out the audit tender is 2023.
However, under proposed new regulation undertake due to their position as auditors.
Under the Groups from the UK Competition Commission, the audit could be required policyin respect of non-audit services permitted to be provided to be put out to tender within two years of the current lead partners bythe external auditor.
The purpose of this policy available from rotation, being before March 2020.
Notwithstanding these theCompanys website at www.
co. uk investors governance is requirements, the Committee will continue to consider the tender toensure auditor independence and objectivity is maintained.
Under ofthe audit annually depending on the auditors performance.
the policy, prior approval is required by the AuditCommittee for Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of the Audit assignments over 50,000, or where such anassignment would take Committee, the relationship with the auditors works well and the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid tothe external auditors theCommittee remains satisfied with their independence and over 50% of that years audit fees.
Deloitte Real Estate, on occasions effectiveness.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the provides the Group and the Groups joint ventures with advice on Companys choice of external auditor.
rights of light, party walls and other items involving adjoining owners or third parties neighbourly matters.
Fees paid to Deloitte Real Estate by both the Group and the joint ventures are, therefore, also monitored by the Audit Committee.
During the year, activities undertaken by the auditors for the Group outside of the main audit included: reporting on the income cover in connection with the debenture trust deed compliance certificate: advice on the application of tax legislation on property transactions: Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee advice on the accounting and tax treatment of the 150 million 21 May 2014 Convertible Bond: neighbourly matters undertaken by Deloitte Real Estate at 73 89Oxford Street, W1: assurance on achievement against 2013 14 sustainability objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and ad hoc accounting advice.
Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 120.
In addition, audit and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of joint ventures totalled 34,000 GPEshare and nil respectively.
2014 2013 000s 000s Audit fees including related audit 288 234 assurance services including fees for joint ventures managed by GPE GPE share Non-audit fees including fees for 117 102 joint ventures managed by GPE GPE share Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 41% 44% 82 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Nomination Committee Dear fellow shareholder Key activities of the Committee during the year Welcome to the Report of the Nomination Committee.
Each year the Month Principal activities Nomination Committee undertakes a review of succession planning May 2013 Skill set required of new Non-Executive Director and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, determined with the Board including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
This June 2013 Meeting with external recruitment consultants and year, our main focus has been on the recruitment, appointment and appointment of Ridgeway Partners induction of our new Non-Executive Director, Charles Philipps.
July 2013 Meeting of the Chairman, Jonathan Nicholls, TobyCourtauld and Desna Martin with the Nomination Committee and advisers recruitment consultants to discuss longlist During the year, the Nomination Committee comprised of Charles September 2013 Meeting of the Chairman, Jonathan Nicholls, Irby, our Senior Independent Director, Jonathan Nicholls and myself.
TobyCourtauld and Desna Martin with the In making any Board appointments, the Nomination Committee recruitment consultants to discuss shortlist also consults with the Chief Executive and other members of the October 2013 The Chairman and Jonathan Nicholls meet with Board as appropriate.
rened shortlist of three candidates In June 2013, Ridgeway Partners was appointed as external January 2014 Recommendation to the Board that Charles Philipps recruitment consultants to conduct the search for a new be appointed as Non-Executive Director see page83 Non-Executive Director and they have no other connection Induction process agreed with Martin Scicluna and withtheCompany.
Toby Courtauld March 2014 Review of: training undertaken by the Board in 2013 14 reappointments to the Board to be proposed atthe2014 Annual General Meeting Committee memberships April 2014 Review of: the Board evaluation feedback: and the effectiveness of the Committee May 2014 Review of succession and development plans for theExecutive Directors and key senior managers and managers with the Chief Executive Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 83 In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, an external Director appointments, the Nomination Committee specifically evaluation of the Board performance, those of its Committees and considers the expected time commitment of the proposed individual directors together with the Company Secretary was Non-Executive and other commitments they already have.
undertaken by Dr Tracy Long at the beginning of 2014.
The process Agreement of the Board is also required before a Non-Executive involved Dr Tracy Long attending the January 2014 Board meeting Director may accept any additional commitments to ensure possible and interviewing each ofthe directors and the Company Secretary conflicts of interest are identified and that they will continue to have separately and then reporting back to me at the end of March 2014. sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Feedback was provided both to the Board as a whole at the April 2014 Board meeting and to individuals in advance of that Board meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms, Following this Board evaluation, the Nomination Committee is butfollowing the UK Corporate Governance Code are subject to confident that each director continues to remain committed to their annual re-election and all proposed reappointments to the Board are role, exercising independent judgement and challenge as required.
formally considered by the Nomination Committee in respect of each individuals continued effectiveness and commitment to therole.
After a review of the composition of the Board and its Committees, the Nomination Committee has recommended to the Board that, The Boards policy remains that selection should be based on the best onCharles Irbys retirement at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, person for the role.
The Nomination Committee has continued to Jonathan Nicholls should be appointed Senior Independent Director choose not to set specific representation targets for women at Board and Jonathan Short should become Chairman of the Remuneration level at this time.
However, the benefits of diversity, including gender Committee.
It has also been agreed that Jonathan Short and diversity, will continue to be an active consideration whenever Elizabeth Holden should join the Nomination Committee with changes to the Boards composition are contemplated.
effectfrom 1April 2014 and Charles Philipps should join the In anticipation of Charles Irbys retirement from the Board at the Nomination Committee from 1 July 2014.
2014Annual General Meeting and prior to the external recruitment consultants being appointed for the search of a new Non-Executive Director to succeed him, the role of new Non-Executive Director and the qualities sought for that role were agreed by the Board.
Part of thespecification provided to Ridgeway Partners was that women candidates of equal merit be included in the longlist for consideration Martin Scicluna by the Nomination Committee.
In order to understand the dynamics Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the Board prior to the start of their selection process, Ridgeway also 21 May 2014 met with each of the directors.
Following a review of the long list, the shortlist of six candidates included two women.
This was reduced to a final shortlist of three candidates by Ridgeway Partners and the three candidates were interviewed by Jonathan Nicholls and myself at the end of the autumn.
Our preferred candidate, Charles Philipps, thenmet with the other continuing Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
Following these meetings, a recommendation was made to the Board in January 2014 that, based on his significant commercial and financial experience through his role as Chief Executive at Amlinplc and previously with NatWest Markets, Charles Philipps beappointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2014, and the Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2014.
The basis of Charles Philipps inductionwas also agreed to enable the process to start prior to hisappointment on 1April 2014 and included attending the GPEInvestor Conference inFebruary 2014, property tours, meetings withthe Senior management team, meetings with the valuers and auditors, as wellasappropriate background reading.
84 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report How we measure success We measure our absolute and relative performance using a small number of key strategic performance indicators: Relative Total Property Return TPR : Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : and Absolute net asset per share growth NAV growth.
Over the medium term we aim to outperform our benchmarks.
The Great Portland Estates 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2010 Plan approved by shareholders in July 2010 was introduced to simplify theGroups Long-Term Incentive and Share Matching awards and improve alignment of the Executives incentives with the Companys strategy.
The 2010 Plan uses all of our key strategic performance Dear fellow shareholder indicators to measure the Groups performance being TPR, TSR On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration andNAVgrowth.
Committees report of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 for which we will be seeking approval at the Annual The Groups annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors uses General Meeting on 3 July 2014. financial targets based on the capital growth element of TPR and NAV growth, whilst the Groups annual bonus plan for employees Remuneration policy principles uses a financial target based on TPR.
The Executive Directors total pay is analysed by looking across As set out on pages 8 and 9, the achievement of our strategic priorities eachof the different elements of remuneration including salary, resulted in strong performance against our KPI benchmarks.
pension, the annual bonus plan and long-term incentives to providethe Remuneration Committee the Committee with a view 2013 14 overview of totalremuneration rather than just the competitiveness of the Following consultation with shareholders in the year ended 31 March individual elements.
It is important that the Groups remuneration 2013, we changed the IPD Central and Inner London Valuation policy reinforces the Companys goals, providing effective incentives Index used as thebenchmark in the measurement of the Groups for exceptional Group and individual performance.
As well as relative annual portfolio capital growth and TPR performance for the providing motivation to perform, remuneration plays an important Annual Bonus Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan respectively from retention role and needs to be competitive with alternative the quarterly index to the March valued index.
As a result of this employment opportunities, in particular at a time in the central change, some of the Groups competitors which do not report London property cycle where demands on the Executive Directors quarterly data to the IPD index are now included in the benchmark and employees are high and there is a scarcity value on index.
No other changes were made to the Groups remuneration provenperformers.
structure in the year ended 31 March 2014.
To achieve the aims of the Companys remuneration policy, the Basic salaries for the Executive Directors were increased by 3% in line Committee seeks to position fixed remuneration, including benefits with the average increases provided to other employees.
and pension around mid-market and total executive remuneration around mid-market for on-target performance taking into account Achievement under the Annual Bonus Plan is shown on pages 96 the size and complexity of the business as compared to other peer and 97 ofthe Annual report on remuneration.
companies in the sector, and, using a significant proportion of In July 2013, the Groups 2010 LTIP and SMP awards, based variable reward, to increase total potential remuneration for onoutperformance of TSR, TPR and NAV, vested in full for the superiorperformance through the annual bonus plan and TSRandNAV elements and at 96% for the SMP and 75% for the long-termincentives.
additional SMP in respect of the TPR element.
The Groups 2011 LTIP and SMP awards anticipated vesting in June 2014 is shown The link between the Companys strategy and the onpage 98 the Annual report on remuneration.
remuneration policy operated by the Company Our strategy 2014 15 review of remuneration arrangements The Groups strategy continues to be to generate superior portfolio During the year, the Committee has conducted a review of the and shareholder returns from investing in and improving central effectiveness of the current incentive plans and the linkage to London real estate.
Weaim to achieve this through our intense, business strategy.
In considering the Executives Directors structure customer-focused approach to managing our properties combined for the year to come, the Committee believes that the relative size with an effective reading ofthe property cycle, across amarket that ofthe elements of the variable reward structure and the proposed we know intimately.
performance targets in the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan areappropriate in the current market environment.
Overall the To deliver our strategy, each year we set out our strategic priorities, Committee considered that the incentives have provided strong which for the year ended 31 March 2014, included: alignment between shareholders and the Executive team and since Selective acquisitions and recycling: the last review in 2010, the Company has consistently outperformed Delivery of our development programme: and the market and delivered substantial returns to shareholders across all of the key performance measures.
To achieve these strategic priorities, every building has a detailed business plan, defining the angles that we seek to exploit in order tocreate value.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 85 The base salary increase for employees was 3% for the year ending Compliance with the new remuneration 31 March 2015.
Base salary increases of more than 3% were given to reportingregulations some employees due to market alignment and or a number of As required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and increases in individual responsibilities, such that the average increase Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 was 4.4% for the year to 31 March 2015.
The Committee, having theRegulations, this remuneration report is split into two parts: reviewed mid-market levels in the FTSE 350 Real Estate index The Directors remuneration policy sets out the policy commencing propose to increase Toby Courtaulds salary by 3% and Neil from the date of the 2014 Annual General Meeting ofthe Company Thompson and Nick Sandersons salaries by 5% for the year ending 2014 AGM which is intended to apply for three years from the 31 March 2015. date of approval and the key factors that were taken into account in A summary of the implementation of the remuneration policy for setting the policy.
The Directors remuneration policy will be theyear ending 31 March 2015 is provided on pages 103 and 104 of subject to a binding vote.
the Annual report on remuneration.
The Annual report on remuneration sets out payments andawards made to the Directors and details the link between Company Key activities of the Committee during the Year performance and remuneration for the 2014 financial year.
The The following table sets out the meetings that Committee had during annual report on remuneration which includes how the Committee the year and the key activities undertaken at each of these meetings: intends to implement the remuneration policy this year, is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Meeting date Key activities I hope shareholders will find the remuneration policy upon which June 2013 Review of: they will be asked to vote separately for the first time at the 2014 AGM the 2010 LTIP and SMP performance and vesting appropriate in light of both the Companys strategy and its key of awards seepage 99: and performance indicators for 2014 and the longer term.
effectiveness and independence of the remuneration consultants.
Yours sincerely Approval of the purchase of additional shares by theLTIP Trust.
September 2013 Market update provided by PwC.
November 2013 Review of: Executive incentives: and Charles Irby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Key decisions required in respect of the  in connection with 21 May 2014 theBIS proposals.
January 2014 Review of: Executive incentives: and Institutional shareholder guidelines Approval of GPEs remuneration policy.
April 2014 Review of: draft 2014 remuneration report: the effectiveness of the Committee through theBoard evaluation process: proposed salary increases across the Group: year-end appraisals of Executive Directors, Investment Director and Company Secretary andtheir objectives and targets set for forthcoming year: Senior Manager bonuses: and Senior Manager salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year.
Approval of: Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary discretionary bonuses: and Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year.
May 2014 Review and approval of: Executive Director corporate bonus plan targets: Chairmans fees for 2014 15: 2014 remuneration report: and 2014 Performance and Matching share awards.
86 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report contains details of the Directors remuneration policy that will govern the Companys futureremuneration payments.
The policy below sets out the remuneration policy we intend to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 3 July 2014, the date ofthenextAnnual General Meeting.
The policy part of the remuneration report will be displayed on the Companys website, at www.
co. uk investors, immediately after the 2014 AGM.
Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process Fixed Remuneration Base salary To provide a market competitive salary Reviewed by the Committee at least annually and assessed having regard to Company which takes into account individual performance, individual responsibilities, ination, aswell as salary levels in comparable responsibilities and attracts and retains organisations particularly within the listed property sector andtaking account of salary talent in the labour market in which policywithin the restof theGroup.
Benets To provide benets that are Benets principally comprise life insurance, health insurance, private healthcare subscriptions, travel valuedbytherecipient and expenses and membership subscriptions.
Executive Directors may be provided with a company car .
It is not the Companys current practice to provide Executive Directors with a company car or a company car allowance.
Other benets may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benets package is appropriately competitive and reects individual circumstances.
Benets are reviewed annually and their value isnot pensionable.
Pension To provide a framework to save All Executive Directors receive a contribution to their personal pension planor receive acash forretirement that isappropriately equivalent.
This cash equivalent is not treated assalary for the purposes ofdetermining bonus competitive.
Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Plan Links reward to the annual performance The Annual Bonus Plan isreviewed annually at the start of the financial year to ensure bonus targets, which are set at the beginning opportunity: performance measures and weightings are appropriate and continue tosupport ofthe financial year in line with the theCompanys strategy.
The bonus is paid in cash following the end of the financial year.
Ensures an alignment between the operation of theCompanys remuneration policy and financial measures whilst also ensuring additional operational measures are targeted to encourage aholistic approach to performance.
