LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Performance and reward for 2014 As discussed in the strategic report, the Group has delivered an increase in EPRA net assets per share of 28.4% and a total return of 30.1%.
The structure of the Groups bonus scheme wasadjusted as part of last years review of the Directors remuneration arrangements, so this strong performance was assessed against a revised balance of performance measures.
The outcome derived from this measurement combined with the discretionary element assessed by the Committee to reflect other corporate objectives, resulted in abonus entitlement of 92.6% of maximum potential.
Awards made under the Groups 2004 Performance Share Plan PSP in 2012 were subject to two conditions, each covering 50% of the award.
One was based on relative total shareholder return TSR performance against a group of other real estate companies and the other was based on net asset value growth compared to the return from properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index.
The performance criteria were measured at the end of the year and 50% of the total awards are expected to vest.
The net asset value part of SIMON W. D. FRASER the award was measured to 31 December 2014 and the TSR CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE part will be measured to 12 April 2015.
The Committee believes the annual bonus outturn and Dear Shareholder, anticipated PSP vesting during the year fairly represents Group performance over their respective performance periods.
I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration Committee for 2014.
The Committee was very satisfied Remuneration policy for 2015 withthelevel of support received from shareholders for As a Committee we are committed to ensuring that rewards for  structure introduced in 2014. executives are aligned to the interests of shareholders through Thisresulted in99.5% votes being cast in favour of the having all our incentive arrangements linked to challenging Directors Remuneration Policy Report and 98.1% in favour performance targets.
These targets focus our management oftheannual report of the Remuneration Committee at team on growing the Groups net asset value and increasing theGroups 2014AGM.
total return which in turn should deliver above market returns toshareholders.
The Committee is confident that the structure Derwent Londons objective continues to be to deliver above implemented during 2014 continues to meet these objectives.
In an industry where relatively few people manage a large and complicated The Committee reviewed executive Directors salary levels in business this can only be achieved by recruiting and December 2014 and agreed a basic increase of 3% for 2015. retainingthe best people.
At a senior level, the Remuneration This took into account another excellent year of performance Committee is responsible for maintaining a remuneration by the management team over all areas of the business in structure that achieves this without incentivising management 2014 and the competitive nature of the market for top to run excessive levels of risk.
performing executives in the real estate sector.
The executive salary increases are below the average salary increases for the The Committee believes that certain elements of the structure rest of the Group.
such as: the deferral of part of the annual bonus: extended holding periods for vested LTIP awards: clawback provisions: The Committee is not proposing to make any changes to the and shareholding guidelines ensure that the policy promotes remuneration policy and therefore we will not be seeking any long-term sustainable performance as required by the updated new approval for the Directors Remuneration Policy Report at UK Corporate Governance Code.
the forthcoming AGM on 15 May 2015.
SIMON W. D. FRASER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 26 FEBRUARY 2015 92 Governance
