CHAIRMANS LETTER ON CORPORATEGOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder, Board composition One of the cornerstones of effective corporate governance On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Groups ismaintaining a properly balanced Board which facilitates Corporate Governance report for 2014. effective challenge by the non-executive Directors.
Over The Company is subject to the provisions and principles thelast few years the Nominations Committee has worked oftheUK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is steadily to achieve this through the recruitment of a number published and regularly updated by the Financial Reporting ofindependent non-executive Directors and the Board has Council FRC.
The latest applicable update was released askedthe Committee to continue the refreshment process to inSeptember 2012 and the Board believes that, in 2014, ensure that the Board remains properly balanced.
In November theCompany has complied with the main and supporting 2014, one of the non-executive Directors, Richard Dakin, principles of the Code except for provision B.
This provision wasappointed Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited, addresses the independence of the Companys non-executive a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE Limited, and became Directors and is discussed below and on page 83. amember of their UK Management Board.
The Valuation Advisory division of CBRE acts as the Groups external valuer In September 2014 the FRC published its latest revision of the and, recognising the effect that this was likely to have on the Code which is effective for accounting periods commencing perception of his independence, the Board reviewed Richards on or after 1 October 2014.
As such, this is not yet binding position.
Following this, the Board is completely satisfied that onthe Company but I am pleased to be able to report that he remains independent in judgement and character and it theGroup is largely compliant with the new requirements.
hasestablished a protocol to ensure that Richard has no Following the significant changes over the last two years in the involvement, at any stage, in the Groups valuation exercise reporting of both the Remuneration Committee and the Audit andthat he takes no part in any discussions concerning Committee, 2014 has been a year of consolidation for these CBREs role or fees.
Meanwhile, the agenda for the Risk Committee Audit continues to grow and some of these developments are In my letter last year I mentioned that the Audit Committee discussed below.
wasleading an audit tendering process.
This was completed Risk inMarch 2014 and I am delighted to welcome With the publication in September 2014 of the FRCs Guidance  as the Groups new Auditor.
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Maintaining the governance framework requires a significant and Business Reporting attention was drawn to the adequacy allocation of resources at all levels of the Group.
However, of the systems companies use to manage their portfolio of theBoard remains convinced that such a framework not risks.
The Groups risk assessment process has been onlyensures compliance with governance regulations externally reviewed and found to be consistent both with these butisanessential element of running a sustainable latest guidelines and the relevant international standard.
Given the current debate on UK taxation, the Board has As always, I would encourage you to attend the Groups determined that tax can represent a significant risk.
Therefore, Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2015 and take the it is again pleasing that, following the annual review, the opportunity to meet the management team at this company has retained its low risk rating with HMRC.
ROBERT A. RAYNE CHAIRMAN 26 FEBRUARY 2015 82 Governance
