LETTER FROM THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE Throughout the year the Committee was served by Stephen Young, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski under the chairmanship of June fide Moller until August 2014 when Richard Dakin took over the chair.
Rules and responsibilities The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings Three meetings are scheduled for the year with extra meetingsconvened if necessary for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Work of the Committee During the year the Committee undertook the following tasks: Reviewed the Groups risk register.
RICHARD DAKIN Approved the Groups risk appetite statement, risk CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE management policy and risk management process prior totheir consideration and adoption by the Board.
Received presentations from senior management Dear Shareholder, concerning the controls over certain parts of the business orspecific risks.
I am pleased to present this years report of the Risk Considered the operation of the Groups risk management Committee having taken over as Chairman of the Committee process and non-financial internal controls.
from June fide Moller in August 2014.
Facilitated an online training course for all employees to Whilst market conditions generally have remained strong increase staff awareness of cybercrime.
throughout the year, our increased activity, putting greater Considered a report from the Groups legal advisors emphasis on appropriate internal controls, and other emerging concerning potential regulatory risks over the next external risks have all served to keep the overall risk profile 12months.
Given the political landscape both in the UK with the Reviewed the Groups register of hospitality and gifts general election and in Europe where renewed uncertainty over maintained under the Groups Bribery Act procedures.
the stability of the Eurozone remains, we would expect limited change to this heightened risk profile in the coming year.
Reviewed the Groups register of potential conflicts ofinterest.
During the year the Committee continued to draw on the Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
recommendations in last years review of the Groups risk assessment process.
One of these was to formalise the assessment process and this resulted in the Committee RICHARD D. C. DAKIN overseeing the preparation of documents which set out the CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Groups risk appetite and its risk management policy and process.
These were subsequently adopted by the Board.
26 FEBRUARY 2015 One of the changes introduced in the latest update of the UK Corporate Governance Code is focused on risk management and internal control.
This, together with the publication of the FRCsguidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting demonstrates the increased attention being given by investors to companies riskmanagement processes and reporting.
In the light of this, we reviewed the Committees procedures to ensure that the Group continues to comply with the guidance where applicable and the requirements of the UK corporate Governance Code.
RICHARD D. C. DAKIN CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE 26 FEBRUARY 2015 112 Governance
