LETTER FROM THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF NOMINATIONS THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE At the start of the year the Committee consisted of Robert Farnes, June fide Moller and Simon Fraser under the chairmanship of Stuart Corbyn.
Richard Dakin joined the Committee in July 2014 and Robert Farnes stepped down atthe end of the year.
All members are considered independent by the Company having no day-to-day involvement with the Company.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on theCompanys website.
Meetings The Committee meets at least once a year to arrange for theannual appraisal of the Board and its Committees.
Furthermeetings are arranged, as required, to discharge theCommittees responsibilities in connection with identifying STUART CORBYN and nominating new Board members.
The Committee met CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE fourtimes in 2014.
Work of the Committee During the year the Committee has carried out the following tasks: Dear Shareholder, Led the annual appraisal of the Board, its Committees and I am pleased to present the report of the Nominations the Chairman.
The appraisal was carried out by Lintstock, Committee for 2014. anindependent corporate advisory firm which provides no One of the main responsibilities of the Committee is to other services to the Group.
managethe ongoing refreshment of the Board whilst Reviewed the Groups succession planning for executive maintaining the necessary degree of stability and an andnon-executive Directors and senior management.
Initiated the recruitment process for a non-executive Director having regard to the skills and experience required of a new During the year, the business community has focussed on non-executive Director.
theimportance of a company having an effective succession Ensured that the appointed executive search agency, plan in place and the role of the Nominations Committee in Spencer Stuart, was independent and had no other developing such a plan.
The Committee considers the connections with the Group.
question of succession at least once a year paying particular attention to the skills and experience required in future Identified areas of experience that a new non-executive non-executive Directors given the retirements envisaged by Director should possess in order to further strengthen therefreshment process.
Considered whether the Committees recruitment procedure This year we have been planning for the retirement of Robert was adequate given the gender diversity matters raised by Farnes who will be retiring after the AGM in May having served Lord Davies.
on the Board for in excess of nine years.
I referred to the Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
recruitment of his replacement in last years report and stated the Boards aim to appoint at least one additional female Director by 2015.
The recruitment process is again being led STUART A. CORBYN by Spencer Stuart, who were selected after a number of CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE executive search agencies were interviewed, and they were instructed to provide a list of high-calibre candidates which 26 FEBRUARY 2015 took account of this objective.
The recruitment process is entering its later stages and I look forward to announcing the result by the time of the AGM.
STUART A. CORBYN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 26 FEBRUARY 2015 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 111
