38 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW The Board of Workspace is committed to conducting We have a strong business responsibly and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance in terms of leadership, commitment to conducting remuneration matters, accountability, and in our relationship with our shareholders, all as identified business responsibly and by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
maintaining high standards We believe that good governance, based on robust of corporate governance.
practices and processes, is a fundamental part of being a responsible business.
DANIEL KITCHEN CHAIRMAN BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION In order to implement our strategy successfully, the Board monitors and reviews succession planning and development requirements for key executives and senior managers across the Company.
In addition, we keep the composition, diversity and the size of the Board under regular review to ensure that we have the right balance of skills and experience and that it remains relevant to the business both today and in the future.
We have strengthened our Board over the last two years by welcoming three Non-Executive Directors bringing with them a broad range of business experience across a number of diverse sectors.
As I explained last year, Bernard Cragg will retire from the Board at our AGM on 16 July 2014, having served as a Director since June 2003.
I am pleased to confirm that Chris Girling has agreed to take on the roles of both Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Bernard has made a significant contribution to the Boards activities over the years: we thank him and wish him well for the future.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
This practice will continue at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
N Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 C o R o e E p m c m x a r i t u g n e i m t e r a i m n t 5 t t a e i 0 e l n o t e l r n a o n s t i r e d t u x R A E e C m o p A u a m d g v n i m e s e i o 5 r t r t 5 a s e e t t e e i n t e o t i Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 CHANGES TO CORPORATE REPORTING The Board continues to monitor developments CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE in corporate governance and company reporting regulations.
The new Strategic Report on pages 1 to 36 includes, amongst other matters, the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
Disclosures in the Governance Report also includes expanded disclosures on the work of the Audit Committee on pages 51 to 54.
The Remuneration Committee has continued its review of Executive Remuneration under the new Chairmanship of Maria Moloney to ensure that the arrangements are aligned with shareholders whilst motivating a successful team.
Changes to remuneration reporting in particular The Board are significant and these are fully covered in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 72 which sets out in detail the Companys approach to this important area.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE During the year we conducted a review of our effectiveness as a Board.
This year, I conducted the Board performance evaluation with support from the Company Secretary.
The process covered Board, Committee and personal performance and the output was reviewed by the Board.
The process confirmed that the Board and its Committees continued to work effectively.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Board.
When the Company announces its annual and half year results, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make presentations to institutional investors and analysts and hold one-to-one briefings with key shareholders.
In addition, I am available to meet with shareholders if they wish to raise any matters separately.
