34 Corporate Governance Statement Finally the Audit Committee has been overseeing the issues Chairmans Introduction raised by the Combination at the half and full year, in addition Dear Shareholder to their usual work.
Putting two businesses together with As Chairman of the Company, I am pleased to present our different accounting and control systems is not a simple Corporate Governance Statement for 2014.
It has been a task and the Audit Committee has worked hard with the particularly busy year for our three Board Committees as the External Auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Internal Auditor, Group increased considerably in size with the result that not  LLP PwC who were appointed only did the normal business of the Company require attention, during the year, to ensure that consistent standards are but also a number of complex matters related to the change in introduced and maintained across the enlarged Group.
The the nature of the Group.
main issues faced by the Audit Committee and the actions taken to address them and further details of other matters In February 2014, the Company completed its combination are set out in this Statement in the Audit Committee Report.
with the cinema business of Cinema City International N. V. CCI, by means of an acquisition of the shares in Cinema City Let me finish by confirming that the Board remains committed Holding N. V. CCH, a subsidiary of CCI the Combination.
to ensuring that a high standard of corporate governance is The new combined business is almost double the size of the continuously maintained throughout the Group and we meet previous Cineworld operations and of significant international the standards required of a FTSE 250 company which complexity.
The Combination created the second largest Cineworld became in May 2014.
Looking to the future, we have cinema business in Europe with the number one or number two noted the regulatory changes have been made by the UK position by number of screens in every region in which the Corporate Governance Code 2014 published towards the end enlarged Group operates.
Cineworlds estate prior to the of the year and have already started work to ensure that the Combination consisted of 101 sites with 869 screens in the UK Group remains as fully compliant with the amended code next and one site in Ireland with 17 screens.
Immediately following year as we are with the current one.
completion of the transaction, the enlarged Group had 201 sites and 1,852 screens and 89 million admissions in nine Anthony Bloom countries.
Chairman As part of the transaction, a new CEO and COO whose title was subsequently changed to Deputy CEO were appointed and the Remuneration Committee had the task of ensuring appropriate remuneration packages were put in place for the new and continuing Executive Directors as well as the leaving arrangements for the outgoing CEO.
It was, of course, important that the ongoing arrangements would ensure the successful integration of the new business and help realise the strategic rationale for the Combination.
In turn this would help ensure the long-term success of the enlarged business.
I am confident that the remuneration arrangements, which were benchmarked by external remuneration consultants, will help us achieve the long-term returns for shareholders for which we are striving.
Further details of the arrangements are to be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Nomination Committee started the year by addressing issues raised by the Combination including the appointment of two additional Non-Executive Directors.
The appointments of Scott Rosenblum, a US lawyer, and Arni Samuelsson, an owner operator of cinemas in Iceland on completion of the Combination added considerably to our Board.
More recently the Nomination Committee has been seeking to identify two new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board as two of our original Non-Executive Directors, David Maloney and Peter Williams, are approaching nine years of service and accordingly will no longer be classified as independent.
Their departure from the Audit Committee means, as part of our succession planning, that we needed to find a new Non-Executive with the appropriate financial experience to join the Audit Committee.
Further details are set out in this Statement in the Nomination Committee Report.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
