GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN Chairmans overview The Board is responsible for the stewardship of the business and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
It believes good governance enhances business performance as well as reputation within its marketplace and across relationships with its stakeholders.
Cranswicks approach to governance is outlined in the following report, which describes how it integrates into the business the main principles of the five sections of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, namely leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
However the Company, for this year, has not complied with code B.
1.2 with the number of independent directors being less than the number of executive directors: the full explanation is highlighted in the report though going forward the situation will be addressed.
In line with the development of the business, the governance framework is kept under close review in order to ensure that shareholders interests are safeguarded and to sustain the success of the Company over the longer term.
The role of the Board The Boards main role is to work with the Executive team, providing support and advice to complement and enhance the work undertaken.
The Board consistently challenges processes, plans and actions and exercises a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual debate.
This serves to promote continual and sustained improvement across the business.
The performance evaluation review undertaken during the year highlighted the positive and open culture of the Board.
The Board composition and appointments are set out in the Governance Report.
The Board Committees The Board Committees have also continued to perform effectively during the year.
The focus of the Nomination Committee included the leadership needs and succession planning at both Board and senior executive level, including the recruitment of Mark Reckitt.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the policy for Executive Director remuneration and worked to ensure that remuneration arrangements continue to support the Companys strategy.
The Audit Committee continues to monitor the financial challenges the Group faces in a highly competitive industry and the risk management processes it develops to enable the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to protect its reputation.
Finally Cranswick remains committed to sharing its business vision with its Shareholders by maintaining regular open dialogue and effective communication.
It believes that continued engagement with its Shareholders is highly beneficial to all parties as it helps to build greater understanding of its investors views, opinions and concerns.
Martin Davey Chairman 19 May 2014 32 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014
