Directors Report Corporate Governance Our governance framework underpins and supports our Business and the decisions we make every day.
Chairmans Letter Dear fellow shareholder, An effective governance framework that is embedded into our organisation is vital to ensuring that Croda remains successful and sustainable.
Your Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
I am pleased to report that, except inthe area of Non-Executive Director meetings with investors, the Company has complied with the Code for the period under review.
The Board is accountable to Crodas shareholders for good governance and this report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 61 to 79, describes how theCodes main principles of governance have been applied by theCompany.
This report also includes several case studies that givea practical insight into how our governance framework underpins and supports our Business and the decisions we make every day.
Board and Senior Management Appointments Sean Christie stood down from the Board and his role as Group Finance Director with effect from 22 January 2015.
The Board and theNomination Committee spent a great deal of time seeking a suitable replacement for Sean, and I was pleased to announce in October 2014 the appointment of Jez Maiden as our new Group Finance Director.
Jez joined from National Express Group PLC wherehe hadbeen group finance director since 2008.
Jez has an exceptional track record as a group finance director and has had extensive experience working across the speciality chemical sector.
He is a valuable addition to our senior team.
I would like to thank Sean for the outstanding contribution hehas made to Croda over the past nine years.
We wish him all the very best for the future.
Following the retirement of Stanley Musesengwa, Helena Ganczakowski joined the Board in February 2014 as a Non-Executive Director.
Helena has a wealth of experience in consumer marketing and innovative product development and has brought a fresh perspective to the Board.
Much thought and effort was given to ensuring Helena received a comprehensive induction to Croda so that she developed an understanding of our businesses and people.
Details of Helenas induction can be found on page 48.
42 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information There have also been some important appointments to our Executive Shareholder Engagement Committee.
Lee Johnson joined in April 2014 as the Group HR As Chairman, I am responsible for effective communication with Director.
Lee has 25 years experience in HR and is playing a central shareholders and for ensuring the Board understands the views rolein developing and implementing a comprehensive people ofmajor shareholders.
During the year I met with several major strategy: inparticular, in ensuring that our reward structures support shareholders as well as speaking with many shareholders at our our strategic objectives and that we have a strong pipeline of talented Annual General Meeting.
Our shareholders support our strategy employees progressing through the Business.
Anthony Fitzpatrick andthe new global organisational structure, and are happy with also joined in April as President of Corporate Development.
Anthony ourapproach to corporate governance and remuneration.
has a strong understanding of the chemical industry and significant Priorities for 2015 transaction experience, having spent 20 years in investment banking, The Strategic Report provides an explanation of the Groups business where he specialised in the chemical sector.
Anthony works model, the basis on which it generates value over the long term, closelywith the senior management team to find new strategic andthe plan for delivering our strategic objectives.
In the coming acquisition opportunities.
year, the Board will continue to concentrate on strategic themes Board Effectiveness suchas innovation, sustainability, and emerging markets.
Our new The actions agreed following the internally conducted 2013 Board organisational structure aims to ensure we work as one global team, effectiveness review have progressed well.
In 2014 we commissioned remain responsive to customer needs and take full advantage of our second externally facilitated review to evaluate the effectiveness growth opportunities: we will monitor the changes to ensure they ofthe Board and its Committees.
This built on both the 2013 internal areoperating effectively and are embedded in the organisation.
review and our first externally facilitated review in 2012.
The evaluation 2015 marks my final year as Chairman, and the Board and was once again positive, with some minor areas for improvement Nomination Committee are investing a considerable amount of time identified and agreed.
Further details can be found on page 47. identifying mysuccessor.
The incoming chairman will have a crucial Diversity role in maintaining and developing Crodas governance framework The Board is committed to greater diversity within our Business.
tosafeguard the long term sustainable success of the Company.
Abroader range of ideas, skills, knowledge, experience and In addition, the Board and Audit Committee will start to prepare ethnicityand more balanced gender representation throughout fortheexternal audit tender further details of which are in the ourorganisation is key to our continuing long term success.
AuditCommittee report on page 56 and the Board will consider OurBoard diversity policy objectives include increasing the Boards theCodechanges that came into force in October 2014. female composition as vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, and appointing at least one female Board Director by the end of 2014.
I am pleased to report that Helenas appointment meets this objective.
The Board will review its diversity policy and consider Martin Flower future objectives.
A copy of the policy is available atwww.
Chairman Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
