Dignity plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Our report is intended to provide shareholders with a clear and comprehensive explanation of what good governance means within Dignity.
Peter Hindley Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dear Shareholder, It is the Boards opinion the Group has been fully compliant I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate Governance with the Code throughout the 52 week period ending on Report for 2014 on behalf of our Board.
Our report is 26 December 2014 and remained fully compliant at the intended to provide shareholders with a clear and date the Annual Report for 2014 was published.
comprehensive explanation of what good governance means within Dignity and more particularly what it means Directors Report to us as the Board of Directors, how it is applied and The Directors present their report for Dignity plc for the how it guides our decision making.
Good governance is crucial at all levels within the Group and Corporate Governance it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead by example The Group is committed to high standards of corporate and set the tone.
It means ensuring that an effective internal governance, details of which are given in this report and framework of systems and controls exists which includes the other reports from: clearly defined authorities and accountability which promotes success, whilst allowing risks to be managed The Audit Committee: to appropriate levels.
To do this the Board must make The Nomination Committee: and appropriate judgements whilst giving consideration to the views of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our Report for 2014 explains Dignitys approach to The various sections of this report contain summarised Corporate Governance.
As we did in 2013, separate reports information from Dignity plcs Articles of Association are included from each of the Board Committees as we feel the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 which is the this gives a full and comprehensive view of their activities.
applicable English law concerning companies.
The relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be We are reporting in line with the UK Corporate Governance consulted if more detailed information is needed.
Code the Code and I am pleased to advise that Dignity has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the period ending 26 December 2014.
This is explained in more detail in the following pages.
Peter Hindley Chairman Links 4 March 2015 See Board of Directors: p. 36 and p. 37 See Directors statement on corporate governance: p. 38 to p. 41 See Audit Committee report: p. 42 to p. 44 See Nomination Committee report: p. 45 See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 46 to p. 58 See Directors report: p. 59 to p. 61 Code principles Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders Continued close A strong, open and Close scrutiny of Prudent oversight focus on strategy effective Board risks and controls of executive Open engagement and its execution remuneration with shareholders
