Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Overview Introduction Composition of the Board It is again a pleasure to issue to you, our shareholders, a The Nominations Committee annually reviews the composition personal statement on how the Company embraces good of the Board.
That review includes not only diversity in relation corporate governance practice.
to gender but also professional and international diversity.
To enhance knowledge of European markets, the Board comprises Proposed merger two out of nine directors who are based outside of the UK.
We Any introduction from me, however, would not be complete also review annually the mix of professional experience on the without discussing our proposed merger with Carphone Board to ensure it is appropriate in order for it to effectively Warehouse.
The bringing together of these two great discharge its duties.
Following this years review, it was agreed companies at a time when they are both flourishing will that no further appointments were necessary.
The noncreate a stronger business for our shareholders, customers and executive directors are asked each year to confirm that they colleagues and create a world class retailer in an age where the continue to have enough time to dedicate to company business importance of connectivity of electrical devices is ever growing.
and all have again done so.
As a Board we are excited by the opportunities that this merger will bring.
We have structured this governance section so that it Board evaluation includes all the information it should do as a standalone entity, As in 2012 13, the Board evaluation for 2013 14 was conducted but should the merger go ahead we will not be calling our AGM by myself and the Company Secretary and General Counsel as usual in early September so have therefore adapted these via a series of discussions with individual directors.
The Board sections in the following pages.
believes that it continues to operate effectively and in the spirit of openness.
This environment allows debate and challenge Corporate governance to flourish, leading to a thorough decision process.
Further At Dixons Retail we think good corporate governance is at information on the Board review can be found on page 35, the heart of any well run business and as such we take our however, I should like to note in this report that each governance processes very seriously.
The Board takes time at non-executive director continues to be considered independent every other Board meeting to receive an update on corporate in mind and judgement, and to provide their own unique governance matters from internal experts in order that it remains perspective to the business of the Board.
aware of the most up-to-date regulations and thinking.
We have clearly differentiated roles for the Chairman and Group Chief Remuneration regulations Executive.
To put it simply, I am responsible for the running of The Remuneration Committee has been working hard to review the Board and the Group Chief Executive for the running of the its policies in light of the new BIS reporting regulations and I am business.
The role descriptions are reviewed regularly by the pleased to refer you to our first Remuneration Report under the Board and are set out in writing.
Should the merger be agreed by shareholders, then the directors of the combined group will be governed by Board the policy disclosed by the Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
I am pleased to report that the Board has had no changes However, we have set out our policy in the report as a during the year under review.
We have therefore been able standalone entity and will put this to shareholder vote should, to concentrate on providing continued, focused and effective for any reason, the merger not proceed.
We believe that leadership during a time when the business has divested itself excellent performance should be adequately rewarded whilst of some of its less profitable international businesses and can avoiding rewards for failure.
now focus on its core markets.
The Board has operated throughout the year with a majority of non-executive directors I believe we have a strong Board supported by sound who have both challenged and supported the executive procedures and excellent colleagues, and look forward to directors in their management of the Company throughout this continuing to achieve the strategic goals of the Group of period.
The Board holds various dinners throughout the year, increasing long term shareholder value and concentrating with and without the executives present, and this is very on our core areas of expertise.
effective in encouraging an open relationship between all members of the Board.
I trust you are as excited as I am about the future prospects for our business in this new chapter.
Two separate strategy days were held during the year with senior management, giving the non-executive directors the chance to openly challenge, question and help shape the strategic direction of the Group.
John Allan Chairman 25 June 2014 The Board and Committee Structure Dixons Retail plc Group Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Dixons Retail plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
