38 Governance Introduction to Corporate Governance Delivering a robust framework.
long established and embedded into our DEAR SHAREHOLDERS Key responsibilities of the Board business.
Both our internal and external I and all the Board are committed to ensuring legal advisers support these processes and We are responsible and accountable that DS Smith operates to the highest our external Auditor reviews the narrative to our shareholders for the longterm standards of corporate governance.
A Board sections of the Annual Report and Accounts sustainable success of the Group.
We of Directors should add value in many ways to identify any material inconsistences with seek to achieve this through setting and we believe it is our governance structure the financial statements.
The Directors also out our strategy, monitoring our that underpins our ability to deliver our receive drafts of the Annual Report and strategic objectives and providing strategy to become the leader in recycled Accounts and reviewed them at the 2014 oversight of their delivery by the packaging for consumer goods.
April and June Board meetings.
The following pages outline our approach This year, as part of the yearend process, We ensure that the Company to governance.
This year, for the first time, divisional managing directors and finance remains at the forefront of we have pulled together all of the Groups directors have signed a certificate developing and embedding best policies and procedures into a single confirming compliance with the Groups practice for risk management.
overarching code which we call our governance framework as set out in the Operating Framework.
Our governance We maintain and enhance DS Smiths Operating Framework.
framework, which includes our Operating culture and values and ensure that Framework and Code of Conduct together My report begins with an overview of the management operates responsibly with our values, is key to the way we key activities of the Board from 2013 14 within our governance framework work with our colleagues and with our and sets out our key priorities for next year.
whilst clearly demonstrating our customers and suppliers.
During the year values and high ethical standards.
our governance framework has been We have regard to corporate enhanced to take into account the governance issues in all of our commencement of The Large and Medium decision making.
As part of the sized Companies and Groups Accounts governance framework we have and Reports Amendment Regulations adopted a schedule of matters on Gareth Davis 2013 the Regulations, and the legislative which we must make the final Chairman changes, including changes introduced decision.
These include the annual by the September 2012 edition of the budget, substantial acquisitions and UK Corporate Governance Code the Topics discussed at 2013 14 disposals, and approval of the full Code which sets out standards of good Board meetings year and halfyear results.
We also practice in relation to board leadership and review the overall system of internal effectiveness, remuneration, accountability control and risk management.
The Company has complied in all material We are mindful of our legal duties to respects throughout the financial year with act in the way we consider, in good all the provisions of the Code.
faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its This additional reporting also includes the shareholders and having regard also statement made by the Directors on page to the interests of other stakeholders.
50 that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and Governance 15% We continue to monitor senior Strategy 15% understandable.
The processes which executive talent management and Financial Management 30% underpin and support the Directors development plans to provide Operations 30% confidence in making this statement are Health & Safety Environment 10% succession for all key positions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 39 Key activities in 2013 14 Key priorities in 2014 15 Reviewed and approved the Corporate Plan.
Approve and keep under review the Corporate Plan.
Strategy Debated and approved the Groups dividend policy.
Keep the Groups dividend policy under review.
Ensure that the Group remains at the forefront Risk and risk of developing and embedding best practice for management Approved new risk policy.
Adopted a Board risk tolerance statement.
Continue to monitor compliance with the Speak Up!
Reviewed key risks see pages 34 to 37 and the internal controls process, workplace malpractice policy, the antibribery and and assessed the Group risk profile by identifying where the businesss anticorruption policy and the competition law policy.
key risks lay, aligning them with the risk appetite of the business and Update the social media and data protection policies.
highlighting how to target effectively and mitigate those risks.
Continued the competition law, antibribery and anticorruption policies, training and awareness drives and to monitor compliance.
Leadership and employees: Ensure that the Group continues to develop Governance and embed best practice in responsible and values The recruitment of a new Group Finance Director helped to bring new business behaviour.
perspectives, experience and skills to the table, further strengthening Maintain and enhance DS Smiths culture and values.
Continue to strengthen internal controls Reviewed the key operational roles and identified gaps in experience and reporting.
needed to deliver the strategy.
Review level of institutional holdings and Relations with shareholders: consider actions to broaden further the Groups Engaged with our retail shareholders at the AGM.
Actively engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other Continue to actively engage with both retail stakeholders throughout the year.
and institutional shareholders, as well as other stakeholders.
Consulted extensively with investors in relation to our remuneration policy.
External Audit appointment: Approved the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external Auditor following a tender process conducted by the Audit Committee.
Compliance: Approved a Code of Conduct which sets out the Groups culture and values.
Approved an Operating Framework which sets out the Groups key policies and procedures, all in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance.
Approved an updated Speak Up!
Monitored health and safety and environmental performance across Continue to monitor senior executive talent Organisational the Group and reviewed the lessons learned, ensuring the safety of management and development plans to provide capacity our employees and others affected by our operations is protected.
succession for all key positions.
Increased contact between the Board and senior talent pipeline to Continue to increase the diversity of the Board further improve information flow.
Reviewed the internal talent management process and its results.
Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness of Enhance the Boards strategic understanding Board the Board.
Reviewed Board composition and discussed and acted on of geopolitical and economic risks in development the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Appointed two additional nonExecutive Directors, improving Board skills Use Board visits to promote understanding and diversity.
of markets and the business development opportunities they offer.
Undertook an evaluation of the Board and its Committees with the aim Annual evaluation of Board performance of becoming the best Board we can be.
Following the evaluation, an action plan was developed, which is set out in more detail on page 45. to be carried out by independent evaluator.
