CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder Governance continues to be a focus of governments, shareholders and regulators, and as usual we have monitored developments and adapted accordingly.
We continue to believe that sound governance is an essential requirement for long-term, sustainable growth and we apply regulatory guidelines in a pragmatic way that adds value to your Board and your Company.
Board succession has continued to be an area of focus for us and our work in this area has led to the re-appointment since the year end of Will Adderley as Chief Executive of the Group.
Also since the year end we have appointed a new Non-Executive Director, Andy Harrison.
Andys perspective and understanding of consumer behaviour and the challenges of leading high quality, world class organisations will add considerably to development of strategy.
We have also given particular consideration to the question of director independence as our Senior Independent Director, Marion Sears, has now served more than nine years on the Board.
The Corporate Governance Code, and from May 2014 the Listing Rules, require the Board to consider the independence of all Non-Executive Directors annually, which we did at our meeting in September 2014.
We concluded that all Non-Executive Directors continue to exhibit the required independence, and to add value to the Board.
We have also announced some changes to the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors, which are outlined in this report.
I would like to thank Marion for her work as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees: I have served on a number of public company boards, and I would count Marion as one of the most hard working, diligent and responsible committee chairs to be found anywhere.
I also thank Matt Davies for chairing the Audit and Risk Committee for the past two and a half years, as he assumes the role of Chair of the Remuneration Committee in Marions place.
The work of the Audit and Risk Committee has been at the forefront of governance developments this year, with requirements for auditor rotation continuing to evolve, and responsibilities widening to include a review of whether the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
As mentioned in our 2013 annual report, this year we tendered the external audit, inviting a number of parties including a firm outside the big four.
In January 2014 we appointed  in place of KPMG, who I would like to thank for their work over past years.
We have also adopted a formal audit tender policy.
In January we held our third Corporate Governance presentation, attended by a number of our major institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
We had an open discussion of a number of topics that are important to our shareholders and ourselves, including succession, remuneration, corporate responsibility and auditor rotation.
At our AGM this year as usual all Directors will be seeking reappointment.
In accordance with the new Listing Rules, each of the NonExecutive Directors will, in addition, be subject to a vote of shareholders independent of the Adderley family.
We will again be seeking authority to buy back shares to satisfy employee share option entitlements and seeking a waiver under the Takeover Code.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
Yours sincerely Geoff Cooper Chairman 11 September 2014 32 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
