Chairmans statement on corporate governance Committed to maintaining high standards Strategy It is essential for the Board to ensure we have the right strategy in place and this has been an area of focus for me in my first full year as Chairman.
We have increased the number of strategy sessions, focused on debating and refining the strategy, to three this year.
These took place in April, July and September.
With the Group Director: Strategy and Implementation joining the Executive Management Team, and the Board requesting more focus on strategy and forward planning and less on operational issues, the Board has seen a high quality of both strategic thought and management information.
This has allowed better informed debates and more effective strategic decision-making.
Board and Committee composition It is of real importance to my role, as Chairman, to ensure that the Board has the right composition.
This means having the right balance of skills and experience, John Barton maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity Non-Executive Chairman and ensuring that all Directors have a good knowledge of the Group and the context in which it operates.
There have DEAR SHAREHOLDER been a number of key changes to the Board since the end of the 2013 financial year.
After nine years of service, David At easyJet, we are committed to Bennett retired from the Board on 1 October 2014 and Professor Rigas Doganis is retiring from the Board on maintaining high standards of corporate 1 December 2014.
I would like to thank them, on behalf governance to enhance performance of the Board, for their commitment and contribution.
In July and for the protection of our 2014, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth and Franois Rubichon joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
I would like to highlight, with them great experience of the aviation industry in in particular, the following key areas Germany, France and across Europe generally, which will of governance focus during 2014. provide easyJet with a more diverse range of knowledge and insight.
We have also seen a change in the chairmanship of two Board Committees, with Adle Anderson succeeding David Bennett as chair of the Audit and Finance Committees in June and July respectively.
The composition of the Committees has also changed see pages 58 to 66.
Board effectiveness Each year, the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its effectiveness, and after careful consideration of the findings, has agreed its priorities for next year.
Following my first full year as Chairman, Charles Gurassa, the Senior Independent Director, has also led a review of my performance with input from the other Non-Executive Directors.
The evaluation process and the Boards set of 52 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance priorities following the evaluation are described on page 68.
Structure of corporate governance report Following this review, I am satisfied that the Board and its The corporate governance report is intended to give Committees are performing effectively and that there is shareholders an understanding of the Companys corporate the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence governance arrangements and how they have operated and knowledge of the Group to enable the Directors to during the 2014 financial year.
This year, the Corporate discharge their respective duties and responsibilities governance report also includes reports from each of the effectively.
I am also satisfied that the members of the Committee Chairmen to provide details on key matters Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have addressed by the Committees during the year.
sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and On pages 66 to 69 we describe how the Company has Committee level with the Company, so as to be able complied with the principles of the UK Corporate to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board Committees The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Board Committees to enable it to carry out its functions Code The Board considers that it and the Company effectively.
A diagram of the Board governance structure have, throughout the year ended 30 September 2014, is set out on page 58. complied without exception with the provisions of the The Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee FOGC UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012, continued to meet during the year to provide governance which is the version of the Code which applies to the oversight over the engine selection process following the Company for its 2014 financial year.
The Code is issued fleet order deal which was approved by shareholders in by the Financial Reporting Council and is available for July 2013.
The selection of engine supplier was concluded review on the Financial Reporting Councils website: in June 2014, following which the FOGC was dissolved.
uk Reflecting the importance of technology in maintaining resilience and competitive differentiation, the Board created an IT Governance and Oversight Committee in April to provide independent oversight and challenge over the planned and phased review of our core IT systems.
John Barton This Committee is chaired by John Browett, who has a Non-Executive Chairman wealth of experience in IT oversight, in particular in his previous role running tesco.
com where he was responsible for formulating and delivering its strategy from launch to profitability.
Keith Hamill and Adle Anderson also bring their relevant experience to the Committee.
Since its constitution, the Committee has provided guidance on the risk framework surrounding IT resilience and change.
More details on the IT Governance and Oversight Committee can be found on page 65. www.
