Corporate governance report Chairmans letter I am confident that our governance arrangements at Elementis will continue The governance arrangements at Elementis play a critical role in how to evolve, due both to the Boards recent refreshment programme and the our businesses are managed and our ability to deliver value to all our revised Code which applies from this year, and consequently your Board stakeholders.
Your Board is committed to strong governance and controls and the management team will be in a good position to create and deliver that help our businesses to grow sustainably and operate in a responsible further value, as we build on our strong foundation for sustainable growth manner.
At the centre of our governance structure are the Board, Board and the long term success of the Company.
committees and the management team.
Statement of compliance Despite the changes to the Board over the past year, its role has remained The Board is of the view that it has applied fully throughout 2014 all of the much the same.
The Board is responsible for defining strategy and the provisions of the Code 2012 version with the exception of Code Provision priorities of the Company on the one hand, while on the other management, C3.7 and otherwise intends to comply with the provisions of the new led by our Chief Executive, is responsible for executing strategy and the Code 2014 version during 2015.
Code Provision C3.7 requires FTSE 350 attainment of set objectives and priorities, with the Board and Board companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every committees providing support, guidance and exercising oversight.
As our external auditors, KPMG, were first appointed in June Oversight means: i monitoring and reviewing management and financial 2004 a tender process should have been initiated last year.
However, owing performance, ii ensuring resources are made available to the businesses to the Board and therefore the Audit Committee refreshment programme and that appropriate governance and risk management systems and and in line with the Financial Reporting Councils guidelines for transitional controls are implemented throughout the Group, iii setting high standards arrangements for audit tenders to coincide with the audit engagement for how we conduct our business activities globally, and iv reporting to partners 5 year rotation, the directors decided to defer a tender but our shareholders on how the Board has preserved and generated value agreed to keep this position under review.
This is discussed further both in the year being reported on and over the longer term.
in the Audit Committee report on page 33.
Effective governance starts with people setting the right expectations, The sections that follow describe how the Board has applied the principles leading by example, doing the right thing and cultivating a culture of trust and provisions of the Code.
The Board operates within a framework of applicable laws and regulations that includes the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The role and responsibilities of Board committees are set out in defined terms of reference and the management team obtains its authority from service and employment contracts, role and responsibility Andrew Duff specifications, delegated authorities from the Board through the Boards Chairman schedule of matters reserved for its decision as well as specific direction 24 February 2015 from the Board.
The expectations and values set by the Board and management team are supported by our Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which sets out in writing our values and the standards we expect of our employees and third party contractors.
This document, together with other Group policies, govern how we conduct our business and the standards and responsibilities expected of all our employees.
Further details on this can be found on our website at: www.
28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Compliance with the Code Director attendance in 2014 Board composition Audit Nomination Remuneration As identified on page 26, the Board comprises 2 executive directors Board Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive and Finance Director and 5 non-executive directors 1 Andrew Duff 6 6 5 5 including the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman David Dutro 8 8 is responsible for leadership of the Board, while the Chief Executive is Brian Taylorson 7 8 responsible for running the Groups businesses.
The roles of Chairman Andrew Christie 7 8 3 4 5 6 7 8 and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined and well understood Steve Good 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 by the Board, such that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Anne Hyland 8 8 4 4 6 6 8 8 The Chairman is supported by the Senior Independent Director who is Nick Salmon 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 available to shareholders if the normal channels for raising any concern Former directors prove to be ineffective or inappropriate.
Ian Brindle 8 8 3 3 5 5 The Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board and to set the style Kevin Matthews 7 7 3 3 5 5 7 7 and the tone in which the Board operates.
This includes ensuring that 1 Andrew Duff became Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 24 April 2014, there is a forum for constructive discussion and challenge, for an open, a role previously held by Ian Brindle until then.
frank and informed exchange of views, as well as creating a framework Chairman of Committee and the conditions to enable the Board as a whole, and its individual directors, to contribute effectively in the performance of their role.
Such Board independence a framework and conditions include access to information, support and The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent development opportunities, understanding the views of shareholders, in character and judgement throughout 2014 and is satisfied that each and maintaining constructive relationships between executive and director exercises independent judgement.
The directors are required non-executive members of the Board.
at all times to avoid conflicts of interest, act for a proper purpose and in the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
Information about the executive directors service contracts and the No individual or group dominates decision making.
non-executive directors letters of appointment with the Company including remuneration and fee levels is set out in the Directors Board operation remuneration report.
All non-executive directors are appointed for The Board has a formal programme of activities that are undertaken 3 year terms that can be renewed by mutual agreement, subject at scheduled meetings throughout the year and this is supplemented to annual re-election by shareholders, satisfactory performance by ad hoc meetings, conference calls or other Board events, as and meeting independence requirements.
8 formal meetings were held in 2014 and the attendance records of the directors are shown in the table above.
The Board diversity Board is supported in its activities by Board committees that have been It is the Boards policy that appointments should be made on the basis delegated specific responsibilities as set out in their terms of reference of qualification and merit.
However, the Board considers that diversity, and a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board allows certain including gender diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness decisions to be delegated to the executive directors.
The schedule of and supports the Codes principles and provisions on gender diversity.
matters reserved to the Board includes: approval of strategic and annual It is the Boards policy that in any recruitment process the retained operating plans: approval of financial statements, acquisitions and adviser is committed to ensuring that female candidates are included disposals: risk compliance and management programmes, as well in any long list presented for consideration and this was the case in as insurance arrangements: major non-recurring projects and major respect of all 3 Board appointments made last year.
In relation to the capital expenditures: and major legal settlements and litigation.
recommendations of the Davies Review into Women on Boards, the The Board reviews the business, financial and operational HSE Board has not set a minimum target for the percentage of the Board performance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, including to be female.
major business initiatives, threats and opportunities, as well as progress on product innovation and new customers.
More information about The Board has completed its refreshment programme and considers the Boards oversight role in risk management and concerning internal that its composition contains the appropriate balance of qualifications, controls can be found in the Risk management and Audit Committee skills, experience and personal attributes necessary to take the reports, respectively, on pages 16 and 32.
Company through its next stage of development.
Gender diversity below Board level is discussed in the Corporate responsibility report.
At least one of its meetings each year is held in the technical centre and management headquarters near Princeton, New Jersey, US, where both Information about the Boards recruitment processes is described business leadership teams as well as the management team are based, in the Nomination Committee report on page 31. which allows non-executive Board members to meet managerial staff at levels below the Board.
In addition, a programme of site visits is planned to enable the Board to see different operating locations around the globe.
To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and committee meetings.
If there are any unresolved matters concerning Board decisions, of which there were none in 2014, these would be recorded in the minutes of meetings.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 29 Corporate governance report continued A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate induction It is our practice to ensure the Board receives regular feedback from tailored to their needs.
For the 3 new directors, the induction programme shareholders following meetings with management in results and other included: meeting the management team, other senior executives and investor roadshows.
Analysts forecasts and research reports about the business leaders: meeting the internal and external auditors: meeting the Company and the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and Companys joint corporate brokers: meeting major shareholders where reports from the Companys joint corporate brokers, are provided to all appropriate : and undertaking a programme of site visits.
directors on a timely basis, helping non-executive directors to develop a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, at any time.
at the expense of the Company.
Directors are given the opportunity throughout the year to undertake training and attend seminars to keep From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection their skills and knowledge up to date, and receive internal briefings on with remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the Remuneration technical and or other regulatory developments that they need to be Committee will organise a programme of meetings with major made aware of.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in shareholders to update them on any significant developments in business ensuring that the Board and Board committees operate within the strategy, corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals governance framework adopted and that communication and information for executive remuneration.
The Chairman met with a number of major flows within the Board and its committees and between management shareholders in June shortly following his appointment and will be and non-executive directors are effective.
undertaking another programme of shareholder visits in March, with the Senior Independent Director, to give major shareholders a further Board evaluation opportunity to express their views to the Board leadership.
The Board carried out a questionnaire based evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors including any training In addition, major shareholders were consulted by the Chairman of the needs in its meeting in September.
The questionnaire was designed in-house Remuneration Committee towards the end of last year on proposed and feedback from the evaluation was discussed which concerned mainly changes to remuneration policy.
These changes are explained in the Board composition and operation following the refreshment programme, Directors remuneration report on page 35 which also describes the the Groups strategy and growth plans, management development and Boards policy and approach to executive remuneration.
succession plans, risk management and the review of incentive remuneration.
Following this evaluation, the Board considers that each director continues Directors and officers liability insurance to perform effectively and demonstrates appropriate commitment to his her The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and officers role.
Shareholders are therefore asked to support the election re-election of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Since 2008, the directors of the of all directors at the AGM.
Company have been in receipt of an indemnity from the Company in respect of any liability or loss that may arise out of, or in connection with, The Board did consider involving an external third party to assist in its the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors evaluation process but decided this would be more appropriate in 2015 of the Company, or of any subsidiary, to the extent permitted under the following the reconstitution of the Board.
The last external evaluation Companies Act 2006.
Copies of these indemnities, which continue to took place in 2012. remain in place, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection Communications with shareholders at the AGM.
The Company maintains a programme of activities throughout the year to ensure there is effective communication with shareholders, analysts and the financial press that include stock exchange announcements, By order of the Board investor meetings, the Annual Report and updates on the corporate website.
The AGM gives institutional and private shareholders the opportunity to speak with the directors and the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Wai Wong Company Secretary 24 February 2015 30 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014
