DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, As explained in the Strategic Report, Performance targets will be set to Essentra delivered the ambitious targets set ensure that maximum payouts under I am pleased to present my first out in its Vision 2015 strategy, and is now the incentive schemes are consistent remuneration report as Chairman moving into the next phase of development with Drive for 2020, in particular the of the Remuneration Committee.
Drive for 2020, the roadmap for the aspiration of doubling the size of the continued delivery of balanced, profitable Company by 2020 growth.
During the year, the Remuneration Supporting strategic priorities Committee reviewed the senior executive Our Drive for 2020 strategy requires remuneration structure to ensure that the development of a focused and high it supports the strategic objectives of performing executive team which Drive for 2020.
Following that review, we continually seeks operational excellence will be seeking shareholder approval for and operates in a globally integrated a revised Remuneration Policy Report at manner.
The pay structure will support this years AGM.
these strategic priorities in the following ways: Drive for 2020 and the executive pay structure In order to allow the Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee has to be fully focused on the delivery structured the revised Remuneration of Drive for 2020, the Remuneration Policy so that it supports the financial Committee has committed to fix objectives and strategic priorities of their pay arrangements throughout Drive for 2020 in a manner that is aligned the three-year period of the new with shareholders interests.
This will include a pre-determined Supporting financial objectives salary structure with no annual Our Drive for 2020 strategy seeks to create reviews throughout this period sustainable shareholder value through the delivery of balanced, profitable growth in A high performance culture will be our existing and future opportunity markets emphasised by ensuring that variable and technologies.
The strategy also calls for pay forms a significant proportion of strong conversion of profit into cash.
the total pay package for Executive Directors and senior executives The design of the future incentive Challenging performance targets will arrangements provides a balanced reward drive operational excellence throughout for delivery of these financial objectives: the senior executive team Annual bonus rewards the delivery of The LTIP award structure described performance annually, across a broad below will help to establish a common foundation of business fundamentals culture throughout the senior executive revenue growth, operating profit team which focuses on the importance growth and working capital of shareholder value creation performance, which should drive Providing alignment with shareholders longer-term shareholder value creation Underlying Drive for 2020 is a focus on Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP sustainable shareholder value creation.
rewards the delivery of longer-term The pay structure will ensure that Executive shareholder value creation through the Directors and other senior executives measures of Earnings per Share EPS are aligned both with this concept and growth and relative Total Shareholder more broadly aligned with the interests Return TSR of shareholders: 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM D DIIRE REC CT TO OR RS S RE REP PO OR RT T | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Executive Directors and other senior In order to ensure Executive Directors We have strengthened the existing executives will receive an award over and other senior executives are aligned malus and clawback provisions within a fixed number of LTIP shares in each with shareholders, they are required to our incentive plans.
This approach build up and retain a material holding elements of Executive Directors variable will provide direct alignment with the of Company shares.
For Colin Day and pay are now covered by these provisions, Drive for 2020 strategy of value creation, Matthew Gregory, this requirement is and the range of circumstances in as executives will benefit along with shares worth 300% and 200% of which the Remuneration Committee shareholders if the share price rises salary respectively, and both Executive can apply malus or clawback has as their future LTIP awards will have Directors have built up shareholdings been widened a higher value but will suffer along that are already in excess of their with shareholders if the share price falls basic requirement as their future LTIP awards will have a lower value In summary, our Executive Directors pay arrangements for the next three years will comprise the following elements: Performance Conditions Element of pay details 2015 awards Basic annual Colin Day 675,000 fixed until 1 January 2018 n a 1 salary Matthew Gregory 340,000 in 2015, 375,000 in 2016, 390,000 in 2017 Pension Colin Day 25% of salary n a Matthew Gregory 20% of salary Benefits Private medical insurance, company car and or allowance, life insurance cover n a Annual bonus Maximum potential of 150% of salary for Colin Day and 125% of salary for Matthew Gregory Balanced growth revenue and Half paid in cash and half deferred in shares under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus DASB for three years operating profit, working capital Subject to malus and clawback provisions and personal objectives LTIP 2015 award 50% based on EPS growth, Colin Day award of shares worth 300% of salary 50% based on relative TSR Matthew Gregory award of shares worth 200% of his approximate average salary for the period 2015-2017 2 2016 & 2017 awards Colin Day and Matthew Gregory receive an award over the same number of shares as they were granted in 2015 Subject to malus and clawback provisions Shareholding Colin Day 300% of salary n a guidelines Matthew Gregory 200% of salary 1 As highlighted in previous Remuneration Reports, Matthew Gregory was brought onto the Board at a salary level that was set deliberately well below the market rate for an established finance director, with the intention that, subject to strong progression in the role, the Remuneration Committee would implement a series of phased salary increases to bring his salary to a more appropriate level.
The Board has been pleased by the development of Matthew Gregory as Group Finance Director and these proposed increases, if implemented in full which will be subject to continued strong performance, will bring his salary to a more appropriate level by 2017.
2 The flexibility to award up to a certain number of shares is limited in the LTIP rules to the 2016 and 2017 awards only.
Any subsequent award would be limited under the rules to a maximum of shares worth 300% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee does have the discretion, which it could elect to use in the event of an exceptional share price rise or other circumstances, to award the Executive Directors fewer LTIP shares in 2016 or 2017 than they were awarded in 2015.
We believe that these arrangements provide a transparent pay structure that supports the objectives and priorities of Drive for 2020, and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of the shareholders.
We undertook a thorough consultation with our major shareholders, the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder Services in relation to our proposed new Policy for Executive Directors.
We were pleased with the positive feedback which we received during the consultation process.
64 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Performance and reward in 2014 Additionally, there will be a binding As set out in the Strategic Report, the shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM to year to 31 December 2014 saw strong approve the introduction of our new growth in both revenue and operating Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2015 profit.
As a result of this performance, which replaces our existing plan which as well as achieving our working capital expires later this year.
The detailed terms target, the Remuneration Committee of LTIP 2015 are set out in the accompanying determined that the annual bonus Notice of Meeting for the 2015 AGM and would be 60% of the maximum for both key details of LTIP 2015, in so far as they Colin Day and Matthew Gregory.
Further affect the Executive Directors, are details relating to the determination of the outlined in this Remuneration Report.
annual bonus outturn are in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 75 I hope you will find this Remuneration Report to 86. to be clear and helpful in understanding our remuneration practices, and that you In addition, as a result of three-year will be supportive of the resolutions relating annualised EPS growth of 22.1% and strong to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, the relative TSR performance, the August 2011 Remuneration Committee welcomes any LTIP award will vest in full in February 2015, questions or comments from shareholders.
and 85% of the April 2012 LTIP award is currently expected to vest in April 2015.
LORRAINE TRAINER More details are provided on page 79.
Remuneration Committee Chairman The rest of this Remuneration Report 20 February 2015 is split into two sections in line with legislative reporting regulations: The Remuneration Policy Report contains details of the various components of our future pay structure.
The Remuneration Policy Report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at our 2015 AGM The Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of pay received by Directors in 2014, and also contains full details of how we intend to implement our pay policy during 2015.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM 65
