60 Governance Chairmans introduction Governance: Chairmans introduction The Board changes are the start of a new era for the Group.
At the forefront of your Boards thinking was ensuring the continuity of the leadership team and maximising the likelihood of preserving Experians unique and successful culture.
We are also announcing the a global business perspective appointment of Kerry Williams as and outlook, with experience of Chief Operating Officer and as an a number of our markets: executive director, to succeed Chris experience in relevant market sectors Callero who will retire with effect and knowledge of the challenges from the conclusion of the AGM these sectors face: on 16 July 2014. compatibility with the new Chief These are important changes for the Executive Officer, to ensure good Company and the Group.
The Board working relationships and the focused extremely hard on securing the continuation of Experians teambest possible succession plan, to ensure based culture: Experians continuing success.
Sir John Peace a good fit with the Board as a whole: Chairman Appointment of the Chairman excellent credentials across the The UK Corporate Governance Code I have had the privilege of leading this equity market: and encourages chairmen to personally report unique and successful Group for many an impeccable overall reputation.
on how the principles relating to the years.
Since Experian became an Boards role and effectiveness have been independently quoted company in 2006, In addition, the Board believed that the applied.
This year, I would like to reflect I have enjoyed being part of one of the new Chairman would need to: be fully from a governance perspective on the most stable leadership teams in the FTSE committed to the role: able to understand Board changes that we have announced 100 and, together with Don Robert, having and preserve Experians unique and since January, and how they contribute to contributed to the conditions in which successful culture: provide the new the principle that the Company be headed Experian has successfully grown from its Chief Executive Officer with advice and by an effective Board.
Nottingham roots to become the global guidance on a highly complex and rapidly leader in data and analytics.
changing business: manage the Board: In January, we announced that Don and, importantly, be able to provide Robert, the current Chief Executive The Board acknowledges the UK Corporate broad leadership and oversight of our Officer, would be appointed as Governance Codes recommendation strategic direction.
Chairman in my place, and that Brian that a chief executive should not go on to Cassin, the current Chief Financial become chairman of the same company: The Nomination and Corporate Officer, would be appointed as Chief and that if, exceptionally, a board decides Governance Committee considered Executive Officer.
These changes will that a chief executive should become external and internal candidates.
Having take effect from the conclusion of the chairman, it should consult major undertaken a rigorous process led AGM on 16 July 2014. shareholders in advance and set out by Sir Alan Rudge, Deputy Chairman its reasons to shareholders.
and Senior Independent Director, it We also announced in January that concluded that Don Robert was the George Rose would be appointed Before concluding that the appointment outstanding candidate for this position as Deputy Chairman and Senior was in Experians best interests, and that and recommended his appointment Independent Director.
This change it would promote Experians success to the Board.
The Board unanimously will also take place with effect from for the shareholders as a whole, the approved his appointment and believes the conclusion of the AGM Nomination and Corporate Governance that Experian will derive substantial on 16 July 2014.
Committee and the Board carefully benefit from ensuring the continuity of the considered what the Group required from In April, we announced the senior leadership team into the medium its Chairman, and specifically how to appointment of Lloyd Pitchford term, while maximising the likelihood of best ensure the Groups success over the as Chief Financial Officer preserving our culture.
The key criteria for the role from September 2014, and the process undertaken is described in the included a Chairman with: appointment of a new nonP71 Nomination and Corporate Governance executive director, Jan Babiak, Committee report.
Governance Chairmans introduction 61 Don has been with Experian for 12 years, During his time at Intertek, he has held the last nine of which have been as Chief a wide portfolio of responsibilities, UK Corporate Executive Officer.
He has an outstanding helping to deliver significant growth Governance Code record of performance and of increasing in financial performance.
It is the Boards view that the shareholder value and is highly regarded We are also announcing that our Chief Company has complied with the by all our stakeholders.
Your Board firmly Operating Officer, Chris Callero, has principles and provisions of the believes that he has the right balance decided to retire from the Board, and will UK Corporate Governance Code of competencies and the necessary be succeeded by Kerry Williams, who Code throughout the year ended experience to provide Experian with the will take up his new position and join the 31 March 2014. overall leadership it requires through the Board as an executive director following next phase of its growth and development.
In January 2014, the Board Chriss retirement at the AGM in July announced the appointment of 2014.
Kerry most recently assumed Appointment of Chief the current Chief Executive Officer the post of Deputy Chief Operating Executive Officer as Chairman with effect from July Officer for Experian, and has immense The Board also appointed Brian Cassin as 2014.
3.1 states that a experience and deep knowledge of Chief Executive Officer.
He was an adviser chairman should on appointment be Experians businesses across the world, to Experian for more than eight years and deemed to be independent and that which will be of significant benefit to the has been our Chief Financial Officer for a chief executive should not go on to Group in the future.
be chairman of the same company.
Independence of the Board However, the Code goes on to state: Brian brings a wealth of experience to the The Board clearly recognises Chief Executive role, both from his time If exceptionally a board at Experian and at Greenhill & Co, where shareholders need and desire for decides that a chief executive appropriate independence on the Board he was a Partner and Managing Director should become chairman, the with 20 years experience in the corporate as a whole.
It therefore appointed George board should consult major Rose as Deputy Chairman and Senior finance advisory sector, including being shareholders in advance and a leading adviser to GUS plc ahead Independent Director with effect from Sir should set out its reasons to Alan Rudges retirement on 16 July 2014. of Experians demerger.
As such, he shareholders at the time of the possesses strong knowledge of and George was appointed to the Board in appointment and in the next September 2012. insight into the business.
In addition, the Company appointed Jan As Chief Financial Officer, Brian joined The Board confirms that, in the Experian Board in April 2012, and Babiak as an independent non-executive line with the Code, extensive director, to strengthen further what is his operational performance and consultations were held with contribution to the Board have been already a very capable and experienced shareholders in advance of the Board.
Experian will, as a result, continue exemplary.
He has shown a broad range appointment and that it has of operational competencies, including to have a Board with a substantial set out the reasons behind the majority of independent directors, who clear leadership and strong, decisive appointment to shareholders both management skills, coupled with deep will ensure the Company maintains at the time of the appointment strong governance in the future.
commercial acumen and a firm grasp of and in this annual report.
The Board strongly Conclusion The Corporate governance report, believes that these competencies make P78 together with the Report on him an exceptional choice for the role of Having carried out a very thorough directors remuneration, explains Chief Executive Officer.
process which considered a wide range how the Company has applied of alternatives, the Board unanimously Appointments of Chief the Codes main principles and concluded that appointing Don Robert Financial Officer and Chief complied with its provisions during as Chairman and Brian Cassin as Operating Officer the year.
The information required Chief Executive Officer, together with by Disclosure and Transparency the other Board appointments, was in The Board has also appointed Lloyd Rule DTR 7.2 is set out in this the Companys best interests.
These Pitchford as Chief Financial Officer, and introduction and the Corporate appointments will ensure that the he will join in September 2014.
Lloyd governance report, other than that Board has the appropriate balance of has been Chief Financial Officer of required by DTR 7.2.
6R, which is skills, experience, independence and Intertek Group plc since April 2010 and, set out in the Directors report.
knowledge, to enable it to discharge its coming to us from a FTSE 100 company, duties and responsibilities effectively and will bring deep financial knowledge to best position Experian to sustain its and considerable experience, built up success into the long term.
through an impressive career working in complex, multinational organisations.
