Chairmans Letter of Governance Dear Shareholder, I believe we are entering Earlier in this annual report, I noted that global resources companies continued to face some significant challenges during 2014 and Fresnillo a new phase in the evolution was no exception to that.
However, over the years we have recognised that the best strategy at such times has been to take a prudent and wellof our Board governance, considered approach that keeps both the long-term and short-term needs of the business in careful balance.
which will build on the Good governance is an important contributor to this.
Consequently, we achievements that we have worked hard to continue developing our governance structures.
The key developments during the year were the new appointments made to made since our IPO in 2008. the Board, and the evaluation of our governance processes through our second externally facilitated board evaluation process.
As a result Alberto Baillres of these developments, I believe we are entering a new phase in the Chairman of the Board evolution of our board governance, which will build on the achievements that we have made since our IPO in 2008.
The composition of the Board changed when three Directors did not stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2014, and three new independent Non-executive Directors were appointed in their place.
I am most grateful to Lord Cairns, Fernando Solana and Javier Fernndez for their contributions to the Board and its committees over the past few years and I will be sorry not to have the benefit of their wisdom and counsel in the future.
However, as the UK Corporate Governance Code expects boards to look at their composition on a regular basis, I, along with my colleagues on the Nominations Committee, took this expectation seriously and a year or so ago embarked on a process which resulted in our new Directors Jaime Serra, Brbara Garza Lagera and Charles Jacobs joining the Board at the 2014 AGM.
Our new Directors bring useful new skills and experience to the Board and, of course, the process continues to honour our commitment to the principle of broad diversity in the boardroom.
I am pleased that this transition has gone well and I would like to thank my Board colleagues both old and new for making it such a smooth and effective process.
| 110 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Continuing the theme of effectiveness, I said last year that we would UK Corporate Governance Code conduct our second externally facilitated board evaluation exercise in 2014 and we have fulfilled that commitment.
Independent Audit Limited ComplianceStatement were invited to undertake our board evaluation exercise, which as you Fresnillo is a company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock will see elsewhere in this report, formed part of a suite of evaluation work Exchange.
As such it is required under the FCA Listing Rules to comply that extended to the Audit Committee, external auditors and our Internal with the Code Provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Audit function.
Taken together, this body of work has provided a valuable Code a copy of which may be found on the website of the Financial perspective on our control processes, which has been very illuminating Reporting Council www.
uk or otherwise explain its reasons for the Board.
We look forward to working through the action plan that we for non-compliance.
The following statement is therefore made in developed following the Boards discussion of the evaluation report thisis respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 in compliance with commented on in more detail on page 124. such requirement.
The following sections of this report explain how Below Board level we have seen the Executive Committee, which was the principles in the Code were applied and provide cross-references restored to full strength in 2013, work hard to continue to implement to other sections of the report and or the Companys website our strategy.
To ensure the long-term strength and development of our www.
com where more detailed descriptions are available.
management team below Board level, succession planning has been The Code establishes 18 main principles of good governance under introduced into our Chief Executives objectives.
five headings: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration Our Board committees were all very active during 2014, each one and Relations with Shareholders.
The remainder of this report: the havingnew challenges to consider on behalf of the Board during the year.
section on Risk Management which can be found on pages 42 to The Audit Committee has helped the Board work through the implications 53 : the sustainability report which can be found on pages 80 to of a changing macroeconomic, political and legal environment for the 95 and the Directors remuneration report which can be found on Companys approach to its financial reporting.
It has also continued to pages 142 to 154 provides further detail on how the Company applies monitor the probity of the Companys approach to risk management, goodgovernance in these five areas.
anti-bribery and corruption, internal controls and internal audit activity.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2014, the Company has The Remuneration Committee worked hard to ensure that the complied with the provisions of the Code in all these areas, save Company fulfilled its responsibilities under the new UK requirements on inrespect of D. 2.1, which provides that the Board should establish a executive remuneration.
The overwhelming support of our independent remuneration committee of at least three independent Non-executive shareholders for the policy and implementation reports at the AGM was Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee a welcome endorsement of the Remuneration Committees approach is made up of three members including two independent Nontothis matter.
executive Directors one of whom, Charles Jacobs, is the Chairman ofthe Committee.
The Chairman of the Company, Mr Baillres, who The HSECR Committee has focused its time scrutinising managements was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
efforts to improve the Companys health and safety record.
More generally, The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the a continued emphasis on improving the maturity of the Companys health Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to and safety system has been a priority.
the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership While the activities of each of our Board committees have, in one sense, of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters been quite disparate, all have a common aim in ensuring that Company concerning his own remuneration.
approaches the challenges of the short-term with a clear view for the The FRC published a revised Code in September 2014 which will be long-term prospects so that our governance continues to evolve in step applicable to the Company for the financial year ended 31 December with achievement of our strategic goals.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees on behalf of the Yours sincerely Board, are leading a review of steps to be taken to adopt the new Code requirements.
Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Board | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 111
