Governance Chairmans introduction This report explains how the G4S group is governed by setting out the details of the work of the board over the last year and the processes adopted by the board.
It also describes some of the mechanisms by which the board satisfies itself that adequate controls are maintained throughout the group.
In a group as large and diverse as ours, it is important to ensure that strong controls are in place and that there are adequate processes to ensure those controls are implemented.
At the same time, we are aware of the need to allow our business to develop and, most importantly, to concentrate on meeting the needs of our customers.
The board is conscious of the importance of maintaining the right balance.
After a period of considerable change in the recent past, 2014 was a year of stability and consolidation for the John Connolly board in terms of membership and indeed the frequency Chairman with which the board met.
As the new members of the board have learned more about the business and relationships between board members have developed and strengthened, the board has become more effective at providing an environment for constructive challenge Committed to and debate.
It is my expectation that the work of the board will concentrate more on business as usual after the challenges of the past couple of years, but we will not good governance lose sight of the need for the board and for the entire group to maintain the highest governance standards.
John Connolly Ensuring that good governance is achieved throughout G4S Chairman is vital for the delivery of long term sustainable value for shareholders and for all the groups stakeholders.
It is important therefore that the right tone is set by the board and the way it In this section operates.
It is equally important that strong governance Board of directors 54 frameworks are applied throughout the group.
Executive committee 56 Corporate governance report 58 Audit Committee report 67 Directors remuneration report 72 Directors report 87 Directors responsibilities 90 Board highlights 2014 Board priorities in 2014 % Concluded an investigation by external lawyers on the boards Financial reporting planning Investor relations behalf into events surrounding the groups electronic monitoring 10.5% 3.5% contract with the UK Ministry of Justice MoJ and agreed a financial settlement with the MoJ Board governance 12.5% Conducted visits to three business sites in the UK Investment Received in-depth presentations on the UK & Ireland and Europe approvals 3% regions, the groups technology and IT strategy, service excellence centres and risk management processes Executive Speci c issues Conducted a review of the groups strategy reports 14% Agreed to recommend a change of external auditor 23.5% Approved a new 1bn revolving credit finance facility Focused on the health and safety of employees Understanding Commissioned a review of its own performance the business 20% Committee reports 9% Group strategy 4% plus a dedicated day and a half strategy meeting Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 5151
