GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction to governance Doing the right thing.
Conducting our business ethically and safeguarding our shareholders investment through high standards of both corporate MIKE TURNER CBE governance and business performance Chairman are fundamental to GKN Values.
The value of good governance has been increasingly recognised by Effectiveness stakeholders over the past few years.
Whilst strong operational Following our external evaluation in 2013, during the year we performance is important, the Companys progress towards its conducted an internal evaluation of the Board.
The evaluation strategic objectives must be underpinned by ethical behaviour and process involved face to face interviews with each Director to a strong set of core values.
For example, if we wish to lead in our gather feedback on the areas we believe to be critical to the chosen markets, then we must compete fairly.
If we want to expand Boards effectiveness.
More information on the process can be our global footprint, then we need to be mindful that we may found on page 67 of this statement.
encounter differing ethical standards and must ensure that we hold ourselves to the highest standards of behaviour.
Accountability The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk appetite of These standards and values are set and demonstrated by the the Group and for the maintenance of appropriate risk management Directors.
With this in mind, we approved a revised code of conduct systems.
During the year we continued to refine our risk procedures the GKN Code in 2014 which was designed to provide a clear and further strengthen our risk assurance processes in response framework for the increasingly complex environment in which our to changes in the market environments in which we operate.
The financial and reputational impact A description of how GKN manages risk and the principal risks which if we get it wrong cannot be underestimated and the revised GKN could impact the Group are set out on pages 42 to 51 of the strategic Code helps our employees understand the obligations we have to report, and a summary of the internal control and compliance the Companys stakeholders.
procedures is set out on pages 68 and 69 of this statement.
Leadership The actions we have taken throughout the year are described more The balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board fully throughout this report.
and on the Committees which support its work is crucial to the Groups success.
During the year, Adam Walker succeeded Bill Seeger as Group Finance Director following Bills retirement.
Adam brings a wealth of knowledge and experience which has been invaluable in what Mike Turner CBE has been a challenging year for many UK companies.
Marcus Chairman Bryson, CBE, retired from his role as Chief Executive Aerospace and 23 February 2015 Land Systems at the end of 2014 after 20 years with the Company.
Marcus will continue to work for the Company on a part-time basis in 2015 to provide advice and support in relation to industry developments and UK government relations.
The Nominations Committee considered both succession planning and the composition of the Board in light of Marcus retirement: further information can be found in its report on page 71.
62 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
