Chairman's introduction to Governance The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring values and behaviours are consistent across the business.
Dear Shareholders, As Halmas new Chairman, I am proud to be able to present Halmas Corporate Governance report on behalf of our Board for the first time.
I hope the report provides you with a clear and meaningful explanation of how we as a Board and the committees discharge our governance duties and apply the principles of good governance enshrined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Halma reports in accordance to the revised September 2012 Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring values and behaviours are consistent across the business.
We have sought to manage the affairs of the Company not by merely following regimented rules, but by promoting open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge and support in the Board and across the Group.
I am pleased with the progress Halma has made.
We continually seek to ensure best practice is maintained and that governance is integral to our strategy and decision-making processes for the benefit of our shareholders.
We were sorry to lose Geoff Unwin as Chairman during the year as he has been an invaluable and excellent leader and Chairman to our Board and team.
I am honoured to have worked with him for a few brief months.
It is my belief that we have to continually nurture talents throughout the Group to enable effective succession planning.
We have continued to review our governance structures and the composition of our Board and Executive Board throughout the year.
I am delighted to report that we further strengthened our Board and aligned our Executive Board with the four market sectors in which we are engaged.
We are also sorry that Lord Blackwell and Steve Marshall will both be retiring from our Board at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to thank them for their significant contribution to the Halma Board.
We will soon be welcoming Roy Twite, an executive director at IMI plc, to our Board immediately following the end of our AGM on 24 July 2014.
Roy brings with him substantial engineering and operational experience which I am sure will be invaluable to our Board discussions.
54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I am so pleased to welcome Jennifer Ward to our team.
She has global responsibility for the development of management talent across Halma, with a strong focus on subsidiary company boards and Halmas senior management.
This appointment reinforces our commitment to continuously improve the quality and performance of Halmas management talent across the world.
Jennifer comes to us with a wealth of experience from a wide range of roles held in both the USA and London.
Her biography is detailed on page 58 of the report.
Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and Halma is always focused on the ways in which we attract, identify, assess and develop Board-level talent which is a critical factor for us to achieve our mid to long-term strategic goals.
Talent also continues to be developed through programmes such as the Halma Executive Development Programme which itself evolves to meet the changing needs of the Group.
Whenever we identify a need for improvement to management resources we take action to ensure full strength is attained as soon as practicable.
Lastly, I would like to encourage all shareholders to find the time to attend our AGM on 24July 2014.
It is an excellent opportunity to meet the Board and the newly constituted Executive Board.
Paul Walker Chairman 12 June 2014 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
