Remuneration Committee Chairman statement... there were no substantive changes to the remuneration policy or structure of the Group during the year.
Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 29 March 2014.
As set out on page 5, Halmas strategy is to build a strong competitive advantage in specialised safety, health and environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers.
This strategy is underpinned by the Groups remuneration framework which balances a short-term cash incentive related to improvements inthe Economic Value Added EVA in a financial year, with a longer-term share incentive related to returns on invested capital and Total Shareholder Return.
Other than the announced closure of the Halma Defined Benefit pension plan in which anumber of executives participated, there were no substantive changes to the remuneration policy or structure of the Group during the year.
The Committee continuously assessed the appropriateness of its remuneration structure in the light of the business performance and confirmed its satisfaction with the structure and the outcomes related to the application of the structure.
Accordingly, the Committee: determined the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Board and the Company Secretary in accordance with its Terms of Reference: determined the Chief Executives achievement of personal objectives contributing to a proportion of his performance share plan PSP award granted in August 2013: confirmed the performance-related bonus arrangements for 2013 14 with no material change from prior year: confirmed the PSP arrangements for 2013 14 with no material change from prior year: confirmed the pension arrangements for UK senior executives: considered the framework for subsidiary chief executives and directors to ensure that a consistent approach was applied: considered the good leaver status of departing PSP participants: consulted the top ten shareholders on the proposed remuneration of executive Directors for 2015: and decided to conduct a more thorough review of remuneration during 2015 to coincide with the necessity to introduce a new long-term incentive plan at the 2015 annual generalmeeting.
72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other than the evaluation of Chief Executive objectives and the determination of good leaver status for departing executives, the Committee did not exercise any discretion during the year.
In August 2013, the UK Government Department of Business Innovation & Skills BIS published a set of regulations on what companies must disclose in the Directors Remuneration Report from 1 October 2013.
In line with the requirements, this report is divided into three sections: this Annual Statement: the Directors Remuneration Policy, which details Halmas executive remuneration policies and links to Group strategy, as well as projected pay outcomes under different performance scenarios: and the Annual Remuneration Report, which focuses on the remuneration arrangements and outcomes for the year under review, and how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the policy next year.
As required under the new reporting regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on24 July 2014, and the Annual Remuneration Report will be submitted to an advisory vote at the same time.
My colleagues on the Remuneration Committee the Committee and I hope that you find the new layout of the Remuneration Report to be clear and transparent, and that we can count on your support for the Directors Remuneration Policy which remains unchanged and its implementation during the year under review.
Steve Marshall Chairman 12 June 2014 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73
