Title Governance Chairmans overview JM Barry Gibson Chairman The Board continues to believe that good The Board has been pleased by corporate governance underpins good managements approach to the review and business performance.
As a Board we its willingness to invest time and resource are accountable to our shareholders for in improving and refining their compliance ensuring that governance processes are framework and structure.
Independent in place and are effective and we are non-executive directors have been fully committed to meeting the required appointed in all our businesses and local standards of corporate governance.
legal and compliance functions have been strengthened.
The reports that follow are intended to give shareholders an understanding of our As a Board we regularly discuss and review: corporate governance arrangements and Our performance and our progress how they operated in FY14.
towards our strategic goals Our customers and how we can ensure Board focus that they are at the heart of everything Over the last year we have continued to we do re-focus the business on our customers and Our people and how we can develop we have made improvements to our service, and support them to provide the service culture, governance and controls.
Following our customers expect the issues identified in the UK business in Our shareholders and how we FY12, we undertook an extensive review of communicate with them regulatory compliance outside the UK with Our governance and controls.
the assistance of external specialists.
52 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Board changes Board effectiveness As previously reported, Jonathan King During the year, a review of the Board and stepped down as Chief Executive Officer of its committees was undertaken by Lintstock the UK business.
The Board was pleased to Limited, an external facilitator.
The process be able to appoint an internal candidate, and findings are described in the Corporate Martin Bennett, as his successor.
Based on this review a key member of HomeServes executive and my experience as Chairman, I am team and in his previous role as Group satisfied that the Board and its Committee Chief Operating Officer worked closely with are performing efficiently and that there is Jonathan to re-focus our UK operations and an appropriate balance of skills, experience, improve customer service.
knowledge and independence to enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
Rachael Hughes, a member of the Executive Committee, left the Group on 31 March 2014 JM Barry Gibson having served as Chief Executive Officer Chairman of HomeServe Europe since 2005.
Rachael 20 May 2014 joined the Group in 2001 to launch Domo in France and was instrumental in developing our businesses in Continental Europe.
I would like to thank both Jonathan and Rachael for their contribution and wish them well for the future.
