Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Committee It has been a busy year for the Remuneration Committee.
In this report we propose changes to IMIs executive remuneration arrangements to align with our new business strategy to drive growth and build long-term shareholder value.
We will be seeking your approval for these changes at our upcoming Annual General Meeting.
Douglas will be succeeded by Daniel Shook, who joined IMI in Dear Shareholder January as Finance Director Designate.
Daniel will take over as Finance Director on 1 March 2015 and Douglas will step down During 2014 the Committee completed a review of IMIs from the Board at the AGM.
executive remuneration practices, with the simple objective of ensuring IMIs remuneration arrangements are aligned with For Douglas, with respect to compensation, the overriding our new robust strategic growth plan.
Following this review principle was that we should treat him fairly and honour any we are proposing a number of changes to the existing executive contractual commitments.
I can confirm that we did not use remuneration arrangements and we will be seeking your approval any discretion to pay him more than he was entitled to under of a new remuneration policy at the upcoming Annual General his service contract or the share plan rules.
This review, coupled with Douglas Hurts retirement that it was critical for Douglas to remain focused on the longand Daniel Shooks appointment, made for a busy year.
term success of IMI and in ensuring a smooth handover to Daniel, so we used our power under the share plan rules What did the Committee focus on during the year?
to defer vesting of all share-based awards to the third It was an exciting year in IMIs history with Mark Selway taking anniversary of their grant, rather than the earlier date of over from Martin Lamb following his retirement.
Awards will be pro-rated to May 2015 change came the opportunity to take a fresh perspective and corporate performance will be measured over the full on our strategy, and as discussed by Mark and Roberto, three-year performance period, thus ensuring that Douglas significant opportunities have been identified to accelerate is rewarded according to IMIs performance after he has growth and build long-term shareholder value.
The Committee passed the baton on to Daniel.
considered the remuneration arrangements, not just for the executive directors but also for the senior leadership group How were pay outcomes linked to performance?
and broader employee population, all of whom are critical 2014 was another year of good progress for IMI.
Organic to the successful delivery of our strategic ambitions.
revenue increased by 2% to 1,686m and adjusted basic EPS increased by 7%.
Shareholders have also benefitted from a 7% Clearly, it is important for the Committee to take account of increase in the total dividend for the year and the 620m return feedback from our shareholders when considering any change.
of cash occurring in the first half of 2014 as a result of the sale Following a formal consultation, which we undertook in autumn of the Retail Dispense divisions.
2014, the majority of our shareholders were fully supportive of the changes put forward.
The 2014 annual bonus will be paid against a pre-set range of targets for profit before tax, adjusted EPS, organic The primary change we are proposing to make to the revenue growth, cash conversion and health, safety and remuneration arrangements is the removal of the Share environment measures.
An overall Group-level bonus score Matching Plan SMP in favour of a simpler model with a single 1 of 37% was recorded.
performance share plan in response to both shareholder feedback and market developments.
At the same time we The 2012 matching share award and performance award have significantly increased our share ownership guidelines vested at 70% and 0% respectively.
Further details on the to reinforce shareholder alignment.
The changes have been levels of performance are set out on pages 73 to 75. calibrated to ensure consistency of new total remuneration levels against both previous levels and market norms, while 1 Assumes maximum achievement of the personal objective component reducing overall leverage in our incentive plans.
During the year, Douglas Hurt decided to retire having played a key role in IMIs development over the last eight years.
58 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd What did the non-executive directors get paid in 2014?
The Chairman was paid a fee of 300,000.
Roberto Quarta In 2014 our average staff salary increase was 3.2%.
has elected to receive 25% of his fee in shares although that Approximately one million options vested in 2014 under the is not a Company requirement and may or may not apply to Share Option Plan these were granted in 2011 to our managers a new Chairman.
Each non-executive director received an and the gain per share option on vesting was 4.66 each.
I received an additional We continue to offer UK SAYE, UK Share Incentive Plan 15,000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee, with Phil and Global Employee Share Purchase Plans in USA.
We are Bentley and Anita Frew receiving additional fees of 15,000 particularly proud of the level of uptake in our all-employee plans.
and 10,000 respectively for their duties in chairing the Audit Committee and serving as the senior independent director.
Committee review We welcomed Ross McInnes to the board as a non-executive The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of director in October 2014 and he received a fee of 15,000 reference and received positive feedback from the externally for his time in the role during the year.
In January 2015, Ross facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the succeeded Phil as Chairman of the Audit Committee when Board and each of its standing committee.
Phil stepped down from the Board at the end of last year to focus on his new executive appointment elsewhere, and I Looking forward will replace Anita Frew as senior independent director.
The Committee has devoted a considerable amount of time in reviewing the executive remuneration framework over the year.
Subject to your approval, it is our intention that this policy will As indicated above, 2015 will see the launch of the IMI Incentive operate for at least the next three years, as the Executive team Plan IIP awards, subject to shareholder approval.
As part of the focuses on delivering long-term value.
I would like to personally remuneration review we also updated the 2015 performance thank those investors that took the time to participate in our measures under our short and long-term incentive schemes.
consultation exercise and I hope all of our shareholders are able Health and safety will now serve as an underpin in the annual to support our decisions and recommendations at the upcoming plan reflecting its overall importance, with the removal of EPS Annual General Meeting.
to place greater emphasis on Group PBT growth, organic revenue growth, cash conversion and strategic performance.
Bob Stack When compared to the previous long-term arrangements, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board.
EPS growth and organic revenue growth have been replaced by Group PBT growth and ROCE to better measure sustainable 26 February 2015 and efficient long-term profitable growth.
EVA has been removed entirely as we believe the new measures are more effective in measuring performance while being significantly more transparent to shareholders.
We have retained TSR to maintain the direct link with our shareholders experience, although we have taken the opportunity to refresh the peer group to better reflect our portfolio of businesses following the divestments of our Retail Dispense divisions.
The targets for the long-term plan have been set with a view to them being enduring standards and to that end the Committee is of the view that they are not commercially sensitive.
The targets for each measure are as follows: ROCE Relative TSR PBT Level of Growth vesting Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25% Maximum 50% Upper quartile 7.5% 100% As part of the annual review, salaries have been increased for Mark Selway and Roy Twite by 2.7% and 3.5% respectively in line with the approach we have taken across the whole Group.
In addition, Roys bonus opportunity has increased slightly to 150% of salary to mitigate the decrease in overall compensation opportunity brought about by the new remuneration structure.
