OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders for the Groups activities, strategy and financial performance, the efficient use of the Groups resources and social, environmental and ethical matters.
This includes setting the tone for our governance framework, which incorporates our Code of Conduct together with our values, and is key to the way we work both in respect of our relationships between colleagues and with our customers and suppliers.
Our Code of Conduct can be found within the responsibility standards of behaviour section of our website www.
In this report we provide an overview of our governance framework and the work of the Board and its Committees.
We have continued to evolve our reporting to take into account developing practice following the recent significant changes to reporting requirements.
We do not see governance as a box-ticking exercise or simply related to processes and controls but rather providing a guide to our embedded governance framework.
This, together with our Mark Williamson Chairman transparent approach, ensures we do the right things in the right way.
Achieving this requires the right leadership.
Accordingly, our Board is composed of Directors from differing international We believe that governance is not only backgrounds combined with a wide range of professional and about compliance, its about acting sector-specific experience.
This ensures that we have a truly with honesty and integrity in our balanced Board with the right skills and experience to contribute fully to effective decision making.
The standards of behaviour we require from our employees are This year has seen the Board and management drive a number of guided by our values and our Code of Conduct and are often more significant developments for the Group including the announcement stringent than local regulations.
Our policies and codes cover key of the acquisition of brands in the USA and the partial listing of issues such as acceptable business practices, ethical and legal Logista.
It has also seen a number of changes to the Board and compliance matters and, physical and data security as well as its Committees, including my appointment as Chairman and the regulatory, governance and occupational health, safety and appointment of Karen Witts.
In 2015 we will continue our strategic transition and, subject to More details in respect of our governance framework, including how completion of the acquisition, commence the integration of our our sound and effective corporate governance practices support our enlarged US business to support long-term value creation strategy, are set out in the following sections and in the discussion without compromising our risk management and internal on effectively managing the risks we face on page 21. control environment.
To ensure the success of these developments and that they are in the best interests of our shareholders, it is fundamental for the Group to be managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
This can only be achieved by underpinning our actions with high standards of Mark Williamson corporate governance and learning from past experiences.
Chairman Management and Corporate Structure Board Chairman and Remuneration Nominations Audit Non-Executive Committee p46 Committee p32 Committee p34 Directors Executive Directors Disclosure Committee Operating Executive Group functions, markets and factories Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 27
