Corporate Governance and Remuneration Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance Composition of the Board of Directors Dear Shareholder, I am delighted to write this first Ensuring a diverse balance of skills, knowledge and experience letter on our corporate governance practices to you, on the Board is a fundamental aspect of successful corporate our Shareholders, following the successful demerger governance.
I am pleased to confirm that the members of your of Indivior PLC from Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Board are individuals with skill sets that complement one another and the admission to the premium listing segment of and together, as a unitary Board, bring an appropriate balance of innovation, experience, independence and challenge to ensure the Official Listing of the UKLA and the commencement effective decision-making.
The transformation of addiction from of trading of Indivior ordinary shares on the main a global human crisis to a treated disease worldwide must be market segment of the London Stock Exchange.
thoughtfully navigated and guided by experience.
Your Board members bring with them a well-balanced and complementary Demerger from RB combination of business, scientific, pharmaceutical, disease and Indivior is a global specialty pharmaceutical business that has intellectual property expertise.
This knowledge, coupled with a been developed and managed as a separate division within RB.
pioneering spirit and insight in the addiction space, are catalysts Since 2007, RB had operated Indivior as a non-core business to help millions around the world reclaim their lives.
because the distinct nature of the pharmaceuticals business meant it has significantly different characteristics compared to a fast moving Effectiveness consumer goods business which forms the core of RBs operations.
As a Board of Directors, we recognize, and are prepared for, the specific challenges resulting from the creation of the corporate RB announced a strategic review of Indivior in October 2013, noting structures necessary to operate a premium-listed standalone entity, that the pharmaceuticals business was at an important state of the additional regulatory and legislative obligations applicable to its evolution with good long-term prospects.
On July 28, 2014, RB a UK-listed company and to ensuring that our US-based management announced that Indivior would be demerged from RB and listed team can effectively manage these additional responsibilities in as a separate business as this was in the best interest of, and would a way that is not detrimental to the operation and development result in a stronger future for, both RB and Indivior.
RB Shareholders of the core business.
The Board believes that Indiviors culture approved the demerger resolution on December 11, 2014 which is a powerful driver of success and that it displays many of the meant each RB Shareholder received one Indivior ordinary share strengths associated with RBs culture, such as entrepreneurship, for each RB ordinary share held at the Demerger Record Time.
team spirit and commitment, each executed with a high level of The demerger was effective on Tuesday, December 23, 2014 and energy within a business mindset of strong financial discipline.
trading in Indivior ordinary shares commenced on the same day.
Culture, behavioral standards and risk management Corporate governance Indiviors purpose is to pioneer life-transforming treatments for As a premium listed company, the UK Corporate Governance Code patients suffering from addiction and its co-morbidities.
Since the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2003, management has used a set of Guiding Principles which the September 2012 was applicable to the Company from the effective Board believes has influenced decision-making and the successful date of listing December 23, 2014 to December 31, 2014. operation of the business.
The elements of these Guiding Principles One of my objectives, following my appointment in February 2014 are: a focus on patient needs to drive decisions: b believe that as Chairman of the RB Pharmaceuticals business, subject to the peoples actions are well intended: c seek the wisdom of the team: result of the strategic review, was to guide the creation of a robust d see it, own it, make it happen: e care enough to coach: and f and transparent governance framework which was vital to the demonstrate honesty and integrity at all times.
sustainable success of RB Pharmaceuticals as a separate entity.
The emphasis management places on adhering to high behavioral Whilst confident that Indiviors management team, with over 60 years standards and doing the right thing led to the establishment cumulative experience in leading the business, was well placed to pursue avenues for growth and to create value by building on of the Risk Governance Committee RGC, chaired by the CEO.
The membership of the RGC comprises the Executive Committee, Indiviors strong market position in the treatment of opioid dependence and developing and commercializing further products the Company Secretary and clinical and medical directors for key areas of the business.
The RGCs remit covers patient safety, in the area of addiction and its co-morbidities, I understood that a new Board of Directors Board would have a critical role in corporate governance, business risks and improvement actions: and its purpose is to: ensure visibility, monitoring and management overseeing the transformation of the business from a business unit of RB to a separate organization with its own corporate structures of risk within the business: ensure alignment among all Executive Committee members: and provide a quarterly transparent report and requirements to comply with legal, regulatory and governance obligations applicable to premium-listed companies.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance Explanation of non-compliance with the Code Diversity and Indiviors Board Under the Code, the Audit Committee should comprise a minimum Composition of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Indivior has appointed Executive Directors 2 three independent Non-Executive Directors to its Audit Committee.
Independent Non-Executive Directors 8 It has also appointed Adrian Hennah as a fourth member of its Audit Committee notwithstanding the determination that Adrian Non-Executive Directors 1 is not independent under the Code due to his role as Chief Financial Officer of RB.
The Board carefully considered Adrians membership Female 2 and determined that the Audit Committee would benefit from Male 9 Adrians recent and relevant financial experience and his historic insight of the Groups business.
Experience Statement of compliance Details of the Companys corporate governance arrangements Biopharmaceuticals 10 together with the regulatory assurances required under the Code Scientific 3 are set out in pages 41 to 46 and, except as explained for Adrian Finance 4 Hennah and in the following paragraph, the Company complied with the Code throughout the period from listing until December 31, 2014.
Industry 9 Global 7 As the Company was only demerged and listed one week prior to the year-end, full reports of the Audit and the Nomination and US 9 Governance Committees are not included in this annual report.
UK 7 Both Committees have been established and will meet as normal during 2015 with the full reports of their activities included in next years annual report.
The Nomination and Governance Committee has met twice and the Audit Committee has met four times since the year-end.
These meetings relate in particular to the activities and processes leading to the production and approval of this annual report and financial statements and to ensure that the Audit Committee can provide the necessary comfort for the Boards conclusion that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
On behalf of the Board and with the capable leadership of the management team, I can assure you that your Directors are committed to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in all aspects of our operations wherever they may be.
Good governance is an important element in Indiviors ability to capitalize on the opportunities arising from the successful implementation of our strategic priorities.
Howard Pien Chairman March 27, 2015 40 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
