IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Chairmans overview in the future.
This includes a regular review of the size, experience, diversity and gender of our Board, which is conducted by our Nomination Committee see page 69 for its report.
We value the benefits that diversity brings, having had at least 25 per cent female representation on our Board since 2012.
Further details on our approach to diversity from Board level and throughout the organisation, including our policies in this area, can be found on pages 61 and 62.
The Audit Committee plays a substantial role in ensuring appropriate governance and challenge around our risk and Dear Shareholder assurance processes.
In line with our 2014 priorities, a major We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of focus area has been the risks relating to information security corporate governance.
Our governance framework, led by the and technology.
More information can be found in the Audit Board, supports IHGs culture, values and our commitment Committee Report on pages 65 to 67. to conducting business responsibly, further explained on pages In 2014, the Corporate Responsibility Committee continued 24 and 25.
We have in place strong and effective practices and to drive engagement of our three corporate responsibility conduct regular reviews to ensure we are compliant.
programmes and deliver against our five-year corporate Governance and strategy responsibility targets see page 68 for its report.
The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the Group, At our 2014 AGM, our Directors Remuneration Policy was as well as for setting the strategic priorities and objectives of the approved with a 90.94 per cent vote in favour.
We are not making Group and its risk appetite.
We consider the interests of all of our any changes to this Policy this year, however, we have provided stakeholders at all times.
Shaping and implementing IHGs strategy a summary of it in our Directors Remuneration Report, which is the most critical role of the Board and therefore the Board can be found on pages 76 to 91.
This includes information about dedicates ample time to discussing the Groups strategy, not least the Committee, the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration as part of our annual strategy meeting.
Further information on how and Implementation of our Directors Remuneration Policy in 2015. the Board spent its time during 2014 can be found on page 56.
Board effectiveness Board changes and succession planning For 2014, we conducted an internal evaluation on Board A high-level structure of IHGs Board and its Committees, along effectiveness.
During 2014, we progressed the actions that were with biographies of current Board and Executive Committee highlighted from the 2013 external evaluation, which enabled us members, can be found on pages 55 and 57 to 61. to further inform enhancements to our Board processes.
Details of both the 2013 and 2014 evaluation, including the process and As announced in our 2013 Annual Report, David Kappler retired on 31 recommendations, can be found on pages 63 and 64.
May 2014 after spending over nine years as a Non-Executive Director at IHG.
He was succeeded by Dale Morrison as Senior Independent Structure of the report Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2014.
Ian Dyson took over Davids This year we have restructured our Corporate Governance duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014.
We also Statement, setting out a review of our 2014 activities at the start, said goodbye to Jonathan Linen, who retired from the Board on followed by each Board Committees report and finally details of 31 December 2014 after spending nine years with the business.
how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code In August 2014, we announced the appointment of Jo Harlow to published in September 2012 the Code.
We have aimed to provide the Board and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees greater transparency on compliance with the Code, making this effective as of 1 September 2014.
Jos appointment fulfils one of easier to follow.
the objectives I highlighted last year, which was to enhance the I am pleased to report that, during 2014, we complied fully with Boards capabilities and competencies by appointing a Nonall principles and provisions of the Code, with the exception of Executive Director with specific consumer-facing technology the provision relating to audit tendering see page 70, as we experience given the significance of this area in our strategy.
believe it would not be in the best interests of the Group to Finally, in December 2014, we announced Kirk Kinsell would step undertake an audit tender at this time see pages 66 and 67. down from the Board on 13 February 2015.
Kirk was succeeded Objectives for the year as Chief Executive Officer, The Americas by Elie Maalouf, who sits on IHGs Executive Committee.
I would like to thank Kirk for his My objectives for the Board this year are to ensure that the focus long-standing contribution to IHG, most recently as a Board and composition of the Board continues to evolve to support the member and President of The Americas region.
execution of our strategy and the opportunities and challenges we face.
Our 2015 Board agenda will allow time for continued focus on We are also pleased to welcome Anne Busquet to the Board as our technology strategy and in-depth reviews of our brands and a Non-Executive Director effective as of 1 March 2015.
Anne will our priority markets.
This year, our annual strategy meeting will sit on the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Nomination be held in Greater China.
Anne has an impressive breadth of experience in digital commerce, hospitality, finance and marketing.
Our Board Committees Patrick Cescau Non-Executive Chairman We continually review the Boards composition to ensure we have 16 February 2015 the right balance of skills to support the business both today and 54
