Governance overview Amec Foster Wheeler supports the UK Corporate Governance Code and, in the opinion of the directors, the company has complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
This section explains in more detail how we have applied these provisions.
Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure Board The board has ownership of the global policies Board committees Support the board in its work with specific review and oversight Audit Nominations Health, Safety, Security, Remuneration Provides independent Identifies and makes Environmental and Ethics Aims to attract and retain scrutiny of the companys recommendations Assists in upholding our good management and to financial and non-financial concerning the core value of integrity and incentivise them to create performance, risks and composition of the board maintaining our HSSEE shareholder value audit functions and that of its committees commitments for a safe and secure working environment Group Leadership Team Responsible for implementation of the global policies Chief Executive Primarily responsible for running Amec Foster Wheelers businesses with the objective of creating shareholder value Management committees Deal generally with more operational matters Share allotment Pensions and Risk HSSE review retirement benefits Corporate transactions Tender review Disclosure Project review Chief Financial Officer Business Unit leaders Functional leaders Business Unit teams Functional teams Amec Foster Wheeler 48 Annual report and accounts 2014 Behaviours, Vision, Values, Code of Business Conduct, Global policies Local jurisdictional Global policies and procedures mandatory procedures Board role and responsibilities policies and ownership of the supporting global mandatory Amec Foster Wheelers board is ultimately responsible for procedures to the Group Leadership Team.
promoting the long-term success of the Company in accordance Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the global policies with the expectations of, and its obligations to, all stakeholders.
and procedures and working practices of Foster Wheeler and The directors believe that the board leads and controls the AMEC have been reviewed.
The purpose of this review was to group effectively and that all directors act in accordance with create the necessary foundation needed to support a consistent what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, approach in the direction and management of the groups consistent with their statutory duties under the Companies Act businesses in accordance with Amec Foster Wheelers vision 2006 and other legislation.
The revised global policies and global mandatory procedures are in the process of being issued and provide a In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control of the detailed description of expected working behaviours, as we group, the board maintains a schedule of matters reserved for continue to integrate the two businesses.
These include: Overall operational management is delegated to the Chief X annual strategic and short-range plans: Executive who, together with the Group Leadership Team, X financial and treasury policies: is responsible for providing the companys overall strategy and vision, driving execution, growing markets and customers X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and internal and developing our people.
The board regularly reviews its control systems: operational structure and, as more fully described in the X major acquisitions and disposals: strategic report, on 1 January 2015 further to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, launched a new operating model defining X Code of Business Conduct: how our new company is structured and the changes to the way X we will work together in our commitment to deliver excellence full and half-year accounts: to our customers.
X dividend policy: X succession planning for directors and senior executives: Find out more online X group-wide policy framework: and See amecfw.
com aboutus corporate-governance for further details on the Code of Business Conduct X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an Board committees annual basis.
No changes were proposed at the time of the The board is supported in its work by four board committees annual review in August 2014.
In light of the acquisition of audit, remuneration, nominations and HSSEE health, safety, Foster Wheeler, the schedule was the subject of a brought security, environmental and ethics, chaired by either the forward review in March 2015.
A number of changes have been board Chairman or another non-executive director, and a made to take account of the UK Corporate Governance Code, number of management committees, chaired by executive the recently revised terms of reference of the various board directors or other senior individuals, to which specific and management committees, the Chairmans board plan for responsibilities have been formally delegated.
2015 and the companys new operating model.
The board has responsibility for maintaining strong corporate Find out more online governance practices and regularly reviewing the effectiveness Full written terms of reference for each board committee can be found at of the Companys governance framework.
The Code of Business amecfw.
com aboutus corporate-governance Conduct forms the foundation of Amec Foster Wheelers approach to corporate governance and is applicable to all employees, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer Details of the membership, duties, responsibilities and work and other senior financial professionals.
It is the responsibility of the committees are set out on pages 50 to 74. of and is upheld by the board and ensures that the board and all With effect from 1 January 2015, the membership of each of those who work for and under Amec Foster Wheelers direction the board committees has been restructured to ensure the understand the behaviour that is expected of them.
Following most effective use of each non-executive directors time.
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a new Code of Business Previously all of the boards independent non-executive Conduct is being launched to take account of and provide a directors were members of each of the board committees and practical application of Amec Foster Wheelers new values and these have been amended to more appropriately reflect their expected working behaviours in the delivery of the Companys skills and experience.
The Code of Business Conduct complies with relevant UK and US regulations and is available on the The board ensures that the committees are provided with Companys website at amecfw.
whatever resources they need to undertake their duties and that their membership continues to be appropriate.
The board approves the group-wide policy framework and other The secretary of the committees produces timely records of mechanisms for ensuring the effectiveness of governance in the all meetings, which are circulated to each member.
In addition, groups working practices.
On a day-to-day basis, the board has the chairman of each board committee reports fully to the delegated responsibility for the implementation of the global board following each meeting.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 49 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
