Chairmans governance overview Our health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee has an increasingly key role as the business continues Effective governance is the mainstay of all to expand.
In 2014 we expanded the remit of the ethics committee successful companies, and your board takes to include health, safety, security and environmental matters and the committee terms of reference were revised.
We have taken its responsibilities very seriously, carefully the opportunity through the Foster Wheeler transaction to further outlining its goals and agenda at the start of assess our global policies and global mandatory procedures, ensuring that we benefit from best in class approach, which is the year and then measuring its performance clear for English and non-English speaking colleagues alike.
They against these as the year progresses.
continue to be an important part of our governance framework and you can see this displayed in pictorial format on page 48.
Dear shareholder, Your company has retained its focus on investor relations and It is important that the right tone is set by the board and equally I and senior management are all engaged in meeting regularly with important that strong governance frameworks are applied and talking to our major shareholders.
This report explains how the Amec Foster Having incorporated a number of suggestions made by you at Wheeler group is governed by setting out details of the work of the last years annual general meeting AGM, this years report is board over the last year and the processes adopted by the board.
somewhat different to previous years.
We now also have to adhere It is considered best practice for boards to engage an external to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange specialist to review their activity every three years.
In 2014 we Commission SEC following the successful listing of our shares engaged Lintstock to assist us in this.
We utilise their services on in the form of American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock an annual basis and this year the board effectiveness review was Exchange NYSE at the end of 2014. facilitated by way of a number of detailed questionnaires.
In 2015 We continue to strive to make the annual report an informative the process will be more in-depth and will also involve externally guide with relevant information to assist you on your own facilitated face-to-face interviews.
investment deliberations, providing not only the information you In 2014 your board undertook reviews of the terms of reference need to understand our business model and strategy for growth, of the board and management committees, including the but also the ability to assess our performance towards our goals.
membership of each, to ensure that the most effective use was I and my fellow directors believe the 2014 annual report and being made of each of the non-executive directors time.
This takes accounts offers you a fair, balanced and understandable into account the additional requirements following the completion presentation of your company, as we confirm in the directors of our acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, and has included the responsibility statements on page 86. creation of a disclosure committee see page 76.
I mentioned in my statement at the front of this report and repeat Such continual appraisal of the constitution of your board has here for reference that as a board, we completely support the resulted in more diverse discussions and expertise from which to UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and believe we draw and I have been pleased to welcome Stephanie Newby and have complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition Kent Masters to our ranks.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
Your board has also continued its practice of formally reviewing We are required to file an annual report in the UK, which complies the companys strategy on an annual basis.
This not only provides with the Code, and to also file our annual report in the US on Form appropriate context in which corporate transactions, such as 20-F, which complies with the rules of the NYSE, US securities that of Foster Wheeler, can be assessed and approved, but it laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
also ensures that we benefit from the full range of skills and We have produced a combined annual report and annual report insight afforded us by each board member.
Such assessment on Form 20-F to ensure consistency in the information provided provides your board with a consistent and clear view of long-term to our UK and US investors.
As required by the SEC, a summary value creation opportunities for our shareholders whilst closely outlining the significant differences between the companys monitoring potential areas of risk for which we have further corporate governance practices as a UK listed company and those specific assessment criteria.
Our approach to risk management followed by US companies can be found on page 187. can be found on page 20 and our key business risks can be found in each relevant section of the business model, to give you a Finally, may I take this opportunity of firstly reminding you that clearer, more germane perspective on them.
you can find additional and more in-depth information on your companys website amecfw.
com and that, secondly, our AGM In my letter to you last year, I spoke about our approach to is to be held in London, on Thursday, 14 May 2015, where I hope diversity and inclusion and I am pleased to report that the new to see many of you in person.
operating model adopted by your company, following the inclusion of Foster Wheelers businesses, reinforces that approach from top down and bottom up throughout the organisation.
Embracing diversity and inclusion is one of our core values, for which everyone in the company is accountable.
And, rest assured, we are not merely looking at gender diversity where we continue to support the objectives of the Davies Report on Women on Boards.
John Connolly Printed copies of the Code For your company it is just as important to welcome diversity of Chairman can be obtained from thought and inclusion as natural elements of the business matrix.
com Amec Foster Wheeler 44 Annual report and accounts 2014
