com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Chairmans Remuneration Policy Governance Statement The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term success of the Company and to work with the executive team, providing support and advice.
The Board consistently challenges processes, plans and actions and exercises a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual debate.
This serves to promote continuous and sustained improvement across the business.
The Board was substantially rebuilt in 2010 and we have strengthened it further each year.
As a result we have a Board of high calibre individuals with a wide range of skills and experience.
We were pleased to welcome Mary Harris to the Board in July 2014.
The Board meets regularly for scheduled Board and Committee meetings and has a number of informal meetings to consider specific issues.
The Board interacts Archie Norman frequently with senior executives and subject matter Chairman experts.
This ensures that the Board has a full understanding of the business.
In 2014, the Board continued its programme of visiting different areas of the business.
The Board was substantially rebuilt We remain committed to sharing our business vision with our shareholders by maintaining regular open dialogue in 2010 and we have strengthened and effective communication.
We believe that continued it further each year.
As a result engagement is highly beneficial to all parties as it helps we have a Board of high calibre to build a greater understanding of our investors views, opinions and concerns.
individuals with a wide range of skills and experience.
During the year an important focus has been on evolving our strategy for the next stage of our development.
Dear Shareholder, As a listed company, ITV is required to report on how it has The Board believes that a high standard of corporate complied with the principles of governance set out in the UK governance is a key contributor to the long term success of Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board considers the Company.
that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code, except in respect of provision C. 3.1.
Following the departure of The Board remains committed to ensuring that good Lucy Neville-Rolfe in July 2014, the Audit Committee has only leadership and the highest standards of corporate governance had two members.
The Board is mindful of this and is actively are maintained through a combination of a robust internal seeking an additional Non-executive Director with relevant skills framework of systems and controls underpinned by the right and experience.
This framework of policies and processes is regularly reviewed against developments in the legislative, regulatory and governance landscape.
Archie Norman This governance report comprises the following sections: Chairman 4 March 2015 How the Board works Effectiveness Relations with shareholders Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy 67 slugline
