Letter from the Chairman of the Board Following a successful period of transition amongst the executive leadership, I feel the Board is now very well placed to ensure continued challenge, debate and effective decision making in the best long-term interests of the Group.
Dear Shareholder During 2014 the Group achieved a significant milestone in the evolution The Board is supported by a number of Committees in addition to the of its governance environment and Board composition.
Nomination Committee, which bring appropriate insight to the Boards deliberations and ensure that the long-term interests of the Group are met.
In May, I succeeded Allister Langlands, becoming the Groups first independent non-executive Chairman, having served as a non-executive Our Safety & Assurance Committee established in May 2013, and director since 2006.
Allister held the role since 2012, being CEO prior to chaired by Tom Botts, oversees the management of Safety & Assurance, that from 2007.
Our principal shareholders unanimously supported the consistent with its status as the Groups top priority.
During the year, Boards decision to appoint Allister to the role, to provide continuity at the the Groups new head of HSSE, Nina Schofield joined the Committee, top level over the period of transition of executive leadership to Bob Keiller, replacing Mike Straughen who retired in August 2014. who was appointed CEO in November 2012.
My proposed appointment In 2014, Jann Brown was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee.
was discussed and recommended by the Nomination Committee and Jann brings considerable oil & gas, international finance and financial represents a natural evolution in the Groups stewardship.
markets experience to the role.
The Committee, operating under its At the beginning of the year, the Groups strategy was reviewed by the charter, met four times in the year and their report includes additional Board which agreed a strategic framework to help define the Groups detail on the primary areas of financial reporting judgement considered in focus and risk appetite.
This framework was reviewed by the Board later relation to the 2014 financial statements and how they were addressed.
in the year which reaffirmed the Groups longer term growth ambitions The Remuneration Committee has considered several changes to in the context of more immediate and significant reductions in customer executive remuneration for 2014 15 in line with our longer term approach spending which are covered in more detail elsewhere in this annual report.
of simplifying the Groups remuneration arrangements.
As a result, During the year, the Nomination Committee was also engaged in the 2015 long-term incentive awards will be based on Group level targets search for a new non-executive director with strong listed company only: 20% of any vested long-term incentives award will continue to be financial experience which ultimately resulted in the appointment of Jann M deferred for a further 2 years, resulting in 5 years in total: and in line with Brown in May, previously Managing Director and CFO of Cairn Energy.
best practice the annual bonus and long-term incentive scheme rules The review of executive succession planning was a key focus of the were revised to ensure the inclusion of appropriate clawback provisions.
In 2014, Alan Semple expressed a desire to retire after More information within the Directors' Remuneration Report will also be 19 years with the Group and will be succeeded in May 2015 by David provided on performance against targets for 2014.
Kemp, previously Wood Group PSN CFO.
Recognising the breadth of Following a successful period of transition amongst the executive the Groups operations and its longer-term growth potential, we also leadership, I feel the Board is now very well placed to ensure continued appointed Robin Watson to a new role as chief operating officer COO.
challenge, debate and effective decision making in the best long-term Michel Contie has informed the Board that he will not seek re-election interests of the Group.
at the AGM and the Committee is considering the future succession needs of the Board in the light of this.
The Board will continue to comprise a majority of independent directors after Michel steps down and we remain committed to ensuring that the Board retains an appropriate balance of skills, diversity, experience and personalities.
In particular, we have made progress on addressing the under-representation of women on the Board, up from 1 11 9% in 2013 to 2 10 20% at the year end and increasing to 22% following Michels retirement.
Ian Marchant, Chairman 17 February 2015 22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
