76 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Governance Letter from the Chairman Tim Stevenson Chairman Dear Shareholder Good governance is a cornerstone of a successful and sustainable company.
Johnson Matthey continues to have a well established framework of policies, processes and management systems to support its governance and sustainability efforts, which apply to its operations worldwide.
My Role as Chairman My role as Chairman is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has a board which works effectively under my leadership.
I aim to suit my approach to being Chairman to what I think is best for Johnson Matthey and its board.
Similarly, I aim to ensure that our governance arrangements are appropriate for Johnson Mattheys circumstances and support its strategy and business model.
I believe that our arrangements are appropriate and enable us to respond to any challenges which the company may face.
One of the most important aspects of my role is to foster the right dynamic on the board to ensure constructive challenge of the executive directors.
This involves having directors with the right range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes including broad diversity of perspective for the board and for Johnson Matthey.
I believe we have this on our board, enhanced further by the appointment of Odile Desforges in July 2013.
Your non-executive directors continue to have a good relationship with the executive directors.
A vital relationship is that between me, as your Chairman, and your Chief Executive.
I very much look forward to continuing my positive and constructive relationship with Robert MacLeod, who will shortly assume his new role as Chief Executive.
Board and Committee Evaluation I see regular and appropriate board and committee evaluation as an area which is fundamental to achieving and improving board effectiveness.
Given the important changes to your board during the year, we chose again to conduct an evaluation process internally.
We report on the methodology used and the outcomes.
We will conduct an externally facilitated process next year.
Succession Planning and Diversity In addition to evaluation, proper planning for board succession and refreshing and selecting the right individuals for the board from a diverse talent pool are also key issues for me and for the board.
This has been particularly important this year.
We explain our approaches to these fundamental components of board effectiveness in this report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code We are reporting in our Corporate Governance Report this year against the 2010 and 2012 versions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related guidance.
As usual, we are reporting on how we have applied the Codes main principles and whether we have complied with its relevant provisions.
We set out in this report our statement of compliance with the Codes provisions.
I am pleased to report that except in two particular respects, Johnson Matthey has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the year ended 31st March 2014 and from that date up to the date of approval of this annual report.
