STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in September 2014 which applies to companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange with accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
These provisions will apply to the Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 and we are considering how best we can comply with them to ensure continued high standards of governance.
The Companys policies on corporate direction and control ensure that the Company applies all of the principles of good governance contained in the Code to the organisational structure it has adopted for conducting its business, reviewing its remuneration policy, maintaining relations with its shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
Accountability Simon Heale, Chairman The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Group and is dedicated to high standards of corporate governance in its The Governance Framework report set out on pages 72 to 87 management of the affairs of the Group and in its accountability explains in detail how the Company has applied the principles and to shareholders and other stakeholders.
complied with the provisions of the Code and also provides further details of the matters which the Board and its committees considered Dear fellow shareholder, during the financial year.
However, I would like to draw your I am delighted to present this introduction to the Companys attention to some specific areas.
corporate governance policies and procedures.
I am fully Board role and effectiveness committed to strong corporate governance and I firmly believe The core objective of the Board is to create and deliver the in the benefits an effective Board can bring to an organisation.
long-term success of the Company and sustained returns for I believe it is our governance structures that underpin our ability shareholders.
This requires the Board to set the Companys strategic to deliver our strategy.
In preparation for completion of the aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resource structures Restructuring, we reviewed our governance processes to ensure are in place to achieve the Companys objectives, review management that they were appropriate for the new KAZ Minerals and as part performance in delivering against strategy and set the Companys risk of this review, we have recently implemented a related parties appetite.
The Board ensures that the risk management measures and transaction policy and a competition policy.
Please see page 77 internal controls which are in place are appropriate and effective.
of the Governance Framework report for further details.
The Board is aware of its obligations to the Companys shareholders During 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA published and other stakeholders and responds to their needs by transparent amendments to the Listing Rules, which include changes affecting reporting and active engagement.
premium listed companies with a controlling shareholder.
Under Changes to the Board the Listing Rules, a concert party is classed as a controlling There have been two changes to the Board during 2014.
Eduard Ogay, shareholder of the Company.
This means that the independent executive Director, stepped down from the Board following non-executive Directors of the Company must be elected or completion of the Restructuring on 31 October 2014 and Andrew re-elected by a majority of the votes cast by the independent Southam, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed to the Board as an shareholders of the Company which excludes the Concert Party, executive Director on 1 November 2014. as well as by a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders.
Lord Renwick, who has served on the Board as an independent The Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared in non-executive Director since December 2005, will be stepping down accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which was at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Lord issued in September 2012 the Code by the Financial Reporting Renwick was one of the first independent non-executive Directors to Council the FRC and is available to view at www.
join the Board and was instrumental to the Listing in 2005.
His trusted The Company is currently reviewing the provisions of the revised 30 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT For more information, see pages 72 Governance Framework 79 Board Committees counsel has been invaluable to the Group over the last nine and 15 August 2014 to request shareholder approval of two years.
John MacKenzie, a senior mining executive, will be joining the important transactions, the latter general meeting to approve the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 1 March 2015 Restructuring and change of name of the Company to KAZ Minerals and we look forward to him joining us.
Please see page 86 of the PLC, both of which took effect from 31 October 2014.
At both Governance Framework report for further details.
general meetings, members of the Board who were present made themselves available to discuss the proposed transactions with Internal control and risk management shareholders.
We received strong shareholder approval in respect of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system these transactions and are grateful for your support as we take KAZ of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its Minerals forward.
We have therefore adopted a risk-based approach in establishing this process.
The Group, in the course of its business At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting, all activities, is exposed to financial, operational and compliance risks.
Directors who are able to attend will be available, as usual, to meet Overall management of these risks lies with the Board, with the with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any issues they may Audit Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the have.
I encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the Groups risk management framework.
More detailed information Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015. on the Groups system of internal control and risk management can Committee framework be found in the Governance Framework report on pages 77 and 78 KAZ Minerals has a structured and established corporate governance and the Risk Management Overview section on pages 28 and 29. framework in place to support the Boards aim of achieving long-term, Shareholder engagement sustainable growth for shareholders.
As a Board, we continually review Engaging with shareholders is one of the key aspects of good this framework to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Throughout the year, the Chief Executive The Board has four principal committees to deal with specific aspects and the Chief Financial Officer supported by the Groups investor of the Groups affairs: the Audit Committee: Group Health, Safety and relations team regularly meet with institutional shareholders and Environment Committee: Remuneration Committee: and Nomination sell-side analysts.
The Board also receives regular reports from Committee.
Detailed information on the roles and responsibilities, and the Corporate Communications department on its activities and, the activities undertaken during the year by each committee is set out in particular, on shareholder sentiment and feedback.
in the respective sections as referred to below.
The Board continues to believe that ongoing engagement with I look forward to leading the Board through this time of shareholders and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring their transformation and continuing to develop and strengthen our views and perspectives are fully understood.
This will remain corporate governance framework to meet the changes ahead a key focus for us in 2015. as the new KAZ Minerals.
As well as the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2014, the Company under its former name of Kazakhmys PLC Simon Heale convened two further general meetings on 7 January 2014 Chairman BOARD COMMITTEES Michael Lynch-Bell, Charles Watson, Simon Heale, Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Chair Chair Chair Chair Audit Committee Group Health, Safety and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Environment Committee See page 80 See page 84 See page 86 See page 88 www.
