Chairmans introduction A culture of good governance The Board believes that its effectiveness, and that of the Group, should be supported by a strong governance framework.
Dear shareholders, The 2014 financial year was another successful one for Kier.
The Group continues to demonstrate its ability to adapt to significant change, having recently integrated May Gurney and also undertaken a comprehensive business-efficiency programme.
The Board believes that its effectiveness, and that of the Group, should be supported by a strong governance framework.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that governance across the Group is robust, in particular so as to manage its future growth.
In this part of the annual report, we set out the measures that we have taken to ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of corporate governance.
As an introduction, I set out a summary of some of the important corporate governance issues which the Group has faced during the year.
Leadership and effectiveness The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and for establishing a framework of prudent and effective controls to enable risk to be assessed and managed.
We also believe that good corporate governance requires a board with an appropriate range of skills and experience.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year: Paul Sheffield stood down as chief executive, Chris Geoghegan retired as a non-executive director and, more recently, Kirsty Bashforth was appointed as a non-executive director.
I would like to express our thanks to Paul for his long service with Kier.
He made a significant contribution in over 30 years with the Group, most recently overseeing the acquisition and integration of May Gurney.
However, we believe in succession from within Kier and I was Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements therefore very pleased to appoint Haydn Mursell as the Remuneration new chief executive.
We are also pleased that Beverley Dew This year, there have been a number of changes in reporting will be joining us as the new finance director.
Beverley has requirements for the Remuneration Committee to consider.
significant experience of working within the construction, You will see that the directors remuneration report includes services and residential sectors and, when he joins us, both a section outlining the Groups remuneration policy will fit in well with the other executive directors and the and a section reporting on remuneration during the year rest of the Board.
We will issue another announcement ended 30 June 2014.
The Remuneration Committee has when his starting date has been decided.
reflected shareholders views in the remuneration policy, ahead of putting it to a shareholder vote at the 2014 I would also like to thank Chris Geoghegan for his annual general meeting.
contribution to the Board in particular, as the chair of the Remuneration Committee and for his support to me Relations with shareholders as the senior independent non-executive director.
We were Members of the Board have met a number of our delighted to have announced the appointment of Kirsty institutional investors during the year to understand their Bashforth as a non-executive director with effect from views on matters of significance to them.
Kirsty brings a wealth of experience my discussions with shareholders during the course of from her time at BP plc.
Since joining us, Kirsty has been the year on a variety of governance and strategy matters participating in a comprehensive induction programme and have helped to ensure that I can keep the Board informed has already demonstrated that she will play a key part in the about their issues and concerns.
Further details of our boardroom debate.
engagement with shareholders are set out on page 59.
When making these changes, we considered the balance The annual general meeting provides a valuable of skills and experience required by the Board and the opportunity for all shareholders to hear more about need to ensure that we have a diverse board in terms of how we have performed during the year and to meet background, experience and gender.
Although we do not the Board in person.
I look forward to welcoming have a target in relation to the number of women on the shareholders at the meeting on 13 November 2014.
Board, we endorse Lord Davies recommendations and include diversity as a key consideration when assessing its composition.
Phil White Accountability Chairman As a board, we understand our responsibility to present 17 September 2014 a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
We also understand the need to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
During the course of the year, the Risk Management and Audit Committee has assisted the Board to discharge its obligations with respect to these two requirements.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
