Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 38 Governance Chairmans overview This years report key features This year Following positive feedback around the level and style of has been a disclosures relating to our Board activity, this years report provides: key milestone Enhanced integration across the report: this was a process started last year towards Greater insight into our Board discussions, investment deliberations, our annual offsite meeting and our view on realising our Board performance in the year Further disclosure from our Audit Committee, including detail strategy.
on the tender of our statutory auditor and debate around key risks, signi cant issues and Auditor effectiveness Greater clarity to our remuneration disclosures and policies, in addition to that required by recent regulation More detail into our Nomination Committee debate, Robert Swannell including talent development and succession Chairman As a Board we regularly discuss and review our: This has been a mixed year for the Company, one in which Performance and progress the scale of transformation delivered contrasted with weaker Brand and reputation short-term trading performance and an intensely challenging Behaviours retail environment.
People and how we can create a high performing team Future development and succession Three years ago, we approved a strategy to become an Customers, suppliers and local communities international, multi-channel retailer.
This year has been a key Shareholders milestone towards realising that strategy, resulting in the Plan A and our plan to become the worlds most sustainable culmination and final delivery of a number of substantial long-term major retailer projects.
Most notably, this included the successful implementation of our multi-channel programme to move away These all re ect the considerations for directors as referenced from our old, Amazon supported online model, to a new platform in the Companies Act 2006 and which our directors know they supporting M&S.
com, designed and built in-house.
Furthermore, are trusted to consider on behalf of all stakeholders.
we opened our E-commerce Distribution Centre EDC and National Distribution Centre NDC at Castle Donington.
The scale and complexity of change delivered by these projects in such a customers, employees, suppliers and the communities in which short time frame is exceptional for a retailer, but there is no doubt we have operated over the last 130 years.
that it will better equip M&S for the longer term.
These values also root our decision-making across the business.
That said, our short-term trading performance has contrasted An example of this is provided by Steve Rowe within his Food with these achievements.
So while it was essential for us to update, where he highlights the decision of our food business to remain focused on those major initiatives that are critical ensure our farmers not only continue to get a fair price for the enablers for M&S to deliver in the future, the Board continued products they sell in the wake of intensi ed price activity in the to question and challenge the performance of our General milk market, but also rewards them for their animal welfare Merchandise business and the execution of plans to improve standards.
In our clothing business, these values encourage performance.
The Board is encouraged by the improving us to be vigilant in ensuring that our supply chain is ethical.
product and the data from our Customer Insight Unit.
These Our increased engagement with our stakeholders and better will continue to remain a key agenda item for the year ahead.
two-way stewardship has enabled a better understanding of the issues we face.
It takes courage to remain focused on what you believe is right for the long term when immediate trading conditions are tough.
We have welcomed calls for greater openness and transparency It will take time for the bene ts of our decisions to be realised on Board deliberations.
For the last few years, we have actively and these changes bring with them further costs that will impact focused on ensuring our reporting is fair, balanced and short-term performance.
However, Boards are trusted to make understandable, giving insight into the factors underpinning our these choices, to balance the short with the long term and to deliberations and decisions, and highlighting where things have re ect on the risks and bene ts wisely.
The impact of their gone wrong.
This in turn helps us as a Board to re ect on how actions will invariably outlive them.
we can maximise our impact, look at the way we do things, and re ect on the quality of the decisions and the investments we At M&S, our values help support us and ensure we re ect on have made.
doing the right things the right way, even if this means making dif cult choices.
We believe that these values should continue to Throughout the year, the Board agenda was structured to allow guide the principles of how we do business and, if we continue for regular updates on the progress of the multi-channel to respect these, they should underpin our performance for programme and EDC NDC project in particular, enabling the the longer term.
Being true to our values and being fair has Board to be alerted to, and to challenge, delivery or project underpinned our behaviour with our stakeholders, as well as governance issues in a timely manner.
enabling us to build and maintain a trusted relationship with our Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 39 Our Action Plan again sets out speci c objectives to improve our As I advised last year, Steven Holliday will leave the Board Board performance.
Some of these are now part of a longer following the AGM in July 2014.
Steve has been a valuable Board term journey, but all aim to enable the right environment for member for 10 years and Chairman of our Remuneration debate and re ection on the quality of our decisions.
These Committee for over four years.
We announced in September should enhance and underpin trust and sustain our values over 2013 that Vindi Banga will take over as Chairman of the the long-term.
Remuneration Committee following Steves departure.
Vindi was appointed to the Board in September 2011 and has been a UK Corporate Governance Code member of the Remuneration Committee since his appointment.
Steve and Vindi have been working closely together over the last The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code is the year to ensure a smooth transition, meeting investors to hear standard against which we were required to measure their views ahead of the publication and vote on our ourselves in 2013 14.
We are pleased to con rm that we Remuneration Policy and framework at the AGM this year.
complied with all of the provisions set out in the Code for the period under review.
In order to ensure appropriate balance of non-executive to executive is maintained following Steves departure, the A summary of our governance pro le, outlining our compliance Nomination Committee undertook a full search process, with key areas of the Code, has been set out on page 2 of the assisted by external search consultants, and in January 2014 Strategic Report.
Alison Brittain was appointed as a non-executive director.
Alison is Group Director of Retail at Lloyds Banking Group: she is a The required regulatory and governance assurances are great addition to the team and brings strong commercial and provided throughout this report.
As in previous years, we have retail experience.
sought to provide a genuine understanding of how governance Within the executive team, as announced last year, Steve Sharp supports and protects the M&S business in a practical way.
stepped down from the business after 10 years.
We are grateful Again, we use the key themes of the Code as a framework for to him for his notable contribution.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne articulating this narrative.
Feedback from stakeholders has has now taken responsibility for Marketing and Business encouraged us to keep a similar format to previous years.
He plays an important role as part of the executive such, our approaches to Leadership and Effectiveness are team in terms of brand position and customer engagement.
outlined on pages 40 to 43, Accountability on page 44 and pages 15 to 17 within the Strategic Report, Engagement and In addition to Board appointments, the Nomination Committee relations with shareholders on pages 45, Remuneration on has also reviewed Committee membership and recommended pages 52 to 77 and the Governance of our Pensions Scheme a number of changes, with the appointment of Andy Halford to on page 78. the Remuneration Committee and Alison Brittain to the Audit Committee.
The Committee remains focused on our future talent To ensure clarity in this report, we have focused on the key pool and longer-term succession potential.
However, further detail is available on our website, engagement with the business is outlined in detail on page 50. marksandspencer.
This year, the Remuneration Committee has been particularly Our Governance Framework is reviewed every year and focused on ensuring the business meets the new regulatory sets out the roles, accountabilities and expectations for our requirements, and have reviewed and debated at length the directors and our structures.
This format has been adopted remuneration framework and Policy ahead of this being put widely across the business and can be viewed at forward for shareholder approval this year.
also continued to develop and test the setting and disclosure of We hope you can see that Governance at M&S is not simply an objectives and targets.
These are highlighted in further detail on exercise in box-ticking, but an important element of our Board page 52. environment.
It enables us to test whether we do the right things in Monitoring Risk the right way, with the right safeguards, checks and balances, and In view of our longer-term ambitions, the signi cant investments whether the right considerations underpin every decision we take.
that have been made across the business and increasing We also trust that you will nd this report to be fair, balanced and complexity as we grow, the Audit Committee has played a understandable.
It is, after all, a re ection of how we do business substantial role in ensuring appropriate governance and and how the Board has served its stakeholders.
challenge around our risk and assurance processes.
This is covered in further detail on page 15 and pages 46 to 49.
We believe this practical approach will support our performance for the long term and should thus protect the trust, integrity of We have built a committed, challenging Board.
There is much to our values and the M&S brand.
do and we can always do things better, so it is essential we are open to ideas which help us improve.
Our annual Board evaluation Appointments and succession plays a key role in highlighting those areas where we want to do The Nomination Committee has continued to work on better, and these form part of the action plan for this year.
ensuring appropriate succession and mix amongst both the executive and non-executive directors.
Our Board Diversity Policy sets out our ambitions and objectives for shaping the Board.
We have also focused on the skills, experience and backgrounds we want to support the business for its future.
We are pleased that, following the AGM, 31% of our Board will be Robert Swannell women 29% at date of publication.
This is in line with the target Chairman we set ourselves, but importantly, is appropriate for M&S and its customer base.
Last year we highlighted the succession plans for our nonexecutive directors, Jeremy Darroch and Steven Holliday.
Jeremy left the Board in June 2013 after six years on the Board and five as Chairman of our Audit Committee.
Andy Halford has taken over as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andy brings considerable financial experience, having held the role as Finance Director at Vodafone for over nine years, until March 2014.
