6 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Chief Executives review and assembly to machine utilisation and Group strategy traceability, enabling our businesses to Meggitt aims to be a leading provider invest in state-of-the-art equipment in of smart engineering for extreme the knowledge that it will be fully utilised environments.
We invest in developing in smart facilities.
high-technology components and subsystems which play mission or safetyOur acquisition of Precision Engine critical roles over long operating lives.
Controls Corporation PECC in December We seek to improve our operational 2014 exemplifies targeted, value-added performance continuously to offer portfolio enhancement.
PECC, now industry-leading levels of quality, aMeggitt Control Systems product range, on-timedelivery and competitiveness, builds on our existing thermal management enabling us to reinvest in new capabilities and fluid control capabilities in the and technologies while generating aero-derivative gas turbine market, attractive returns for shareholders.
broadening our reach into small-frame gasturbines in the 1-30MW power range and widening our actuation technology Technology offering for the combined customer base.
We focus on targeted investment to drive future growth.
We seek to grow Operations excellence organically by investing in the product and manufacturing technologies Superior performance, defined by quality, that count across a broad range of cost and on-time delivery, is another key platforms and customers.
To secure to realising our growth potential and we Superior performance, positions on specific platforms, we are determined to make operations align our development focus with our excellence a core competitive strength.
defined by quality, cost customers technology roadmaps.
With meaningful improvements in and on-time delivery, is Welook to supplement organic growth operating performance such as Defective with acquisitions that enhance our key to realising our Parts Per Million down 84% and on-time capabilitiesand routes to market.
growth potential and we delivery up 10%, the Meggitt Production In 2014, we continued to refine our Systemour single, global approach to are determined to make complete ATA26 fire protection continuous improvementhas progressed operations excellence systems for aircraft as we progressed well since its inception.
We have launched our development of innovative the system across two thirds of our a core competitive  suppression manufacturing estate and expect to see strength.
We continued to invest in fluid itadopted at all primary sites by the end of control and thermal management products 2015.
Several sites have entered the second capable of operating at the ever-higher phase in the six-phase programme, temperatures required to enable the latest extending the reach of the system beyond generation of jet engines to deliver the the factory floor and supply chain into efficiencies demanded by their operators.
To deliver these and many other We have undertaken considerable work capabilities competitively, we maintained optimising our manufacturing footprint our investment in cutting-edge over the last few years, consolidating six manufacturing technologies such as sites into three and investing in low-cost additive layer manufacturing, which we manufacturing centres in China, Vietnam now employ in the production of some and Mexico.
In 2014, we made good in-service components, and Meggitt progress in enhancing the level of 4 Modular Modifiable Manufacturing M, manufacturing capability of our facility our pioneering approach to the factories inQuertaro, Mexico, with the start of 4 of the future.
M is designed to enable asubstantial transfer of product lines operators to manufacture a broader from our Control Systems businesses range of low-volume, highly complex inNorth America.
In China, we increased components through greater deployment the scope of our Xiamen facility, of technology through the factory.
This responding to customers global sourcing includes the real-time monitoring of requirements with the successful key parameters including product weight replication of a high-tech process from and touch-time and the provision of one of our European facilities involving instant-access support to the operator the printing of sensors onto printed ifrequired.
The result is greater circuit boards.
We will continue to evolve optimisation of all aspects of the our manufacturing estate in response to manufacturing process from machining the requirements of our customer base.
indd 6 04 03 2015 16:52 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 7 overall military revenues stabilised on an decline than in recent years and even Renewing our customer focus organic basis in the second half of 2014. some suggestion of growth in the Making ourselves easy to do business Inenergy, we continued to make good all-important US budget from 2016. with while responding to the dynamic progress on the issue highlighted in 2013 markets in which we operate is core to Order intake in 2014 has been strong, with concerning the lack of availability of our business philosophy for original book to bill of 1.03 covering a number of tourmaline, a key raw material.
This is equipment OE and aftermarket short-term and multi-year contracts.
now behind uswe have migrated a customers alike.
To enhance our Onthis basis we expect a return to number of customers onto alternative customer focus, we have recently modest growth in 2015 driven by good in-house materials and we are receiving appointed two senior executives growth in military training, partially positive customer feedback on product dedicated to the requirements of our offsetby a decline in MABS following the performance.
Energy performance in the OE customers and the aftermarket completion of the B1-B and Taiwanese second half was hampered by lower respectively.
We maintain our revenues at Heatric, our printed circuit medium-term expectation of an average The manufacturers of aircraft and heat exchanger business.
Its local content of 2% growth per annum excluding the engines will see a renewed focus on their provider in Brazil is experiencing financial effects of sequestration.
interests as we strengthen key account challenges, causing revenue to be relationship management and bring deferred from 2014.
Our energy businesses, driven by together cross-group product packages heightened demand for our printed circuit Against this background, we have that simplify their supply chains.
heat exchangers and increasing market delivered flat organic revenues in 2014, share in condition-monitoring equipment, The aftermarket is central to the Meggitt with a decrease in underlying earnings should continue to deliver revenue growth business model.
We will improve service per share of 5.1p to 32.4p reflecting averaging greater than 10% over the through the Meggitt Production System currency movements, business mix, medium term.
However, in 2015 we expect and focus on the development of innovative disposals and the investment being made good organic growth in energy control support solutions for our OE customers in new aircraft programmes.
Net debt to valves and condition monitoring to be as they seek to maintain more of their EBITDA at the end of the year was 1.2x.
largely offset by a decline at Heatric products in service.
InNovember we announced a share reflecting the impact of capital buyback with the intention of increasing Cradle-to-grave programme expenditure deferrals by our major this ratio to 1.5x by the end of 2015 to management underpins Original oilandgas customers.
maintain an efficient balance sheet.
equipment manufacturer OEM and On the basis of the above, the aftermarket relationships.
We are Group continues to expect organic strengthening this function, shortening Outlook revenue growth in 2015 of low to the lines of communication between The outlook for our civil aerospace mid-single digit percentage points, OEMs and operators, championing their markets remains encouraging.
in line with the guidance given in our interests inside Meggitt and allowing Production rates of large jets are interim management statement in closer collaboration than ever before.
expected to continue to grow and the November2014.
This is how we will achieve specific relatively high shipset values we enjoy programme success, insights into onthe latest generation of widebody customers technology aspirations over aircraft, together with our positions on the longer term and opportunities to the re-engined narrowbodies, should create better products from our underpin organic civil OE revenue growth existing portfolio.
of 7 to 8% over the medium term.
Reflecting recent inventory build at Stephen Young Chief Executive aircraft manufacturers ahead of new Performance in 2014 product launches and production rate Performance in our end-markets was increases, 2015 will be moderately mixed.
Good growth in civil aerospace belowthis level.
was driven by a rise in aircraft deliveries from the major manufacturers, greater Available seat kilometres, the key driver Meggitt content on newer platforms of our large and regional jet aftermarket, andacontinued recovery in are growing at above the long-term trend, aftermarketrevenues.
and lower oil prices should see this continue.
However, we are seeing There were, however, challenges in our month-to-month volatility in revenues military market, particularly during the and a continuing impact from surplus first half of the year.
The effect of the US parts.
We therefore expect civil military drawdown from Afghanistan was aftermarket growth in mid-single compounded by the completion of two digitsfor 2015. large retrofit contracts in the first half ofthe prior year.
Both issues constituted In the military market, we look to be a significant headwind to military entering a more benign phase, with aftermarket performance, although our military budgets seeing lower rates of 93987 p06-07.
