Melrose Industries PLC 14 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Simon Peckham Chief Executive Acquiring good quality Outlook Overall market conditions remain To find out more about manufacturing businesses, challenging but we have in Elster a our performance please making operational business that is well positioned for growth see the following pages: improvements, realising in 2015.
At current exchange rates we face shareholder value at the further currency headwinds this year and the order intake pattern suggests a more appropriate time and then pronounced weighting of results to the returning this value to second half of the year.
As said previously, shareholders continue to we believe we will see further progress in be the components of the our Elster businesses but end market buy, improve, sell business conditions mean that Brush will have a more difficult 2015.
Overall, adjusting for strategy that Melrose has the adverse currency movements which followed since being founded are outside our control, we believe that the Elster Gas in 2003.
Group will be in line with management expectations for 2015.
The Group now consists of Brush, the last remaining business from the FKI Simon Peckham acquisition, and the businesses which Chief Executive comprise Elster.
Continued improvement More information p28 4March 2015 of all these businesses is, as ever, a key objective for 2015.
Elster Acquisitions and disposals during the year Electricity 2014 has been another highly successful year for Melrose.
In October 2014, Elster Gas completed the acquisition of Eclipse, a US-based manufacturer of gas combustion components and systems for More information p30 industrial heating and drying applications.
Combining this with our existing Elster Gas business gives us a great opportunity to Elster Water create significant shareholder value.
In the following month, Melrose completed the disposal of Bridon for a total enterprise value of 365 million, representing the latest step in realising value from the FKI businesses acquired by Melrose in 2008.
More information p32 Energy More information p34 Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC 15 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 2014 has been another highly successful year for Melrose.
An Elster Smart residential gas meter destined for the UK market is subjected to automated leak testing in Lotte, Germany.
