y l i 2 m a F H e a r 4 t l a n d l a i c Chief Executives statement Si nce I joined Mitchells & Butlers in October 2012, we have been committed to the fundamentals of our business plan.
I remain confident that this is the right plan and will deliver sustainable profit growth and future shareholder value.
Alistair Darby Chief Executive We are the UKs largest operator of In a challenging year, we continued to managed restaurants and pubs, with position the business for future growth, a high quality freehold estate and a whilst delivering increased earnings per share 75% portfolio of strong brands.
We have delivered sales growth Around three-quarters of our sales to focus on the long-term growth of food underpinned by volumes rather than price, within the 78bn eating and drinking-out invested further capital in both expansion come from guests eating in our pubs market, with around three-quarters of our into new sites and enhancement of amenity, and restaurants turnover coming from guests eating in our and continued to upgrade our key systems.
Together with the quality of our estate and our people, we have confidence going into During the year we took a significant step to the year ahead.
grow our business by acquiring 173 pubs from the Orchid Group.
This acquisition enables In this review I will update you on our market, us to create value through the conversion and our well-established business model and of the majority of these pubs into our own strategy as well as our progress against the key brands and formats, a reduction in its central measures we use to monitor our performance.
overheads and the realisation of purchasing synergies across the whole estate.
Our market opportunities We operate a wide range of brands and formats which offer food and drink across a broad spectrum of price points and occasions, from a casual meeting with friends to special occasion dining.
We have identified five market spaces, accounting 1 for around half of the 78bn eating and drinking-out market, on which to focus: 1 Special:  Browns  Vintage Inns  Miller & Carter  Premium Country Pubs 2 Family:  Harvester  Toby Carvery 3 Everyday social:  Ember Inns 4 Heartland:  Crown Carveries  Sizzling Pubs  Oaktree Pubs  ONeills 5 Upmarket social:  All Bar One  Nicholsons  Castle  Alex 6 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 e p S E v e r y d a 3 y s l o a i c c i a o l s t e 5 k r a m p U Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Our vision Guests love to eat and drink with us.
What we want to be famous for Our mission Consistently deliver great service to our guests to drive repeat visits and What we set out to achieve recommendation, while delivering great financial results and shareholder returns.
Values Passion Innovation Engagement How the business behaves Respect Drive Our market We recognise that we operate in a dynamic Through our research we have identified Where we operate market with ever-changing circumstances.
five market spaces in which our businesses Our market is, in aggregate, a mature one operate.
We tailor our approach on the with growth expected broadly to track GDP basis of the different dynamics of each and consumer expenditure.
However, there of these spaces: are dynamics within this market on which we can capitalise, namely the: Special Family growth in branded outlets Everyday Social continued growth in eating out Heartland consumers continued focus on value Upmarket Social Page 8 consumers demand for eating out at any time of day Business model Our business model is designed to maximise the best people: and by focusing on excellent How the business delivers value revenue and profit from our operations.
We customer service we will deliver long-term believe that by adopting industry-leading growth in profits and shareholder value.
practices: recruiting, training and retaining Page 10 Our strategy Our strategic priorities remain unchanged to: recruit, retain and develop engaged people How we will achieve our mission who deliver excellent service for our guests focus the business on the most attractive generate high returns on investment market spaces within eating and drinking-out through scale advantage Page 12 develop superior brand propositions with maintain a sound financial base high levels of consumer relevance Risks This section highlights the principal risks that assessed by the Risk Committee in terms How we manage our markets affect the Company, together with the key of their likelihood and impact, in conjunction and operating environment mitigating activities in place to manage those with associated risk mitigation plans.
Key risks identified are reviewed and Page 18 KPIs We measure our performance and progress our guests would recommend our businesses How we monitor our success against our strategy through five key to their friends and family.
These KPIs are performance indicators including two reviewed at every Executive Committee non-financial KPIs, relating to our ability to meeting and are central to our understanding Page 22 retain our employees and to the extent that of our performance.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
