Mitie Group plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executives strategy overview Our task is to consolidate these two separate centres into one facility, A successful and which will release significant savings for the taxpayer.
exciting business Winning repeat business says a great deal about our people, our values and our performance.
We were very proud to retain our contract to provide integrated FM services to Network Rail, which is valued in excess of 75m over five years and was one of our biggest rebids for 2014.
We have also extended our relationship with Vodafone for a further five years, delivering integrated FM in a contract valued in excess of 250m over the period.
With Capita, we secured a further five year, 110m contract to deliver integrated FM and significantly increased the scale and scope of services we provide them.
A clear strategy to grow Our strategy is to deliver sustainable, profitable growth, and we will achieve this through two key routes.
We are focused on driving our core UK FM business to its full potential.
Our ambition is to be the leading FM provider in the UK, with specific strengths in our target sectors.
We will continue to focus on clients in both the public and private sectors, and provide them with world-class Mitie has continued to grow and evolve We have 6,000 carers providing a range services, unrivalled expertise and the best this year, with much success.
In everything of services from domiciliary care through value for money.
we do our vision is to inspire change in the to more complex, 24 hour care.
way that people live and work.
We do that Our growth in FM will come in part Mitie is FM.
We simply by excelling at service delivery, but always from developing relationships with new help our clients run more efficient and looking for a new or better way to do the clients, but more so through expanding effective organisations by looking after things that we already do well.
our relationships with existing clients.
their facilities, their energy needs and The evolution that our clients make Our core business is in delivering a vast the people they are responsible for.
from single service delivery, to bundles range of services to buildings and facilities.
of services, to integrated FM in some These activities accounted for over 95% Highlights from the past year cases, has been a significant driver of our of our revenue in 2014 and employ the This has been a very good year for Mitie.
growth and we see substantial further vast majority of our 73,000 people.
Our contract wins are covered on pages opportunities to grow with our clients in Through this we deliver the largest range 12 to 13, but I want to make special this way.
To this end, we are investing of facilities management FM services mention of a few.
heavily in our key account management in the UK: cleaning, landscaping, pest capabilities and are taking a more sectorcontrol, waste, security, catering, front of In Ireland, we have continued to make focused approach to both sales and great progress since acquiring Dalkia FM house, social housing maintenance and operations.
In doing this we aim to grow technical engineering maintenance and three years ago.
We have doubled in size our overall market share.
Some clients appoint us in that time and were delighted to win a to provide a single service, others, in their five-year contract to provide FM services At the same time, we will continue to to around 350 Bank of Ireland sites across drive for even greater efficiency, choose grow and invest in adjacent markets.
a bundle of services and an increasing the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland Healthcare is a particular focus and number opt for integrated FM.
We also and Great Britain.
we aim to take the leading position in have an energy consulting business that our chosen sectors of the homecare We have also been awarded a helps clients manage energy costs and market.
The integration of MiHomecare landmark contract which will see us emissions, and this is a real differentiator is complete and with the acquisition of expand our presence in the market for for Mitie.
Complete Group during the year, we are custodial services.
Valued at 180m well-placed to exploit great opportunities We have also moved into the adjacent over eight years, with a potential three in this fast-growing market.
year extension, this contract involves healthcare market, concentrating on providing homecare services, enabling responsibility for over 900 detainees people to live happier and more at the Colnbrook and Harmondsworth independent lives.
Immigration Removal Centres near Heathrow.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 7 This strategy will enable us to achieve a Consequently, we are now well on the Maintaining positive and harmonious set of key business goals over the next way to exiting this business and expect working relationships with our people is five years: this process to be completed during the critical to our long-term success and we financial year ending March 2015. can only achieve this when all of us apply k As part of our objective of being the our values in everything we do.
UK market leader in FM and in order For similar reasons, we have also been to better support our clients, we are actively reducing our exposure to the Our core belief is that everyone should be focusing our business on market design and build element of our Asset treated fairly and in the way we ourselves sector specialisms.
Management business, which has become would like to be treated.
We strive to part of the Energy Solutions division.
create an open and honest culture, where k We will further build on our success in We have existing commitments on a small above all we can challenge people when the care and custody sector, growing our services to central government, number of legacy projects where we are they dont do the right thing.
particularly in the area of immigration carrying design and build risk and continue and prisons.
to experience delays and considerable With a new look and feel cost overruns.
As a result, during the k In the homecare market, we will develop Everything we do is about partnerships financial year we recognised a number a leadership position and realise the with clients, suppliers, the community and of non-recurring, exceptional losses in sales synergies created by adding the Mitie people who work together to relation to some of these contracts.
more complex care into our offering.
That ethos We have assessed the carrying value was the inspiration behind the new Across everything we do, we will be the of any assets in our accounts and our brand identity that you see in this report.
trusted adviser for our clients, building and contract related provisions are 25.4m Our new look, which is modern, fresh and growing strong relationships based on as at the year end.
This is significantly dynamic, has been designed to reflect the sector-leading expertise and propositions, higher than we previously estimated, business that Mitie is today, and where we strategic advice, innovative technology predominantly due to overruns on one of want to be in the future.
our generation projects, where we have provided against delays to completion and All of this will ensure that we are a scale And an exciting future ahead applied a more conservative assessment player with a strong competitive position In the past few years we have seen some of the through life value of the contract.
in each of our major markets, that we big changes in Mitie we have positioned Going forward, design and build risk generate margins that are above the remains on a small number of material ourselves as one of the UKs leading industry average and that we have energy contracts and their financial integrated FM providers and invested in excellent visibility of long-term revenues.
new markets such as homecare.
We have returns remain uncertain.
We continue also made significant progress in reducing to closely monitor their operational and Reducing risk in our business financial performance.
our exposure to markets with high risk and We are concentrating on higher margin low growth, laying the path for a much activities in growth markets that feature stronger business in the long term.
Supported by a strong long-term, secured revenue streams.
set of values The future looks good, the prospects Our mechanical and electrical engineering healthy.
We are confident that we will We are all about developing our people to construction business, where we played a continue to build on our track record excel every day, challenge the status quo role as subcontractor on major installation of sustainable, profitable growth.
and inspire change in the way people live projects, carried an unacceptable degree of and work.
In addition, as it operated in a cyclical, Chief Executive The talent, skills and proper conduct of our low margin sector, it could no longer meet people enable us to achieve excellence, our financial or strategic targets.
and enhance our business performance and our brand.
In-house Single services B undled services Integrated FM A range of specialist Broader cost savings Integrated delivery single services one client contact Synergies between service lines Significant synergies Standardised provision Management team employed by Mitie thin client layer Shift Data and information systems drive strategic property decisions Potential incremental 20-30% 10-15% 10% In-house to single service Single to bundled services Bundled to integrated FM savings Strategic partnering Creating value beyond cost savings
