Governance 98 Directors remuneration policy continued Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Bonus Share Plan BSP The table below shows the metrics for 2015, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How are targets set EBITDA Earnings A key indicator of the underlying profit Targets and ranges are set each year by the Committee Before Interest, performance of the Group, reflecting both taking account of required progress towards strategic Tax, Depreciation revenues and costs.
goals, and the prevailing market conditions.
and Amortisation ROCE % Return on A key indicator of the effective use Targets and ranges are set each year by the Committee Capital Employed of capital.
taking account of the required progress towards strategic goals, and the prevailing market conditions.
Safety One of the key indicators of whether the The Committee considers input from the Boards business is meeting its sustainability goal of sustainable development committee, and sets zero harm.
Personal performance An indicator of the contribution each Targets are set each year by the Committee, based executive director is making to the overall on the specific priorities, and areas of responsibility success of the management team.
The policy gives the Committee the authority to select suitable performance metrics, aligned to Mondis strategy and shareholders interests.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The table below shows the metrics for 2015 grants, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How are targets set Total Shareholder TSR measures the total returns to Mondis The Committee sets the performance requirements for Return TSR, relative shareholders, so provides close alignment each grant.
A peer group of packaging and paper sector to a peer group with shareholder interests.
25% of competitors vests for median performance: 100% vests for upper quartile performance, with a straight-line scale between these two points.
ROCE % Return on A key indicator of the effective use The Committee sets threshold and stretch levels, aligned Capital Employed of capital.
to the Groups strategic targets for ROCE.
25% vests for threshold performance: 100% vests for stretch performance, with a straight-line scale between these two points.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
