Strategic report 14 Chief executives review I am pleased to report another successful year for Mondi.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 13% to 107.3 euro cents per share, and our ROCE was 17.2%.
The Groups solid financial results, delivered despite continued slow economic growth in a number of key markets, are testament to our robust business model and high-quality, low-cost asset base.
ROCE Reviewing our financial performance Revenue was broadly in line with the prior year.
On a like-for-like basis, selling prices and volumes were similar to the prior year with revenue boosted by the acquisition of the bags 17.2% business in the US, offset by negative currency impacts and disposals or closures ofnoncore businesses.
20 17.2 15.3 15.0 15 13.6 12.3 10 5 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % Underlying operating profit 2014 342 112 148 96 102 million Packaging Paper Fibre Packaging Consumer Packaging Uncoated Fine Paper South Africa Division Chief executive officer David Hathorn Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 15 It is pleasing to see the strong contribution from all our business units.
Underlying operating profit of 767 million was up 10% on 2013.
Packaging Paper continued to deliver very strongly despite a generally weaker pricing environment, driven by cost reduction and currency benefits.
Our Fibre Packaging business benefited from lower paper input costs and good volume growth.
Consumer Packaging saw a strong improvement in trading in the second half of the year.
Coupled with the benefits of a number of sales and margin improvement initiatives, the business was able to deliver a pleasing improvement in year-on-year performance.
Uncoated Fine Paper came under pressure from weaker pricing and negative currency effects, but nevertheless continued to deliver strongly, while the South Africa Division benefited from higher average selling prices and the weak rand.
Underlying operating profit 800 17 767 9 750 47 2 2 5 700 699 600 Volume Net negative Cost Acquisitions Currency Fair value gains improvements price variance reduction and disposals effects on forestry assets 0 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 million Contributing to these results were the benefits from recently completed capital investments, primarily around energy efficiencies and other cost optimisation in the pulp and paper operations, and continued strong cost management across the Group.
In addition to lower energy costs, our energy investments completed over the last few years have significantly improved the efficiency and self-sufficiency of our larger, more energy intensive pulp and paper operations.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 16 Chief executives review continued We invest in our high-quality, low-cost operations tt, Czech Republic Consistent with the prior year, the impact of the Groups maintenance shuts on underlying Net operating assets by location operating profit was around 55 million.
In 2015, the effect is expected to be more 2014 significant, with longer shuts planned at certain mills to allow for project implementation and the move of certain mills to an 18 month rotation.
The impact on underlying operating 36 5 profit, at prevailing price levels, is estimated at around 80 million.
Cash generated from operations of 1,033 million was similar to 2013, despite an increase in working capital of 87 million.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, working capital as a percentage of revenue was 12.3%, marginally above our targeted 10-12% range.
61% Growing in line with our strategy Emerging markets We remain well positioned as a leading international packaging and paper group, with a 34 11 strong platform for growth.
Our clear intention is to grow our packaging interests.
2 12 We will continue to develop our presence in emerging markets, particularly in our pulp and paper operations, where inherent growth and cost benefits are most apparent.
In our Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging businesses, we see opportunity to develop by % leveraging our competencies in both mature and emerging markets.
Emerging Emerging Europe Russia South Africa Other Mature Western Europe North America Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 17 Read more about our Our key value drivers bring our strategy to life: strategy on pages 22 and 23 We develop and maintain leading positions in markets that offer us growth opportunities We invest in our exceptional people and our high-quality, low-cost operations, keeping us competitive and giving us sustainable cost advantages Our continuous focus on sustainable operational improvements and rigorous asset management helps us to keep improving productivity and reducing costs We work with our customers to develop smarter, more cost-effective processes and products to help them succeed While acquisition-led growth remains a key component of our strategy, and we will continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise, we currently see greater opportunity for value-enhancing growth through capital investments in our existing operations.
To this end, we successfully completed a number of major projects during the year, and have approved a strong pipeline of projects for implementation over the coming two years.
We completed the following key projects during the year: In April, our 70 million, 155,000 tonne per annum bleached kraft paper machine in tt, Czech Republic was successfully started up In November, we commissioned the new 128 million recovery boiler in Ruomberok, Slovakia, making the mill 100% energy self-sufficient and significantly improving its environmental footprint, in addition to reducing ongoing operating and maintenance costs and providing additional pulp production capacity Also in November we completed the 30 million pulp dryer in Syktyvkar, Russia, which can produce 100,000 tonnes of FSC certified softwood market pulp per year We have a strong capital project pipeline: The 166 million project in wiecie, Poland, bringing forward the planned replacement of New products the recovery boiler and coal fired boilers, is progressing according to plan and on track for project start-up in the second half of 2015 launched include: Early in 2015, the Boards approved the 94 million second phase of the above project ProVantage Prestigewhite at wiecie to ensure full utilisation of the new recovery boilers capacity, providing an fully bleached kraftliner additional 100,000 tonnes per annum of softwood pulp, 80,000 tonnes per annum of for superior printability kraftliner and further improving the mills product mix flexibility Advantage Formable White The Boards have approved approximately 30 million for a project at the South Africa specially designed kraft Divisions Richards Bay mill to upgrade its wood yard paper for forming and Other significant projects in progress or approved during the year, amounting to embossing applications approximately 130 million, include projects intended to further modernise some of Hang-on Stand rackthe Groups kraft paper and converting operations, provide additional capacity and attachable display solution production flexibility and reduce ongoing operating and maintenance costs Touch Bag embossed The incremental operating profit expected from major projects in 2015 is around 50 million industrial bag for improved 2014: 45 million, illustrating the benefits that arise from these high-return investments.
branding and piracy protection Given this project pipeline, and in the absence of any other major projects, capital Nespresso Bag Nespresso expenditure is expected to average 550 560 million per year over the next two years.
Austria using our Sustainex In terms of acquisitions, we extended our global leadership position in industrial bags with biodegradable coating for the acquisition of Graphic Packagings bags business in the US in June, while in Consumer their recycling bags Packaging we acquired a modern converting plant in Poland in July.
ColdSealPack self-sealing We successfully launched a number of new products and received a variety of product packaging awards, demonstrating our commitment to innovation.
We were particularly pleased to PolywovenBag lightweight receive the distinguished External Business Partner Excellence Award 2014 from Procter & and tear-resistant pinch Gamble.
bottom bag YBBS premium board uncoated 100% virgin fibre solution for folding boxes or cupstock Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 18 Chief executives review continued In our continued efforts to improve performance, we undertook a number of restructuring activities during the year.
In our Consumer Packaging business, we have grown our sales team and moved production to plants that better serve our customers and optimise margins.
As part of the process of integrating our newly acquired bags business in the US, we announced various restructuring activities, including the closure of a plant in New Philadelphia.
We also announced the closure of one of our two speciality kraft paper machines in Finland, in addition to restructuring activities in the Extrusion Coatings segment of our Fibre Packaging business unit.
Risk management Risk management is an inherent part of any business and identifying and managing the risks specific to Mondi is critical to our long-term success.
Our proactive risk management system is embedded in the way we operate, allowing us to identify, evaluate and respond to the ever changing business environment.
Our risk management framework, most significant risks and our responses to those risks are set out on pages 30 to 33.
We maintain a deliberate investment strategy to limit regional and country specific risks to limits considered acceptable to our Boards.
Safeguarding our sustainable future Our online Sustainable development report We view sustainable development as integral to the success of our business.
We engage provides a comprehensive proactively on global issues and their local consequences, and we are seeing increased overview of all our collaboration as we integrate sustainable development, both internally and with our commitments and the customers and other stakeholders.
progress we have made over the last five years: In 2010, we undertook a detailed materiality assessment and identified six material issues www.
com sd14 to guide our sustainable development to 2015: Securing access to sustainable fibre in the short, medium and long term Maintaining our licence to trade by making a real and lasting contribution to the communities in which we operate Understanding and minimising our contribution to climate change Operating in a world of constrained resources and recognising concerns regarding biodiversity, forests, water and ecosystem services Safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and contractors and securing key talent and skills Increasing the eco-efficiency of our products We developed a set of commitments to support these material issues and on pages 36 and 37 we set out the progress we have made.
In 2015, we will complete a detailed and comprehensive review of our material issues and our new set of commitments will be developed accordingly.
The safety of our people is of particular importance to Mondi as a business and to me personally, so I am pleased that we continue to improve our safety performance.
In 2014, we implemented a project focusing on the Top 5 Fatal Risks and there were no fatalities during the year.
The Boards have committed capital of 17 million over the next two years to engineer these risks out and manage residual risk.
Acknowledging our remarkable people Our successful year has been driven by the effort of all our people.
The dynamic environment we work in makes it imperative that we employ skilful people who are committed to implementing our strategy and living our culture.
The outstanding work I see being done across the Group, along with the passion I feel when I visit our operations, makes me more confident in our future than ever.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 19 Our state-of-the-art blown film line helps us to meet our customers needs Zeltweg, Austria 2015 is no doubt going to be another exciting year for us at Mondi.
We value open and honest feedback so that we can continue creating an inspiring work environment for our employees and offer an attractive employment option for new recruits.
At the end of 2013, we conducted another Group-wide employee survey, with feedback showing steady progress across all key dimensions.
There are a few common areas that require strengthening across Mondi and we have agreed on follow-up actions to improve the quality of our communication with direct reports and teams and further increase our emphasis on feedback, recognition and appreciation.
To keep tracking our progress we will conduct a further employee survey in November 2015.
We have also extended our 360-degree feedback surveys to all employees with at least three direct reports.
We are delighted to have our new employees in China, Poland, Serbia and the US on board, and on behalf of the executive committee I sincerely thank all our people for contributing to the outstanding progress we have made this year.
Looking ahead Economic growth is expected to remain well below historical averages in the regions in which we operate.
We expect this slow economic growth to continue to impact on demand for our products in the short term, although underlying industry fundamentals remain generally sound, with supply demand balance supported by supply-side constraint.
Recent exchange rate movements provide a mixed impact, although with a clearly positive bias when considered for the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the recently completed capital investments and ongoing projects should contribute meaningfully to ourperformance going forward.
As such, we are confident of making further progress in the year ahead.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
