Chief Executives Review Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer 2014 has been a successful year for the Our Group technology team work under I am confident we are now structured for business, with strong second half growth the principle of build once, use across all success, focused on a clear strategy and building good momentum as we head into business units.
This means that our working hard to continue to hire and grow 2015.
I am very pleased with what we have smaller businesses can benefit from the the best and most talented people we can achieved.
leading edge technology investments in find.
MoneySuperMarket, building solid and Most importantly however, the business robust infrastructures capable of Our brands are saving more people more has used 2014 to address the key sustaining significant future growth across money each year, a mission we intend to components needed to execute our our portfolio of businesses.
continue to invest and pioneer towards in growth strategy for the next three the years ahead.
years of: This is particularly relevant as we pioneer Best site: Be the easiest way for the implementation of the market leading Finally, it is worth reflecting on where we customers to find providers and content management systems, future have come from.
When I joined the products proofing the Group for whatever devices business in 2008, we were a young Earn customer loyalty: Be a destination users choose to access our services in the technology business, struggling to work brand for users and customers years ahead.
Our migration to Cloud closely with providers but passionate Preferred partner: Be the best way for infrastructure is essential to break free about using technology to help people providers to acquire customers from fixed cost old traditional data centre save time and money when shopping for architecture, designed for peak loads to a financial services products.
For customers Although our strategy has remained pretty world of variable cost based operating it was all about finding the cheapest prices.
much unchanged for several years, to platforms whose capacity and resources We have come a long way.
ensure its continued focus and execution flex with customer demand no matter required a change in structure, skills and what time of day or day of week.
Recently, our services have attracted a investment.
greater attention from our regulators, in Finally and most importantly, the part due to the growing habit exhibited by Moneysupermarket is now a Group of development of a Group enterprise data consumers to use price comparison successful brands united by the common warehouse will support all our businesses services.
The FCA, CMA and OFGEM have purpose of helping every household make with a single, secure infrastructure in all taken a closer look at our services and the most of their money.
We estimate that which to keep customer data safe and ways of working.
We have of course together, MoneySuperMarket, drive superior and innovative increased our internal governance and TravelSupermarket and personalisation and relevancy in real time.
focus on doing the right thing for our MoneySavingExpert were visited by an customers.
I am sure that like any business average of 22.5m monthly unique visitors.
Sharing talent and career development we have areas where we can do better.
Each brand needs to thrive to continue to across the Group companies is essential However, I am very encouraged that the engage its users, whilst of course for our long-term success.
We have hired overarching theme for our engagement benefiting from shared Group resources.
the most talented people we could find with these bodies is that we have helped across both our London and Chester bring new competition to the markets in Therefore I have restructured the offices.
We are exploring new ways of which we operate and that this has been organisation with leaders of each business working, including tribes utilising multi-site good for consumers.
unit being responsible for engaging users, and virtual working tools.
building their brand, working with Looking forward, our ambition is to take providers, doing the right thing for The right acquisitions are of course a key comparison services beyond price, a plan customers and of course delivering against part of our planning, after the successful we have shared with our regulators and their financial targets.
purchase of MoneySavingExpert in 2012. one they are actively encouraging the Our earlier investment in HD Decisions, Group to pursue.
Reassuringly it is the I am determined to keep the Group the data analytics business in 2011, main focus of our current investment structure responsible for technology, pioneered new and exclusive services for programme to lead what will be the next talent, finance and strategy lightweight both MoneySuperMarket and exciting chapter of helping more people and agile.
MoneySavingExpert through a suite of save more money within the smart search tools and eligibility checker Moneysupermarket Group.
Our most recent acquisition, OnTrees, is a sophisticated account aggregation mobile App service.
It is already benefiting from Group technology support whilst retaining its Peter Plumb entrepreneurial culture and ways of Chief Executive Officer working.
