Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review We are making sound progress in our strategy Pleasingly, the benefits of our focus on operational excellence have alsobeen seen in our customer satisfaction scores, with most of our operations leaders in their markets.
North American School Bus, for example, has retained 97% of its contracts, significantly ahead of its peers.
Over 93% of customers would also recommend us to other school boards, with quality of service, safety and value being the keyconsiderations.
We are determined to maintain this progress.
Building on c2cs success in achieving a five star rating in the European Foundation for Quality Management assessment, UK Coach was awarded a four star rating inits first assessment.
UK Coach is determined to emulate c2c and secure a five star rating at its next assessment.
The other divisions will soon be undertaking similar exercises as part of our programme to driveoperational excellence across the Group.
Second, as well as these notable successes, our focus on operational excellence is also underpinning our success in our strategic goal of generating superior cash and returns, with another year of excellent cash flow.
We have again exceeded our free cash flow target for the year by 40 million, with 190 million delivered in the period.
This Dean Finch hasenabled us to further reduce net debt by over 80 million to 664.3million, representing a gearing ratio of 2.25 times EBITDA.
Group Chief Executive GroupROCE has also increased to 12.4% 2013: 11.7% reflecting our 26 February 2015 continuous focus on delivering strong returns on our capital.
This has underpinned improving returns to shareholders, with a proposed full Overview of 2014 year dividend up 3% to 10.3 pence per share.
Even before this dividend National Express has delivered a good performance in 2014 with Group nearly 200 million has been returned to shareholders since 2011 and revenue up 2.3% on a constant currency basis and both statutory and inthe past two years net debt has been reduced by 164 million.
normalised profit before tax also up on a constant currency basis by We have incurred over 40 million in rationalisation and restructuring 10% and nearly 7% respectively.
Our free cash generation remains very costs this year.
Our strategic rationalisation programme in the US saw strong, again beating our target for the year, and during the course of us make significant progress on exiting commercially unattractive theyear we have reduced net debt by over 80 million.
We renewed a contracts, with all such contracts now provided for.
Coupled with rising number of key concessions in the year and also successfully expanded prices in North America, we are confident this programme will deliver our business into new markets.
rising returns in the future.
Following the success of this up or out This performance demonstrates both the resilience and strength of our strategy we conducted a similar review in Spain.
We have had to overcome significant challenges from the across the Group, to remove costs and enhance future earnings.
first half of the year, especially poor weather in the US, strike action in Together, these rationalisation and restructuring programmes have Spain and significant currency headwinds.
Together these challenging made us more efficient and better able to meet the challenges and events reduced profits by 5 million at the half year.
To have recovered opportunities ahead and will help deliver improved returns in the from this position and delivered such a strong second half of the year comingyears.
Third, we have generated growth in new markets.
During the year we To achieve these results, we have again made good progress against won a ten-year contract to operate buses in Bahrain.
We believe this our three strategic goals: positions us well locally in Bahrain where there is scope for further growth, and also within the growing Middle Eastern market.
We First, our operational excellence programme continues to be embedded withdrew from the German coach market during the year due to its across the business.
We place customers at the heart of our strategy, unrealistic pricing structure making it impossible to sustain a profitable, causing us to focus on delivering continuously improving services whilst quality service.
We were also disappointed to have come second in maintaining a relentless attention to efficiency to enable us to offer good both the Crossrail and ScotRail competitions, with the ScotRail result value fares.
This has helped every division deliver an increase in revenue particularly disappointing as we were within 0.24% of the winning bid.
and passenger numbers this year.
The UK businesses have seen particularly good increases in revenues and passengers resulting in More recently we have, however, secured our third and fourth contract strong profit growth in UK Bus and UK Coach.
UK Coach profits wins in German rail, with our success in the Nuremberg S-Bahn increased significantly to 28.0 million 2013: 24.5m, and have now contract.
These 12 year contracts, generating 1.4 billion of revenue, will grown 36% in two years.
UK Bus has also performed very strongly, begin operation in December 2018 and represent further expansion for withprofits increasing to 34.0 million 2013: 31.2m and its pioneering us in Europes largest liberalising rail market.
Deutsche Bahn has again partnership with Centro Transforming Bus Travel winning two chosen to challenge the award, as they did unsuccessfully with our industry best practice awards in the year.
previous two contracts in North Rhine-Westphalia.
We therefore remain confident of the award being confirmed in due course.
8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information This new market growth has also complemented the significant progress we have made in retaining existing contracts, including our largest US transit contract and our largest Spanish concession to have come up for renewal to date.
Our success in winning the Essex Thameside franchise competition means that our industry-leading c2c services will continue, securing around 4 billion of revenue and our presence in UK rail until 2029.
Coupled with our 15 and 12 year contracts in Germany themselves worth around 3 billion in revenue we enter 2015 with both strong credentials and a uniquely long-term future in the rail industry.
Highlights Highlights of 2014 included: In constant currency terms the Group delivered a 2% increase in revenue and 7% increase in normalised profit before tax.
This is a significant achievement, overcoming the headwinds in the first half of the year.
Earnings per share increased to 22.7 pence 2013: 21.5p.
Group ROCE increased to 12.4% and free cash flow of 190 million again exceeded our target.
An increase in the proposed full year dividend to 10.3 pence per share is funded within our robust policy oftwo times non-rail earnings cover.
UK Coach has grown revenue by 4%.
UK Coachs profits have grown by 36% in two years, with operating margin increasing over Our partnership with Centro on Transforming Bus Travel in the West Midlands the same period by over 25% to reach 10.2%.
We believe there are was recognised by two industry awards in 2014 good opportunities for further growth as a focus on journey time improvements is combined with a continued emphasis on the North America delivered a strong second half performance to customer, including the increasing use of targeted marketing.
overcome the $6.1 million impact of the extreme weather in the first Theseinitiatives continue to make our offer ever more attractive half and ended the year with both revenue and profit growth in tocustomers and drive improved returns.
In the last five years North American School Bus UK Bus has had another strong year, with revenue growth of has more than doubled its profitability to 59.5 million 2009: 2.8%and West Midlands commercial patronage increasing 0.8%.
We made good progress on improving the quality of the Our industry-leading Transforming Bus Travel partnership won two portfolio by exiting poorly performing contracts and targeting those awards during 2014 and provides a stability that allows us to deliver with better returns.
This was complemented by a significant bolt-on significant investment in improving services.
2014s Passenger acquisition in Philadelphia and our largest ever conversion contract Focusresults saw our services secure the fastest growth in inMemphis.
US Transit also secured its largest contract MBTA for customer satisfaction of any urban operator.
This progress is afurther eight years.
Our return on assets increased again to 23.8%.
something we are looking to build on in 2015 with initiatives such as Better pricing discipline in the market, combined with our ongoing the extension of our smart-ticketing system to trams and Pay As You focus on efficient capital deployment, means we are optimistic Go.
This will be underpinned by record investment in new vehicles aboutour prospects in North America.
As set out below, we believe and continued close working with local authorities to improve journey we have significant opportunity for further growth in North America.
Spain delivered an increase in revenue in local currency but a decline In Rail, we successfully retained the c2c franchise during 2014, in operating profit to 94.1 million 2013: 96.0m because of the guaranteeing our future in UK rail until 2029. c2c has maintained impact of ongoing rail competition and a significant strike in April.
itsindustry-leading performance for a third consecutive year and Theimplementation of revenue management and an improved delivered 6% revenue growth and 2% passenger growth in year.
service offer on the affected rail competed routes led to an improved Aslight decline in 2014s profit and margin is explained by the more performance in the second half with passenger growth at 4% and onerous contract terms during the franchise extension in place to revenue only 2% lower on the affected routes.
Strong growth in September last year.
We are encouraged by the passenger response Morocco continued, including the benefit of a full year of the Tangier so far to the new franchises focus on customer service.
ALSA also successfully retained its Bizkaia contract, the in Wi-Fi and new advance purchase off-peak tickets are already largest to come up for renewal so far.
As the number of concession proving popular.
With new flexible ticketing and pioneering automatic renewals increases in the coming years, we believe the benefits of delay-repay compensation being introduced in due course, we are our focus on cost efficiency and revenue management mean we confident this enhanced customer service offer will continue to arewell placed to achieve our aim of maintaining market share.
com 9 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives review continued An important part of our strategy is delivering price leadership and value for money for our customers.
We are particularly pleased that all of our divisions have grown patronage as it demonstrates that our excellent prices and deals are effective.
Within the UK, for example, this year we are investing over 23 million in great value fares such as our coach FunFares, rewards for frequent bus users and new advanced off-peak fares in rail.
Getting the combination of price and quality right means we go some way to delivering on our vision of earning customers lifetime loyalty.
Passengers are more likely to continue to use our services above other choices because they are receiving a good service at a good price.
Equally, contracting authorities or businesses are less likely to retender services or are more likely to award us new contracts if we consistently deliver excellence.
This is why I am particularly pleased with our retention of major contracts in 2014: the 15 year c2c rail franchise: ten year Bizkaia contract in Bilbao: and, the five-year MBTA para-transit contract in Boston.
Results such as our North American School Bus business retaining over 97% of its contracts and UK Bus demonstrating the fastest growth in passenger satisfaction of any urban operator in the 2014 Passenger Focus survey are further evidence of our continued progress.
The first of our new German trains rolls off the production line Superior cash and returns Cash generation has been a particular focus of National Express.
Strategy Wehave made this a priority because free cash flow pays dividends These results demonstrate how our consistent strategy has been forshareholders, funds future growth and reduces debt.
improving returns for shareholders and positions us well for future In 2014 we have again made significant progress in delivering on our growth opportunities.
We have delivered 190 million of free cash, 40 million ahead of target.
National Express has now delivered 1 billion of free cash Delivering operational excellence since 2009.
Our success in recent years has been rooted in operational excellence.
It is also increasingly clear that our future success depends on it.
It is Over the year, net debt has been reduced by over 80 million to what our customers demand.
As our most recent successes in German 664.3million, a gearing ratio of 2.25 times EBITDA.
rail and Bahrain demonstrate, a reputation for operational excellence has been crucial in winning contracts in new markets.
We increased the Groups ROCE in 2014 to 12.4%, a 6% increase year-on-year.
We invested 51 million of net capital during 2014 and For National Express, excellence means delivering continuously have continued to deploy capital where it will deliver the best returns.
improving services whilst ensuring a relentless focus on efficiency.
Our Wehavefurther improved our Group operating margin in 2014, to aim is for National Express to be known for both excellence in the quality 10.3%.
And we continue to target both margin and ROCE improvement of our operations and price leadership.
For quality, safety is fundamental and remains our first priority.
We have We set out our plan to reduce our gearing ratio by the end of 2014 to made important progress since launching Driving Out Harm in 2010. help mitigate the key risks the business faced: the loss of the c2c And I am pleased that our independent assessors, Arthur D Little, have franchise and Spanish concession renewals.
These risks have either not reported a year on year improvement in our Fatalities and Weighted materialised with the c2c franchise success or been delayed Spanish Injuries Index measure of safety of 17% and a reduction in total concessions.
We also identified new opportunities for increased responsible harm of 54% in four years.
However, safety requires investment during 2014, to generate shareholder value in the coming arelentless focus, and our ambition remains to eradicate all harm years.
We believe there are further opportunities in the coming years fromourbusiness and achieve world class standards of safety.
and are therefore pausing our deleveraging while staying within our Another crucial aspect of quality is the delivery of punctual, high published target to use our continued strong cash generation to invest performing services.
At any one time in peak hours, we have over in specific new growth opportunities that meet our strict financial and 23,000 vehicles on the road or rail.
We are proud that c2c has now strategic criteria.
beenthe UKs most punctual operator for three years running as well Creating new business opportunities asholding the annual and four-week records.
Our UK Coach business We believe the principal opportunity for increased investment to has recently signed a ground-breaking agreement with the Highways deliverstrong growth over the medium term is in our North American Agency to help improve our punctuality and reliability.
We have already demonstrated our ability to grow this We remain focused on operating as efficiently as possible, to help business significantly in recent years: over the last five years North maintain our prices as competitively as we can.
The 31 million of cost American School Bus has more than doubled its profits.
Additionally, savings delivered during 2014 is higher than in 2013.
Across the Group over the same period, through a disciplined approach to capital many of the businesses have delivered year on year improvements in allocation and contract selection, we have nearly doubled margins value for money scores in their customer surveys and all carried more inNorth America to 9.6% from 5.7% and have improved our RoA by passengers in 2014 compared with 2013.
A particular highlight is our 118% to 23.8%.
UKCoach business being named the countrys most trusted ground transportation company by the Institute of Customer Service.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information There are excellent opportunities for growth given this markets highly fragmented nature and the continuing trend for conversions.
There are over 10,000 private school bus businesses in the United States.
Indeed, in the last year we successfully bolted-on a new school bus business in Philadelphia that operates 318 routes.
Through improved operational standards, Group purchasing power and management synergies from integration with our existing nearby locations, we will have paid for the acquisition within three years.
We also won our largest ever conversion contract, in Shelby County, Tennessee.
This delivered 440 new buses to the 285 we already operated, as we integrated the operations previously run by the local school board.
Our success in integrating our major Petermann acquisition three years ago is further evidence of our strong credentials here.
With greater consolidation and increased outsourcing in the market, our reputation for excellence, strong capital discipline and cash generation and industry-leading team provides the Group with a strong opportunity for further growth in North American School Bus.
US Transit also continues to provide opportunities for further growth.
2014 was the second consecutive year where we have retained 100% of our contracted revenue up for renewal, including the largest contract MBTA.
We also secured a fixed-route transit services contract in Yuma, Arizona, the first contract in this heavily contracted state and a The Bahraini Minister of Transport marks the launch of our new strategic target of the division.
Building on this we are currently working busservice in Bahrain on a pipeline of over $300 million of annualised revenues and believe thisremains an attractive market.
numberof important opportunities in the Middle East, North Africa In addition, our unique portfolio of diversified bus, coach and rail andGermany.
We are currently working on an active pipeline worth businesses means National Express is well placed to grow in selected 8billion of annualised revenues.
other markets, to complement this opportunity for expansion in NorthAmerica.
We believe Morocco, for example, provides good The benefits from these new opportunities as well as our existing opportunities for further growth, building on our significant progress businesses will continue to be reflected in the strong cash generation, there in recent years.
with a target of 100 million this year.
We will continue to focus on margin and ROCE improvement and we are not anticipating there to We have also made significant progress during 2014 in growing in beany exceptional costs from reorganisation or restructuring in 2015. othermarkets.
Our success in securing a ten-year contract in Bahrain As previously stated, we are changing the accounting treatment of bid opens both that country and the wider Middle East to further growth.
costs to be included in normal operating costs.
Our recent award of the Nuremberg S-Bahn network is a clear demonstration of the opportunity for further growth in the exciting The recent focus of our cash flow has been on debt reduction and German rail market.
We will begin operating services on our North growing our dividend.
We increased investment in new business Rhine-Westphalia contracts in December this year and have an active opportunities during 2014 and believe we are now in a strong position bidding pipeline.
We are currently shortlisted for three German contracts toexploit other new growth opportunities with a focus in the North and there are up to 30 new tenders coming up in the next two years.
American school bus market, where we have more than doubled We are also monitoring rail liberalisation in Spain.
profitability in the past five years.
While we will remain within our published target, we believe we have the opportunity to use our continued strong As the operator of the UKs best performing franchise, we will continue cash generation to invest in new growth opportunities that meet our strict to monitor opportunities in the UK rail market.
We will maintain our financial and strategic criteria.
There are excellent opportunities in the selective and disciplined approach and only bid where we feel our North American market given its highly fragmented nature and the expertise will significantly improve the service for passengers and deliver continuing trend in conversions.
The success of last years bolt-on acceptable returns to shareholders.
However, through our successes in acquisition in Philadelphia and the largest ever conversion contract Germany and c2c we have now secured more than 6 billion of future inMemphis demonstrates the opportunity here and we will continue revenue in rail.
toapply our proven model of excellence to deliver the services our customers value as well as generating good returns for our shareholders.
Outlook During 2015 we expect our UK rail, bus and coach businesses to Dean Finch buildon their good progress during 2014 and to continue to perform Group Chief Executive well with strong cash generation.
In Spain the main contract renewal 26 February 2015 process starts this year but any impact from new terms for our larger concessions is unlikely to be felt until 2017.
Whilst we expect some margin pressure on renewal as is normal, we believe ALSA can mitigatethis risk through a combination of significant revenue and cost management actions, as well as securing new growth opportunities.
Weare determined to retain a significant market share in Spain and as market leaders have demonstrated our ability to compete effectively.
Wealso expect the Group to continue to successfully exploit a www.
