Group Strategic Report EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN & CEO REVIEW STRONG PERFORMANCE CONTINUED IN 2014 The past year proved to be a major We continued to make progress on the milestone in our nearly forty year old roll-out of new corporate and operations UAE operations with progress delivered management tools to further enhance at several of our capital developments.
I am particularly proud of the completion our planning and operational effectiveness and opening of three healthcare assets: for our growing company.
the Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital in Abu Dhabi, NMC General Hospital in Dubai Investment Park DIP and NMC Medical Centre in Al Ain.
With these accomplishments we have increased our licensed bed capacity by 52% in the UAE, a strong foundation for our long-term growth prospects in our rapidly expanding country and a determined contribution from the NMC team towards the UAEs vision of better availability and quality of healthcare for all its residents.
With Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital, we introduced the first private sector womens hospital in Abu Dhabi focused on gynaecology and obstetrics specialities with a very strong patient demand outpacing expansion of specialist capacity.
Opening the NMC General Hospital in DIP, was a pioneering healthcare investment in the area with NMC being one of the first and largest investors in this strategic area of the Dubai market.
The DIP hospital is located within the investment park surrounded by large corporates and growing residential areas and a short drive from the new Al Maktoum Airport, Jebel Ali Port and the Dubai Expo area.
The Al Ain Medical Centre is a welcome addition to our capabilities in the strongly performing Al Ain market.
It will expand our primary care services to a new community and act as a referral point back to the NMC Specialty Hospital in Al Ain City for secondary and tertiary care.
The Groups healthcare division now manages and operates a total of 11 healthcare services assets with 11 in-hospital pharmacies including, the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain which is operated by NMC on behalf of the UAE government in return for an annual management fee.
We also made substantial progress on our largest project, the 250 bed NMC Super Specialty Hospital in the Khalifa City suburb of Abu Dhabi, with the completion of the building and external faade followed by commencement of work on the internal fit-out.
We expect construction at this NMC flagship asset to be completed and commence 10 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements operations towards the end of H1 2015, challenging and will be phased over the his executive role at NMC Health to subject to receiving the required next two years to ensure a tested and pursue a role within the Shetty Family regulatory approvals.
Binay has played Resource Planning ERP implementation a major role in advancing the Groups NMC Health received almost 2.4m patients is on-going and we expect implementation operations and he was instrumental in in 2014, a year on year growth of 15.6%.
Group to be completed in 2015. the success of our expansion program hospital occupancy increased by 660bps including the above mentioned hospitals.
We continued to strengthen our Group financial performance in 2014 was He will stay on NMC Healths Board, as human resources with the addition of 100 good, with revenue growth amounting a Non-Executive Director.
Mr Prasanth new doctors in the past year.
to 16.9% and EBITDA appreciating by Manghat was promoted from Chief 10.2% despite the initial negative earning Financial Officer CFO to the new role In the Distribution division we made impact by the new healthcare asset of Deputy CEO.
His new role will include strong progress in terms of increasing additions.
Revenues reached US$643.9m the responsibilities previously held by the availability of our products across the with an EBITDA of US$102.5m in 2014. the COO and working closely with me fast expanding UAE retail market through We expect a considerable growth in both on strategy and operations.
Prasanth our strengthened product portfolio and top-line and EBITDA contribution from has been working within NMC related accomplished wholesale operations with Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital and businesses for nearly 12 years and he the associated sourcing and logistics NMC General Hospital in DIP in future was a key driving force behind our capabilities.
The number of Stock Keeping periods.
Excluding the impact from the achievements to date and the successful Units SKUs reached 83,635 in 2014, new assets, the group EBITDA would initial public offering of NMC.
Mr Suresh an increase of 17.4% compared to 2013. have been US$108.2m.
Krishnamoorthy was promoted from Meanwhile, we continued to strengthen Deputy CFO to become the new CFO.
the division with the recruitment of On 16 February 2015 we announced additional staff to grow this successful a new US$825m financing facility had I would like to thank our shareholders team of professionals.
Divisional staff been secured by NMC which will serve and my fellow members of the Board expansion during the period was 4.2%, to improve our funding efficiency of Directors for their continued support with a particular focus on new personnel and strategic capabilities.
This loan is throughout the past year.
within our front-line sales, promotion and comprised of two tranches, i a US$350m marketing capabilities.
facility used to replace existing debt with Finally, NMC Healths successful journey this lower cost loan, leading to expected of growth and prosperity would not have We continued to make progress on the annual savings of US$2.75-3.75m, ii been possible without the vision and roll-out of new corporate and operations a US$475m delayed draw acquisition drive of the founders and leaders of the management tools to further enhance facility that will further enhance our ability United Arab Emirates UAE.
On behalf of our planning and operational to complement NMCs growth through the Board and management, I would like effectiveness for our growing company.
to extend our gratitude to the UAE.
Our new Hospital Information System HIS was implemented at the recently During 2014 we also announced opened hospitals: however, the management changes effective from implementation across operational 1 January 2015.
Mr Binay Shetty, Chief Dr B. R. Shetty assets with legacy systems is more Operating Officer COO, decided to leave Executive Vice Chairman and CEO NMC HOSPITAL Dubai Investment Park 60 Beds US$96 Revenue per patient NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 11
