14 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives review Maintaining steady production During 2014 we have made significant steps towards the construction of our next gas treatment unit.
Continue to grow our Proven 4.
Ensure that the financial position 2014 was another strong year from reservebase through appraisal ofthe Company remains stable anoperational perspective.
It saw ofChinarevskoye and our three 7KH ILQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ RI WKH thegas treatment facility continue to newelds Company remains stable despite the operate at full capacity with a complete 2XU 3URYHQ UHVHUYHV UHPDLQHG VWDEOH challenging oil price environment.
range of hydrocarbon products being as we replaced over 60% of our Steady production levels delivered to various destinations production since August 2013.
Whilst The Chinarevskoye field is now in full outside Kazakhstan.
Nostrum is now the oil price environment is extremely production with both the Oil Treatment deep into its second development different from the end of 2013 our Facility OTF and the Gas Treatment phase, which willentail the engineering, strategy remains unchanged.
We Facility GTF being operated at their planning, procurement, construction have made some reductions to our nameplate capacities.
Nostrum and commissioning of a new gas plant drilling programme but aim to fill the expects a daily total production as well as a scalable drilling programme GTU3 bythe end of 2017, as to reach a average of at least 45,000 boepd for spanning the next 4-5 years.
combined, together with GTU1 and 2, 2015 and 2016.
All products crude oil, production of 100,000 boepd.
We Our performance against our four key stabilised condensate, LPG and dry are well positioned to withstand the objectives for the Company in 2014 gas are sold at the best possible low oil price environment as we have was as follows: prices on the world markets, and our a healthy cash balance and low costs operations are running at optimal 1.
Ensure construction of the next gas of production.
We remain on target to meet plant remained on track for 2016 about the future of our current asset our objective of doubling capacity base as well as the potential we 6LJQLILFDQW VWHSV KDYH EHHQ PDGH by the end of 2016. have for further expansion over the inthe construction of our next GTU, coming years.
which will allow us to double our production capacity by the end of 3.
We have spent over US$150 development team million and expect the total cost to :H HVWDEOLVKHG D GHGLFDWHG EXVLQHVV be below US$500 million.
development team to ensure we can quickly and accurately evaluate the opportunities in the region.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 15 Future drilling programme Building up further reserves Key priority tasks for 2015 atChinarevskoye beyond the Chinarevskoye field In 2015 there are three key objectives In 2014, we drilled eight wells and are In addition to proving up reserves at for the Company in order to continue fortunate to have a scalable drilling Chinarevskoye Nostrums development to deliver on our strategy.
Our ability plan also focuses on sustaining its 1.
Ensure that the financial position toquickly scale drilling up or down longterm production beyond the ofthe Company remains stable.
allows us to react to the current oil Chinarevskoye field alone.
This target price environment smoothly and is the basis on which Nostrums 2.
Ensure construction of the next without jeopardising our non-scalable mergers & acquisitions strategy is gasplant remains ontrack for 2016. capex.
We are required to complete formed.
This is exemplified by the 2013 3.
Optimise the drilling programme sixwells in 2015 to maintain production acquisition of the subsoil use rights toensure that we can fill the GTU3 at current levels which is comfortably related to three adjacent oil and gas as quickly as possible whilst not achievable.
We are able to maintain fields, Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye jeopardising the Companys production at around 45,000 boepd , in the financial position.
and complete the GTU3 at substantially near vicinity of the Chinarevskoye field.
lower oil prices than today.
Any Based on Ryder Scotts analysis these I believe that these objectives, if increase in the oil price above these fields could add up to 98m of 2P successfully achieved, will provide levels allows us to drill more wells for reserves.
Nostrum looks forward to theplatform to significantly enhance the purpose of filling the GTU3 and drilling its first well in Rostoshinskoye shareholder value.
We have toappraise the new fields.
during 2015. demonstrated in the past that we can deliver on all these objectives and Construction of second gas plant By virtue of its size, development Iamtherefore confident as we enter During 2014 we have made significant stageand production track record, 2015 that we are well positioned to steps towards the construction of our Nostrum has acquired high visibility achieve our goals.
I believe we are well next gas plant.
The rationale behind both locally and internationally.
positioned to successfully execute the the plant is that it will allow faster Asaresult it regularly monitors further next phase of infrastructure whilst also monetisation of reserves, by increasing M&Aopportunities and its approach ensuring the reserve base is not only treatment capacity by an additional isto remain both pragmatic and maintained but added to over the 2.5bcm of raw gas per year, bringing prudent as it considers these options.
total capacity to 4.2 bcm of raw gas Nostrums main focus remains on perannum.
Over US$150 million has north-west Kazakhstan, where it already been invested in the plant and knowsthe landscape and is already contracts relating to over US$300 operating successfully.
However million in total for procurement and wewill also consider opportunities construction have been entered into.
outside of North Western Kazakhstan We remain on track to deliver the plant where we see the potential to create on time and on budget in the second further shareholder value.
Chief Executive Officer Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
