Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES INTERVIEW Tim Steiner Chief Executive Officer In building our SUPERIOR ECONOMIC MODEL PRICE ACTIVITY retail business using Q Q proprietary knowledge Why do you believe that you have There has been a lot of recent a superior economic model for commentary about price wars in the and technology solutions, online grocery retailing than your UK food retail sector.
What is your we have developed an competitors?
view and how does it affect Ocado?
entire end-to-end platform for operating grocery A A Grocers have always strived to Price is one of the key elements retail online operate at the lowest level of cost, which persuade customers to given the low margin nature of the shop with a retailer, and a recent industry.
For online our centralised focus has been how some of the model allows us to reduce the cost mainstream supermarkets demonstrate of our supply chain, to aggregate their price competitiveness against scale, and to justify investment in the discount players.
View more information about automation and technology solutions, Ocado Smart Platform on pages 28 & 29 As a price follower our price which drive down the unit cost of comparison currently matches against fulfilling orders.
Our peers use of the largest player, Tesco there may View more information online at existing assets shops or smaller www.
com be some impact of this activity on warehouse facilities so called dark Ocado.
However, given our wider stores does not afford them the same range than other competitors, the benefits.
overlap of products impacted by To hear more from Tim Steiner visit At the same time, our model allows price activity is likely to be more www.
com us to provide to our customers the limited.
We continue to grow sales best quality service in the industry, volumes and improve operational Scan the QR code with your smart together with wider ranges and cost efficiencies so that helps protect device to watch Tim Steiner online with scale, at ever more competitive us from significant margin impact.
It is important to note that consumers who wish to shop online also pay great attention to product quality, freshness, availability, range and the reliability of the service provided all of which we continue to focus on delivering to the highest standard.
08 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com CFC3 AND CFC4 INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES Q Q You announced plans for your next Can you tell us more about your The Andover CFC will be smaller two CFCs.
What are the details and plans outside the UK?
than previous CFCs, capable of why are they needed?
generating around 65,000 orders A In building our retail business per week, or approximately 350 A Our third CFC will be located in using proprietary knowledge and million in annual sales whilst the an existing building in Andover, in technology solutions, we have Erith CFC will be larger, capable of the south of England and is due developed an entire end-to-end generating in excess of 200,000 to open at the end of 2015.
Our platform for operating grocery orders per week or approximately fourth CFC will be located in a new retail online.
We entered into our 1.2 billion in annual sales.
This development in Erith in the London first agreement with Morrisons to demonstrates the modularity of this Borough of Bexley.
This will be in utilise this platform for their business, infrastructure.
It is also scalable it a brand new building work will and believe there are significant can be built in stages and is fast to commence on site in 2015 and it is opportunities to use our platform deploy in both sites, less than 18 due to open in 2017.
With growing to power multiple online retail months from securing the building.
customer demand, it is important we businesses internationally.
All of these attributes add significant plan for future capacity carefully to We intend to partner with retailers, flexibility to capacity planning for avoid having to constrain the growth who will own and use their existing our retail business and for our future of our business.
customer and supplier relationships, partners.
The new CFCs will house the first and we will provide the operating installations of our next generation and infrastructure platform we call infrastructure solution.
We own the this Ocado Smart Platform for them design and IP rights for this solution to rapidly launch and build scalable, and control the manufacturing, profitable online businesses, with and we expect to have lowered the capability to provide attractive the capital cost for fulfilment when propositions to their customers.
It should also be more efficient to operate.
