Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Tim Steiner Chief Executive Officer Over the last 12 months we have seen Develop ever more capital and We have continued to continued pressure in the grocery market operationally efficient infrastructure make progress in each of with supermarket store volumes declining solutions: our strategic objectives of and ongoing competitive pricing activity.
driving growth, maximising Enhance our end-to-end technology At the same time, the number of customers our efficiency, and utilising systems: and choosing to shop for their groceries our knowledge.
online has grown as the channel shift to Enable Morrisons and future partners online progresses.
Against this backdrop, online businesses.
we have continued to make progress in CONSTANTLY IMPROVE THE each of our strategic objectives of driving PROPOSITION TO CUSTOMERS growth, maximising our efficiency, and Central to driving the growth of our retail utilising our knowledge.
In particular, business are our efforts to constantly we delivered sales growth ahead of View more information about improve the proposition we offer to the broader online grocery market, our strategy on pages 18 & 19 customers our high quality service, the successfully launched our first platform broad selection of products available, customer, Morrisons.
com, and made View more information online at and consumers confidence in our prices.
significant progress in our plans for the next www.
com We have continued to make progress in generation CFC assets.
improving each of these key aspects.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES SUPPORTED BY Voted the Best Online Grocer 2014 by To hear more from Tim Steiner visit OUR ACTIONS Which?
Magazine in its members Annual www.
com Our strategic objectives apply to both Satisfaction Survey for the fifth successive our own retail business and our current year, we have continued to win awards for Scan the QR code with your smart and potential platform operations.
We our service and the food that we sell.
We device to watch Tim Steiner online support our objectives through a framework believe this reflects our ongoing progress of actions intended to deliver long term and the strengthening recognition of our shareholder value.
The key actions within our framework are We recognise the importance of the to: shopping experience, and believe that Constantly improve our proposition to increasingly consumers will try online customers: for their grocery shop if they consider it more attractive than current store based Strengthen our consumer brands: shopping.
We have continued to focus 36 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com on improving elements and features of the increased popularity of shopping from OCADO customer interface to enhance the speed, a broader general merchandise product convenience and usability of our service.
range while customers make their regular Features such as Import Your Favourites, grocery shop.
shortened registration processes and In 2H 2014 we launched our second the introduction of payment by PayPal destination site, Sizzle.
This is a specialist are proving to be particularly useful in kitchen and dining shop and complements encouraging customers to shop for the first Fetch, our pet store.
Fetch now has over time and on subsequent occasions, with 8,000 SKUs, and Sizzle over 12,000 customer retention rates from first to fifth SKUs, both complementing our shop modestly improving over the period.
This is important in building a base of One of our subsidiary companies, frequent, loyal customers.
Speciality Stores Ltd, has entered into Smart Pass, our bundled customer benefit an agreement with Marie Claire UK to membership scheme, continued to be launch a new business in the beauty and popular, further driving customer loyalty, wellbeing segment.
This business will be shopping frequency and total spend per a separately incorporated company and customer.
Customers shopping using mobile will operate using the Marie Claire brand.
For the It will be based in the Marie Claire office period, over 48% of all orders delivered FETCH in central London and be led by Amanda were checked out over a mobile device, Scott, currently Head of Buying for Beauty with mobile apps accounting for over and Accessories at John Lewis.
In January 2015 costs are estimated at between 2 3 we launched our new mobile website to million in 2015.
We believe that the complement our mobile apps, which we high quality of service delivered by our anticipate may be particularly attractive to technology and logistics platform combined new customers.
with the awareness and relevance of A high quality and reliable delivery service the Marie Claire brand will make this is critical to our customers.
We believe our an attractive shopping destination for customer delivery service continues to be customers.
market leading in order accuracy and on Amidst the current price competitive market time performance.
Orders delivered on environment, our Low Price Promise basket time or early improved to 95.3% 2013: matching scheme continues to resonate 95.2% and order accuracy also improved well with our customers, reflecting the to 99.3% 2013: 99.0% during the competitiveness of our prices and adding period.
transparency to our pricing strategy.
com is now over the end of the period, when checking for 43,000 products including everyday LPP, over three quarters of our customers SIZZLE items, our own brand, more non-food and baskets were already cheaper at Ocado.
These include The cost of LPP in the form of vouchers used new ranges such as a Malaysian food during the period was lower than the same selection and extensions to our Kosher and period last year, despite the increased Halal shops.
price reductions in the market, reflecting our competitiveness in prices and sustained Our non-food sales and range continued to promotional activity.
grow during the period, with sales growing over 50% and by the end of the period more than a third of baskets contained at least one non-food item, reflecting the 37 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued STRENGTHEN CONSUMER BRANDS DEVELOP EVER MORE CAPITAL AND OPERATIONALLY EFFICIENT We have continued to develop the INFRASTRUCTURE SOLUTIONS awareness and strength of Ocados stable Our capabilities are of brands, and reinforce their values.
Our capabilities are being significantly being significantly enhanced and broadened with the We have concentrated our modest above enhanced and broadened ongoing development of our new modular, the line marketing spend on initiatives to with the ongoing scalable physical fulfilment solution.
This build broader brand awareness, focused development of our system has benefited from our extensive around food, such as the sponsorship of design and engineering experience which new modular, scalable Channel 4s Daily Brunch, supporting the has enabled us to develop a proprietary physical fulfilment launch of Britains Next Top Supplier solution with many beneficial attributes solution.
competition, an Ocado initiative to support when compared to existing infrastructure and nurture small British suppliers, and assets or any commercially available supplying food to the BBC Good Food alternatives.
Successful development of this Shows at Olympia and the NEC.
Overall infrastructure solution will vertically integrate marketing costs, including voucher spend, our platform of software, electronic and has fallen as a percentage of sales, mechanical systems required to operate reflecting a fall in retention vouchering online retail operations efficiently, enabling and a similar growth rate of new customer Maintaining and a compelling proposition to the consumer acquisitions.
enhancing technology The Ocado own-label reinforces brand leadership in systems, Our solution combines extremely dense recognition and continues to grow in processes and equipment storage, rapid retrieval and fast picking popularity with sales up over 40% against supports our marketof single items.
We believe it is the most the equivalent period last year, and the leading proposition to capital efficient solution available that average basket now containing almost five is capable of fulfilling this purpose, and customers and drives Ocado own-label products.
should significantly exceed the operating operating excellence.
The growth in our customer numbers reflects efficiency we have achieved in our the strengthing position of our brand.
active customers at the end of the period The new product storage and retrieval stood at 453,000 2013: 385,000. system incorporates a number of Our customers average baskets stood technological advances including a highly at 112.25 2013: 113.53 by the sophisticated proprietary communications View more information about period end, including the impact of technology capable of interacting inside a maximising efficiency on pages standalone destination site orders from building with thousands of devices multiple 22 & 23 Fetch and Sizzle.
times per second, significantly in excess View more information online at of any technology currently available Fetch has grown strongly in its first year, www.
gaining in brand awareness despite limited marketing support during the The constituent elements of this infrastructure period.
Increasingly customers recognise solution are currently undergoing significant the convenience of buying their pet testing and we are confident in their key requirements online and having them performance capabilities.
We have filed delivered together with their Ocado for patents across our innovations, driven grocery shop, rather than requiring a visit by the desire to protect the IP intrinsic to our to the pet shop or veterinary clinic.
As more patents are anticipate customer awareness of the Sizzle filed we are building a web of protection brand will build as shoppers discover the for our valuable IP in the future.
benefits and range available to them in this category.
38 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com Both our Hatfield Customer Fulfilment We have also exchanged contracts for a Centre CFC1 and our Dordon Customer 30 year lease for a new build site in Erith Fulfilment Centre CFC2 continued to in southeast London for CFC4, subject operate to a high level of accuracy and to planning consent.
The developer is with improved efficiency.
Using the units expected to commence work on the site per hour efficiency measure UPH, the in the first half of 2015, with our works average productivity for the period in our starting in 2016 and with a plan to mature CFC operations was 145 UPH commence operations during 2017.
The 2013: CFC1 135 UPH, where we MHE solution in CFC4 will ultimately cost consider a CFC to be mature if it had been 135 million and will add over 200,000 open for 12 months by the start of the half OPW.
As with CFC3, this CFC will use year reporting period.
By the end of the our proprietary modular, scalable fulfilment period, operational efficiency in CFC2 solution and so the investment will be was over 150 UPH.
phased over a number of years in line with our capacity requirements.
It will also make Ocado order volumes have grown to an this the most capital efficient CFC to be average of over 167,000 orders per week built to date.
OPW 2013: 143,000 OPW with the highest number of orders delivered There will be a further 50 million of in a week exceeding 196,000 during building work on items such as fridge the period.
At the end of the period, plants, mezzanine floors and additional approximately 60% of orders were fulfilled dock doors to take the developers shell from CFC1 with the balance from CFC2, up to the level of building required.
in line with our expectations.
Ocado has an option from the developer exercisable by April 2015, to use the site We continue to introduce new also for Morrisons.
com on improved rental developments to our CFCs to improve terms.
In this event, the ramp up of capacity efficiency further in a cost effective manner.
will be completed sooner, and the costs Three additional purpose designed and capacity of the CFC will be shared and patent pending bagging machines with Morrisons.
commenced operations in CFC1 during the course of 2H 2014, and we expect to Despite worsening road traffic speeds, our invest in further bagging machines in both delivery performance continued to improve, CFC1 and CFC2 in future years.
benefiting from increased customer density, with deliveries per van per week DPV of The major phase 2 development works 163 2013: 160 DPV.
for CFC2 are now complete, and we believe this has increased capacity to We have expanded our delivery capacity approximately 180,000 OPW.
with the opening in the period of additional spokes in Ruislip, Enfield, Sheffield and During the year we announced our Knowsley, and with a further spoke in plans for CFC3 in an existing building Dagenham opening post the period end.
in Andover, Hampshire, where works Another spoke in Park Royal is set to open commenced in 2H 2014.
We plan to in February 2015 to replace our smaller open the site at the end of 2015, following White City location.
The delivery capacity significant building redevelopment and for some of these spokes is shared with extension work and extensive testing of our Morrisons, resulting in improved cost and new more modular and scalable fulfilment capital efficiencies during the ramp up solution.
capacity to our operation at a capital cost of 45 million for the MHE.
39 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued We anticipate that capital expenditure in The first commercialisation of this IP was 2015 will be approximately 150 million, our agreement with Morrisons which was including the expenditure for CFC3 and completed in July 2013 and we were increased costs for further development for pleased that Morrisons.
com was launched Our leadership in IP our infrastructure and technology solutions.
as planned with the first orders delivered and technology affords on 10 January 2014.
com uses ENHANCE OUR END-TO-END us opportunities to our existing CFC technology and solutions TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS generate significant value and has continued to ramp up well in line Since inception we have utilised for Ocado through the with our and Morrisons expectations.
proprietary IP, knowledge and technology commercialisation We continue to receive interest from a as the foundation of our business.
broad group of potential international Maintaining and enhancing technology partners to discuss how we might assist leadership in systems, processes and them in introducing or improving online equipment supports our market-leading business in their own markets.
We have proposition to customers and drives now combined our end-to-end technology operating excellence.
platform with our modular infrastructure Over time we have developed a solution to form Ocado Smart Platform proprietary end-to-end solution for as a single service offering.
We will make operating grocery online, from the point this available to potential partners to power of contact with the customer, through the Our customers their online grocery retail businesses.
extensive fulfilment operations, to the regularly comment on During the period, we started to engage delivery of the basket of products to the the outstanding service in more detailed discussions with several customers kitchen.
Each stage of the provided by our delivery parties with a view to utilising Ocado operation is optimised using our software team of Customer Service Smart Platform to drive the launch or and algorithms.
Our technology systems Team Members.
growth of their online businesses.
We form a key part of this solution.
expect to incur up to 5 million in 2015 We are progressing with the replatforming in additional administrative costs to enable of our IT systems, investing significantly in us to develop the Ocado Smart Platform the use of cloud-based infrastructure, to capability further and negotiate platform enable faster replication and roll out of our service agreements.
We are targeting to technology internationally, and remain on sign the first such agreement during 2015 track with our plans.
although there is no guarantee we can View more information about meet this timeline.
We continue to expand our technology Ocado Smart Platforms on pages team, and at the end of 2014 employed 28 & 29 MARKET BACKDROP over 550 developers and IT professionals.
Despite the more positive outlook for We plan to increase this team to 700 broader economic growth in the UK, View more information online at people during 2015.
com we believe the grocery market remains teams primary focus is on improving subdued.
customer interfaces to support our businesses and those of our partners, Moreover, during the period there has been replatforming to improve speed of systems more emphasis placed on price initiatives development and to enable international in the market by the major supermarket expansion, and other projects to drive groups, particularly to counter the growing efficiency in our operations.
threat from discount operators which is exacerbating the decline in supermarket ENABLE MORRISONS AND FUTURE store sales.
We have seen prices of certain PARTNERS ONLINE BUSINESSES key value items, primarily in fresh private Our leadership in IP and technology label categories, impacted by these affords us opportunities to generate initiatives, and we will continue to assess significant value for Ocado through the price developments in the market carefully.
40 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com Notwithstanding this broader market We also won a number of awards for our activity, online grocery shopping continues Ocado own-label products.
These included to expand faster than the total market, the Loved by Parents Best Grocery Product although more recently some of our for our Ocado own-label organic juicing competitors growth appears to have boxes, fruit boxes and vegetable and salad slowed, evidenced by the online growth boxes, as well as for a range of our fresh figures reported across the industry.
All the fish by Quality Food Awards.
major UK supermarket groups continue to In September, to coincide with the new invest to satisfy this growing online demand academic year, we launched Code for with a general acceptance that online Life, an Ocado Technology CR initiative continues to become a more mainstream to encourage and support primary school channel for grocery shopping.
teachers to deliver the new Computer Overseas there continues to be more Science curriculum.
The initiative has been interest and investment in online services in supported by BCS Academy of Computing, many markets as major incumbent grocery Computing at School, the teaching retailers seek to address this channel shift, community and education specialists, and and by online retailers such as Amazon has already had several hundred schools Fresh helping to drive both consumer sign up.
We are thrilled with how this interest, and corporate focus, in online has been received and look forward to grocery shopping.
supporting this important initiative in the future.
PEOPLE, RECOGNITION AND AWARDS We received recognition of our continuing By the end of the period, we employed efforts in CR winning the PRCA Award for over 8,500 people, having created over CSR Campaign of the Year 2014 with our 1,800 jobs during the year, supporting Britains Next Top Supplier initiative.
the growth of our Ocado retail businesses, our Morrisons platform business and the BOARD UPDATE development of Ocado Smart Platform.
Jason Gissing, a co-founder of Ocado, We anticipate this number rising by around took the decision to retire from the Board 2,500 people during 2015. at our annual general meeting on 10 May The energy and commitment of our people 2014.
I would like to thank Jason for his remains central to our success and I valuable contribution over many years, and want to acknowledge their tremendous wish him well for the future.
efforts throughout this very busy period.
Our customers regularly comment on the outstanding service provided by our Customer Service Team Members.
We are delighted that the efforts of our people were recognised with a number of awards during 2014, including the Best Online Grocer by Which?
Magazine Members Annual Satisfaction Survey, Best Online Retailer Gold and Supermarket of the Year Silver in the Loved by Parents Awards, and Best Organic Supermarket in the Soil Association Organic Awards.
We also received recognition of our extensive offering in our free from range with Best Large Online Supermarket 2014.
