Chief Executives review Despite a profoundly challenging period for the E&P sector, Ophir delivered a number of milestones during 2014.
Foremost amongst these was the completion of the divestment of a 20% interest in Blocks1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania for $1.288 billion.
The Pavilion transaction provided Ophir with The acquisition of Salamander Energy Our business model one of the strongest balance sheets in the completed in March 2015.
This diversifies international E&P sector and positioned it to our source of funding through the addition Ophirs model for value creation is through take advantage of the opportunities presented of cash flow, and also by adding a prudent the exploration and appraisal phases of the by the industry downturn.
In early 2015 we level of debt to the balance sheet.
E&P cycle: and through monetising assets have taken steps to further strengthen our at the appropriate time to capture optimum Finally, we maintain extreme discipline in financial liquidity, by significantly reducing value for shareholders.
Simply put our job capital allocation.
Every dollar we spend must capex from previous levels.
2015 capex is is to find resources for the minimal capital have the potential to deliver a significant return nowforecast at between $250 million and outlay and then to monetise them for the to shareholders in a low oil price environment.
$300 million 2014: $580 million of which highest possible price.
Alongside this, we have reviewed our cost onlyapproximately $35 million is committed base and believe we can make savings of In 2014 we took the decision, in consultation exploration expenditure highlighting our $250million over the next two years.
with major shareholders, to move towards financial flexibility.
Ophir has the strength sustainability.
A key part of this financing toemerge from the current period of low oil Operations model is the addition of production assets prices as a significantly larger, stronger and which generate cash flow to fund exploration better balanced company.
The acquisition of Another major achievement in 2014 was Salamander was the first step towards theprogress made with the FLNG project in achieving this goal.
Having hit all of the key project milestones for 2014, the project has now been significantly fide-risked and a clear Strategy: a point of commercial framework established.
We are differentiation confident of making further progress in 2015, when we expect to commence the upstream Our strategy has three key components: and midstream FEED projects.
value creation through exploration Dr Nick Cooper, active portfolio management Chief Executive Drilling performance and Officer disciplined approach to capital allocation and returns new acreage The Pavilion Energy transaction is an example In 2014 Ophir undertook its busiest ever drilling of the first two elements of this strategy.
campaign and participated in 11 deepwater It demonstrated the ability of the Company wells, of which eight we operated.
Although both to find resource and monetise it, in this the five-well exploration programme in Gabon case creating a return on investment of 4.5x.
and in Blocks 7 and East Pande, Tanzania, A proportion of the funds generated by this wasdisappointing, we were successful in our transaction have enabled us to act counterremaining six exploration and appraisal wells cyclically adding new exploration acreage to inEquatorial Guinea and Tanzania.
Ophirs the portfolio, with a low level of commitment three year finding and drilling costs rose from spending, that provide a series of options for $0.89 boe to $1.34 boe and the Company future drilling.
We also exited a number of retains a healthy 66% success rate with licences that did not have the potential to deliver exploration and appraisal drilling.
material returns to shareholders in the near term.
Includes a $38 million amount that is payable at FID.
10 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance A key focus of the past year has been to The Salamander business is now being rebuild Ophirs exploration portfolio, as we integrated, thereby building a stronger, larger Ophirs strategy for position the Company for the next phase and better balanced company.
Whilst 2015 growth overview of drilling.
During 2014, Ophir added a total will not see the levels of exploration drilling of 47,000 square kilometres in acreage, that we undertook in 2014, we shall be across four countries.
There are no well investing and analysing our pre-existing and Vision commitments across this acreage meaning new acreage.
At these low oil prices there is Ophirs vision is to be the leading Ophir will be able to offer shareholders access rightly a focus on capital discipline and cost international oil and gas exploration to a high-graded exploration portfolio of management.
However, whilst the risk profiles and production company.
world class potential, with only prospects of the worlds reservoir rocks remain constant, we truly believe can deliver commercial the cost of assessing that risk via exploration The key elements returns being drilled.
has fallen considerably in recent months.
of the strategy are: With our strong balance sheet, and with the Salamander transaction delivering a Outlook more sustainable business model, Ophir is Value creation exceptionally placed to selectively explore through A dramatic fall in the oil price approaching when most others are unable.
It is our exploration 50% from its high point in the past year, has ambition to build the business further over resulted in a significant scaling back of capex the next 12 to 24 months, exposing our budgets, overhead costs and activity levels shareholders to material value creation across the E&P sector.
Ophir has similarly at a markedly lower cost.
Active prioritised its capital expenditure to protect portfolio its balance sheet and reduce its cost Dr Nick Cooper management structure.
As a consequence of the sectorChief Executive Officer wide reduction in activity, service costs have fallen significantly and we expect this trend to continue.
Ophir is selectively exploiting Focus on this shift in the market: seismic costs have capital now dropped to a third of 2014 prices and allocation we commenced 3D acquisition in Myanmar and returns in February 2015, where we have been able to triple the size of the survey for the same cost as originally budgeted.
2015 will see Ophir continue to progress its two LNG projects in Tanzania and Equatorial Guinea.
Both of these are presently scheduled for FID in 2017 and, with drilling behind us and construction not commencing until after FID, these projects have low capital requirements.
With only $150 million of capital expenditure through to FID we can continue to push both projects forward whilst also maintaining capital discipline.
