STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW David Newlands will be retiring at the annual general meeting in July after 16 years of service as Creating a first-class Chairman.
Over this period, he has provided strong leadership in the development of PayPoint mobile gaming as the company has evolved from a fragile start-up to the robust multi-channel international environment payments and services business of today.
On behalf of the company, I would like to thank David When AlchemyBet needed for the significant contribution he has made to our success and all of us at PayPoint wish him a a mobile-friendly payment happy retirement.
solution that would complement the high quality mobile entertainment on offer from its PayPoint has continued to deliver earnings growth, in another busy year, in which our businesses PocketFruity.
com mobile and have made good progress.
Retail Payments and Services UK, Ireland, Romania and Collect have social gaming app, PayPoint grown and strengthened their positions in their markets.
We have combined PayByPhone, implemented its API Application PayPoint.
net and the recently acquired Adaptis to create PayPoint Mobile and Online.
This brings Programming Interface, which mobile and online payment into the centre of our group capability alongside retail payments and has the flexibility to adapt to a services and reinforces our unique multi-channel payment capability, ready to service the needs of mobile payment environment.
our clients, retailers and merchants.
Operating in a thriving mobile games market, the API is able to A single proposition with a new modern identity cope with high levels of demand, We launched the rebranding of the company on 20 May 2014.
The context for our new identity is helping to build long lasting loyalty that the world around us is changing, in particular, in the ways consumers shop, pay for and acquire with PocketFruitys customers who products and services.
Much of this is being driven by technology smart mobile devices, faster internet demand an efficient payment access speeds, increasing connectivity, which is empowering consumers to demand more choice and experience.
As a result, many consumers will no longer want to have their relationship with a service UK-based operator is now an organisation defined by a single payment channel.
They prefer to use information rich apps that can be established mobile gaming business accessed anywhere and anytime, embedded with frictionless payment functionality.
and experienced an increase in volumes of 182% over the last year.
These dynamics create increasing complexity for consumer service organisations as they seek to develop Our customers need to be able to platforms to meet these new consumer needs.
We are well placed to help our clients to deliver the deposit and receive funds quickly simplified solutions that their consumers want using our multi-channel payment capability distinctively and successfully, which the mobile with strength in mobile, online and retail.
Our experience in developing successful consumer apps in payment functionality on the parking, which serve millions, and our innovative fulfilment solution, Collect, also demonstrates our PayPoint platform has enabled.
understanding of these evolving consumer dynamics.
James Harrison, CEO, AlchemyBet PocketFruity.
com We are also refreshing our brand, originally created to target cash paying consumers in shops, to one which is more modern and effective for the multi-channel payment solution that now sits at the heart of PayPoints offer.
Our new logo will be more relevant to all consumers, across all payment Collect reaches out channels.
The new logo has been recently launched in all B2B relationships and will roll out to our to Ireland consumer audiences in parking later this year.
This new identity communicates all channels through a Collect has teamed up with Parcel single brand, emphasising the full spectrum of our services.
For example, it helps to position our multiMotel to give Irish online shoppers channel offer to the utility sector as smart meters start to be rolled out to UK households, for which an easy and convenient way to we have already developed a prototype solution integrating mobile apps with web and retail, all with a return unwanted items to UK consistent look and feel to the consumer.
Littlewoods Ireland was the first Irish retailer to offer this Retail Payments and Services service to its customers.
We have made good progress in the year within our retail businesses.
PayPoints market leadership Since its launch in mid-2013 by in retail payments and services remains at the core of our success.
We continue to be strongly Nightline Group, Irelands largest differentiated through the unique quality and breadth of our client base and retail coverage.
This allows independent delivery firm, the us to contract with the best convenience retailers and seek to extend the range of payments and Parcel Motel network of lockers services that we provide, delivering new retail schemes that drive footfall and commission earnings to has attracted tens of thousands our retail partners and securing their continuing loyalty.
Littlewoods Ireland customers can return In the UK and Ireland, convenience retailing is increasingly becoming the first choice for many busy unwanted items to the UK consumers looking for quality products and services.
The sector continues to benefit from substantial by dropping them off at their nearest Parcel Motel locker.
investment in premises and upgraded product ranges.
PayPoint sits at the core of this transformation as the principal innovator of in-store payments and services to local communities.
We have continued Once registered on the Parcel to improve technology in-store by the introduction of PayPoint Point of Sale, the software version of Motel website, customers can our terminal on retailers till systems, notably to the Co-Operative Group, and by placing broadband book a locker slot and attach the connected terminals which process transactions more quickly.
We continue to extend our retail Collect label to their package, coverage in the UK and Ireland towards 30,000 sites, whilst maintaining our focus on yield per site.
which is provided when their item Our focus on retail services has enabled us increasingly to become the preferred technology gateway is shipped to them.
Parcel Motel for the convenience sector.
transfers the parcels to Collect in the UK.
Customers receive a returns code and are able to track Romania has made good progress with strong transaction growth, as we increase our share of over the the journey of their item on the counter bill payment, driving increased profitability.
We continue to roll out further sites to get ever Collect website.
closer to where consumers live and work.
We are evaluating new retail services to complement our international money transfer proposition, that is developing well through about 1,400 of our sites.
The This new system is simpler and, prospects for Romania continue to be good, with the opportunity to extend our share of payments, if anything, makes the business develop our retail services proposition and start to introduce the groups new multi-channel payment of buying online even easier capability to our Romanian client base.
John Tuohy, CEO, Nightline Group PayPoint plc annual report 2014 3 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Collect Top industry award for This exciting UK retail service, a 50:50 joint venture with Yodel, has developed well over the year, the Simple Payment with annual parcel volumes growing 76.4%.
The company is now in profit and we continue to invest service in the proposition and network to support its growth, with an ultimate goal to provide a larger parcel The Simple Payment service, the network than the Post Office.
Collect does not have the same characteristic operational gearing in innovative solution that replaced costly cheques for the payment its business model as PayPoint, as variable costs are much higher.
This, together with cost increases, of government benefits and including marketing, will affect profit, although PayPoint Retail Services will continue to benefit pensions, was recognised as the from increased volumes and, taken together, the parcels service will continue to increase profit to best in class at the 2014 Cards PayPoint.
We attract the best online retailers to the Collect service, including Amazon, eBay, ASOS, & Payments Awards.
The Simple New Look, Boden, John Lewis, House of Fraser, M&S, Asda Direct and Very.
The growth of Click & Payment service is delivered on Collect is particularly encouraging.
behalf of the Department for Work & Pensions DWP by PayPoint and Mobile and Online Citi, and its success has allowed PayByPhone, PayPoint.
net and our recent acquisition Adaptis, have been combined into the newly the Government to discontinue all cheque services, with an annual launched PayPoint Mobile and Online.
The business is operating under a new single management saving to the taxpayer estimated at team and is at the heart of PayPoints multi-channel strategy.
Our ability to understand and engage 15 million, including an estimated with the consumer, together with our B2B strength in more traditional transaction processing and 5 million per year in fraud.
value added services, gives us strength and differentiation within the payment sector.
Already, we offer internet payment services to our parking clients and mobile payment services to our internet In the current UK environment, payment clients.
We have continued to win large new clients, including the City of Paris, although there is an expectation that public NSLs winning bid for Westminster did not include our PayByPhone service and this loss will delay and private sector organisations profitability for Mobile and Online.
will drive efficiencies and reduce costs.
There is also an expectation that organisations As Mobile and Online has its own customer base of several million consumers in parking, it is well will drive a digital agenda positioned to earn revenues from both consumers and merchants, with the potential for new through innovation.
The Simple business models beyond transaction revenues.
We aim to sell more products to our B2B clients, to Payment service addresses these generate more sources of revenue per consumer and to have a greater proportion of transactions expectations, while enhancing the where we own the consumer experience.
Cards & Payments Awards Consumers judging panel PayPoint has traditionally served consumers though our B2B relationships and we remain, essentially, a B2B2C company in our approach.
Our innovation has taken us into services, which have a direct relationship with consumers, such as in parking and Collect, both of which have growing consumer bases.
In addition, some 12 million transactions from unregistered consumers cross our retail Heating homes over counters in an average week and our brand awareness, consumer satisfaction and net promoter Christmas ratings are high, endorsed by feedback from our more recent social networking activities.
We are Although more shops are opening on Christmas Day each working hard to drive greater insight into consumer behaviour and needs, with a view to extending year, PayPoints retail network is our consumer base and driving further value to them.
very often the only place where people with energy prepayment meters are able to top up their Dominic Taylor meters over bank holidays.
As Chief Executive an illustration of the value of 29 May 2014 PayPoint in the communities served by its shops, consumers across the UK topped up their gas or electricity prepayment meters at PayPoint 3.9 million times on Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day.
In addition, over 10,000 customers collected their pension or benefits in cash from PayPoint on one of these bank holidays.
In total, PayPoint was used 6 million times over the three days by consumers for a wide variety of payments.
Almost 12,500 shops with PayPoint facilities were open on Christmas Day, with as many as nine out of ten open in some parts of the country, enabling over 225,000 people to top up their prepayment meters.
What these figures show is just what a valuable service PayPoint provides.
No other retail chain in the UK offers such a high level of service over the holiday period.
Seamus Smith, Managing Director, Retail Payments and Services, PayPoint 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2014
