04 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief executives strategic overview Dear shareholders, Pearsons purpose is to empower people to progress in their lives through learning, and that means we put the learner at the heart of everything we do.
Through this review, youll see five stories from students that illustrate how weve been doing over the last year.
Each story demonstrates the commitment and ability John Fallon of the young woman involved, each a great source of Chief executive inspiration to all of us.
Each showcases one of Pearsons most commercially successful products MGI, BTEC, Connections, Wall Street English, MyLabs of recent For education to really work it needs years.
And they all illustrate that the bigger Pearsons to not only provide access, but social impact in improving access to good quality education and ensuring that translates into meaningful ensure progress... by standing at the learning outcomes for far more people the more we intersection of new technology and can create a faster growing and more profitable company, and do so in a sustainable manner.
good teaching practices, we can help Last October Malala Yousafzai accepted her Nobel Peace to make learning more accessible Prize on behalf of the 66 million girls around the world and more relevant for more people who dont go to school.
In this same spirit, Ive chosen five stories that are about the achievements of young women around the world.
Youll find more stories reflecting the full diversity of what we do at www.
com Positioned to make a greater impact The transformation programme we launched in February of 2013 is now complete.
Over the course of two years, we carried out as much restructuring, in terms of activity and costs incurred, as wed carried out in the previous six.
Short stories of impact Rozanna has beaten overwhelming odds.
Born into a Rozannas story family in Zimbabwe in which neither parent had taken A-levels, let alone attended university, she was not a typical candidate for higher education.
Insecurity, lack of access to technology, and fear about personal safety were some of the barriers she faced.
But her thirst for education led her to enrol in Pearsons Midrand Graduate Institute MGI in South Africa.
Rozanna is now a third-year psychology major with a drive for achievement that has inspired us all at Pearson.
She praises her lecturers, and credits much of her success with the personalised learning technology she uses at MGI.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 1 Our business 05 That programme has been all about setting Pearson up In 2015, we expect Pearsons profits to start to grow to be able to demonstrate the impact of what we do in again, as the forces that have been working against us education around the world.
It is about enabling us to over the last two years start to ease, and as we benefit do right across Pearson the thing that we have done from the cost savings achieved by our restructuring and increasingly well in many parts of the company, and which the revenues generated by our new investments.
our stories of people learning all help to demonstrate.
A growing global demand That is, we stand at the intersection of new technology with its ability to engage, personalise and diagnose and Well be working hard with our customers to tackle what new, more effective, ways of teaching.
This position allows we think is one of the most important challenges in the us to develop products and services that enable the world today.
For globalisation and the disruptive powers benefits of richer, deeper learning to be more widely felt.
of technology mean we live in a Second Machine Age in which, as my colleague, Lionel Barber editor of the Weve had to conduct this accelerated programme of Financial Times puts it, leverage in the workplace is best change whilst dealing with cyclical and policy related forces achieved through knowledge.
This means that equipping in our biggest markets, which I described in last years every global citizen with what are sometimes described as report, and which continued to hurt us in 2014.
In spite 21st century skills is more important than ever.
In other of these challenges, Im pleased to report that we did words, for education to really work, it needs to not only meet the financial expectations that we set publicly for provide access, but ensure progress.
the company at the start of the year.
Overall, at a time of much internal disruption and upheaval, we put in a To prosper in career and college, all young people need to generally good competitive performance.
There were leave school literate and numerate, with good knowledge a couple of areas of under-performance, too, and were of science, technology and the liberal arts, and being able working hard to do better in these activities in 2015. to apply that knowledge to solve real world problems.
It wasnt just Pearsons education related businesses that They also need to be proficient in the kinds of less tangible performed well through this period of change.
Penguin skills that will help them succeed in the workplace critical Random House, the company we own with Bertelsmann, thinking, adaptability, team-working, and digital fluency.
turned in a best-selling performance whilst integrating the They need the grit, resilience and determination to two companies.
And the Financial Times, now part of our persevere and succeed and, most of all, they need professional education business, continued to deliver the the capacity to carry on learning throughout their lives.
worlds best news and information to its audiences whilst These are all things that can be taught.
accelerating its own digital transition.
Short stories of impact Bethany is a UK student who did not take A-levels, but Bethanys story instead went after a BTEC qualification.
She, like so many recent BTEC applicants, applied to university with a different skillset, but not with any less determination or ability.
Her hard work and credentials were recognised when she was accepted to study Psychology and Linguistics at Oxford University.
Bethanys story highlights that a skills-based qualification like a BTEC is not a lesser credential, but one that can set a student up for success in higher education and a career.
t P c O U l E D v E O S D R t P N E m E R I U Q E R R Y E P D l G N S O O E H E A l E t K E R A l v A t v S P E R E D N D & t A S R E m O t S 06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief executives strategic overview continued 2015 priorities meeting the need A business model focused on helping more people achieve better learning outcomes 1 For the two billion people learning English as a foreign language, or the 300-400 million more people enrolling in Our efficacy initiative, first outlined in last years report, is higher education over the next 30 years, and all the other no longer just a framework.
Efficacy is now at the centre students of all ages around the world, the need for effective of our business model and a major part of how we create and relevant teaching and learning will continue to grow.
This year, well embed it even more deeply into the Of course, there are challenges to meeting this need.
fabric of everything we do so that it reaches more products, Fragmented and siloed approaches to education, changes influences more people and transforms more processes.
in government policy and regulations, and widely diverse As our customers become ever more focused on achieving economic and social conditions, make our work, and that better returns on education related spending, Pearson is at of educators worldwide, much more complex.
But we the forefront of a great global growth opportunity.
And it are confident that by standing at the intersection of new enables us to put our social impact at the very heart of our technology and good teaching practices, we can help to business.
This applies to our Project Literacy campaign make learning more accessible and more relevant for more page 54 and the renewed investment in our Pearson people around the world.
Affordable Learning Fund page 56, just as it does to the In 2015, five priorities, outlined here, are guiding our work.
research and development of new products and services and the way we engage with our customers each day.
It is the means by which we ensure that education is more accessible, impactful and affordable, and delivers those outcomes to people regardless of location.
Education revenues 2013 $bn Our business model $7.4bn Pearson Education Our efficacy programme, Laureate $4.0bn assessing and improving the impact of our $3.5bn Apollo Group products, is crucial to our Benesse Education $3.4bn value creation model Kaplan Graham Holdings $2.1bn $1.8bn Cengage Learnings lEARNER Corinthian Colleges $1.5bn OUtcOmES Houghton Mi in Harcourt $1.4bn $1.2bn McGraw-Hill Global Education New Oriental Education & Technology $1.1bn Estimate Short stories of impact Zuriel is an ambitious 12-year old documentary Zuriels story filmmaker, originally from Nigeria, who now lives in California.
She is enrolled in Pearsons entirely online Connections Academy, which she says allows her to do extracurricular activities even when travelling overseas, creating documentaries, and interviewing African leaders, without missing important schoolwork.
Zuriel recently launched the Speak Up, Stand Up project to inspire girls on the African continent to stay in school, get a good education, and also to accomplish their dreams.
We can safely say she is leading by example.
U c m t E A R S H R E U K G l t l E I P S t A N c & I t S c S E A S P S m A I h t w OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS o r G s m r o f t a l p l a b P o r l G a o f c h e. i t r s r s e R o i m o N E n P A e a a m l r s N o O O n S E Section 1 Our business 07 New digital products A more focused company 2 3 To further this work, well be launching new global Were building these products in a modular and scalable products to meet the need for much better learning way, and deploying them on a smaller number of global outcomes.
They connect content with assessment and platforms.
This improves the customer experience, feedback.
They use analytics and big data to personalise makes it much easier to share assets and resources across learning making it a far more collaborative and effective the whole company, and is also much more cost effective.
experience for students and teachers.
They all draw on It is one example of how we are simplifying our company.
world-class research into the science of teaching and Weve already reduced the number of applications and learning.
In the end theyll all be mobile first and device systems used across the company by 10%, and we will neutral.
And they are all designed to take full account of continue that work this year.
We have already sold a just how messy education can be, how important it is number of businesses where either we lacked scale or to deliver large and complex projects, and how to deal we saw limited scope for us to have a more direct impact with last mile issues.
Our customers all know that the on learning outcomes.
This work will continue, as we real problem in education is not finding a great teacher focus our resources and energy on the biggest education or a really good school, but being able to replicate that challenges we see around the world.
It is where we can excellence at scale.
All our new digital products are make the biggest impact, and where, by running Pearson focused on meeting that need.
as one company, we see the biggest opportunity.
Our priorities Our operating structure We operate a global School Higher Ed Professional model, focused on learner need at different Blended and virtual schools Blended and virtual Blended and virtual ages and stages, locally e. g. Connections Education higher education learning English language learning adapted and delivered, e. g. CTI e. g. Wall Street English Sistemas e. g. COC and always with the Online programme Pearson VUE Large-scale assessment learner at the centre management e. g. our services e. g. TestNav Global Scale of English partnership with Arizona and Progress World-class qualifications State University e. g. Edexcel, BTEC Next-generation ASU Online courseware e. g. Digital clinical portfolio Next-generation MyEnglish Lab, ELT World, e. g. Q-Interactive courseware e. g. REVEL Top Notch Next-generation courseware e. g. enVisionMATH, Pearson System of Courses, Realize Short stories of impact Julia is learning English at one of Pearsons Wall Street Julias story English centres in Shanghai.
I met with her during my visit there and was inspired by her drive.
She now lives far from her parents farm in south China, and far from the norms of rural life.
Julias decision to leave home to continue in higher education might have come as a shock to her family, but she is determined to improve her English language capabilities in order to further her career prospects and, one day, find work with a global company.
She likes to engage on social media with friends shes met virtually around the world and she wants to use her English language skills to spread the word that, as she puts it, theres more to my country than air pollution.
R t x A e E S c P u t U i v l e o c c o o h s r n c o S e i t c n u f g n i l b a n e l n a b o o r i l e t G h a lEARNER g c i u H d E DECENT 08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief executives strategic overview continued 2015 priorities continued A more consistently high A stronger brand performing culture 4 5 At its best, Pearson has always championed high This accountability extends to our willingness to engage performance: were now taking a whole series of in the public debate.
Education is one of the most actions including how we recruit, appraise and reward important areas of public life and evokes strong everyone who works for Pearson to make this a feature emotions and opinions in a field where data and of everything we do.
Weve reaffirmed, and amplified, evidence as to what works can be difficult to come our long held values of brave, imaginative and decent, by.
Our focus on educational impact and learning which are particularly important at a time of great change.
outcomes and our openness and transparency in Of the top 100 executives in the company, 70 are, in the holding ourselves to account in achieving these goals last two years, new to their roles or to the company.
is vital to address these concerns.
Today, public Weve also added accountable as a fourth core value.
awareness of Pearson as the worlds leading learning This is important to ensure that, in our new more matrix company, is still relatively limited.
If we are going to style organisation, we all actively help each other to achieve our full potential, we need to build Pearson, achieve our collective goals.
It also recognises how as a global education brand that is known for our work important it is to be accountable to the public trust in empowering more people to progress in their lives for all we do in education around the world.
This means, for example, that we need to be much less muted in our engagement in the circa 78 million-voice strong global conversation that IMAGINATIVE our research tells us is currently taking place around the topics of education and learning.
And we also need to organise our product marketing so that we position Pearson, especially online and through social media, in a much more coherent way.
tHE lEARNER ACCOUNTABLE Short stories of impact Taylor is a student at the University of North Texas Taylors story who was not thrilled that Statistics was a required course for her major.
She lacked confidence in math and nearly let that fear cause her to change course and quit her degree programme altogether.
I thought I didnt have the ability to do maths, she told us.
Taylor was then introduced to Pearsons MyStatsLab and decided to push through her fear.
Instead of failure, she found success through using the tool to reinforce learning and practice in difficult areas.
She completed her Statistics class with the highest possible grade.
myStatslab & online tools S S R T S E A E K U M G E O A H E L T O L S O L U C D C E R S BRAVE OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 1 Our business 09 looking ahead I thank all my colleagues for their hard work and commitment.
And I thank our shareholders for their In accepting her Nobel Peace Prize, Malala Yousafzai said: support and patience.
We are already better placed to I am many...
I am not raising my voice, it is the voice of help more learners around the world to achieve their those 66 million girls.
At the same event, her fellow own personal aspirations.
recipient, Kailash Satyarthi set us all the task of universalising knowledge.
All 40,000 Pearson colleagues are tackling these priorities in that spirit of I am many, working with each other and with the millions of students, teachers and schools we serve.
Well grow by helping more of our fellow citizens John Fallon chief executive to grow, by universalising the knowledge and the skills theyll need to succeed in this increasingly human capital driven world.
Working with the communities in which we operate, well combine new technology and new teaching to enable the world to earn a far greater return on the $5trillion and more that is spent on education each year.
As we succeed, well grow our market opportunity and help many more people make progress in their lives through learning.
As a result, well start to grow again in 2015, and more importantly, it will set us up to be a faster-growing, leaner, more profitable and cash-generative company for years to come.
Well be a company deploying less capital, and capable of earning higher returns.
my executive team lines of Business Enabling functions Doug Kubach, President, School Robin Freestone, Chief financial officer Tim Bozik, President, Higher Education Coram Williams, Chief financial officer from 1st August 2015 John Ridding, President, Professional Michael Barber, Chief education adviser Kate James, Chief corporate affairs officer Geographies Luyen Chou, Chief product officer Don Kilburn, President, North America Albert Hitchcock, Chief information officer Rod Bristow, President, Core Melinda Wolfe, Chief human resources officer Tamara Minick-Scokalo, President, Growth Phil Hoffman, Chief corporate finance & strategic development officer
