Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 11 Annual report and accounts 2014 Group Chief Executives Strategic review 2014 was a tough year for Petrofac and the oil and gas industry asa whole.
At a glance While our overall portfolio is in good shape, we have recently fallen short of the high execution standards weset for ourselves.
We have faced these challenges and we are taking robust action to address them.
Irrespective of lower oil prices, Petrofac is well positioned to return to growth and deliver differentiated margins.
We will pursue the clear synergies between IES and ECOM and demonstrate to clients the considerable benets of our unique, combined offer.
Fundamental to our success is Petrofacs distinctive, delivery-focused culture and the six values that sustain it:safe, ethical, innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious, and driven to deliver.
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive We nished the year with a record backlog which gives us very However as the year unfolded, and for three projects in particular, good visibility of future revenues.
Nonetheless, our 2014 financial it became clear that our performance was falling short of the high performance fell short of everyones initial expectations, and our standards we expect of ourselves.
reputation for operational excellence has been dented.
We also On the Greater Stella Area project, the original project scope recognise that some investors are deeply concerned by our lacked denition when we entered into the project and many sectors exposure to lower oil prices.
The interfaces between Ithaca In 2015 and beyond, we aim to set the record straight by delivering as operator, Integrated Energy Services IES as partner and to the highest standards on all our projects, coping with the Offshore Projects & Operations OPO ascontractor were not challenges of a lower price environment, and positioning the well-dened, and we did not coordinate ourselves internally, Group to benefit from theprojected long-term growth in global or manage our fabrication subcontractors effectively to ensure energy demand.
our respective interests were fully aligned.
Before I talk about prospects for the future, I would like to reect On the Laggan-Tormore project, we failed to stress-test candidly on our 2014 performance, and the lessons learned.
adequately our assessment of the risks of operating in a wholly new geography for the Onshore Engineering & Construction OEC Reecting on the challenges of 2014 business.
Our ability to deliver on schedule was further impacted Across the majority of our operations, projects and assets, 2014 directly by challenging weather conditions affecting the Shetland was a good year for Petrofac.
Furthermore our construction contractors failed to deliver perspective it was our best year ever: enabling us to build up a their agreed scope, and, though we had a lack of experience record backlog.
However, as we fell short on the delivery of some in managing direct construction, we had little choice but to take of our operational objectives, our record for excellence in project on more direct construction activity on a day rate basis.
The third project is the Ticleni Production Enhancement We have always assured all our stakeholders that, as we enter Contract in Romania.
Here, despite effective project execution new geographies and take on new disciplines, we are more than enabling us to increase production in 2011, 2012 and 2013, capable of understanding and mitigating the associated risks.
it became apparent from new seismic data obtained in 2014 Petrofac 12 Annual report and accounts 2014 Group Chief Executives Strategic review continued On the FPF1 modication works, for the Greater Stella Area that the subsurface had previously been poorly dened.
Consequently some of our investment did not yield sufficient project, progress has been slower than expected over the winter.
While the unit is in an advanced state, mechanical completion production improvement and we do not anticipate being able to create shareholder value from continued investment in the is now expected in the third quarter of 2015.
We have therefore decided to exit from the project visibility on the scope and the required resources are in place to andwill be discussing exit options with OMV Petrom.
complete the upgrade and modication.
Given the lower oil price environment, we are prioritising cost optimisation, certainty of As the signicance and the cumulative effect of the Laggandelivery and completion of all works prior to sailaway, ahead of Tormore and Greater Stella Area projects in particular became the timing of first production.
Sailaway is now expected in early apparent, we were compelled to update our investors and, 2016, following the winter weather window, with first production inevitably, the reaction from the markets was damning.
Petrofac, as modications contractor, The situation was then compounded by the tumbling oil price, has made a number of variation requests and other claims on the which meant our sector fell even further from favour.
eld owners and we are continuing to discuss these with them.
For a company like Petrofac, the position in which we found ourselves in late 2014 was unprecedented and uncomfortable Building-up a record backlog inequal measure.
With a record year-end backlog of US$18.9 billion, 2014 was our best ever year for new business.
Even after oil prices began As a significant shareholder in my own right, I certainly shared to fall, a respectable deal ow continued, along with sustainable the concern of fellow investors.
Quickly and purposefully, we bidding behaviour from our competitors.
In January 2015, we moved to resolve these executional issues.
We have identied secured the Lower Fars heavy oil project in Kuwait, adding around the root causes and are taking steps to ensure such mistakes will US$3 billion to our backlog.
With the softness in the market we not be repeated.
Irrespective of lower oil prices, I am confident are well positioned with a strong backlog and with execution Petrofac is well positioned to return to growth and deliver risk reduced in a deationary environment for procurement and differentiated margins.
Acknowledging the successes of 2014 This brings excellent revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond.
Whilst I do not intend to downplay the challenges of 2014, and will come on to explain how we are addressing them, I do believe Further diversifying the ECOM business it is important to recognise the years successes.
During 2014, our Engineering, Construction, Operations and Maintenance ECOM business continued with its geographic Maintaining a sector-leading safety record andbusiness model diversication.
Safety is our first and our most important value and a key Until recently, for example, OPO was a UK-centric business.
It now secures more than 50% of its earnings from outside of With no fatalities in 2014, and a lost time incident LTI frequency the UKCS, and made important entries into Algeria, Iraq and rate of 0.044 per 200,000 man-hours, our performance indicators UAE.
At the same time, Engineering & Consulting Services ECS are better than industry norms, and we did more to ensure that secured its first major engineering, procurement, and construction everyone who works for and with Petrofac understands and management EPCM contract, at Rabab Harweel in Oman, which abides by our safety ethos.
Whilst I am pleased with our 2014 enables it to deliver project execution services on a reimbursable safety record, there can be no room for complacency and we will basis.
We also moved further downstream, making progress on continue to keep safety paramount in our daily actions, individually our first major renery project, located in Oman, and securing a and collectively.
package for the new Clean Fuels Project in Kuwait.
Making good progress on challenging projects Ensuring the strength and depth of our leadership Across the bulk of the portfolio, our record for operational Our continuing success depends on the quality and attitude excellence continued unabated.
We have approximately 50 of our people and, in particular, our leadership.
significant projects currently in execution, nine of them more Building our capability and reinforcing our values has always been thanUS$1 billion in value.
In 2014 we put more rigour behind our people strategy Where we did face execution issues, we also moved to resolve with a particular emphasis on effective talent management them.
At the Laggan-Tormore Shetland Gas Plant, for example, and succession planning across our top 200 employees which we have now completed most of the construction work, agreed continues to be supported through the appointment of a new acommercial settlement with Total, and expect to complete the Group Director of Human Resources.
project in the third quarter of 2015.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 13 Annual report and accounts 2014 We are therefore building on the successes of IES to date.
It has, Building strong, differentiating corporate responsibility credentials for example, successfully established our position in the shallow water offshore market, and taken us into several new geographies Another asset, which we believe sets Petrofac apart from many of our peers, is our corporate responsibility CR commitment and such as Algeria, Malaysia and Mexico.
It has also added capability.
This helps us to build productive relationships, bid for signicantly to our wider capabilities.
challenging projects, develop trust, manage risk and improve our At the same time, we are slowing down the pace of capital performance.
During 2014, we brought yet more discipline to our deployment, reducing capital intensity where it makes sense CR programmes, thereby helping us to understand and live up todo so, and looking at ways we can tap into third-party capital to changing client and investor expectations.
the creation of PetroFirst Infrastructure Partners being aprime While we understand the gravity and impact of the challenges we example, and not committing significant new capital until we have faced in 2014, we are determined not to let them overshadow the extracted the right value from the existing portfolio.
progress made across the Group as a whole.
The overall emphasis, however, is to pursue the clear synergies between IES and ECOM and demonstrate to clients the Re-committing to our business strategy considerable benets of our unique, combined offer.
Our strategy is intended to maximise the opportunities available to us by using the breadth and depth of our services and capabilities With regards to our deepwater ambitions to deliver excellent outcomes for our clients and create value for Ultimately, the scale of the deepwater market will be determined our colleagues and investors.
by the movements in the oil price.
However, there are certainly Fundamental to our success is Petrofacs distinctive,  out there and, from speaking to clients, competitors focused culture and the six values that sustain it: safe, ethical, and potential partners alike, I know that the market is impressed innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious, and driven by the unique conguration and capabilities of the Petrofac to deliver.
JSD6000 our new installation vessel, which is currently under construction and due for delivery in 2017.
Our strategic intent is to build progressively on our core business which, in turn, enables us to achieve a more balanced geographic During 2015, we will monitor the market opportunities for use and business model mix, and to work across the entire life cycle of the vessel and will manage its construction programme in of our clients assets, from early development right through to the context of the prospects available for its use.
In our core business our focus remains on delivering our backlog through a relentless focus on first class With regards to our focus on delivery excellence project execution, cost control and effective risk management, Simply put, the challenges of 2014 can be traced back to a failure building on our track record in core markets and further cementing to appreciate fully the risks we faced as we worked in unfamiliar our foothold in geographies where we are newer players.
geographies and with untested partners, and in areas where we strayed outside of our core competencies.
To ensure this does Through most of 2014 the market conditions did nothing to deect nothappen again, we have made a series of commitments: us from this strategy.
Nonetheless towards the end of the year we found ourselves adapting to new market conditions as a result of with lump-sum contracts, we will be more risk averse.
We will no lower oil prices.
longer take construction risk on large lump-sum projects within the UK, and elsewhere we will scrutinise our assumptions with Having begun to re-focus the IES business early in 2014, we then regard to workforce productivity considered carefully how to fide-risk the delivery of our deepwater capabilities.
We also introduced several new commitments to wherever we work and on whatever basis, we will ensure that ensure that we avoid unacceptable executional risks: we have robust contractual protection on both the time and cost associated with severe weather disruption With regards to IES with oating infrastructure upgrades, we will also ensure that The original strategic rationale was for IES to bring value to the the interests of our fabrication partners are closely aligned with wider Petrofac Group, and offer another route to market for our own our full range of services.
In re-focusing the business, we are re-committing to this original purpose and we will focus on projects we will only undertake Production Enhancement Contracts that play to our existing strengths.
To be successful in this, we will where the value is primarily driven by our core competencies work across the Group together from the business development rather than reservoir performance stage, agreeing on the target and developing a robust pursuit and Yes, this does reduce our exibility.
However, we can satisfy execution strategy along with clear accountabilities for delivery ourselves that the right mix of risk and reward can be established from the outset.
Petrofac 14 Annual report and accounts 2014 Group Chief Executives Strategic review continued Well positioned to capitalise on a low Acknowledging our strongest asset the skills priceenvironment and ethos of our people I acknowledge that, for many investors, the prospect of a I would like to pay tribute to our people who help make Petrofac sustained period of low oil prices is an abiding concern.
I would such a unique Company, and who are working together through like to assure you that Petrofac is well positioned to cope with these challenging times.
these market challenges and capitalise on the opportunities that I want to thank each and every one of them for their efforts in 2014 I believe will present themselves in this environment.
and I look forward to working together during what I am confident The strength of our backlog, means our revenue visibility is better will be a successful 2015. than ithas been at any other point in our 34-year history.
One person who deserves special recognition is Norman Murray Secondly, Petrofac is strongest in those market segments who, due to personal reasons, stepped down as Chairman of the that are least vulnerable to lower oil prices.
Primarily, we work Board in mid-2014.
We were extremely sorry to see Norman go, with National Oil Companies, many of whom have signalled an and sympathise deeply with his situation.
He made a special and intention to keep on investing.
Although we work globally, our significant contribution to Petrofacs success, and the seamless operations tend to be concentrated in the Middle East and North transition to his successor, Rijnhard van Tets, is testament Africa, a region that enjoys the worlds lowest marginal production to Normans outstanding professionalism.
I look forward to costs and despite the market conditions, we continue to see an continuing to work with Rijnhard and the rest of our Board, attractive pipeline of bidding opportunities in our core markets.
who have also been very supportive, as we continue to deliver our agenda.
We do have operations in the UKCS where the picture is very different.
Here, our business benets from our clients operating Strong foundations for long-term growth expenditure rather than capital spending, and we have already Over the longer term, we anticipate increased demand for energy been working with clients to improve cost effectiveness.
fuelled by a growing appetite for hydrocarbons and ongoing Ultimately, our prospects in this region will depend on structural capital spending by resource holders.
The strength of our and scal considerations as well as changes in the oil price.
backlog, underpinned by our competitive cost structure, relentless Even ifproduction has to be reined in, clients will be looking for focus on execution and our exibility to adapt our offering to client new models to run mature and extra-mature assets, and we are and market demands, ensures Petrofac and our shareholders well placed to compete for a substantial decommissioning market.
will be well positioned to benefit from these conditions over the With a weaker global economy, and reduced demand for longer term.
hitherto scarce skills, the prospect of a deationary environment should help to fide-risk the delivery of our record backlog through procurement cost savings.
Finally, in these market conditions, the core Petrofac offer becomes more compelling.
With centres of excellence in the Middle East and India, our cost structure is competitive.
Meanwhile, our focus on operational excellence and our willingness to share project risk with our clients ensures alignment of ourrespective interests.
Weighing up these circumstances we expect to deliver around US$460 million of net income in 2015, in line with 1 ourprevious guidance.
1 On 24 November 2014, we guided to net profit in 2015 of around US$500 million based on the then prevailing average 2015 forward oil price of around US$82 per barrel and stated that a further increase decrease of US$1 in the price of oil would impact net earnings by around US$2 million.
Based on the current average 2015 forward oil price of around US$60 per barrel, we therefore currently expect net earnings to be around US$460 million.
Other than the movement in the oil price, the Group continues to perform in line with management expectations at the time of the November announcement.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 15 Annual report and accounts 2014 Extracting client value As a business with a in Mexico Our performance in Mexico characterises strong entrepreneurial heritage, thisapproach.
Back in 2011, we won two integrated services we are always looking for contracts to develop the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in south-central Mexico, andwere then awarded two more Production new ways to bring value to Enhancement Contracts for Pnuco and Arenque.
Since taking over, we have boosted our clients understanding production, increased drilling efficiency andpushed up the known resource base.
their needs, drawing on our In Santuario, for example, our teams were convinced they could nd additional reserves in untapped, adjacent blocks.
resources and relationships, Bringing together many different in-house disciplines, they argued their case, proposed an effective drilling strategy, and adapting our offer and successfully made a new discovery ofcommercial proportions.
Meanwhile, to add to our capability and accordingly.
drivenew cost-efficiencies, we partnered withthe Mexican conglomerate Group Alfa tocreate anew service company, PetroAlfa.
Quickly growing to more than 80 employees, itnow provides Petrofac and the wider oil andgas industry with a growing range of engineering, procurement, drilling and maintenance services.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train
