Chief Executives Review the Group introduced and deployed a true omni-channel solution, all products, in all formats, on all platforms, across all channels, integrating retail, web and mobile channels for the first time in the industry.
Mor Weizer, Chief Executive Officer As management has stated previously, the ability to offer Overview a comprehensive sportsbook has long been a significant In 2014, Playtech continued to make excellent operational milestone in unlocking additional growth opportunities progress in key areas such as casino, sport, mobile, landwith new and existing licensees.
Having delivered a highly based and services.
Additionally the Group introduced and competitive sport offering, integrated with the IMS, the deployed a true omni-channel solution, all products, in all Group has seen revenues from this vertical of the business formats, on all platforms, across all channels, integrating retail, grow substantially, and it has been instrumental to winning web and mobile channels for the first time in the industry.
high profile new structured agreements in Mexico and Italy.
This approach is an evolution of the multi-channel offering Sport remains a catalyst for Playtechs future success.
that enables customers to deliver a seamless consumer experience through all available distribution channels including Regulated markets computers, mobile Internet devices and bricks-and-mortar.
The Board strongly believes this approach will become the Playtech continued to improve future regulated markets standard for retail and online operators alike.
revenue, starting the year by signing Holland Casino in preparation for regulation of the Dutch market.
In addition, The Groups first deployment of its new omni-channel the Group completed the migration of Ladbrokes onto solution, for Coral, exemplifies its offer to licensees, delivering its platform, whilst also expanding Ladbrokes into Spain, a single customer log-in and the ultimate customer journey Belgium and Denmark.
bet365 extended its activities with across retail, web and mobile.
Additionally it maximises Playtech in Italy: the Group launched Skybet with casino and profitability through full visibility across all delivery channels Live: and also provided Live to RAY.
Additionally, Playtech and an enhanced customer experience.
signed a turnkey solution agreement with Trinity Mirror and In line with its strategy, Playtech continued to diversify its significant structured agreements with Caliente and RCS business by supporting its licensees as they expand into Media for the Mexican and Italian markets respectively.
new markets: extending into additional regulated and soonRegulated, regulating and soon-to-be regulated markets to-be regulated markets with new and existing licensees: continue to present significant opportunities for revenue signing additional structured agreements with licensees growth and Playtech is ideally positioned to benefit from that have great future potential: and extended into a new global market trends and specifically developments in vertical casual gaming by establishing Plamee, a games Europe, Africa and Asia.
The Board continues to believe development studio.
that its strategic commitment to, and proven track record Playtechs mobile strategy places portable devices at in, regulated markets makes Playtech the natural choice for the heart of the Companys research and development operators in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets.
activities, given mobile is rapidly becoming the natural choice In 2014 regulated markets represented 36% of revenue for players.
Mobile revenues continued to grow strongly, 2013: 35% and grew faster growth than dot.
reflecting Playtechs investment in mobile technology, which While Playtech made significant progress in regulated coincides with players embracing the greater convenience of markets, dot.
com operators remain an important part of the mobile gambling.
Groups future progress as those markets continue to grow and move toward regulation.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Chief Executives Review continued Strategic update Casino Playtechs long-term strategy of organic growth, and Playtechs flagship casino product was a key driver of developing new business opportunities and joint ventures growth throughout the year, with revenue increasing 29% supported by targeted acquisitions, has for many years driven and beating 2013s performance.
This was driven by a the Companys performance, benefitting from the significant combination of organic growth and new licensees, including opportunities in the global gambling industry.
In 2014 this Ladbrokes: the expansion of the games portfolio: and growth strategy continued to drive growth with Playtech winning from the mobile and Live offerings.
substantial new business from new and existing licensees Agreements already in place with Sky Bet, Trinity Mirror, inaddition to strong like-for-like growth.
Caliente and Holland Casino, along with proposed changes Management continues to focus on accelerating this growth in the Spanish market are enabling Playtech to secure future using the Companys significant cash resources and cash casino growth, while the continued regulation of additional flow to identify and secure strategic opportunities that can markets will provide further opportunities over a longer drive additional growth and create shareholder value.
Playtech continued to invest in its market-leading offering, both organically and via a number of smaller strategic Services acquisitions to bolster its flagship casino, sport and retail Services revenue was 20% higher than 2013 and Playtechs offerings.
In acquiring the Aristocrat business in September, unique offering remains a significant competitive advantage Playtech became the worlds largest supplier of VLT software, to existing betting and gaming operators and for companies and will look to create further opportunities by investing with an understanding of local markets, such as media in new and emerging product verticals that will create the groups wanting to take advantage of regulatory changes and foundations for future growth.
newly regulating markets across Europe, South America, Africa and elsewhere.
Our unique omni-channel solution, combined with our leading sport offering, is attracting much attention from new and The ability to successfully operate an online gambling existing operators who are keen to adopt this market-leading operation requires three elements: a strong brand to build technology.
It will enable them to extend their operations trust with the consumer: best-in-class technology: and the beyond retail to online, as markets regulate across different know-how, expertise and unique capabilities necessary to continents: significantly enhancing the service they provide efficiently monetise and retain players to drive player value.
customers by enhancing the customer journey and meeting These skills differ significantly from those used by operators changing regulatory demands.
While best-of-breed products of existing land-based businesses and are totally different in are important ingredients of this solution, we now take a the case of media groups.
Playtechs unique ability to meet holistic view that extends beyond channels, platforms or the technological and operational needs of these customers products focusing on delivering an offering that will create makes it a natural partner.
As part of this development, Experience shows that the largest operators in regulated Playtech rolled out its landmark BIT Solution, a package markets or soon-to-be regulated markets look for a strategic of cutting-edge data-driven  tools, partner that can supply the technology, marketing expertise which combine and boost the power of the IMS platform.
and sophisticated CRM solutions, combined with advanced This flexible tool set consists of: Playtech Optimiser: Game player management tools, which are of particular interest to Adviser: Playtech Analytics: BI Reporting: and Smart Installer.
new market entrants requiring a full turnkey solution as well as It enables new levels of insight and personalisation of the to existing operators wanting to boost their online gambling entire player lifecycle, from pre-acquisition through to all player operations.
In 2014 two new structured agreements activities.
Consequently, operators now have greater player incorporating significant services elements were signed intelligence and increased control over their activities.
with Caliente in Mexico, RCS Media in Italy and a turnkey Early in 2014, Playtech established Plamee, a new casual solution for Trinity Mirror in the UK.
Further such agreements games development studio with the intention of penetrating are expected.
the lucrative and rapidly growing casual gaming market.
The studios first game rolled out early in 2015 and is now available on different social networks including Facebook and mail.
Additional games are expected to be rolled out later in 2015.
The new initiative is the first element of our unique three-pronged strategy that includes internal casual games development capabilities, casual games development platforms and technology as well as publishing and online marketing capabilities supporting marketing of both internally developed and third-party games.
12 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sport Land-based This year has been one of significant progress for Playtechs Playtechs land-based vertical enjoyed revenue growth of sport offering: firstly in rolling out the unique omni-channel 35% over 2014, benefitting from the acquisition of Aristocrat, offering that supports the convergence of retail, web and which further diversified revenues supplying 6,700 terminals mobile: the acquisition of a retail sports betting supplier, in two fully regulated markets.
The Company also acquired giving Playtech a unique A-to-Z sport offering of retail, a retail sport offering, which while currently modest, is online and mobile: rolling out the Playtech sport platform for expected to form the base for significant future opportunities.
Ladbrokes in Spain and Belgium: securing additional growth Sales cycles of gaming machines are longer than online and opportunities in Mexico and Italy: and demonstrating the trials are running in two other key markets, giving a strong platforms robust performance having successfully traded potential pipeline for 2015 and beyond.
through an entire calendar of sports events, including the The trend continues for existing online customers to enquire football World Cup.
about extending their relationship to create a seamless player Sports betting is one of the largest elements of gambling offering, using a single user name and password, giving a worldwide and frequently acts as a gateway for players to familiar experience and the same content across channels.
It is also usually one of The acquisition of the Psiclone games studio brought the first products to be approved in newly regulated markets.
immediate revenue growth from its existing and new marketSport revenue increased 54% in 2014 and is expected leading gaming content.
to continue growing strongly, benefitting from operators launched during 2014 and from a strong pipeline of potential Poker licensees that are keen to revamp their legacy systems with a new integrated retail, web and mobile solution, provided While Playtech continued to invest in its leading independent by Playtech.
network and welcomed a number of new licensees, iPoker the broader decline in the market was not fully mitigated.
Bingo Playtechs innovative rake distribution structure is now being rolled out and the Company expects further innovation to Playtech gained a number of new licensees over 2014, encourage operators to invest in poker and therefore improve including Trinity Mirror, Ladbrokes in Spain and Paddy the ecology of the poker market.
As expected, bingo on mobile devices was up on the previous year and in time is expected to become Poker remains a small, but important, element of Playtechs overall offering, being one of the first gaming formats currently the predominant bingo format as more players transacted through mobile devices in 2014 including the Companys to be regulated and in some markets the only gaming product allowed.
It also remains an incremental product new tablet version.
While Playtech continues to operate the industrys largest bingo network working with its licensees for licensees who are keen to provide a full offering to their customers.
to create market-leading promotions to further improve the player experience across all distribution channels the industry remains in a state of transition, as indicated at the interim results.
A revamped bingo product offering a new, more appealing, experience to players is currently under test and initial feedback from operators is very pleasing.
The new product offers a feature-rich user interface, customised for different channels including web, smartphones and tablet devices.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Chief Executives Review continued These transactions complement Playtechs experienced Mobile management team and can act as gateway into soon-to-be Playtechs market-leading mobile offering uniquely positions regulated markets.
Management continues to believe that it to benefit from one of the global online gambling industrys this is an area of future potential that can generate significant most significant growth drivers as it offers the largest portfolio long-term shareholder value.
of mobile games: the most extensive pipeline of new games for all channels: and a hub that incorporates all of those People alongside sports and other betting and gaming products, supporting their growth through cross-selling opportunities.
Playtech has continued to invest in human resources to maintain its position as the leading supplier of software and Over 2014, revenue from Playtechs mobile channel increased services to the online gambling industry.
Our people are the 64%, reflecting investment into new technology, greater single most important facet of the business and vital to our marketing investment by operators and a greater acceptance current and future success.
Only by developing our people to by players.
The Companys Mobile Hub remains the prerealise their true potential can we progress as a business and eminent platform for a seamless mobile player journey, which maintain our market-leading position.
remains central to the success of licensees.
Playtechs mobile proposition is customised for specific smartphone and tablet models and can be adapted over time as player trends Trading update emerge typically mobile sessions are more frequent but Playtech has continued momentum with a strong start to shorter: and in aggregate players engage for a longer period 2015, with daily average revenues for the first eight weeks of of time.
the year up over 22% on Q1 2014 and up over 5% on Q4 During 2014 the Company continued with its mobile-first 2014, including some benefit from current euro weakness.
approach and invested heavily into this channel further In summary, over 2014 Playtech built on its position as developing its mobile development framework which the leading provider of software and services to the global enables the Company to simultaneously roll out games gambling market, adding products and services that will across HTML5 for web as well as native iOS and Android, help secure future opportunities.
Playtech will continues to supporting all mobile devices and tablets.
This framework capitalise on its clear strategy and strong balance sheet allows the Company to release existing games on to mobile and, while there are anticipated regulatory developments platforms and enables the release of an increased number of ahead, management looks forward with confidence to 2015 new games across all channels going forward.
competitive markets, operators can leverage marketing the release of games across all channels at the same time, rather than offering different games on different channels or alternatively release the games at different times without harming the return on marketing spend.
Mor Weizer Casual and social Chief Executive Officer Playtechs casual gaming strategy is unique and intended to 26 February 2015 create a comprehensive development environment in which the Company will have its own games creation capabilities: an open platform supporting third-party games developers: and publishing capabilities enabling the Company to mass market games developed internally as well as those developed by third parties.
An internally developed resource, Plamee was the first element of this strategy to be delivered and it has a pipeline of highly sophisticated 2D and 3D games, some of which are already live or in advanced testing.
Recently acquired Yoyo is a leading development platform, providing the Company with access to more than 750,000 games development partners through its software development kit.
Management is looking into other businesses that can bolster this new offering and grow Playtechs presence and competence in both casual and social gaming.
14 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
