20 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Chief Executives statement Positive sales momentum Premier Farnell is focused on the evolutionand Premier Farnell returned to sales growth in 2013 14 execution of our strategy which will enable the driven by the benefit of ongoing strategic investments in our customer proposition as well as an improving market business to gain market share, deliver profitable backdrop.
The momentum seen in the second half of the growth andoptimise financial performance through year across all of our divisions was highly encouraging and provides us with further confidence that through our theeconomic cycles for thebenetof its stakeholders.
strategic focus we will deliver through-the-cycle financial performance in line with our expectations.
For the full year, the Group sales per day rose 2.6%, compared toadecline in the prior year of 2.8%.
We will invest in the execution of our strategic vision to ensure we continue to develop the highly valued partnering relationships that we have established with both customers and suppliers.
This will provide the business with greater differentiation and allow us toaccelerate our future growth.
Executing our strategy As we described last year, our strategy is built around three key pillars: 1.
Providing a multichannel sales and marketing model Laurence Bain 3.
Delivering accelerated growth in developing markets Chief Executive officer The continued execution of initiatives supporting these strategic pillars will increase the value we create for our customers and suppliers globally.
This will enable us to differentiate ourselves from the competition, attract more customers to our business and gain market share.
This year, we have made some important progress in each of these areas.
The continued execution of initiatives supporting our strategic pillars will increase the value we create for ourcustomers and suppliersglobally.
Customers often choose to use a high service distributor as they want access to a broad and relevant product range in stock and available for next day delivery.
This year, we invested 25.8 million in increasing the breadth and depth of our inventory in order to better satisfy customers needs.
Using a product selection process that benefited from customer and supplier insights, we added over 100,000 new SKUs and now stock over 600,000 products globally.
This investment was a key factor in the main MDD businesses achieving record levels of customer satisfaction and service metrics this year.
25.8m This year, we invested 25.8m in increasing the breadth and depth of our inventory.
indd 20 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 21 We now stock over 13,000 development kits and Opportunities for each division tools: products that help customers make key In 2013 14, Premier Farnell delivered robust product selection decisions in the very early stages performances in Europe and Asia Pacic, while the of their design process.
Through the acquisitions MDD Other and Akron Brass businesses outperformed of Embest last year and the business and assets of their markets.
The Americas division had a more AVID Technologies, Inc. with an agreement signed challenging year but its performance improved as at the beginning of 2014 15, subject to certain weexited the year.
conditions, we now have the capability to partner with Through Embest key semiconductor suppliers to design and build the While our short term forward order visibility is limited, development kits that accompany the release of their the long term opportunities for Premier Farnell are and AVID, we now latest chips.
The addition of this technical resource considerable.
Each of our divisions can deliver have the capability means that we can now support the design process significant profitable growth and has plans in place earlier and more closely than ever before.
to partner with key With over 220,000 registered users, the element14 Europe delivered year-on-year sales growth of 1.9%, semiconductor community continues to grow in size and inuence, despite a challenging market.
Strategically, it is our adding over 5,500 new registered users per month.
most advanced region with 73.4% of its business suppliers to design When we launched the Community in 2009, we sought via eCommerce channels in 2013 14.
We are also and build the to acquire more design engineering customers, gain beginning to see the benets from our outbound insights on new products and technologies, and drive contact centre in Krakow.
In the year ahead we will development kits click-throughs and sales on our transactional sites.
further build Europes multichannel capability through that accompany We have surpassed these objectives.
Initiatives such as the roll-out of our global web platform in the region.
product RoadTests and global design contests enable With customers in Europe benefiting from an extended the release of their the Community to connect customers to suppliers and product range, we believe that the business is well provide valuable information to support innovation.
positioned to grow share in a fragmented marketplace.
This year we began the roll-out of our global web platform which is now live throughout North America.
The long term opportunities The delivery of this project is an important step for for Premier Farnell are Premier Farnell as it will enable greater efficiency in the execution of new global marketing initiatives as considerable.
Each of well as providing an enhanced online experience to customers everywhere.
Once the platform is fully our divisions can deliver operational throughout the Group, the resources significant profitable growth invested in its development will be redirected to accelerate the execution of other strategic projects and have plans in place to andmarketing initiatives.
Optimising financial performance Asia Pacic performed well in 2013 14, achieving Last year we evolved our strategy and KPIs with sales per day growth of 12.4% over the prior year the objective of providing a more holistic approach and increasing its active customer base by 11.7%.
to meeting the needs of our customers throughout China and India continued to be a major source of the economic cycles, while continuing to maintain growth, with these key emerging markets up 25.7% operating margin by balancing sales, gross margin and 20.3% respectively.
As a result, China is now our andcosts in order to optimise business performance.
largest single territory in the region with just over a third of its sales.
Much of this growth was driven by In 2013 14 we remained focused on this goal and our focus on meeting more design customers needs delivered adjusted operating margin of 9.6% for the and through improved digital marketing.
Operating margin was stable across the year up a shared services centre which will help the Group and has improved from the levels achieved in the final to leverage better its data to gain increased levels of quarter ofthe prior year, after adjusting for the benefit insight.
Asia Pacic will benefit from the upgrade to its of the extra week of trading in that period.
transactional websites next year and we will continue to While we will continue to realise further operating focus on growing its active customer base and sales.
efficiencies in our model, we plan to invest an incremental 4 million in 2014 15.
These investments will help accelerate the future financial performance of our business by enhancing our customer proposition as we increase our focus on supporting product development customers by following the design into production.
In making these investments, we anticipate that operating margin in 2014 15 will be maintained atlevels broadly similar to this year, before returning toour targeted range in 2015 16.
indd 21 24 04 2014 16:01 22 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Chief Executives statement We have put in place a new leadership team in the Building a culture of success Americas and now have a clear plan of action to To execute our strategic vision, we know that the entire improve the businesss financial performance.
The initial organisation must work together with clear purpose signs are positive with a return to growth in the second and objectives.
Last year we refreshed the corporate half of the year, although strong local competition has values by which we do business and set about building limited the extent of our recovery at a time when we a culture that makes Premier Farnell a great place 11.
3% have been focused on building an enhanced customer to work.
There were still some important strategic Industrial Products steps taken in 2013 14 by the Americas business.
We believe in innovation and following the completion Division has had of the agreed acquisition of the business and an outstanding assets ofAVID Technologies, Inc. subject to certain We chose to upgrade the conditions, we will have 250 technical engineering year, delivering resources in the business.
sales per day web platform in North growth of 11.3%.
We view the development of our people as an essential America first in recognition business priority and see this as a fundamental enabler of the significant opportunity to the attraction and retention of the best talent.
Integrity and trust are vital to our culture and in the last we have to transform year we have invested in training for all our leaders the business.
oncoaching their teams to success.
First, we invested in developing the regions customer This years employee survey proposition by improving linell as part of our first half provided us with insight inventory investments.
on areas of opportunity Secondly, we chose to upgrade the web platform inNorth America first in recognition of the significant forimprovement but overall opportunity we have to transform the business.
engagement remains And lastly, at the end of the financial year, we implemented cost actions in the Americas to realign strongat 71%.
the cost base with its current sales prole.
With these actions completed successfully, the Americas business This years employee survey provided us with insight is well placed to develop into a digital enterprise and on areas of opportunity for improvement but overall improve its performance over the medium term.
engagement remains strong at 71%, up 1% compared CPC and MCM, the Other Distribution businesses, to the prior year.
More detail on how we engage with have performed strongly over the past year our employees is shown on pages 43 to 45. with combined sales up 3.9% year-on-year.
This performance has been driven by an intensive Looking ahead focus on customers needs.
For example, we acted The recent momentum delivered through the execution on customer feedback to improve our delivery of our strategy and improving market conditions is proposition by introducing free delivery for online encouraging.
Clearly we would welcome sustained sales.
By continuing to work closely together and recovery in our end markets but with limited forward focusing oncustomers requirements we expect further order visibility, we remain intently focused on optimising progress from CPC and MCM this year, especially as our financial performance in line with the market CPC further expands its product range and launches conditions and executing our strategic vision.
As we anew catalogue to attract new targeted customers.
doso, we expect to optimise financial performance Finally, the Industrial Products Division has had an and position the business for long term success outstanding year, delivering sales per day growth onbehalf of all our stakeholders.
Akron Brass made significant strategic progress as it won its largest ever contract from the Laurence Bain Hindustan Petroleum Company which was also its first in India.
The business also acquired the assets Chief Executive officer ofReach Engineering LLC to extend its range of market leading solutions.
With signs of improving conditions inits home US markets, Akron Brass iswellpositioned to continue to grow in the future.
