Tony Durrant Chief Executive We are all only too aware of the sharp fall in the oil price that CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW occurred in the second half of 2014 after several years of oil price stability at historically high levels.
While it is not clear at this stage when the oil price will find a floor, or how long it may take to recover, it offers the industry the chance to re-set its cost base and will present new opportunities for the better funded companies in the sector.
For our part, we have been quick to respond to the falling oil price and, by the end of 2014, we had already taken steps to reduce significantly the costs of running our business without compromising the safety or performance of our operations.
We will continue to look to cut or defer our expenditure to ensure that we are able to manage the business successfully through a potentially prolonged period of low oil prices.
Despite the backdrop of falling oil prices in the second half of the year, Premier remained focused on operational delivery and achieving the near-term priorities that we set ourselves.
In this respect, 2014 was a strong year for us.
WITH A LOW COST, STABLE PRODUCTION BASE, PREMIER IS HIGHLY LEVERAGED TO A FUTURE RECOVERY IN THE OIL PRICE.
FOCUSED ON OPERATIONAL DELIVERY Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 09 Beating our production guidance 2014 saw Premier deliver record production of 63.6 kboepd, above the upper end of market guidance, assisted by improved operating efficiency across the majority of the groups assets.
Working interest Entitlement Production kboepd 2014 2013 2014 2013 Indonesia 14.4 13.7 10.3 8.8 Pakistan Mauritania 12.9 15.5 12.9 15.3 UK 19.4 14.9 19.4 14.9 Vietnam 16.9 14.1 15.2 13.4 Total 63.6 58.2 57.8 52.4 Significantly higher production in the UK was driven by improved uptime from the operated Balmoral area, flush production from the redevelopment of the Kyle field and increased contributions from the Huntington and Rochelle fields.
Frustratingly, Huntington continued to disappoint in 2014 as it suffered from poor uptime, primarily due to restrictions on gas export from the field imposed by the CATS pipeline operator BP.
In Asia, our operated Chim So asset in Vietnam performed well, benefitting from a series of projects we had undertaken aimed at maximising operating efficiency.
As a result, record production rates were achieved.
Singapore demand for our Indonesian gas remained strong and our operated Natuna Sea Block A again captured a market share well in excess of its contractual share.
Deliverability from the block was increased with first gas from Naga in November, while Pelikan is planned to be on-stream in the first quarter of 2015.
AS WELL AS BACKFILLING OUR GAS CONTRACTS INTO SINGAPORE WHICH GENERATE LONG-TERM, STABLE CASH FLOWS FOR THE GROUP, THE ADDITIONAL DELIVERABILITY FROM PELIKAN AND NAGA WILL ENABLE US TO EXPLOIT ANY CONTRACTUAL SUPPLY SHORTFALL OR SHORT-TERM STRENGTHENING OF SINGAPORE DEMAND FOR OUR GAS.
As at 31 December 2014 proven and probable 2P reserves, on a working interest basis, were 243 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe 2013: 259 mmboe with the impact of production and disposals on our reserve base partially offset by the booking of the Vette field as 2P reserves.
This, together with the discovery at Kuda Singa Laut in Indonesia, means that we have ended the year with 2P reserves and 2C contingent resources of 794 mmboe, in line with the previous year.
Proven and probable 2P reserves and 2C 2P reserves contingent resources mmboe mmboe 1 January 2014 259 794 Production 23 23 Net additions, revisions 22 50 Disposals 15 27 31 December 2014 243 794 10 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Progressing our developments deliver Solan, sanction Catcher and right-size Sea Lion Installation of the facilities on the Premier-operated Solan field West of Shetland at the end of the summer was a significant milestone on the project, only two and a half years after receiving government approval.
However, the subsequent commissioning programme has taken longer than anticipated due to poor weather conditions and low productivity over the winter period.
As a result, costs have increased and first oil is now expected to be later than the previous guidance of the second quarter although we continue to target plateau rates of production from the field of 20-25 thousand barrels of oil per day kbopd gross by year-end.
Our operated Catcher project received government approval in June and is now into the execution phase.
Construction of the floating production, storage and offtake FPSO hull started in January 2015 and the project continues to progress on schedule and to budget.
Once on-stream, both the Solan and Catcher projects will contribute materially to our cash flows, given our tax advantaged position in the UK.
Turning to our operated pre-sanction projects, FEED work on the Vette FPSO development in Norway was successfully completed during 2014 and we were in a position to submit development approval documentation to the government early in 2015.
However, following the sharp reduction in the oil price, we have chosen to defer the final investment decision until the end of 2015, enabling us to re-engage with the supply chain with the aim of negotiating lower costs for the project.
Given the falling oil price and our desire to maintain a strong funding position, we decided to opt for a lower capex solution for our Sea Lion development, which will now utilise a leased FPSO.
We plan to progress the project to sanction over the course of 2015 which we anticipate will allow us to secure further cost reductions.
It remains our intention to seek a partner ahead of final investment decision.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 Exploration discoveries In 2014, Premier delivered a notable exploration success, with the 100 mmboe oil and liquids-rich gas discovery at Kuda Singa Laut on the Tuna Block in Indonesia.
While we have deferred appraisal of this discovery to 2016, this project will likely play an important role in the long-term future of Premiers Indonesian business.
We also enjoyed exploration success in Pakistan with the Kadanwari K-36 exploration well which discovered gas in a separate step-out compartment.
The well was successfully tied-in to production in April 2014.
During the year, unsuccessful wells were drilled on other acreage offshore Mauritania, Indonesia and onshore Pakistan and, subsequent to year-end, onshore Kenya.
A successful disposal programme During 2014, we announced approximately US$190 million of non-core asset sales which have all subsequently completed.
Of particular note was the sale of the high cost Scott area assets for US$130 million which, as well as reducing the groups operating costs, has significantly decreased our future abandonment liabilities.
Notably, our partner in the Solan field is in discussions with banks about refinancing a portion of our loan to them, while discussions with third parties over selling a royalty interest over the Solan fields cash flows are on-going.
In addition, we have received a number of enquiries about our Sea Lion development since rescaling the project in November and active discussions with potential partners continue.
Financial performance and liquidity The group is reporting a loss after tax of US$210.3 million in 2014 2013: US$234.0 million profit after tax largely as a result of impairment charges of US$327.8 million post-tax on the carrying value of several of our oil and gas assets.
These were due to the impact of the lower near-term oil price assumptions used in balance sheet tests at the year-end and should not detract from the record operating cash flows generated during 2014 of US$924.3 million 2013: US$802.5 million.
TO PROTECT OUR INVESTMENT PROGRAMME IN 2015 WE HAVE HEDGED APPROXIMATELY 50 PER CENT OF OUR LIQUIDS ENTITLEMENT PRODUCTION AT AN AVERAGE PRICE OF JUST UNDER US$98 BBL.
The collapse in the oil price has served to highlight the importance of maintaining a strong funding position and a conservative financing approach.
In July, our finance team did an excellent job of taking advantage of a relatively strong bank market to refinance and increase our principal bank facility on improved terms with extended maturities.
As a result, we do not have any significant debt maturities until late 2017.
It is also reassuring that all of our facilities are on a corporate unsecured basis and are not subject to any reserve base redeterminations.
Consequently, we have ample liquidity with US$1.9 billion of cash and undrawn facilities as at year-end, although we recognise the need to manage our covenant headroom in the near-term.
2015 is anticipated to be a significantly lower capex year.
This coupled with our hedging programme, planned cost reductions and further potential disposals means that we are well placed to meet the challenges presented by the current oil price environment.
