Chief Executives strategic review A STRONGER GROUP Four years ago, QinetiQ faced significant challenges.
Our response has been to build a stronger Group from the ground up: leaner, debt-free and focused on those capabilities most needed by our customers following the recent reset in defence budgets.
Critically this was achieved by engaging the capacity of the organisation and only one years dividend suspension, following our decision not to seek further equity.
The sale of US Services is a key milestone in the Groups transformation.
From this foundation, our people are working hard across QinetiQ to deliver our growth strategy.
In continuing uncertain markets, our EMEA Services division has achieved its first sales uplift in five years with all the core services businesses playing their part.
A new Proxy Board and Chairman were appointed just after the year end to assist management in repositioning US Global Products and addressing its performance.
Among our newer operations, OptaSense is executing on landmark contracts in its three vertical markets and received Queens Awards for its Export and Innovation.
Our developing cyber offerings and Procurement Advisory Services, have been established as strategic business units to realise their full potential.
We now have a Group strongly differentiated by its expertise, innovation and financial discipline.
Our portfolio combines high-quality earnings with growth opportunities in new sectors and geographies, Four years ago, QinetiQ faced significant importantly underpinned by the right values and commercial culture.
Our response has been to build Leo Quinn a stronger Group from the ground up: leaner, Chief Executive Officer 22 May 2014 debt-free and focused on exactly those capabilities most needed by our customers following the recent reset in defence budgets.
4 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information So where is QinetiQs future?
In defence Key highlights Q or commercial markets?
With a refocused portfolio, the Group is well As a Group we would never abandon our roots in positioned for the next phase of its strategy A defence for two reasons.
First and foremost, what The knowledge and capabilities of employees, we do has a very noble purpose it helps strengthen coupled with physical assets, means we are the defence capability of the UK and its allies, which is important to our people.
That work in turn drives uniquely placed to provide independent advice a business model where the IP and knowledge Our engineers and scientists, in partnership we generate then feeds the Groups current with our customers, develop intellectual and future growth.
property IP which underpins current and Is QinetiQ going to be a UK-only player?
future revenue streams Q The cash generative nature of our business If you look around the world today you see many A provides a good return through the progressive governments under fiscal pressures looking to spend dividend and allows us to self-fund investments their available money better.
QinetiQ has developed in growth opportunities capabilities to support and advise by virtue of our history and built-up knowledge base which helps ensure that customers obtain the right outcomes.
So, if we look Why do you say the Group is stronger?
Q at countries like Canada and Australia they want to understand how to get better value from their defence The Group is well positioned today for the next phase expenditure.
If youve got less money youve got to A of its strategy.
Initially we had three challenges, of spend it more wisely, therefore you need to partner which the most urgent was that of strengthening our with companies that can ensure that your capabilities balance sheet after the diversification that had taken are developed right, first time, and within budget.
Weve also moved significantly So why did you not sell all your US interests?
forward in terms of our agenda around cultural Q transformation, including upgrading our leadership, Not only does the US Products business give QinetiQ and leaning out the organisation which is an ongoing A a foothold in the worlds largest defence market, process, engaging our employees in a practical way to it also unlike US Services lends itself to global be part of the solution through our My Contribution synergies.
That, combined with new management initiative.
But our single most important achievement and governance, means that we believe there is is to have refocused the portfolio knowing where more value to be captured for shareholders.
we make money, where we were losing money and which business models we have in the Group that Why sell the US Services division?
Does QinetiQ have truly sustainable capabilities?
Our US Services division, which was acquired Q A between 2004 and 2009, was primarily a portfolio diversification.
By virtue of the way that defence Our People Who Know How strapline actually A assets have to be held in the US there are no synergies sums it up very nicely: QinetiQs core strength is between that division and our core EMEA Services that it is a group of people with unique knowledge business.
Nor is it the same business model of and capabilities.
This, coupled with our physical assets, generating sellable IP.
QinetiQ, as a UK-listed company, means that we are in fact uniquely placed and also faced additional administrative obligations and trusted to give our customers independent advice.
costs associated with US national security, to which This in turn fosters another key competitive advantage: the purchaser, as a US company, will not be subject.
QinetiQs level of customer intimacy, which has We are not the right owner of this business because been built over a long time and is maintained by the we are disadvantaged in terms of costs.
fact that we are constantly working with them to understand their challenges, where they play and Why did you decide to return capital to Q what result they require.
shareholders rather than invest in the business?
Cash is an asset to be deployed where we think the If I look at the defence space, QinetiQ doesnt A returns can be maximised.
If thats returning it to compete directly with any of the major players but shareholders were very happy to do that.
If we can it does form the light blue lubricant that keeps the see a more value-accretive way within the Group of industry moving forward.
In many areas, whether it using it well use it in that way as well.
be airworthiness or range capabilities in terms of submarines, ships or weapons its our partnership with industry and customers that is key.
5 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
