Chief executives review MARK BRISTOW The past year was one in which Randgold progressed past a number of major milestones, most notably the million-ounce production mark.
th In addition, 2014 was our 5 year of record th production growth and the 8 in which the board was able to maintain its progressive dividend policy.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 10 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 10 Kibali successfully completed its first full year of production For 2015, the complex is forecasting a further increase in production and a decrease in unit costs on the back of and the Loulo-Gounkoto complex ramped up all of its operations to their full design parameters.
We identified our higher grades, improved recoveries and the benefits of its ongoing capital projects.
next underground mine and in the process added almost a million ounces to our reserves.
We helped the government At Kibali, the final commissioning of the metallurgical of Mali to deal effectively with the outbreak of Ebola.
plant and the first of three hydropower plants saw the mine operating at its design parameters by the end of the What makes these achievements particularly significant is year.
Production was ramped up successfully and fell just their context: a gold price which continued to decline: a short of its ambitious target because of commissioninggold mining industry which is struggling for survival: a global related disruptions in the second quarter.
The enormous economy which again seems to be in uncharted waters: and resettlement programme was completed, and more the volatile operating environment which is a fact of life in than 20 000 people who lived on the project site are now emerging countries.
accommodated nearby in a specially built town with all the necessary amenities.
That Randgold has been able to prosper in such a difficult climate is further demonstration of the value of our bedrock The second and final phase of Kibalis development, which strategies and creeds.
Our focus is fixed not on the next will take it to full production in 2018, is now well underway, with quarter but on the far horizon.
Guided by that vision, we do work on the underground mine ahead of schedule.
Stoping not change course en route to our long term goals.
We do, started in December 2014 and ore production is forecast to however, make adjustments when changing circumstances reach 70 000 tonnes per month in 2015.
The second of warrant these.
Thus, for example, we saw the bear market in the hydropower plants is currently under construction and gold coming and promptly tailored our operations to secure scheduled to be commissioned in 2015. their sustained profitability at lower prices.
We welcome every day as a new challenge and we constantly question Tongon made good headway against the technical problems the way we do business.
We treat our investors as owners that have plagued it for the past few years.
Two capital and our workers, host governments and local communities projects designed to overcome these are now virtually complete, with the commissioning of a new crushing circuit as stakeholders in our business.
Our mission is to create and the installation of the second phase of the upgraded value and deliver it to all of them.
flotation circuit currently being finalised.
A performance improvement was already evident towards the end of the The Louloyear.
However, due to its low capital cost, Tongon has G ou nk o t o A robust operational remained a highly profitable business despite its operational complex fired on performance issues.
all cylinders in 2014, increasing production by 10% and reducing total cash The Morila retreatment operation, the rump of the great mine cost per ounce by 5% to meet its guidance for the year.
A on which Randgold was built, is now heading into the sunset sophisticated paste backfill system was installed at the Yalea and its focus is on managing the business so that it can fund and Gara underground mines which is enabling them to its own closure costs.
achieve close to a 100% extraction rate from their high grade stopes while also cutting back on the need for development.
The feasibility study into Some 60% of the complexs ore feed is now contributed by Our movement the viability of an the underground operations, in line with the aim of achieving underground mine below underground an optimal balance between the Loulo and Gounkoto the Gounkoto pit was orebodies.
completed at the end of the year.
It defined a 4.7Mt orebody at 6g t with a 900 000 ounce reserve and some upside, During the year, the plants crusher circuit was upgraded which comfortably cleared our investment hurdle of a 20% and two additional medium-speed generators were internal rate of return at a long term gold price of $1 000 oz.
commissioned, giving the complex a 50 megawatt capacity.
The mine is expected to be a 60 000 to 70 000 tonnes per The optimisation of the power distribution system is month operation with a nine year life, with capital costs scheduled for 2015, along with the upgrading of the elution estimated at $137.5 million.
Development of what will be our and regeneration plants.
fourth underground mine, after Yalea, Gara and Kibali, is Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 11 scheduled to start in 2018 and ramp up to full production in PRODUCER RETAINED EARNINGS BALANCES 2020, as the mining in the south of the pit comes to an end.
1 2 $ billion $ billion 15 3 It became clear to us in 2008 that Randgolds long term future lay in underground mining.
We consequently decided 10 2 to build a team and a skill set capable of making us the best underground miners in Africa.
It was not an easy process 5 1 and the early stages of our first underground project, Yalea, provided us with a particularly steep learning curve.
The dues 0 0 we paid there have since been returned with interest, and our capacity has developed to the point where we are now 5 1 able to become fully fledged owner-miners.
In the course of 2015 we will therefore be taking over the remaining part 10 2 of the underground operations that is still being contracted out at Yalea and Gara, giving us more control and greater 15 3 flexibility, and eliminating the contractors margin from our cost structure.
20 4 25 5 It is worth noting that in growing our own underground mining expertise we are also creating specialist skill bases 30 6 in our host countries through our policy of recruiting, training and advancing their nationals, and so supporting the development of their mining industries.
Our Yalea and Gara 1 Senior and intermediate producers excluding Randgold teams, from the executives down, are all Malians, and this 2 Randgold in a country which had no tradition of underground mining to draw on.
Randgold retained earnings Senior and intermediate producers Also of interest is the fact that despite our shift from open pit to the inherently more hazardous underground mining, Source: Scotiabank our safety record continues to improve: last years lost time injury frequency rate on our mines was down 18% against a target reduction of 10%.
At a time when the rest of the ACTUAL AND FORECAST GROUP industry is again cutting exploration Hunting for budgets as it did with unfortunate CONSOLIDATED PRODUCTION more results in the Nineties downturn in the gold price Randgold has maintained its commitment Total cash costs $ oz to what it has always regarded as its main growth driver.
Production 000oz Grade g t Capex $ million 4 1 400 Following Paul Harbidges departure, our exploration department was restructured and reinvigorated under its new head Joel Holliday with a brief to step up the search for 3.5 1 200 reserves to replace those we consume as our production continues to grow.
2.5 1 000 The brownfields exploration programmes around our existing operations are producing significant returns, such 2 800 as the Gounkoto underground project.
Loulo is also looking at promising orebody extensions at Yalea and Gara.
At 1.5 Tongon, our geologists succeeded in replacing all the 600 ounces mined in 2014 and there are firm indications of further upside, with infill grade control drilling also offering 1 200 the possibility of more resource to reserve conversion.
Kibali brought the Mofu satellite pit into production in 2014 and brownfields work continues at Gorumbwa, Megi and 0.5 400 other targets.
At Massawa we continue to evaluate this plus 3 million ounces project which, despite its challenges, 0 0 ranks as the largest undeveloped gold deposit in Africa.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indications are that, subject to some additional test work Morila 40% Tongon 100% and a more comprehensive drilling programme to evaluate Loulo-Gounkoto 100% Kibali 45% both the grade and gold deportment characteristics of the Grade Total cash cost oz mineralisation, it still has potential to meet our stringent Capex investment filters.
Randgold consolidates 100% of Loulo, Gounkoto We remain very active on the greenfields front, a part of the and Tongon, 40% of Morila and 45% of Kibali in the business that we see as a key to the future.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 12 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A number of promising targets in the Loulo permit as well and concerns about the proposed new mining codes in as our Boundiali and Mankono permits in Cte dIvoire the DRC and Senegal.
In Cte dIvoire, close cooperation are being subjected to follow-up work.
In the Kibali lease, between the regulators and the industry delivered a mining a greenfields team has prioritised a strongly anomalous code that can rightly be considered a model of its kind, and by continuing to reason with the authorities in the other trend known as the KZ structure, which extends over 35 kilometres, host to more than 22 million resource ounces countries, we hope to achieve the same there.
Be that as and untested below 50 metres for more than half of its it may, the fact is that, occasional differences aside, these length.
Within this structure, the Kalima-Ikamva target is partnerships serve us well, and have seen us safely through sensitive negotiations, coups dtat, popular uprisings, a zone of mineralisation in a setting very similar to that of natural disasters and strikes.
Overall, our exploration of the Kibali lease continues to highlight its significant potential for the discovery of not only more satellites but also of another Our local employment policy has been instrumental in forging particularly close bonds with our host countries.
Almost all our country and mine general managers are host country nationals: so too the managers on the mines.
Further afield, our generative team is exploring the highly Their personal connection with their societies enables prospective margins of the Congo Craton, stretching from us to interact effectively and with sensitivity at every level, the DRC through Cameroon, South Sudan, Kenya and from the head of state to the headman of the local village in Tanzania.
emerging countries that are Francophone and have a variety of cultures, religions and traditions.
Our strong emphasis on Partnering to driving costs down in each Our five year forecast shows a operation and at every level is curb costs And now for growing production profile and a being maintained.
Key to this reduction in costs.
Loulo-Gounkoto campaign is Randgolds corporate culture, which encourages our next act is set to perform at its current its managers to think like businessmen and empowers them high level for at least that time.
Kibali is expected to be in full to run their operations as if they were fully accountable production by 2018, which is also the year in which we have owners.
scheduled to start developing the Gounkoto underground mine.
Tongon should get back up to speed this year.
We have also been taking steps to ensure that our business partners are fully aligned with our long term objectives and In addition to these solid operations with their strong cash engaged with us in dealing with the challenges we face.
flows, Randgold has a robust balance sheet with no debt and plenty of cash and, as can be seen on page 169 of this Contractors, suppliers and service providers account for a annual report, a share price which for years has consistently major part of our cost structure and we have to secure their outperformed the market.
Organic growth will remain our collaboration to manage it.
We start by building a business core driver, but as we look ahead from this position of partner base which is local to the fullest possible extent, strength, we will consider the attractive opportunities that and then work together to address the main cost drivers by, are often generated by stressed markets, and may well elect among other things, reducing manpower, making increased to play a part in the likely restructuring of the gold mining use of local labour and curbing overheads.
partners are expected to earn their margins and if they cannot or will not do this, we will make other plans.
Credit for 2014s fine performance must be shared by many: Randgolds people at all levels and in every part of Our supply and logistics chain is critical to our ability to the business: our stakeholders: and our business partners.
Collaboration with our supply chain I thank all of you.
A particular word of appreciation goes to partners in the countries in which we operate has enabled us my colleagues in the executive team: as our business grows to achieve a significant improvement in our demand planning ever more demanding, so does their will to succeed.
There with a resultant decrease in our working capital.
We have were some departures from the team during the year and in also been able to renegotiate our supply agreements to take each case the vacancy was filled from within our ranks and advantage of scale benefits and consolidated supply, and we with fresh vigour.
I also thank our board for the combination have renegotiated our shipping and transport rates globally.
of engagement and independence with which they continue to oversee our governance and direction.
In his first year as We recognise the chairman, Christopher Coleman was a source of invaluable Our pact with our governments and guidance and support to me.
people of our host host countries countries as important stakeholders and are committed to working in partnership with them to develop one of their major national assets their gold resources to the enduring benefit of all.
Like all close relationships, these are tested from time to time.
We have unresolved differences over tax in Mali and Mark Bristow the DRC, continuing problems with illegal mining everywhere Chief executive Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 13
