Strategic report CHief Executives Q&A meet our new chief executive Q & A What made you want to join Rank?
interested parties on this issue.
These Rank is a company with a fantastic elements are important differentiators for reputation and legacy, but I was drawn Rank and ones that I feel that we can more to the potential of where it can go harness further to grow the Group.
in the future than to its past.
Like most What have been your first impressions people in the UK I had grown up knowing after three months with the Group?
the Rank brand and its stable of products It may sound like a clich but I have Henry Birch, Chief Executive and entertainment history, but more been extremely impressed with the recently working in the gaming industry, people throughout the business they I knew it as a group with great brands truly are our greatest assets.
There is and an enviable position in venue-based rank is a company a huge amount of passion and loyalty bingo and casino gaming.
Coming from to the brands our employees work for with a fantastic William Hill, where I helped transform a Mecca, Grosvenor Casinos and Enracha company with a retail focus and culture reputation and their knowledge of our business into one which straddled the high street and engagement with customers is better and legacy.
and the internet, I could see some than I have seen in any other group.
parallels with Rank and that made me Ultimately we are in the business of feel I could make a difference.
Compared providing entertainment to our customers with other gaming companies Rank has and that begins and ends with the a much more entertainment-led offer, service and customer experience our staff engagement between staff and customers provide.
Through visiting our venues and is closer and we have a greater awareness meeting with team members I have come of who our customers are and what they to realise what a strength our people are.
Additionally it was apparent to me I have also been struck by the amount that Rank is very aware of its duty to of potential and opportunity that Rank operate responsibly and therefore has has.
We have really powerful assets at engaged with Government and other 10 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 16 Our strategy 28 Operating review digitised and nor would our customers What are your immediate priorities?
I h ave been extremely want us to try.
Our opportunity is to Setting the right strategic focus for the impressed with the create a strong multi-channel offer for Group is a key priority.
This involves people throughout the our customers, such that we give them discipline in ensuring that non-core business they truly a fantastic product and experience issues get put to one side and it involves however they choose to engage with plenty of communication.
I am keen that are our greatest assets us in one of our venues, from a home everyone in the business knows where computer or with a mobile device.
Having we are heading and what we are trying a strong digital business is a key part of to achieve.
There is no point in having our disposal: nearly 11,000 engaged and having a multi-channel offer.
So yes, priorities and a strategy if people arent passionate staff, more than 160 venues, digital will be a big focus, but not at the aware of them.
Additionally we need to over three million customers and market expense of other parts of our business.
have clear milestones associated with our leading positions in casino and bingo.
Setting the strategy is the When you join a group as a new chief I do however believe that technology easy bit, the execution of the strategy executive you want to be excited about generally will play an increasingly is what counts.
where the Group can go about its important part across our business, not potential and in this regard I am just in the digital arena.
If you look at I am also focused on building the right extremely positive.
the offer in our clubs, it hasnt changed team at Rank: a team that works well substantially in many years.
Yes, some of together, challenges each other and As with any company, Rank needs to our slots may be server-based and some complements each other.
What has been of our bingo customers may be using our I have inherited a strong management encouraging in my first few months here Mecca Max units, but fundamentally not team at Rank, but inevitably there will and perhaps unexpected is that there a lot has changed in the way in which be some change.
is real appetite and agitation for change we deliver entertainment in our venues.
including from those who have been I am looking forward to spending more However, this is not the case in other here the longest.
There is no shortage time in our clubs talking to our staff sectors, for instance in retail or banking, of ideas or energy in the Group, it is just and customers, nding out how we can where technological innovation is a question of ensuring that we have the improve our business and run it better.
increasingly changing the way people right focus and the right tools to harness What is your vision for the Group?
A willingness and desire to change Ultimately, my vision is that Rank will venues will also evolve in this way.
How from within is a great base from which be the UKs leading multi-channel and when technology plays a bigger part to start.
This means creating will be dependent on us and on our Will there be a big focus on digital a compelling multi-channel offer so customers, but it will happen.
that however our customers choose to the implementation of a more cashless My background is predominantly digital, interact with us in venue, at home or environment or the use of customerso there has been an assumption that on the move we can provide them with owned mobile devices in venues to this will be my focus at Rank.
In my view the best possible product, service and participate in gaming or to replace we are underpowered in digital, with just entertainment experience.
If we can do membership cards, but technology will 10% of our total revenues coming from this, we will build a growing, robust and start to positively impact our business.
our digital business versus 30% for the more valuable business.
Harnessing technology can not only wider gambling industry, and there make us more efficient, but crucially is an opportunity for us to grow here.
it can be used to provide an improved But I am also clear that we remain a customer experience and give us a Henry Birch, Chief Executive venues-led business and there are many competitive advantage.
13 August 2014 parts of our customer offer that cant be The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11 Strategic report St Str ra ate teg gi g gic c c r r r re e epor por por ort t t t t OCT 13 Live casino launched Grosvenorcasinos.
coms live casino was successfully launched.
During the year live casino became one of the brands fastest growing digital revenue streams.
12 12 12 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 T Th Th The Ra Ra ank nk k k k G Gro o ou up up Plc Plc c:A : A Annu nnual al Report and F Fin inanci cial a Sta tate tement nts 2 s s 20 01 01 14 4 4 Nov 13 London poker room opens Following capital investment of 11.6m the London Poker Room was opened, which incorporates a 350 capacity poker room, bar and restaurant.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T The The The The Th The The T The The The The T T The The Th Th Th Th he h he he h h h he he he he he he he he he h he he h h h h he h h he h h h he h he he h h h he he he he h he h h h h h h h h he e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e Ra Ra an nk nk nk Gro Gro G up up Plc Plc Pl l : A :A A A Annu nnu n nnu nu ua al a al l Rep R R Rep Rep port ort ort ort ort ort ort rt r a an an an an nd F d Fina ina n nci nci nci ci ial al al Sta Sta Sta a a atem tem t t m ment ent ent en nts 2 s 2 s 2 s2014 014 01 01 014 14 4 13 13 13 13 13 13
