Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Supercharging performance After investing significantly in infrastructure and capabilities over the last couple of years, we commenced a major cost savings initiative in the second half of 2014.
These initiatives combined to achieve an adjusted operating margin expansion of 160bps, and with reduced tax rates, delivered an adjusted, diluted earnings per share of 230.5 pence excluding RB Pharmaceuticals, a 4% increase at actual rates.
Sharper focus on the core In 2014 we took significant steps to sharpen our focus on the core business.
We acquired the K-Y brand from Johnson and Johnson which significantly increased our presence in the sexual wellbeing category, particularly in key markets such as North America and Brazil.
At the other end of the portfolio we delivered on our promise to demerge the pharmaceutical business newly named Indivior PLC, which is now a separately listed public company on the London Stock Exchange.
Indivior PLC is run by a highly experienced management team focused on the growing market of addiction treatment.
We believe this important step has the potential to deliver significant long-term value to Shareholders.
We have taken other meaningful steps to simplify our Portfolio Brands.
In Q3, we disposed of our Footwear business.
We also separated the Medcom rAkeSh kAPoor Chief Executive Officer Hospital business from our core consumer business.
digital at the heart of everything we do Global health trends are changing This sharper focus on our core categories is of vital importance if we are to continue to outperform our markets.
But on its own it is not enough.
People are living longer and The digital revolution we are all witnessing is disrupting many industries, and creating opportunities in many others.
In some of our markets, we are are looking after themselves as they now delivering over 50% of our media impressions in digital media, rather seek to prolong and enjoy their lives.
than traditional print or broadcast.
This shift is driven by both strategic and commercial considerations.
We are massively stepping up our investments in digital media as we have seen how they can provide opportunities for us to At RB we are passionate about providing innovative solutions for build more engaging relationships with our consumers at lower cost.
As an healthier lives and happier homes.
We know example, we have entered into a multi-year, global partnership with Facebook that when we do this well, our consumers reward us with their trust to better connect RB brands with users of social media.
Beyond digital media, and their loyalty.
This creates value for our customers, our partners and we are witnessing a revolution in digital commerce.
In China, 20% of our ourShareholders.
Its so simple, yet this requires every bit of our passion revenue is now through e-commerce.
What we learn from China we will seek and commitment if we are to realise our ambition to be a force in to apply elsewhere in the world, a reversal of the traditional model which saw consumerhealth.
most business ideas travel in the opposite direction.
The world we live in is changing more rapidly than ever before.
We see A simpler, more agile organisation this in how consumers behave: how they engage with brands, how they Our organisation needs to continually evolve and adapt to be faster and seek advice on their health and hygiene needs, how they buy, and how more consistent with our in-market activation.
they evaluate the products and services that we deliver.
This is a challenge for us, but also an opportunity.
If we can change and innovate in response Three years ago we made the bold and unusual move of putting Europe to consumers needs and maintain our focus on what we do best, we will and North America under one Area to create a faster, leaner and more create a platform to deliver maximum value for stakeholders.
The results since this move have been very good and have proven to be the right organisational configuration.
Over the results past three years, in stagnant markets, we have delivered revenue growth 2014 once again demonstrated the strength of our strategy and how it and strong margin progression.
From 1 January 2015, we combined both translates into significant value for our Shareholders.
In a year in which the emerging market areas under one leadership, thereby reducing our overall market growth slowed, RB once again delivered solid top-line geographic structure from three Areas to two.
growth and strong margin expansion.
Importantly, our earnings model remains virtuous and I am extremely pleased that we achieved gross margin ENA consists of Europe including Russia, Israel, expansion of 100bps, driven by a high quality, consumer health-led product North America, and Australia New Zealand.
mix, pricing and optimisation of our cost base.
We have continued to invest DVM consists of LATAM, Asia and Africa Middle East and Turkey.
heavily behind the equity of our brands, whilst benefiting from media efficiency programmes put in place at the beginning of the year.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 10 Strategic Report Our world is changing, and RB has shown that we have no intention Case study of standing still.
We continue to sharpen our portfolio focus and ensure we are organised in a way that allows us to be even faster and more Mucinex collaboration customer centric.
with WebMD Betterbusiness Our partnership with Save the Children has taken steps towards realising Using digital data-driven marketing to reach consumers at the our ambition to stop diarrhoea being a top five killer of children.
Our time they need relief.
As the majority of Mucinexs portfolio is campaign, Save a Child Every Minute, aims to reduce the nearly 550,000 seasonal, it is important that the brand remains front of mind children who die each year from what is a 100% preventable disease.
RB during cold and flu epidemics.
However, the size of the US makes has the expertise and the capacity to galvanise our partners, customers it challenging to predict and ensure that our video campaigns are and employees to effect real change.
To this end, we have launched targeted at the right time and place.
programmes in Nigeria and Pakistan, with India due to commence in early 2015.
A clear link to our business, this is an example of how we can live Working with WebMD, the No.
1 online health portal in the US, we ourvalues and build healthier communities.
mapped visitor search data for cold and flu symptoms against their location and time of day.
This allowed us to identify areas where the Weve reached 141m people through education and awareness severity was more prevalent.
As a result, Mucinex has been better programmes designed to improve health outcomes by making changes to aligned to seasonal peaks in incidence of cold & flu, directly their behaviour a great start towards our goal of reaching 200m by 2020. impacting sales performance.
We aim to reduce our carbon and water impact by 1 3 by 2020.
Since 2012, our carbon and water impact footprints have reduced by 3% and2% per dose.
Were also embedding sustainability into the way we innovate.
This year all innovations in our pipeline have been assessed to determine their sustainability performance and 50% of our pipeline is more sustainable.
4.7% of our total net revenue Q1Q3 was from more sustainable innovations a solid step towards our goal for 1 3 total net revenue to be from more sustainable products by 2020, but weve still got work to do.
We continue to drive down our impacts from manufacturing too.
This year we were pleased to announce that all of our manufacturing sites in ENA and LATAM are now sending zero hazardous and non-hazardous manufacturing waste to landfill.
RBs overall performance has been recognised by our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, FTSE4Good Index and CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
We have also been shortlisted for, and received, a number of sustainability awards.
More information is available in our sustainability report, available April 2015.
Conclusion 2014 has been a year of progress.
Three years ago, I unveiled RBs new strategy to focus on health, hygiene and home.
Our continued outperformance demonstrates that it was the right strategy and that it is working.
Today I am more convinced than ever that we are on the right path to move the Company forward.
Despite slower global growth and economic uncertainty in many regions, I believe we are doing the right things for customers, for Shareholders, and for all our stakeholders.
We canall remain excited about the many opportunities ahead.
rAkeSh kAPoor Chief Executive Officer RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
