OVERVIEW 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Chief Executive Ofcers report Strategic direction Our strategy remains consistent: to become a global professional information solutions provider, a company that delivers improved outcomes for professional customers across industries.
Our goal is to help our customers make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our customers to create innovative solutions which combine content and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
These solutions often account for about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant and positive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
We aim to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets and leverage our skills, assets and resources across thecompany, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
During the year we continued to make progress in this strategic Erik Engstrom direction.
We are systematically migrating all of our businesses Chief Executive officer towards electronic decision tools, adding broader data sets, embedding more sophisticated analytics and leveraging more In 2014, we maintained good powerful technology, primarily through organic development.
We are transforming our core business, building out new products momentum across our key and expanding into higher growth adjacencies and geographies.
We are supplementing this organic development with selective financial metrics of underlying acquisitions of targeted data and content sets, and assets in high-growth markets and geographies, where we are the natural revenue growth, underlying owner and can accelerate our strategy with good returns.
We continue to divest assets that we are unable to migrate operating profit growth, adjusted or where we do not see significant future value creation.
earnings per share growth, By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we believe that, over time, we are improving our business prole andreturn on invested capital.
This is leading to more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and geographic balance: We made further strategic and ahigher growth prole by expanding in higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged businesses and gradually operational progress as we reducing the drag from print format declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic development with strong continued to transform our cash generation.
business, primarily through organic development.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT GROWTH 6% 5% 5% 5% 3% 3% 3% 3% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Excluding cycling effects.
indd 4 06 03 2015 08:42 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 5 2014 progress The newly-combined single group entity has been named RELX In 2014, we made further strategic and operational progress, Group plc.
We believe this shorter and more modern name aswe continued to transform our business, primarily through reects the transformation of the company to a technology, organicdevelopment.
content and analytics-driven business, while maintaining the link with our proud heritage names.
We are proposing to align the With 82% of revenues in our targeted formats of electronic and names of the parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed face-to-face, generating average underlying revenue growth Elsevier NV, with that of RELX Group plc on 1 July, to RELX PLC rates of 5% to 7%, we are now primarily focused on driving the forthe London listed shareholding vehicle, and RELX NV for the transition from electronic reference to electronic decision tools.
There will not be any Our transition away from advertising and marketing services is brand or name changes for any customer-facing products or substantially complete.
In 2014, we continued to focus our acquisitions on targeted data Financial performance sets and analytics, and assets in high-growth markets that We maintained good momentum throughout 2014 across our four support our organic growth strategies.
We completed 27 key financial metrics.
Underlying revenue growth, excluding acquisitions for a total consideration of 385m.
We also continued exhibition cycling effects, was 3%.
Underlying operating profit to dispose of assets across business areas, closing 17 small growth was 5%.
Earnings per share at constant currencies grew transactions for a total consideration of 74m.
10%, and our return on invested capital increased by 0.7 With a strong balance sheet, strong cash ow characteristics and percentage points to 12.8%.
with average acquisition spend comfortably covered by free cash All four major business areas again delivered underlying revenue ow after dividends, we continued to take a pragmatic approach to and profit growth.
We improved profitability through process ensuring that the value compounding within the business innovation and portfolio development.
As part of this we maintained our share buyback programme at 600m in 2014. scientific, Technical & Medical saw double digit growth in subscription journal article submissions and usage, and we We are now extending our efforts to modernise and simplify the sawcontinued good growth in Databases and Tools, with good company to our corporate structure, our share listings and our electronic revenue growth across all segments.
Ownership of all businesses, subsidiaries and nancing activities below the two listed parent companies has Strong underlying revenue growth in Risk & Business Information been transferred to one new single group entity for the first time.
was driven by volume growth, new productroll-outs and This newly-formed single group entity is the result of combining adjacency expansion across segments.
Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
In addition, Legal underlying revenue growth was maintained in 2014, we are proposing to eliminate the cross-shareholding between insubdued markets, with continued growth in online revenues the two parent companies and align their direct equity holdings in largely offset by print declines.
The roll-out of new platform and the new single group entity with their external shareholders product releases continued as planned with adoption and usage respective economic interests of 52.9% and 47.1%.
propose to simplify our share listings and increase share price transparency by moving the equalisation ratio for all our share Exhibitions maintained strong underlying revenue growth.
While listings to one-to-one from 1 July 2015. growth in Europe was modest, the US, Japan and other markets grew strongly.
indd 5 06 03 2015 08:42 OVERVIEW 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Corporate responsibility Outlook We prioritise our unique contributions to society, including Business trends in the early part of 2015 remain consistent with universal sustainable access to information: advancement of 2014 trends across our business, and we are confident that, by science and health: access to justice and the rule of law: and continuing to execute on our strategy, we will deliver another year protection of society.
In 2014, for example, we supported of underlying revenue, profit and earnings growth in 2015. indigenous African research through Publishers Without Borders: advanced Business for the Rule of Law with the United Nations Erik Engstrom Global Compact, an initiative that will help businesses further the Chief Executive officer rule of law at the national and international level: and helped recover three missing children through our Automated Delivery ofAlerts on Missing Children ADAM programme.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE 5,773m 5,773m 5,773m 2% 18% 50% Electronic Subscriptions 21% North America Face to face Transactional Europe Print Other Rest of World Advertising 16% 47% 51% 66% 29% 94118 Reed AR p001-006.
