26 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Performance Overview In a year of record revenue, there was a product lines to relocate to the site from Outside the UK there were further continued focus on long-term business their current overcrowded locations, investments in group facilities, with growth, with strong investments in global and enable us to meet the space theacquisition of 18,000 sq ft of space marketing and distribution infrastructure, requirements for our projected future in Shanghai, China, for the management technology acquisition, new product growth in R&D resource across all of our expanding operations in China, development, manufacturing capacity product lines and necessary growth in including provision for product and the recruitment and training of corporate support functions.
an additional 116,000 sq ftoffacilities A reassessment of strategic has been purchased adjacent to our requirements led to the first phase of 3FWJFX PG current premises near Stuttgart.
development of the building expanding This has allowed the relocation of from 120,000 sq ft to 153,000 sq ft, Against a backdrop of tough theLBC additive manufacturing although first occupancy commenced comparators due to exceptionally high business acquired last year and also at the end of June 2014, the building is revenue from certain Far East customers provides a rental income from existing expected to be fully completed by the in the first half of the previous year and tenants.
In Poland we moved to a new end of 2014.
The new building is part of an adverse currency environment, 5,700 sq ft facility close to Warsaws a wider site re-development which will we still achieved record revenues.
see some existing buildings refurbished There was a continued focus on to allow staff from the calibration and Against strong competition for skilled long-term growth of the business, with spectroscopy product lines to relocate in engineers, we continued to acquire strong investments including global the first calendar quarter of 2015. the necessary skills for the current and marketing and distribution infrastructure, future growth of the business, increasing technology acquisition, new product At the end of February 2014 we headcount by 257 staff during the year.
development, manufacturing capacity submitted a planning application for Once again, there was a major drive and the recruitment and training of 1.74 million sq ft of development at our to develop younger staff, resulting in skilled staff.
As mentioned previously, Miskin site, of which 400,000 sq ft would a record intake of 68 graduates and operating profit was lower, primarily be for long-term use by Renishaw.
40 apprentices who will all start their due to tough comparators from the A decision from the planning authorities careers with Renishaw during summer previous year.
on this complex application is expected 2014.
We have recently been recognised later in 2014.
At the existing facility, Work continued on a large development by The JobCrowd acclaimed to be delivery of a large order of new machine at our New Mills headquarters, for the UKs leading graduate job review tools has been completed, providing which we have permission ultimately website as one of the top three component-machining capacity that toconstruct a building of up to employers of engineering manufacturing will allow us to respond quickly to future 230,000sq ft.
This will allow staff from graduates in the UK, and applications for projected demand.
our spectroscopy and calibration our graduate scheme have quadrupled in the past three years.
Advanced Consulting & Engineering, Inc ACE ACE staff at their facility in the heart ofthe USA automotive industry.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014.
BSLFU DPOEJUJPOT 4USBUFHZ The year was always going to be To meet our key strategic aims, challenging, due to tough comparators wecontinued to make investments against last years record year for which this year included focusing on revenues, which saw a number of supporting our drive to become a exceptionally large orders in China solutions provider, rather than simply a related to the consumer electronics provider of products for integration by market.
The adverse effect on the machine builders, and also to continue results was also compounded by the to develop a strong market presence in strengthening of Sterling, which has emerging markets.
caused a negative impact on revenue of In March 2014 we purchased ACE, a 11.2m.
supplier of dimensional measurement With the exception of the Far East, and products and services for the despite continuing challenges in the automotive industry based in the USA.
Eurozone, all regions saw growth.
In fact, The company has over 15 years of excluding the exceptional revenue experience in supplying a range of from certain customers, in the Far East services for demanding applications we also achieved underlying revenue within the automotive sector, including growth of 11%.
This spread of growth contract inspection, xture design, on a global basis underlines the strength machine retrots, CMM programming of the Groups product portfolio and and full turnkey measurement solutions.
As we continue to focus on supplying end-user metrology solutions, including We have continued to see global CMM retrots and installations of investment in production systems TM our Equator gauge, the specialist and processes for key sectors such knowledge within the ACE team and as aerospace, automotive, energy customer relationships in the USA will and construction, all of which require beparticularly valuable.
Renishaw systems to meet their need for ever tighter production tolerances and Renishaws ofce in Poland originally cost controls.
opened in 2002 with just two staff.
In February 2014 we formally opened a new facility to give improved facilities for a market where we now have 15employees.
The ofce includes purpose-built metrology and demonstration rooms, allowing us to offer enhanced commercial and technical support to our customers throughout Polish industry, including ourspectroscopy product line.
