4 Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 2014 has been a year of tangible progress at Rentokil Initial.
In Putting our differentiated February we announced the divestment of the Initial Facilities business and the creation of a new differentiated strategy to drive profitable growth.
The sale of Initial Facilities has allowed us to focus on our core strategy into action categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear.
Our new strategy, which we presented in February, is focused on delivering mediumterm improvements in revenue and profit and a sustainable improvement in free cash flow, which enables us to execute and accelerate our acquisition plans, implement a progressive dividend policy and pay down debt.
In addition, our strategy utilises a quadrant analysis to group categories and geographies into a growth potential and profit contribution matrix and to focus resources on delivering improved levels of growth and to prioritise capital allocation for investment and M&A.
We have implemented our strategy at pace in 2014 and in the year achieved total revenue growth from ongoing operations of 3.6% atCER, a 6.5% increase in ongoing adjusted profit at CER and a significant enhancement in free cash flow, which improved by 93m to 129m at AER.
Restructuring costs fell by 38m year on year, working capital outflows improved by 17m and net capex of 179m John McAdam Andy Ransom was 49m lower than 2013, reflecting our more focused approach to Chairman Chief Executive capital allocation and the phasing of investment at AER.
With a significant reduction in restructuring costs and with capital expenditure now in line with depreciation, we anticipate achieving over 100m per Our growth in profits this year reflects annum in free cash flow on a sustainable basis and expect to make further progress towards our medium-term revenue and profit targets the benefit of more efficient businesses in 2015.
In addition, we made 30 acquisitions during the year of which 77% are in the Growth and Emerging quadrants generating and reduced overheads and has been 66m of annualised revenue at AER.
achieved despite ongoing economic We exit 2014 in a much stronger financial position than in 2013. challenges in Europe.
We have Group net debt at AER has been reduced by 260m to 775m, ourlowest net debt in 15 years, and our liquidity position is strong, executed our new strategy at pace comprising over 190m of funds and 270m of available undrawn committed facilities.
Interest payments including finance lease interest throughout the year in order to drive were 1.7m lower than last year at 49.5m.
Total tax payments were improved revenue, profit and cash.
Our pension scheme is one of the strongest in the FTSE 350, with an actuarial surplus in excess John McAdam, of50m at the year end and an accounting surplus of around Chairman 190m.
Our strategy of focusing on core growth categories with leading market positions has been well received by our debt credit rating agency Standard & Poors, resulting in a credit rating upgrade 2014 financial highlights at CER toBBB during the year.
While much has been achieved this year there remains more to do in a number of areas of our business.
As we note below, North America 3.6% 1.2% had a challenging H1 but performance improved in H2 and Total revenue growth from Organic revenue performance in the Benelux was disappointing with profits down 1 ongoing operations by9.9m.
The outlook for Europe remains mixed due to continuing economic weakness in certain parts.
Please see further details below.
Based on our overall performance in 2014 the Board is 2.4% 6.5% recommending a final dividend of 1.82p per share, to make a total Acquisitive revenue growth Ongoing adjusted of2.59p a 12.1% increase year on year.
2 operating profit Regional performance In the North America region revenue grew 6.6% for the full year.
93m 66m Revenue growth was stronger in Q4 8.4%, supported by Improvement in free 30 acquisitions purchased in acquisitions.
Organic revenue growth of 1.7% for the year was held 3 cash flow at 129m at AER year with combined annualised back by adverse weather conditions on the East and West Coasts revenues of 66m at AER during H1 but strengthened in H2 up 3.3% in Q4.
Profit rose by 15.6%, again supported by acquisitions and by back office and AER actual exchange rates: CER constant 2013 exchange rates property rationalisation delivering margin expansion of 0.9%.
Further 1 ongoing revenue represents revenue with disposals removed and includes revenue from acquisitions margin improvement opportunities exist through acquisitions, scale 2 before amortisation and impairment of intangibles excluding computer software, restructuring costs and one-off items and net interest credit from pensions.
Represents profits with disposals efficiencies and service productivity.
removed and includes profit from acquisitions 3 cash flow before acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange adjustments and discontinued operations Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Co Corpo rpor ra at te G e Go ov vernan ernanc ce e Str Stra at te egi gic R c Repo eport rt Finan Financial Sta cial Stat tem emen ents ts A Ad ddi diti tio onal Inf final Info orma rmati tio on n Strategic Report 5 Despite economic weakness, ongoing revenue growth in the Europe One-off items in the current year netted out to nil 2013: 4.6m.
Ongoing revenue growth in These costs included acquisition costs, disposal costs, impairment Germany up 2.3%, France up 0.3% and Latin America managed ofcomputer software and profits or losses on the sale of continuing out of the Europe region and up 308%, was offset by a decline in businesses and property.
Profit in Europe declined by 3.7% due to the Details of restructuring costs and one-off items operating incurred performance of our Benelux hygiene and workwear business which inthe period are set out in Note A1.
was impacted by the continued effect of poor service levels in 2013 and tough economic conditions resulting in both contract terminations Interest at AER and pricing pressure.
Net interest payable was 45.3m at actual exchange rates compared The outlook for our European businesses is mixed.
Our German, to 59.6m in the prior year, a decrease of 14.3m.
The decrease is Belgian and Italian businesses are experiencing more positive trading due to the refinancing of the groups 500m 4.625% bond which conditions and are expected to make good progress during the year.
matured in March 2014 and lower net debt levels following the sale However, the outlook for our businesses in the Netherlands and ofthe Initial Facilities business.
The average cost of gross debt for the France is more uncertain with these regions continuing to face group is now less than 4%.
challenging economic conditions and competitive markets.
Overall, we expect profitability in our Europe region to be broadly in line with Tax at AER last year.
Our strategy to protect margins in this region includes a The income tax expense for the year at actual exchange rates was focus on yield management, service productivity, customer density 37.1m on the reported profit before tax of 163.2m.
After adjusting and further back office rationalisation.
profit for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, restructuring costs and one-off items and the net pension In the UK & Rest of World region, ongoing revenue rose by 5.6% credit from pensions, the effective tax rate for the year was 23.5% in2014 8.3% in Q4, with organic growth for the year of 3.2%.
This compares with a blended rate of tax TheUK operations saw good revenue growth, aided by increased for the countries in which the group operates of 26% 2013: 27% as pest jobbing work, but margins were held back by national contract restated.
The reduction is principally due to the benefit of tax losses wins with large multi-premises set ups and the cost of integrating the brought forward being offset against UK profits and an increase in previously loss-making Green Compliance acquisition in December thedeferred tax asset recognised on the UK tax losses.
TheRest of World operations also delivered good revenue growth, particularly in the Middle East and the Caribbean, but this Net debt and cash flow at AER wasoffset by lower revenues in South Africa, impacted by customer Operating cash inflow of 209.5m at actual exchange rates for industrial action in the mining sector and pricing pressures in this continuing operations was 72.4m higher than 2013 mainly due highinflationary market.
Margin improvement in the UK is expected toreductions in restructuring costs, working capital outflows and in 2015 as new contracts and acquisitions mature.
Our Asia region had another good year with ongoing revenue growing Interest payments including finance lease interest were 1.7m lower by 8.1% in 2014 11.9% in Q4.
Both the pest control and hygiene than last year at 49.5m.
Total tax payments were 30.1m compared categories performed well.
The emerging markets of China, India and with 37.2m in 2013 and the Company made pension funding Vietnam delivered combined revenue growth of 29.1%.
Combined payments of 1.0m during the year compared to 13.6m in 2013. high-single digit revenue growth of 8.5% was delivered in our more Free cash inflow of 128.9m was 92.6m higher than in the prior year.
established businesses in Indonesia and Malaysia.
Profit grew by 18.2% in 2014, reflecting leverage from rising revenues and back Cash spent on acquisitions totalled 68.1m, proceeds from disposals office rationalisation with margins higher by 1.2%.
There are further totalling 256.0m including the disposal of the Initial Facilities opportunities to grow margins in the region through operational business.
Included in the sale were 16.7m of transferred restricted leverage from revenue growth and back office rationalisation.
cash balances relating to Private Finance Initiative PFI contracts.
TheCompany made dividend payments of 43.2m in 2014, 4.6m In the Pacific region revenue increased by 0.9% for the full year 2.5% 11.9% higher than 2013. in Q4, reflecting growth in contract revenue across pest and hygiene offset by a decline in pest jobbing revenue and contract revenue in Free cash flow from continuing operations of 128.9m more than Ambius.
Profit grew by 5.9% in 2014 supported by business covered total investment in acquisitions 68.1m and dividend efficiencies, cost savings and branch administration rationalisation.
Further margin improvement opportunities will be sought through Foreign exchange translation and other items reduced net debt improved service productivity and targeted acquisitions.
by44.0m, leaving an overall reduction in net debt of 259.8m andclosing net debt of 775.0m.
Central and divisional overheads Central and divisional overheads decreased by 11.4m in the year, Capital expenditure beating our original target of 10m by 1.4m, reflecting the successful Gross capital expenditure from continuing operations of 191.6m was implementation of a programme which included implementation of our 42.4m lower than 2013, broadly in line with depreciation.
The lower low-cost country operating model, cost reductions at head office and level of expenditure reflects more rigorous prioritisation towards capital the sale of the Initial Facilities business in March 2014. investment including reduced levels of investment in restructuring activities and IT, as well as phasing of spend on 2014 projects.
Restructuring costs and one-off items operating A more efficient organisation, exercising greater operational discipline, resulted in a significant reduction in restructuring and one-off operating items.
Restructuring costs in the year amounted to 9.3m 2013:47.4m representing a reduction of over 38m on 2013.
These consisted mainly of redundancy costs, consultancy and plant and office closure costs.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 6 Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive continued Pensions Funding At 31 December 2014 the Companys UK defined benefit pension At 31 December 2014 the group had net debt of 775m and a strong scheme, which is closed to new members, was valued at an liquidity position, comprising over 190m of centrally held funds and accounting surplus of 192.2m on the Companys balance sheet.
270m of available undrawn committed facilities.
Net debt to EBITDA Thetrustees value the scheme on a different basis.
The most recent at the year end was 1.9x.
actuarial valuation showed that at 31 March 2013 the Scheme was The group has since refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility, replacing 98.7% funded with a deficit of 17.8m.
However, based on a 270m December 2016 maturity with a 270m facility maturing in movements since 31 March 2013 the Scheme was estimated to have January 2020.
The group has two options both at zero cost to a surplus in excess of 50m at 31 December 2014.
It is anticipated extend the maturity date to January 2022, exercisable in January that the Scheme will remain in surplus over the period of the recovery 2016 and January 2017. plan.
In order to mitigate the risk that it does not, however, annual contributions of 3.2m per annum over the six-year period will be paid The group has a 300m bond maturing in March 2016 which can be into a joint escrow account by the Company.
The first payment was repaid using the groups cash balances and available credit facilities.
In the event that the deficit is not cleared by The group will review funding requirements during 2015 to provide the time of the 31 March 2019 valuation, it will be funded from the additional headroom following repayment of the bond and will provide escrow account.
The Company has recognised the pension surplus an update in due course.
as an asset because the group has an unconditional right to a refund The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing of the surplus at the end of the Schemes life.
the accounts on the basis that the groups strong liquidity position and ability to reduce operating capital expenditure or expenditure on Acquisitions and disposals bolt-on acquisitions are sufficient to meet the groups forecast funding In line with our strategy, this year we accelerated our M&A programme needs, including those modelled in a downside case.
to pursue targets in higher growth markets and in areas which add local density to our existing operations.
In 2014 we acquired 30 Dividend businesses in Brazil, Brunei, India, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Following a strong performance in 2014, and in anticipation of further Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, the UK and progress in 2015, the Board is recommending a final dividend in US and entered new markets in The Bahamas, Chile, Colombia respect of 2014 of 1.82p per share, payable to shareholders on the andMozambique to exploit under-served and increasingly affluent register at the close of business on 17 April 2015 to be paid on markets.
Combined annual revenues of these businesses prior to 20May 2015.
This equates to a full year dividend of 2.59p per share, acquisition were approximately 66m at AER.
In pest control we acquired 23 businesses with revenues of 44m, 17of which are in the Emerging or Growth quadrants of our capital Board changes allocation approach.
In hygiene we re-entered the South Korean On 22 July 2014 the Company announced the appointment of Julie washrooms market through the acquisition of a small business in Southern to the Board as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of Seoul.
In plants we acquired five small bolt-ons generating annual the Audit Committee.
Julie succeeds Duncan Tatton-Brown who, after revenues of approximately 2m.
In December we acquired UK nine years on the Board, also stood down as a Non-executive Director property care business Peter Cox Limited which generated revenues at the conclusion of the AGM on 14 May 2014.
Peter Long, who approaching 20m in its last financial year.
joined the Board in 2002, stood down as a Non-executive Director on 31 December 2014.
The Board thanks Peter and Duncan for their Building density in the North American pest market continues to be significant contributions to the Company over the years and wishes apriority and during the year we expanded our geographic presence them the very best for the future.
with seven bolt-ons in Connecticut, Indiana, Mississippi, Oregon, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia.
Strategy In the Manage for Value quadrant we completed the sale of Initial We describe our strategy as differentiated as each of the four different Facilities to Interserve Plc in March for a total consideration of 250m quadrants in which we have categorised our businesses operates and also sold the Spanish Medical and Austrian Products businesses.
different strategies for profitable growth.
With a number of businesses Combined annual revenues from these operations in 2013 were 547m.
well positioned in high growth territories such as Brazil, China and India, but also with businesses in the low growth and highly To date in 2015 we have completed three pest acquisitions in North competitive European markets, we need to match the right strategy to America, Colombia and Australia.
Buffalo Exterminating represents an each countrys ability to grow or to protect profitability.
We now match important strategic bolt-on, giving us a market leading position in New differentiated financial performance expectations to market opportunity.
York State and building density in markets in which we are already active, as do the acquisitions of Fumighar pest control in Colombia In February 2014, as well as presenting the quadrant analysis, and the Neil Younger pest business in Australia.
Combined annualised we also presented targets for revenue, profit and cash: revenues prior to acquisition of the three businesses totalled 6.8m.
Medium-term mid-single digit revenue growth: We monitor the integration and performance of acquired businesses Medium-term high-single digit profit growth: and closely and, in aggregate, profits across all acquisitions made over Immediate significant sustainable improvement in free cash flow.
thelast two years are in line with the business plans for those transactions.
The group will continue to seek further acquisitions in In 2014 we have focused on putting our strategy into action: 2015 particularly within the Growth and Emerging quadrants.
We Our commitment to deliver an immediate improvement in free cash estimate our targeted spend to be in the region of 50m but this is flow has been delivered, with significant reductions in restructuring dependent on finding acquisition opportunities that meet our financial costs and capex: hurdles and resourcing abilities.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 7 We have reinvested free cash flow in our M&A pipeline at over the last year to meet the needs of our customers as well as to a fasterrate than the 50m per annum targeted spending contribute to new programmes designed to improve the financial and some68m acquiring 30 companies 23 in the Growth operational fitness of the group.
Colleague participation in learning and Emerging quadrants: anddevelopment programmes during 2014 has been particularly impressive, with participation in over 66,000 training courses on U, Profit growth has been driven by overhead reductions and a more our online learning system.
Further details of our training initiatives can efficient organisation, despite a larger reduction in Benelux profits be found on page 33 and in our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report.
than anticipated and slower rate of growth in the second half in France: Outlook for 2015 We have delivered an 11.4m reduction in central and divisional This time last year we set out our new differentiated strategy and overheads: introduced medium-term targets for mid-single digit revenue growth, Restructuring costs were reduced significantly, from 47.4m in high-single digit profit growth and a significant improvement in cash 2013 to 9.3m at CER in 2014: and generation.
We have implemented our strategy at pace and one year Capex levels are now in line with 2013 depreciation, a 42.4m on we have delivered ongoing revenue growth of 3.6%, ongoing reduction year on year.
adjusted profit growth of 6.5% and a 93m improvement in free cash flow.
We are encouraged by our performance in 2014 and by the The most significant execution risk to the plan is the performance progress we are making towards these targets.
ofthe European economy and we are focusing on cost saving and pricing initiatives in this area to maintain profits.
We are also taking While prospects in the majority of our key markets are good, action to change the shape of the portfolio by investing in the Growth conditions in parts of Europe remain challenging.
Notwithstanding this, and Emerging quadrants and away from lower growth, lower margin we are confident of making further progress in the coming year.
People In 2014 we have welcomed into Rentokil Initial new colleagues through the many good businesses we have acquired and through John McAdam Andy Ransom the ongoing process of improving the capability and efficiency of the Chairman Chief Executive business.
We thank all our colleagues who have put in a huge effort 26 February 2015 Core competencies We articulate our strategy as the right people, doing the right things, in the right way.
This is in line with our core competencies of expertise delivered through our people, service category leadership and highly efficient lean operations.
Right people Right things Right way Our colleagues as experts Category leadership Lean, multi-business operations Our people are our assets and we strive to We are focused on our three core build motivated and engaged teams across categories of pest control, hygiene and Our move to an integrated country operating the organisation.
We train them to be workwear.
Together they comprise 89% model enables our service lines to be Experts in what they do and to have a of group revenue, have generated 97% combined within single country businesses relentless focus on customers and service.
of total growth over the last three years run by one local management team.
Operations, administrative and back office functions are integrated, enabled and underpinned by technology.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 8 Strategic Report 2014 performance Progress against medium-term targets No progress Progress Good progress Achieved ambition Target and key activities Progress in year one Medium-term target: mid-single digit revenue growth Ongoing revenue growth of 3.6% Organic growth of 1.2% Acquired 30 companies adding 66m of revenue, mainly in Growth and Emerging quadrants Launched new digital presence in UK, Australia and North America Launched new product ranges in Hygiene and Workwear, and additional services in Pest Control Medium-term target: high-single digit profit growth Ongoing operating profit growth of 6.5% 11.4m reduction in central and divisional overheads Branch administration rationalisation good progress in France, Australia and North America Profit improvement initiatives including pricing, yield management and service productivity Significant reduction in profit in Benelux business although underlying metrics improved H2 on H1 Divested lower-margin, non-core businesses Initial Facilities, Spanish Medical and Austrian Products Medium-term target: significant improvement in sustainable cash flow 93m improvement in free cash flow of 129m 38m reduction in restructuring costs 42.4m reduction in capex 10.8m reduction in IT capex 1.7m reduction in interest payments to 49.5m 2013: 51.2m 260m reduction in net debt from 1,035m to 775m ongoing revenue and profit metrics exclude the financial performance of disposed businesses but include results from acquisitions Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
