STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Chief executives statement Dear shareholders, Managing a world-class portfolio Your company had a strong year, making truly satisfying progress towards Over decades and across our product suite we have built a strong portfolio building a safer, more resilient, world-class business.
Our relentless focus of businesses.
Across the Group in 2014, we saw numerous examples of the on improving performance at all of our operations, driving down costs and strength of our portfolio.
Among the highlights of our operational performance strengthening our balance sheet has enabled us to deliver materially were the production records we set for iron ore and Hunter Valley thermal coal.
increased cash returns to shareholders.
We remain committed to pursuing Our Pilbara iron ore business reached its 290 Mt a run rate two months ahead further improvement in the year ahead.
Expanding our Pilbara operations to 360 Mt a rests comfortably In 2014 we delivered excellent results and upheld our commitment to improve with our view of the longer-term demand for iron ore.
These operations are performance and strengthen the balance sheet.
In challenging conditions we world class in terms of assets, optionality, and low-cost operating delivered on, and in many cases exceeded, expectations.
performance, as well as in our marketing expertise and leading-edge application of technology.
It is clear that in the short term we will continue to face challenging commodity markets as economic and geopolitical uncertainty continues.
The expansion translated into excellent product group earnings and cash flow Divergent monetary policy paths in Europe, the US and parts of Asia are for Iron Ore.
Despite significant price declines for its products, Iron Ores contributing to financial volatility.
China is now experiencing slower, but still underlying earnings reached US$8.1 billion.
This was a reduction of only significant, economic growth as it rebalances its economic priorities from 18 per cent on 2013, thanks to continued cost reduction efforts and the investment towards consumption.
favourable effect of the weaker Australian dollar.
But we also know that against a backdrop of uncertainty, Rio Tinto thrives.
The turnaround of our Aluminium business continued in 2014.
Higher prices for Our combination of world-class assets, disciplined capital allocation, balance aluminium and our focus on efficiency and productivity saw the product groups sheet strength, operating and commercial excellence, and our culture of underlying earnings more than double, from US$557 million in 2013 to safety and integrity gives me confidence we are best placed to make the most US$1.2 billion in 2014.
Our bauxite business is generating handsome margins, of the positive long-term demand fundamentals to generate sustainable but more work is needed in the alumina side of the portfolio.
some tough targets for 2015, and we expect aluminas profile to steadily improve.
Our strong 2014 results are first and foremost due to the efforts of our hardworking and dedicated employees around the world.
I had the great The Copper group delivered an 11 per cent increase in underlying earnings.
pleasure of visiting many of our operations during the year, and yet again I was This was despite a seven per cent reduction in average copper prices, and inspired by the commitment of our people, and impressed by their expertise.
reflects the groups success in reducing costs and boosting productivity.
I thank them all for their contributions.
Copper also increased production volumes and made more good progress in simplifying the portfolio.
I would like to thank the Executive Committee including Alfredo Barrios and Greg Lilleyman who we welcomed to the team this year for their strong and The Diamonds & Minerals group continued to focus on maximising cash flow passionate leadership.
matching capacity to the market the right approach for these specialist products.
The product group achieved underlying earnings of US$401 million, Putting safety first a 15 per cent increase on 2013, as higher volumes and lower costs more than We strive to put safety first in everything we do.
From small things such as offset lower prices in the minerals portfolio.
starting our meetings with what we call a safety share, to supporting Lower prices across the coal sector decreased our Energy groups earnings by community mental health initiatives and understanding our critical risks, US$434 million.
Not all of this could be offset by the good progress the Energy safety is deeply embedded in our culture.
team continued to make in reducing operating costs and maximising efficiencies.
We reduced our all injury frequency rate by nine per cent in 2014 compared Ultimately this resulted in a loss of US$210 million of underlying earnings.
This was our best year ever in terms of injury rate performance, and All of our product groups have high-quality growth options, which we continue over the past five years we have reduced our all injury frequency rate by to pursue in a disciplined manner.
We believe we have the right capital 14.5 per cent.
allocation framework and the right level of spending to support value-accretive However success really means everyone returning home safely, every day.
growth while ensuring we retain a strong balance sheet and meet our Therefore it is with much sadness I report the deaths of two employees at commitment to deliver sustainable returns.
In February, at the Gove alumina refinery in As part of our continued focus on efficiency and costs, we announced on Australia, our colleague Darryl Manderson died due to an equipment incident 27 February 2015 that we would be streamlining our product group structure, while carrying out maintenance work.
In November, Enrick Gagnon died when with immediate effect.
Under the new arrangements, Rio Tintos world-class a landslide derailed an iron ore train in Canada.
I was also greatly saddened by portfolio of assets has been condensed into four product groups: Aluminium, two further fatalities earlier in 2015, at QIT Madagascar Minerals and at Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals and Iron Ore. Zululand Anthracite Colliery in South Africa.
Both of these 2015 fatalities are currently being investigated.
I would like to recognise the significant contributions of Jacynthe Ct and Harry Kenyon-Slaney who left or will leave the company during 2014 and early These deaths have had a major impact on the family, friends and workmates of 2015 respectively.
I thank them both and wish them both well.
We will learn from these tragedies to prevent future ones.
Although our safety performance leads our industry, we need to be constantly vigilant and focused on improvement.
We refreshed our safety strategy in 2014 and our goal, above all, remains to eliminate fatalities.
com 5 Chief executives statement continued Focus and agility In many respects, our industry-leading businesses are where others wish to be: however, now is not the time for complacency.
We must anticipate, adapt and respond with urgency to changing conditions, sustaining our focus on efficiency in areas that make a difference rein in our costs, ensure every dollar is spent wisely and remove wasteful working capital.
Rio Tintos balance sheet is strong and sound and we are committed to maintaining this position.
In a period of market instability, a robust balance sheet is a major advantage.
It protects the business, it protects shareholders and it creates a platform for future growth.
It provides flexibility to undertake future projects as and when required and to find the best ways to reward shareholders.
On page 10, you can read more about the areas we will be focusing on in 2015 as we strive to enhance our performance even further.
Delivering sustainable value In 2014, your company fulfilled its commitment to deliver greater value for shareholders.
In doing so, we have also created value for many of our partners around the world who are so integral to the continuing success of our business.
I believe the quality and commitment of our people sets us apart, as does the way they embrace and embody our values: respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability.
I would like to thank our employees for their dedication and hard work, our stakeholders for continuing to partner with us, and you, our shareholders for investing in our company.
Sam Walsh AO Chief executive 4 March 2015 6 riotinto.
