Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Rolls-Royce is in business to deliver better power for a changing world.
The integrated power systems that we develop, build and maintain, address the increasing global demand for transport and energy.
We continually seekto reduce cost to remain competitive and to generate the funds we need to invest in future growth.
JOHN RISHTON Chief Executive 14 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report As society becomes more integrated, We have evolved and simplified our strategy population expands and the world becomes to focus on the core areas of: customer, more affluent, the requirement for the innovation and profitable growth.
type of advanced engineering solutions we provide will grow.
These are long-term trends that require long-term investment and present us with the opportunity for Customer: we put customers at the heart of long-term profitable growth.
We understand their needs and then focus relentlessly on delivery.
The path to growth will not always be smooth.
For Rolls-Royce, 2014 has proved a challenging year for reasons that I will explain in some detail.
During 2014, Group Innovation: is at the core of Rolls-Royce underlying revenue was 6% lower than in and drives a culture of continuous 2013 and underlying profit before tax improvement.
However, the Group order innovation is critical to meeting our book grew to a new record of 73.7 billion, customers current and future needs.
demonstrating the confidence our customers continue to place in our BETTER POWER technology and the growth that lies ahead.
Our Land & Sea Division is well positioned Profitable growth: by focusing on our It is encouraging that the Defence aerospace to meet the requirements for cleaner customers and presenting them with a order book increased for the first time since power that will be driven by future growth competitive portfolio of innovative products 2010, with continued growth in the order in world trade.
and services, we create the opportunity books of Civil aerospace and Power Systems.
In this review I will explain why we believe This sharper focus enables us to drive our our business model is robust, I will describe 74bn Our order book business model harder and will, over time, the transformation we are driving through increased in 2014 to a record level deliver improving financial returns.
the Group and the reasons for our confidence in the future.
I will also outline From its earliest days Rolls-Royce has the challenges we face and the decisive addressed a range of markets where action we are taking to accelerate a return Commercially, we and our competitors demand exists for advanced engineering to our long-term trend of profitable growth.
recognise the requirement of a broad solutions.
Our 1906 articles of association portfolio and exposure to differing business describe the business as producing So let me start with our business model.
It is not a coincidence technology for use in the air, on land and at We invest in technology in order to meet that there is no pure aerospace power sea.
More than a century later this approach our customers current and future needs.
system company in the world.
remains relevant and we run our business Through constant innovation we create the through the two Divisions of Aerospace and opportunity to grow sales and expand our The scale represented by our two Divisions Land & Sea that you will see described in the market share.
We earn revenue both from is important in maintaining a strong pages of this Annual Report.
the sale of original equipment and from balance sheet and protecting our servicing the power systems we produce.
Scale has also There is an industrial, commercial and We continually seek to reduce cost to remain enabled us to maintain a global R&D strategic logic that ties these two Divisions competitive and to generate the funds we network comprising 31 University together and generates value for the Group.
need to invest in future growth.
Technology Centres and seven Advanced Manufacturing Research Centres.
These Industrially, our knowledge of advanced facilities envisage, develop and test engineering applies across both our emerging technologies that have Divisions.
World-class technology is required applications across our portfolio.
Our by all of our customers and as the power breadth increases market access and systems we produce become more generates opportunity.
For example, our sophisticated, a deep understanding Nuclear business is relatively small but of materials science, electronics, data extends our influence and gives us access management and aftermarket services to the highest levels of government are increasingly important in every part internationally.
15 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED INNOVATION Strategically, our two Divisions address In response to these adverse conditions, We invest in technology in order to meet markets where long-term growth is we have accelerated progress on the 4Cs our customers current and future needs.
assured and where increasingly of Customer, Concentration, Cost and Cash Through constant innovation we create sophisticated engineering solutions will with a particular emphasis on cost.
This the opportunity to grow sales and expand be required.
We believe both aerospace decisive action is driving a transformation our market share.
and land & sea markets offer attractive of the business that will, in time, make us returns and play to our strengths.
a stronger Group and hasten our return to profitable growth.
MORE INFORMATION ON PAGES 20 TO 21 The future growth of air travel is widely understood and reflected in our 63 billion On Customer: we continue to make good Civil aerospace order book.
To give this some progress improving quality, delivery, perspective, in the past decade we have reliability and responsiveness: the delivered 1,600 Trent engines.
In the decade characteristics our customers tell us they ahead we expect to deliver 4,000.
The results can be seen across engines in this expanding fleet will produce a wide range of programmes.
At Group level service revenues that will extend for there has been a further improvement in decades to come.
Our Land & Sea Division delivery times particularly for spare parts.
is well positioned to meet the requirements In Aerospace, the Trent 1000 that powers for cleaner power that will be driven by the Boeing 787 Dreamliner has achieved future growth in world trade 90% of an industry-leading 99.9% engine dispatch which is carried by sea, urbanisation, reliability after completing over 500,000 population growth and tighter flying hours in service.
Since launch, we environmental regulations.
have doubled the time on wing for both our Trent 700 and Trent 800 fleets.
In our Across the Group, we invest in technology Civil Small and Medium Engines business, we achieved a 57 percentage points that is continually setting new standards improvement in restoring operational in power efficiency and environmental availability for business jets in the past year.
The complexity of what we do creates barriers to entry and generates Recognising the progress we have made, new market opportunities.
Put simply, there Airbus has presented us with its Supply will be significant long-term growth in Chain and Quality Improvement Award.
demand for the complex integrated power The US Governments Defense Logistics systems we deliver, and there are not many Agency recognised Rolls-Royce as a first companies with the ability to do what we tier supplier from among 153 companies can do.
and we were awarded joint first place by Aviation International News for the quality Despite these fundamental strengths, of our business aircraft support.
in 2014 our short-term performance has been negatively affected by a number of In Land & Sea, our delivery on time to factors.
In Aerospace our Defence revenues Marine customers has improved by We continue fell by 20%, reflecting reduced government 33 percentage points since 2012.
Marine defence spending in our main markets of to make good progress also signed its first commercial long-term North America and Europe.
In Land & Sea, service agreement.
As the power systems we improving quality, slowing growth in a number of our major deliver in Land & Sea become more complex, markets including Continental Europe, delivery, reliability we see further opportunities to expand our South America and China has caused some aftermarket activities, building on the data and responsiveness.
customers to delay or cancel orders.
At the and service capabilities we have developed same time, sharp declines in the price of oil in Aerospace.
In Power Systems, we opened and other commodities have led customers an additional logistics centre in Singapore, to reduce or defer expenditure, especially enabling a 5% improvement in the in the oil & gas, mining and construction availability of spare parts and setting industries.
a new standard for customer service.
Improving performance in this way strengthens the relationship we have with 16 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report We anticipate annualised cost benefits of our customers, and generates opportunities OUR FIVE PRIORITIES around 80 million from 2016 onwards, for us to secure additional business.
FORTHEGROUP with 50 million in benefits expected in 2015.
Our total Aerospace 2014 Concentration: means deciding where restructuring activities cost 164 million we want to invest and where not to.
DURING 2014 WE OUTLINED THE PRIORITIES of which 139 million was underlying.
In August, we were pleased to acquire However, in a complex and highly-regulated Daimlers 50% shareholding in Rolls-Royce FIX THE BASICS THE 4Cs business, we recognise that it will take Power Systems for 1.94 billion.
Power This is about improving the bedrock of the some time for the full benefit of our cost Systems adds scale and capability to our organisation: focusing on our customers programmes to feed through.
There are reciprocating engines portfolio.
It has and their needs: concentrating on what we also a number of headwinds in our Civil outstanding technology, operates in are good at: attacking cost across the Group aerospace business associated with our long-term growth markets and has and managing our cash position effectively.
For example, we have proved a valuable addition to our invested in the capacity required to deliver Land & Sea Division.
CULTURE our record order book, but delay in a number We want a business-orientated, innovative of our customers major programmes has We also divested a significant business in and cost-conscious culture, one that meant some of this new capacity has come December, completing the sale of our Energy understands our customers and delivers on on stream before it is needed, leaving us gas turbines and compressor business to their behalf.
We must have a culture where with under-utilised production facilities.
ethical behaviour is fully embedded, so that Siemens.
This is a business that has excellent We have also constructed a number of new we dont just win but win right.
technology and a talented workforce, but it world-class facilities to replace older, less lacks the scale required to prosper as part of productive plants.
For a period of transition CIVIL WIDEBODY Rolls-Royce.
Siemens has a far bigger power we are carrying the cost of both the old We are building on success.
In the last decade generation business and is a more suitable and new facilities.
we delivered 1,600 Trents and in the next we owner.
The sale generated proceeds of will deliver 4,000.
We power over 50% of new around 1 billion.
We are returning this to Group restructuring costs in 2014 were widebody aircraft.
Our next generation shareholders by way of a share buyback that 188 million, of which 149 million was engines, Advance and UltraFan, will help started in December 2014. underlying.
Over the past two years, the maintain our leading market position.
Turning to Cost: we have taken action to Group has reduced indirect headcount improve cost performance in every part of by 18%.
We expect Group underlying CIVIL NARROWBODY the business and in every cost category.
We restructuring costs to be between 90 Narrowbodies represent 70% of the civil have made good progress in some areas and and 100 million in 2015. aircraft market by volume and 50% by value.
as a result, Group gross margins improved We have the requisite skills and technology by 1.7 percentage points in 2014.
In Defence, Cost performance will continue to be a to return to this market and are determined we have improved margins despite declining major focus, and as we rationalise and to do so when the opportunity arises.
In Land & Sea, we closed five plants transform the Group, we have targeted a This is important in the longer term, and are rationalising other parts of the 20% reduction in our footprint and a not just because of the scale this market business.
For example, we are consolidating doubling of our lower-cost country sourcing segment offers but also because of the production of steering gear in Norway and by 2020.
We are now accelerating progress chance it presents to develop greater waterjets into Finland.
We are driving down towards these targets.
cost by improving quality, simplifying logistics, reducing waste, and adopting Cash: we continue to focus on improving MEDIUM-SPEED RECIPROCATING ENGINES processes that allow us to make things our free cash flow, particularly in the face Medium-speed reciprocating engines power better and faster.
Our programmes the vast majority of the marine vessels that to reduce product and aftermarket costs, we design and equip.
We have world-class In November, we announced a restructuring lower our headcount and to reduce our technology, but it is characteristic of this programme in our Aerospace Division and footprint all require upfront investment industry that the engine supplier is central functions, which is expected to but will deliver cost and cash benefits in particularly well placed to pull through reduce headcount by 2,600.
By the end of the medium term.
As revenue increases, other technologies, so our lack of scale 2014, 545 people had left the business, with we expect to reduce our capital expenditure in medium-speed engines confers a the majority of the reductions expected in and R&D as a percentage of sales.
The disadvantage we need to address.
This programme is expected to result customer progress highlighted earlier is in restructuring charges of around improving our operational performance.
120 million, of which 56 million was recognised in our 2014 results.
17 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED TECHNOLOGY Combined with increasing volumes, this will We marked a major milestone in the development of carbon titanium CTi fan We have continued to invest in our enable us to reduce our inventory buffers.
blades with the launch of a test flight Land & Sea Division, bringing new programme on board a Boeing 747 flying technology to market across the portfolio.
While a great deal of attention has been test bed.
CTi technology delivers lighter fan In September, we unveiled the first of a focused, quite rightly, on the financial blades that will be incorporated into future new family of medium-speed reciprocating performance of the Group, it is important aero engines.
Combined with a composite engines for power on land and at sea.
to recognise significant achievements in fan casing, it forms a system that can reduce The new Bergen B33:45 offers a 20% 2014 that will support the Groups future weight by up to 1,500lb per aircraft, the increase in power per cylinder, while profitable growth.
reducing fuel consumption, emissions and operating costs.
In Land & Sea we have also continued to 1,500 Trent XWB MORE INFORMATION strengthen our portfolio, bringing new ON PAGE 38 engines are on order.
The first technology to market across the Division.
engines were delivered to In September, we unveiled the first of a Qatar Airways in 2014 new family of medium-speed reciprocating engines for use on land and at sea.
The new Bergen B33:45 offers a 20% increase In Aerospace in December, we were in power per cylinder, while reducing fuel delighted to celebrate the first delivery of the consumption, emissions and operating Trent XWB, powering the new Airbus A350 costs.
It is our first new product to combine XWB for launch customer Qatar Airways.
the engineering strengths of our traditional The Trent XWB is the most fuel efficient Bergen engines operation and our new large aero engine operating in the world Power Systems business.
I would like to congratulate everyone greater power range, the new engine at Rolls-Royce who has worked so hard increases our addressable market in over many years to support the successful medium-speed engines by 20%.
delivery of this exceptional aircraft, for which Rolls-Royce is the sole engine provider.
In the naval market two important new ships powered by our MT30 gas turbines At the Farnborough International Airshow were officially named: the multi-mission in July, we announced the seventh member destroyer USS Zumwalt and the Royal Navy of the Trent engine family, the Trent 7000, aircraft carrier Queen Elizabeth.
that will power the new Airbus A330neo.
This new engine will incorporate technology In the rail sector, Power Systems has from our most recent Trents and will deliver developed an MTU hybrid PowerPack that a 10% improvement in specific fuel generates additional power through the consumption and halve the noise energy braking control system.
This technology output compared to the current engine on offers a fuel saving of up to 25% with a the A330.
Rolls-Royce will be the exclusive proportional reduction in emissions.
engine supplier on the A330neo, due to enter service in 2017.
For off-highway vehicles, MTUs latest Series 4000 engine has improved fuel We have continued to bring new world-class consumption by 5%.
For a typical application facilities on stream in 2014.
These include this can represent a saving of up to 100,000 the opening of our new advanced disc litres of fuel and reduction of 350 tonnes of manufacturing facility at Washington in CO the UK and the first production aerofoil emissions each year.
2 from our new Advanced Aerofoil Manufacturing Facility at Crosspointe, Virginia in the US.
2014 saw the inauguration of our new large engine test bed in Dahlewitz, Germany and the opening of a new marine customer training centre outside Rio fide Janeiro in Brazil.
18 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report This year our Global Code of Conduct has been ranked by the Red Flag Group as third among those within the FTSE 100 companies Strategically, that were assessed.
Following the roll-out our two Divisions of our Global Code, dilemma-based ethics training has been deployed to all address markets our employees to ensure continuing where long-term growth attention on this important topic.
Training in ethics and compliance will continue in is assured and where 2015.
All employees will be required to increasingly sophisticated MTUs latest Series 4000 certify annually that they have completed engine has improved fuel their training.
We will be setting similar engineering solutions consumption by standards for our supply chain through the will be required.
publication of our Supplier Code of Conduct.
5% Responding to the difficult circumstances of 2014 has required fortitude and resilience In our Nuclear business, we were from the talented men and women who encouraged that, in October, the European work for Rolls-Royce.
I would like to thank Commission approved the construction them for their hard work and for the of the first new commercial nuclear power enthusiasm I encounter wherever in the station to be built for a generation in Company I travel.
I am grateful to our the UK, at Hinkley Point in Somerset.
The suppliers and partners who make such an Commission concluded that new nuclear important contribution to Rolls-Royce and power is vital for Britains energy security share our commitment to continuous and will be key to reducing carbon emissions improvement.
I would like to thank our from the UKs electricity industry.
Hinkley customers who continue to place their faith Point C is the first of at least 11 new reactors in our technology.
Meeting their current planned for the UK, for which Rolls-Royce and future needs is our highest priority.
is well positioned to supply components, systems and engineering services.
This year we held our inaugural Trusted to Deliver Excellence Awards to recognise Rolls-Royce teams who have achieved 31 University Technology outstanding results for their customers.
This research network The imagination, passion and ability extends relationships we have to execute demonstrated by all the finalists with world-leading universities is inspiring.
You can read more about these awards on pages 42 to 43.
As the Chairman said, we continued to Returning our Group to profitable growth strengthen the governance of the Group.
will demand firm resolve and commitment We expect the highest standards of and will take some time.
However, as I have behaviour from our employees and we described in this review, the business have been explicit that we will not tolerate fundamentals of Rolls-Royce remain sound, business misconduct of any sort.
The we have the right strategy and we are clear Serious Fraud Office investigation into about the action that is required.
Everything concerns about bribery and corruption I know about this great Company makes involving intermediaries in overseas me confident that the team will rise to markets continues and we are cooperating the challenge.
fully with the investigating authorities.
Lord Gold is heading a review of our process JOHN RISHTON and procedures regarding compliance and Chief Executive business ethics.
