Chief Executive Officers review I am pleased to report another good performance.
We have built a foundation for sustained, steady performance against a backdrop of significant structural and operational change.
Moya Greene The Groups operating profit after A clear strategy Chief Executive Officer transformation costs increased to 430 Our strategy is based on three priorities: million from 403 million.
This was due to 1 being a successful parcels business: parcel revenue growth more than offsetting 2 managing the decline in letters letter volume declines.
Operating profit Our vision is to be margin declined from 4.4 to 4.2 per cent, 3 being customer focused recognised as the due to the provision for our management We are focused on delivering efficiency and reorganisation programme.
Profit before best delivery productivity improvements as our mail mix taxation excluding specific items increased changes.
We must increase the pace at which company in the UK to 363 million and our notional earnings we deliver change whether large or small per share was 26.3 pence.
Free cash flow and across Europe.
Our strategy is also increased to 398 million, primarily due to an underpinned by a focus on managing our improved trading performance and reduced business successfully, which includes people, investment spend.
customer and financial measures see pages UKPIL revenue was up two per cent at 7,787 16 to 17 for more information.
Parcel revenue increased by seven per Parcels cent to 3,162 million while volumes were flat, mainly due to the impact of size-based Our parcels strategy: key points pricing on consumers and small and mediumGetting the basics right: improving our sized enterprises SMEs and the industrial first time delivery rates through relations environment at the end of 2013.
The initiatives like Delivery to Neighbour.
operating profit margin before transformation costs increased, as costs grew at a slower rate Getting the technology right: including than revenue.
However, the provision for the making it easier for our customers to management reorganisation programme access our networks and rolling out reduced the operating profit margin after FlexDelivery in GLS.
transformation costs, to 3.5 per cent.
Expanding and automating our networks: GLS delivered revenue growth across all its detailed planning for parcels systems markets.
Total revenue was 1,651million upgrades and automation in the core and operating profits were 108million.
The Royal Mail network: expanding the operating profit margin was slightly lower geographic footprint of GLS through than last year at 6.5per cent.
Despite organic growth and selective acquisitions.
increasing revenue in Germany, significant competitor investment in capacity and UKPIL collects and delivers parcels and letters increasing sub-contractor rates put pressure predominantly through the Royal Mail core on margins.
Revenue growth was driven by network and Parcelforce Worldwide.
We offer a strong performance in Italy due to our deferred, express and courier services across network of owned and franchised operations.
Over recent years, We are making progress with our turnaround e-retailing has driven parcel volume increases programme in France.
Competition is intense and capacity is increasing.
We are focused on maintaining our leading position by becoming increasingly Our vision flexible and efficient, and offering additional Our vision is to be recognised as the best service features and options.
While our delivery company in the UK and across volumes are driven largely by growth in Europe.
e-commerce, we do not benefit from growth in all areas of e-retailing.
For example, we do We are the leading provider of postal and not operate in all online segments and are delivery services in the UK.
GLS operates one under-represented in some areas, such as of the largest ground-based, deferred parcel returns for clothing and shoes.
We are now delivery networks in Europe.
focusing on faster growing market segments.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 08 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We are increasing the proportion of items we of which was to support the delivery of our Our letters performance was at the better end can carry cost-effectively on foot, enabled parcels strategy.
We completed the issue of of our expectations.
Revenue was down two bytrolleys.
more than 74,000 handheld scanners to our per cent.
Addressed letter volumes declined by postmen and women in time for Christmas four per cent during the year.
The decline in Our parcel customer base is large and diverse.
Looking forward, key areas of addressed letter volumes moderated in the Around a quarter of our domestic parcel investment will provide additional tracking second half.
This was due to strengthening revenue, excluding Parcelforce Worldwide, systems, including expanding barcoding and economic conditions, alongside one-off is generated by large and medium-sized SMS messaging.
impacts such as energy companies writing to companies, whilst approximately three customers about price rises in October 2013, quarters is generated by consumers, GLS is a strategically important part of Royal and an increase in stamped mail volumes in micro-SMEs and SMEs.
Our single largest Mail Group.
It provides geographical December 2013, including Christmas cards.
parcel customer accounts for approximately diversification of our earnings.
Its experience six per cent of UKPIL parcel revenue.
Changes and focus on parcel delivery means it is a core In March 2014, we began the rollout of to its minimum order for free delivery and the component of Royal Mails vision of being Mailmark, which provides barcode expansion of its own delivery capabilities are recognised as the best delivery company technology and online reporting for machineexpected to reduce available volume.
However, in the UK and across Europe.
readable business, advertising and publishing we believe the breadth of our customer base mail.
Mailmark will deliver a number of Business-to-business B2B parcel customers and our strategy of supporting SMEs to grow additional benefits for customers, including form GLS core market, representing more through e-commerce means we are not as timely reporting on performance and than 70 per cent of all parcel volumes it exposed to the actions of our largest predicted delivery times, and more accurate delivered in the year.
It is mainly active in the customers as some of our competitors.
deferred parcels segment the least timeIn April 2013, we introduced size-based sensitive type of delivery.
94 per cent of GLS Marketing mail revenue was 1,111 million.
pricing for consumers and SMEs to ensure revenue came from deferred parcels.
Research has demonstrated that using that parcels are delivered through the most marketing mail in combination with other GLS continued its introduction and appropriate UK network.
This approach has media significantly increases communications enhancement of FlexDelivery.
This is a driven significant growth in revenue, while effectiveness.
Our MarketReach business aims monitoring and tracking service that allows parcel volumes were flat.
Declines in to prove and promote the commercial value of customers to change the delivery time and consumer volumes were greater than mail and enables customers to realise that location of parcels.
We recognised this quickly and value within their own businesses.
These available in ten markets, with plans to roll it took action to fix it expanding small parcels additional services complement the extensive out to more countries.
It is also available for dimensions in October 2013.
UK delivery network, which Royal Mail uses for cross-border traffic in selected markets.
the distribution of customers marketing mail.
We are also making it easier for customers to GLS operates through wholly-owned and receive and return parcels.
Royal Mail is to As we seek to win business, we are flexing our partner companies, in 37 countries and pilot Sunday afternoon opening at around 100 services to provide what customers want.
nation states across Europe, with strategies of its delivery offices across the UK later this During March 2014, we were awarded a developed based on the dynamics of each local summer.
We will also trial Sunday parcel significant contract to collect and deliver market.
However, every business focuses deliveries later this summer to addresses mail for 14 councils across London.
This on reliable quality with a strong customer within the M25 motorway.
Parcelforce collaborative agreement, where mail services emphasis, optimising the use of technology Worldwide will also launch a Sunday delivery have been procured centrally in order to gain to provide the services and flexibility service in June for online shoppers through efficiencies, is the first of its kind for Royal customersexpect.
Letters We have added tracking to all contract returns Regulation services, so customers can check whether We are proud to deliver the Universal Service.
Our letters strategy: key points items have gone back to the seller and the But, the sustainability of the Universal Service Managing the structural decline in the seller can see when an item is coming.
depends on Royal Mail being able to use letters market by adding value to Working with the Post Office, Royal Mail has revenue from easy-to-serve urban areas customer mailings: rolling out Mailmark launched Local Collect the UKs largest click to cover the cost of a nationwide network barcoding technology and promoting the and collect network.
Receiving a parcel at capable of serving all addresses at a value of marketing mail.
home is still the UK consumers preferred uniformprice.
If this is not convenient, Calling on Ofcom to address the potential On 10January 2014, we announced a customers can choose one of around 10,500 threat to the economics of the Universal number of changes to Royal Mails access participating post offices as a parcel collection Service created by the uncertainty contracts.
The changes were intended to help point.
We have completed the expansion of caused by its Competition Act secure the provision of the Universal Service, the capacity of Parcelforce Worldwide, with a investigation, access pricing policy review against the backdrop of a continuing decline in domestic hub opened in Chorley in 2013 and and the unfettered growth of direct letter volumes.
Following a complaint by TNT eleven depots newly opened or upgraded delivery competition.
Post UK, Ofcom opened an investigation into across the UK in the financial year.
Leveraging the benefits of our some of the access contract changes on Delivery companies are increasingly investments in letter automation by 21February 2014.
The price changes subject technology companies, as they seek to provide increasing the number of letters sorted to Ofcoms investigation are suspended improved tracking and delivery solutions.
into delivery order and optimising mail untilthe outcome of this investigation.
On In 2011, UKPIL began a five year IT handling techniques.
9April2014, Ofcom confirmed that it would transformation programme, one objective Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 09 Chief Executive Officers review continued use its powers under the Competition Act addresses by 2017.
TNT Post UK can consistent with the need for Royal Mail to earn 4 1998 to investigate the complaint.
cherry-pick easy-to-serve urban areas: a reasonable commercial rate of return.
With delivering easy-to-handle post to homes less our proposed access price changes remaining The planned changes to access contracts are frequently than Royal Mail and to no defined suspended and unfettered direct delivery an important part of our commercial response quality standard.
Royal Mail is required to rollout, there is a reasonable prospect that to changing market conditions, including the deliver six-days-a-week, overnight, this level of margin may never sustainably 1 expansion of direct delivery competition.
We throughout the whole country, to stringent be achieved.
believe TNT Post UKs complaint is unfounded.
quality standards and at a uniform, affordable We believe the changes are fair, reasonable We do not believe the current situation serves tariff.
Moreover, we are also required to and fully within the guidance provided by the best interests of consumers.
Ofcom has deliver any items TNT Post UK does not 2 Ofcom.
We are cooperating fully with Ofcom acknowledged in a recent guidance document consider economic to deliver itself.
If TNT to ensure the investigation is completed as its duty, powers and willingness to act to Post UK is successful in delivering its stated 5 quickly as possible, so that our planned protect the Universal Service if required.
objectives, this could threaten the changes can be put into effect.
However, effective regulatory action could fundamental economics of the Universal take some time to implement.
Meanwhile, the On 9April 2014, following the end of the Service.
Based on our estimates of the impact Competition Act investigation and Ofcoms reporting period, Ofcom also announced a of TNT Post UKs publicly-stated plans, this access policy review may create a significant policy review of the access conditions imposed could reduce Royal Mail revenue by over period of uncertainty in the UK postal market.
3 on Royal Mail in March 2012, and Ofcoms 200 million in 2017-18.
At the same time, This uncertainty, combined with our Universal guidance on those conditions.
Ofcom has our ability to reduce costs to offset this would Service commitments, means our ability to said it will complete this by the end of 2014. be limited by our obligations to deliver the respond commercially is constrained.
At the We are proactively engaging with Ofcom on Universal Service.
same time, direct delivery operators are this review.
Our analysis is that, without timely continuing to expand their operations.
This is TNT Post UK now has direct delivery intervention from the regulator, direct delivery why we are preparing a regulatory submission operations in much of London and in competition will have a serious impact on the calling on Ofcom to take action now and carry Manchester and in Liverpool.
It has stated its sustainability of the Universal Service.
Ofcom out a full review of direct delivery.
Such a intention to take its own direct delivery has stated that an EBIT margin range of review would be in line with Ofcoms primary service to a number of other cities, with the between five and ten per cent for Royal Mails duty to secure the provision of the Universal aim of covering around 42 per cent of reported business is appropriate and Service.
It would also allow for full July 2013 A year of achievement Andy Murrays historic Wimbledon win celebrated with special stamps Royal Mail and Post Office announce launch of Local Collect, the UKs largest click and collect network May 2013 April 2013 May 2013 June 2013 July 2013 August 2013 September 2013 Pensions Reform confirmed following consultation with Plan members 70 million September 2013 initiative announced to improve the value of business mail through Mailmark barcode technology July 2013 1 Direct delivery refers to a situation where other postal operators convey mail from customer to recipient, entirely using their own delivery network and not Royal Mail.
2 Ofcom: End-to-end competition in the postal sector: Final guidance on Ofcoms approach to assessing the impact on the Universal Postal Service of 27 March 2013 and Securing the Universal Postal Service: Decision on the new regulatory framework, Ofcom statement of 27 March 2012.
3 Based on: TNT Post UKs stated ambition of 42.3 per cent delivery point coverage in 2017: expected addressed inland letter market volumes of approximately 11 billion items in 2017-18, using Royal Mails forecast range of a 4-6 per cent per annum decline in addressed letter market volumes: our estimate that TNT Post UK achieves a 20 per cent local market share in areas where it operates in 2017-18: and an annual RPI increase in our Average Unit Revenue per Downstream Access item.
4 Securing the Universal Postal Service: Decision on the new regulatory framework, Ofcom statement of 27 March 2012, paragraph 5.47.
5 Final guidance on Ofcoms approach to assessing end-to-end competition, Ofcom statement of 27 March 2013.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 6 consideration of what regulatory interventions Class mail in 2013-14.
93.2 per cent of First Neighbour initiative is a key focus as we seek may be necessary.
At the same time, we are Class mail was delivered the following day to improve the effectiveness of our delivery 7 raising the issue with HM Government and are 2013 91.7 per cent, and 98.9 per cent of operations and reduce redeliveries.
Recent seeking a legislative amendment that would Second Class mail was delivered within three Ofcom research found that 94 per cent of require a review of direct delivery if Ofcom days of posting.
customers were satisfied with this service.
does not initiate one in a timely manner.
Transformation and cost control See KPIs pages 18 to 19 Customers Royal Mail is continuing to transform as we We have a trusted brand.
Our most recent seek to mitigate falling letter volumes and We have delivered a significant improvement Corporate Image Report, conducted by Ipsos manage increasing parcel volumes in an on prior years against our internal composite MORI in November 2013, indicated that 71per increasingly competitive parcels market.
We achieved a performance cent of customers believe Royal Mails services matter of course, we look to organise similar of 95.1 per cent, meeting our target.
tasks into single areas to avoid unnecessary duplication.
Since 2003, more than 50,000 See KPIs pages 18 to 19 people have left the UK business, with 12,000 Our own research indicates that our mean leaving in the last four years.
On 25March business customer satisfaction score is 75.
Overall, complaints were down six per cent on 2014, we launched a consultation with our This is an increase on 74 last year, and 70 in 9 last year 2013 489,900 : 2014 458,700. unions on a proposal to achieve a net 2011-12. reduction of 1,300 roles, mainly within our Improving our performance in this important See KPIs pages 18 to 19 managerial population.
We recognise that this area is a key strategic focus.
change is tough on our people.
But, we must It is strategically important that we maintain See KPIs pages 18 to 19 continuously improve our efficiency.
This is a this customer loyalty.
key way to sustain the Universal Service and Four issues account for the majority of secure good quality jobs for our people.
Our regulated Quality of Service specifications complaints: redirection, misdeliveries, are amongst the highest of any major As we have said before, the initial phase of our redeliveries and Something for You cards.
Almost all Our performance has improved for three of of our Delivery Offices have now commenced these complaints, the exception being I am delighted to report that we exceeded our or completed modernisation.
We continue to Something for You cards.
Our Delivery to regulatory targets for both First and Second drive improvements in the network to be Admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange: 490 million of Free Shares in New industrial relations framework Royal Mail allocated to approximately approved by CWU members 150,000 employees February 2014 October 2013 October 2013 November 2013 December 2013 January 2014 February 2014 March 2014 December 2013 Winning designs from 2 million childrens competition feature fundraising target met, including matched on Christmas stamps giving, for our Charity of the Year, Prostate Cancer UK March 2014 6 Not adjusted for force majeure.
7 This is not adjusted for force majeure.
In 2012-13 the adjusted for force majeure result was 92.5 per cent, including external events such as snow, volcanic ash clouds and the 2012 London Olympics.
8 An internal measure for all retail parcel products in the Royal Mail core network.
9 This has been restated from 486,400 due to the addition of Door to Door complaints.
These were previously tracked separately and have been integrated to improve oversight of complaints across the business.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 11 Chief Executive Officers review continued more productive and effective.
We are now Outlook focusing on standardising processes and Our key value drivers of single digit revenue embedding examples of best practice.
growth, margin expansion and underlying Relatively small changes, implemented across free cash flow growth remain the objectives our business, can deliver significant efficiency for the Group for the 2014-15 financial year.
We will be launching a nationwide However, while we are satisfied with our campaign to ensure Delivery to Neighbour is progress in 2013-14, we are facing increasing deployed consistently where appropriate.
challenges in the parcels and letters markets Improving our rate of first time delivery is a in the UK.
key strategic focus across our operations.
We intend to pursue a progressive dividend Ourexpansion programme in Parcelforce policy having regard to the normalised Worldwide is now complete.
We are continuing earnings progression of the Group.
As the to plan for automation in the Royal Mail regulatory position on direct delivery becomes corenetwork.
clearer, the Board would expect to provide The productivity improvement of 1.7 per cent more clarity on our dividend policy.
Whilst we reduced collections, Royal Mail in the private sector processing and delivery hours by 2.9 per cent, We must continue to deliver change at an the industrial relations environment meant increasing pace to meet the challenges of the we were unable to extract more hours to changing mix of mail, the liberalised UK postal compensate for the impact on workload market, intense parcel competition, and a associated with flat parcel volumes.
Most of Royal need to become more productive and efficient.
Mails non-people costs are subject to inflationary Royal Mails transformation is being delivered pressures.
This year we were particularly whilst maintaining our high Quality of Service successful in addressing this.
I would like to thank all my colleagues were down by three per cent in UKPIL.
for the fortitude and conscientiousness with Our people which they have embraced these changes.
Following our recent flotation, the Iam confident that, with their continued overwhelming majority of our UK employees diligence and support, we will be able to make are also shareholders in our Company.
Free ongoing progress in delivering our strategy.
Shares gave our people a direct stake in the Company and its future success.
Each eligible full-time employee who participated in the Free Shares Offer now has 729 shares.
They, along with all shareholders, will receive Moya Greene a final dividend in July 2014, subject to Chief Executive Officer shareholder approval.
6June 2014 In December 2013, we announced an agreement in principle with the Communication Workers Union CWU.
Thiswas approved by its members in February2014.
The agreement is wide ranging in its coverage and focused in its support of the business.
It represents a joint commitment to radically improve industrial relations and create a can-do culture in the interests of customers, employees and the Company.
We are focused on bedding down this agreement to ensure that we provide a stable and unique platform for problemsolving and for jointly moving the business forward at a faster pace.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 12
