06 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Chief Executives review Driving strong performance We continue to innovate and rejuvenate our products, seize opportunities for growth and increase the efficiency of our operations.
Business performance We have produced a resilient performance in the face of 7% US$496m anumber of headwinds, with organic, constant currency EBITA growth of 7% and strong margin improvement.
Group EBITA growth Cumulative net operating benefits NPR growth was led by our developing market businesses on an organic, per annum from the business constant capability programme.
inAfrica and Latin America, together with our associate in currency basis.
China, where we continued to build capacity, make selective price increases and grow our premium brand portfolios.
Wecompleted our business capability programme, which achieved cumulative net operating benefits of US$496 million Greater efficiency from global scale per annum, ahead of our most recent US$450 million per We have launched a new efficiency programme to realise annum target.
We have now launched a new programme to further benefits from our scale.
We are now creating a new drive additional operational efficiencies, which is expected global business services function that will consolidate many of to deliver annual savings of approximately US$500 million our back office and specialist functions in three centres around by March2018.
the world, which will serve operations in all of our markets.
Our Innovation and growing the beer category globally managed procurement organisation will, over the next As a business we are putting increasing focus on growing three years, move from managing around 46% of all spend to the beer category.
Refreshing our large, national icon lager more than 80%, together with changes to its current brands to keep them relevant and attractive is at the heart deliverymodel.
Introducing a heritage can for Miller Lite in the USA We have also been focused on optimising our supply chain.
increased can sales significantly, Kozel performed strongly We have worked hard to improve efficiency in our brewing and inthe Czech Republic after we repositioned the brand, and manufacturing operations around the world.
We are now turning wehad strong volume growth in Carlton Dry and Carlton Mid our attention to distribution as the final element in the supply inAustralia.
Together these initiatives are expected to We are increasing our offer in premium beer, finding deliver annual savings of approximately US$500 million by opportunities to accelerate the growth of our global brands March2018.
and to develop new local premium brands.
MillerCoors Raising the bar on sustainable development in the USA has done this successfully with Blue Moon, Since 2007 our 10 sustainable development priorities have Leinenkugels and Redds flavoured ales.
Producing great driven responsible and sustainable growth and grown premium products is important across the world, not just capability across our business, helping each of our operations in more mature markets.
In China, for example, our associate to address local sustainable development challenges.
Our CR Snow now has more than 30% of volumes in the premium minimum standards, which were a stretch for several of our segment, led by Snow Draft and Snow Brave the World.
businesses in 2007, are now well established across the group Both Miller Genuine Draft and Miller Lite grew volumes and are integrated into day-to-day management.
by more than 50% in Latin America during the year.
From this position of strength, we have evolved our sustainable At the other end of the price spectrum we have moved development framework to focus on five shared imperatives: further into making beer affordable in developing markets, particularly in Africa, where the price relative to wages accelerate growth and social development in our value chains: is high.
This takes many forms, from offering a greater range make beer the natural choice for the moderate and of pack sizes to expanding traditional beers and using local responsible drinker: crops like sorghum to brew affordable beer.
The latter secure shared water resources for our business and approach attracts an excise break from governments, localcommunities: which means that we are able to sell at a discount to our create value through reducing waste and carbon emissions: mainstream brands, and offer an alternative to illicit alcohol.
and support responsible, sustainable use of land for Innovation is crucial to growth of the beer category, brewingcrops.
with new liquids, packs and experiences helping to engage consumers with a greater range of flavours, beer styles We call them shared imperatives as we believe these are and strengths, whatever their drinking preference big challenges shared by business, society and government.
We seek to address them both locally and internationally in partnership with our suppliers, customers, consumers andcommunities.
Read more on pages 40 to 43 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 07 Extra Cold success 39.4% Premium market share In South Africa, Castle Lite used an innovative labelling technology, pioneered by MillerCoors in the USA, which changes colour to indicate how well chilled it is.
Consumers responded well to the Extra Cold positioning, and Castle Lite grew premium market share to 39.4% for the year ended 31March 2014.
08 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Chief Executives review continued Addressing risks Director of SABMiller Africa for the past six years, Mark has We place great emphasis on identifying, monitoring and been instrumental in developing our business in this fastmitigating risks to our business and we have a well-developed growing region.
risk management process in place.
We continually review Finally, I would like to thank all of my executive team who have these risks and in the year we have added information security, so ably supported me in my first year as Chief Executive, and including cyber security and the resultant possible disruption everyone else in the business who has contributed to to business, as a specific principal risk.
All principal risks are SABMillers success.
Outlook Our people Trading conditions are expected to remain broadly unchanged Everyone has a right to work in the safest possible from the year just ended, with growth continuing to be driven environment and I am determined to improve our safety by our developing markets.
However, the business will performance.
We have launched a new system of governance continue to be impacted by currency movements.
for group-wide health and safety, with 10 global minimum Development of our brand and pack portfolios will continue, as standards for managing risk areas and targeting improvements.
we seek opportunities to reach new consumers and enhance More information is available on pages 44 and45.
Revenue growth will also be driven by We announced in April 2014 that Norman Adami, Chairman selective price increases and management of our price points of SABMiller Beverages South Africa, would retire from the across all brands and packs.
Raw material unit input costs are group in July 2014.
Norman has served the group since 1979 expected to rise in low single digits in constant currency terms.
and has been a member of the executive committee for over Investment in production capacity, capability and strong 20 years.
He has made an enduring contribution to the commercial execution of existing and new consumer offerings SABMiller group and I would like to thank him for his will continue to drive growth.
We will implement our new support and inspirational leadership.
programme to deliver efficiencies to invest in this growth and improve our margins.
We have taken this opportunity to combine our South African and African businesses into one region under the leadership I look forward to leading SABMiller through the years ahead, ofMark Bowman.
We believe this will put us in a better continuing to innovate and rejuvenate our products, seize position to grow across the entire continent.
As Managing opportunities for growth and increase the efficiency of our operations.
With this approach I believe we are well placed tocontinue to deliver strong returns for shareholders.
Alan Clark Chief Executive The brew ery on the edge of the earth The relaunch of brands from the Cascade Brewery in Tasmania highlighted the ingredients, passion and skill involved in producing beer in Australias oldest brewery.
Cascade Bright Ale also hit the market for the first time, as we made the most of the heritage and quality of the Cascade portfolio to promote its brands.
Cascades local credentials, including its use of Tasmanian hops alongside other ingredients, were also consistently reinforced.
Strategic report 09 During the year we used an average of 3.5hl water to produce 1 hl beer 2013: 3.7hl hl, achieving our target to improve our brewery water efficiency by 25% against a 2008 base a year early.
Across Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific, 14 of our breweries used an average of 3.0hl hl or less.
In Australia, the Yatala brewery continues to lead the group, using just 2.45 hl hl.
SABMillers approach an overview of our strategy We have a broad portfolio of operations in the developing Our priority is to build our unrivalled markets of Latin America, Africa and Asia and across capability in brewing, marketing and more mature markets in Europe, Australia and North selling beers with the broadest and America.
We aim to create superior revenue growth and profitability for our investors and bring broader benefits deepest appeal to consumers in our forall our stakeholders.
We will continue to produce Our strength is built on deep understanding of each of our and develop beers that set new markets so we offer beers and soft drinks that appeal to standards in quality and taste.
We are local consumer tastes, making them attractive to our retail and trade customers.
anticipating and responding to new trends in how and where people drink Our teams on the ground are supported by central resources designed to produce economies of scale and to produce varieties of beer for many skill, eliminate duplication of effort and allow sharing of different social occasions and to insights and best practice around the group.
In 2013 we appeal to new consumers.
began a five-year programme to create shared service centres to house specialist and support functions that serve our market operations efficiently.
Our local approach means we are very much part of the communities in each of our markets.
We are creating real and lasting economic and social benefits in these communities, building supply chains, creating employment and managing impact on the environment.
Our people are skilled in and passionate about brewing beer and creating winning brands.
They are our source of enduring advantage.
The increasing diversity of our talent gives us the broadest possible range of skilled resources in our global team.
Read more on pages 14 to 16 Water efficiency ahead of target
