22 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2014 Performance Chief executives statement expected over the next two years.
This facility, which will include processing capabilities, is scheduled to be operational in the middle of 2014 saw continued 2015.
In India, the Group has recently signed a lease on a new 26,000 sq.
ft. facility to support progress in delivering the a recently won EGR cooler contract for a customer who has established a new Groups strategy, leaving production operation in India.
It is anticipated Senior with encouraging that 1m will be invested during 2015 to support this programme.
In North America, an prospects for the future.
ft. leased facility has been constructed for the Groups SSP operation in California to meet the future A320neo and CSeries production demands.
0.3m was 2014 finanCial results summary invested during the year and a further 3.7m Constant is anticipated to be required over the next two 2014 2013 Change currency years.
In July 2014, the Group announced that 1 Revenue 820.8m 775.1m 6% 11% it was to set up a satellite factory adjacent to 2 Adjusted operating profit 111.6m 107.6m 4% 10% Boeings facility in South Carolina, to assemble 3 Adjusted operating margin 13.6% 13.9% -0.3ppts -0.2ppts Boeing 787 parts.
This facility opened in Adjusted profit before tax 102.6m 98.1m 5% 11% February 2015 and represents an investment Adjusted earnings per share 19.84p 19.00p 4% of around 1m.
More generally across the Total dividend per share 5.63p 5.12p 10% Group, investment in production equipment Free cash flow 57.8m 63.8m -9% to meet the growing volumes in the Net debt 105.0m 59.2m 46m increase commercial aerospace industry is increasing, 1 Organic revenue excluding acquisitions increased by 5% on a constant currency basis.
with the next 12 months expected to see 2 Organic adjusted operating profit excluding acquisitions increased by 4% on a constant currency basis.
3 capital expenditure levels running at a Organic adjusted operating margin excluding acquisitions is 13.7% 2013 13.8% on a constant currency basis.
modestly higher rate than recently.
The Group delivered another healthy set of results in 2014, with the commercial aerospace Operating in successful end markets and being aligned with the right customers is key to market continuing to see strong growth and The Group continues to be strongly cash demand improving in the Groups North generative and delivered free cash flow of Seniors future growth prospects.
The Groups most important market is large commercial American heavy-truck market.
aircraft, now representing 38% of Group sales, where Boeing and Airbus collectively delivered 2013 775.1m.
Excluding a year-on-year The level of net debt at the end of 2014 was unfavourable exchange impact of 37.1m, 105.0m 2013 59.2m, higher than at the 1,352 aircraft in 2014, 6% more than the prior year, and booked a record 2,888 net orders.
underlying revenue from organic operations, start of the year primarily due to the acquisition excluding acquisitions, increased by 5.4% of Upeca in April 2014 for 74.4m.
The year end Their combined order book of 12,175 aircraft represents a very healthy nine years on a constant currency basis.
net debt level represents 0.8 times EBITDA and leaves the Group well placed to fund future production at current build rates, meaning Adjusted operating profit increased by good growth can be expected in the future.
Incremental operating profit from acquisitions delivery of grouP strategy In industries where customers have choices of 5.2m was more than offset by an The Group continued to make good progress with whom they do business, Seniors on-time unfavourable exchange impact of 5.7m.
during 2014 in delivering its strategy.
delivery and quality record and its costOrganic adjusted operating profit increased by competitiveness are key to the Group gaining The acquisition of Upeca in April strengthens 4.4%, on a constant currency basis, mainly due market share and winning work on new Seniors presence for aerospace and energy to the increase in organic operations revenue programmes.
Accordingly, great focus is placed products in the fast-growing Asian region, and operational improvements in the Flexonics at each operation on using Lean principles, enabling the Group to better meet its Division.
This more than offset the costs such as Kaizen events, to deliver operational customers requirements for in-region suppliers associated with the ongoing industrialisation improvements to reduce costs, improve and cost-competitive solutions.
Upeca has two of new aerospace programmes, although the product flow, optimise use of resources and manufacturing facilities in Malaysia, one selling Groups adjusted operating margin of 13.6% improve safety.
Seniors financial strength to the aerospace industry and the other to the in 2014 2013 13.9% was impacted.
allows the Group to remain at the forefront in energy market, and a third facility in China, this regard with increases in the shipset value Group reported operating profit decreased by which specialises in energy applications.
A reconciliation Organic investment in growing market share and A350 during 2014.
This was achieved as between reported and adjusted operating profit and winning new programmes remains a new awards and the inclusion of Upeca more is included in the Financial Review.
key strategic focus for Senior.
The Groups than offset the effects of customer pricing The underlying tax rate in 2014 was 19.5% customers increasingly operate on a global pressures.
Furthermore, the Group now has 2013 19.7% and adjusted earnings per share basis and it is important that Senior is able 20% more content on the B737 MAX and 37% increased by 4.4% to 19.84 pence 2013 to support them across the world.
In Asia, more on the A320neo than the current B737 19.00 pence.
construction work is well advanced on the and A320 aircraft, respectively, providing new 196,000 sq.
ft. facility in Thailand, with tangible evidence of Seniors success in 1m invested in 2014 and a further 9m delivering its strategy.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 activities are expensed as incurred.
In addition, Recruiting and developing good leaders is leader with the requisite personality, experience arguably the most critical aspect to the Groups and energy to drive the business forward and Bombardiers decision to suspend activity on its L85 business jet programme is expected to future success.
Seniors culture is one of I wish him the very best for the future.
empowered entrepreneurial leadership have an adverse impact on the Groups small Senior has come a long way in recent years Composites business based in Wichita, USA.
operating within a fixed control framework, and is a well-respected name in the industries where timely communication of both good in which it participates, something I take great In Flexonics, the outlook for Seniors onand bad news is expected, and success is pleasure in having been lucky enough to be highway land vehicle operations remains recognised and fairly rewarded.
This achievement is largely down to the encouraging, with volumes of heavy-duty six years, the Group Development Programme, high calibre of Seniors employees and I would trucks and passenger vehicles increasing in which is personally important to me, has been like to take this opportunity to personally thank a number of the Groups key markets during successfully expanded and increasingly my colleagues, both past and present, for their 2014 and expected to do so, albeit at a slower focused on leadership development.
During hard work, dedication and support throughout rate, in 2015.
Visibility of off-highway land 2014, the Programme was further enhanced my many enjoyable years at Senior.
vehicles for use in agricultural markets and with the introduction of a senior executive mining operations is less clear as the slowing market Conditions programme for potential future leaders and GDP growth rate in China impacts commodity Driving Innovation workshops for all of the The production ramp-up of the A350, together prices.
These lower commodity prices are, with Boeings and Airbuss plans to increase Groups operating company CEOs, both held however, likely to benefit the Group as in conjunction with Ashridge Business School.
the build rates of their B787, B737 and A320 stainless steel prices remain relatively benign.
aircraft, mean the outlook for the large CorPorate resPonsibility The recent decline in the oil price, the ongoing commercial aerospace sector, the Groups Corporate responsibility is a key part of how difficulties at Petrobras and increased most important market, is both strong and we do business at Senior and I am pleased uncertainty in the eurozone means some visible.
In particular, the Group can expect to to report continued progress in 2014. softening in the Groups industrial activity is benefit from the greater content it has on the anticipated, particularly in Brazil and Germany.
We continue to improve our people training new-engine versions of the high-volume Nevertheless, given a solid order book, the narrow-bodied aircraft, the A320neo and B737 and development programmes and are first half of 2015 should see healthy sales of increasing our cross-Group collaberation MAX, which are scheduled to enter service in large expansion joints in North America.
Over 2015 and 2017, respectively: production of the andsharing of best practices.
During the year, the longer term, environmental legislation weintroduced a Zero Harm initiative which A330 is, however, planned to decrease in 2016. continues to tighten, which can be expected Having world-class aerospace facilities in Asia isdesigned to further strengthen and embed to provide greater demand for many of the the Groups safety culture.
Whilst 2014s safety is also expected to lead to increases in market Flexonics Divisions products.
Consequently, the Group was pleased to record showed a marginal decline compared tothe prior year, the Groups sustained focus achieve recent contract awards on the A350 Around 80% of the Groups profits are and A320 at the newly acquired Upeca facility generated outside of the UK and, consequently, on safety has resulted in the 2014 lost time injury rate being only 59% of the level reported in Malaysia, and to be progressing as planned exchange rates can significantly affect the in bringing additional A350 and B787 work into Groups results.
Although the likely effect of in 2006, when the current safety programme was introduced.
Against this foreign exchange movements is difficult to growing backdrop, pricing pressure remains predict, the impact is expected to be beneficial Senior further reduced its carbon emissions a challenge, but is being managed in line at current exchange rates.
in 2014, on an underlying basis excluding the with expectations.
acquisition of Upeca, and the environmental outlook metrics also demonstrated healthy Elsewhere in the Aerospace Division, the Staying focused on customer alignment, improvement, as the Group invested to reduce Group expects to benefit from the entry into operational excellence and our people, will energy and water consumption.
Sustainability service of Bombardiers CSeries aircraft, on enable Senior to continue to grow organically.
drives demand for many of our services and which the Group has significant content, In addition, Seniors cash-generative nature operating in an ethical and responsible manner towards the end of 2015.
Senior also has good and strengthening market and financial is integral to our customer relationships.
content on the Mitsubishi Regional Jet and position provide a solid platform from which Embraer E2-Jet, which are scheduled to enter the Group can continue to pursue acquisitive The Group actively encourages its businesses service in 2017 and 2018, respectively.
After growth opportunities to complement its to invest and support local communities and some difficult years, the outlook for military existing portfolio.
sponsor good causes and I am particularly and defence, representing 12% of Group sales proud of our staff for the contributions that Overall, progress is expected to be made in 2014, appears to be stabilising with the rate across the Group during 2015 and, at current they have made locally during 2014. of decline reducing in the second half of 2014. exchange rates, the Board anticipates the retirement Whilst Western Government spending in the Group to perform in line with its expectations.
After 15 years on the Board of Senior plc, military arena remains under pressure, Senior also remains well positioned to make I have, as announced in August 2014, taken increasing build rates on programmes such as further progress in 2016 and beyond.
the personal decision to retire from Senior and the Joint Strike Fighter and the A400M military a full-time executive career.
The Board has transporter should at least provide partial Mark Rollins now appointed my successor, David Squires, mitigation in the future.
Group Chief Executive and I will be leaving the Group at the end of May New product introductions and build-rate 2015.
Whilst every business has challenges, it ramps are constant themes across the is pleasing to be leaving at a time when Senior is Aerospace Division, with the challenges they in good financial shape, with encouraging future bring expected to continue to impact a number prospects and a capable and stable anagement of Seniors businesses, particularly SSP, team in place.
In David, the Group has a new during 2015 as the costs of the development www.
