Strategic Report Strategic Report CEO Statement Establishing that foundation requires us to reduce the The financial results for 2014 were in Groups indebtedness: a strong balance sheet with a line with managements revised prudent level of financial gearing is an absolute necessity if we are to retain customers confidence and expectations.
Even so, this meant that be able to execute a strategy that will allow Serco to Serco experienced its first revenue deliver attractive levels of growth and returns in the decline in 25 years as a listed company, future.
To that end, we have launched today a fully underwritten equity rights issue to raise approximately and profitability reduced significantly.
555m, the proceeds of which will be used primarily to The challenges have been numerous: reduce the Groups indebtedness.
we have had to increase costs to Over the last nine months we have, as promised, improve service delivery on some developed a new strategy, which is to focus on the already poorly-performing contracts: public sector market and be a leading public service provider.
other contracts with higher-thanaverage margins saw reduced volumes Specifically, we intend to focus on five pillars, or market sectors: Justice & Immigration, Defence, or were lost on re-bid: and we have Transport, Citizen Services and Healthcare: and across won less new work.
We have also had four geographies: UK & Europe, North America, to take into account large impairments Middle East and Australia & New Zealand.
The strategy builds upon Sercos long track record and and onerous contract provisions expertise in the transformation and management of established to cover future years of complex public services, and of supporting critical and sensitive activities central to nations interests.
We losses on certain contracts, and as a believe our chosen markets have compelling longconsequence the overall reported term structural growth drivers and that Serco can play result for the year is a very large loss.
a central role in helping governments respond to the challenge of improving the quality and reducing the Whilst taking these charges is bitter cost of public services, whilst earning for our medicine, it is right that we face our shareholders sustainable and attractive risk-adjusted returns.
challenges now, so that we can establish a really solid foundation on The establishment of the Corporate Renewal which to build Sercos future.
Programme in 2014 and the strengthening of processes and of the management team are important first steps on our journey.
There remains much to do and the many improvements still necessary will take time not least rebuilding our pipeline of bid opportunities and making our own internal operations more efficient and effective.
Given the challenges that remain, we are cautious in our outlook for 2015, but appropriately so, as we continue to work hard on the next stage of our journey.
Serco is embarking on a programme of change to restore its health.
We will get somewhat smaller and more focused on businesses we are really good at, where we can deliver outstanding service and where our skills, experience and international reach can differentiate us.
While it will be a tough two or three years of transition, this is necessary to become the successful, profitable and growing company that Serco rightly aspires to be.
