Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executives review Introduction Im excited by the prospect of Im delighted to have joined Severn Trent, a forward looking and industry leading the next phase of Severn leading business.
The business is I appreciate all the hard work from Tony Wray and his colleagues over performing well, is soundly nanced recent years and Im looking forward to and is poised to take advantage continuing to deliver for our customers, our shareholders, our regulators and our of the continuing development of great people at Severn Trent.
Another year of delivery This was a good year for Severn Trents Liv Gareld, Chief Executive regulated business, as we delivered on our commitments to our customers, the environment, our investors and employees.
Our customers once again benefited from the lowest combined water and waste charges in England and Wales.
The cumulative price increase over the past five years is below ination.
We intend to maintain below ination increases, on average, through to 2020.
We improved our operational performance despite difficult weather, with a hot summer followed by a winter of prolonged rain and high winds.
Although the rain affected the quality of our raw water, we continued to deliver high levels of water quality compliance.
Our overall water quality continues to be amongst the best in the UK: however we know we have more to do in delivering the improvements identied in the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI Chief Inspectors report.
We remain committed to ensuring our customers continue to receive water of the highest quality.
We further reduced the average duration of interruptions to supply.
We remain on track to hit our leakage reduction target over the current regulatory cycle and we again reduced the number of properties suffering internal sewer ooding.
While our operating performance is good across most parts of our business, as the regulated business performance review details, some other performance areas did not meet the required standard.
Three of the twenty indicators used to assess the long term health of our assets are not performing within the required levels.
This in turn has resulted in three of the four serviceability areas each with one failing indicator being assessed as marginal.
We recognise this performance is not what our customers expect, and we have put actions in place to address this.
04 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We have included shortfalls in our so we have a comprehensive range of Our teams have sustained last years 20152020 business plan in recognition social tariffs.
Our relationship with the industry leading safety performance that we have not delivered the level of Citizens Advice Bureau also helps forfurther details see page 23. performance we had set ourselves.
customers to address their broader On behalf of all of my executive financial problems.
Also our customer service hasnt always colleagues, I would like to thank our been as good as we would like.
We are We continued to look after the employees and supply chain partners committed to delivering the best possible environment during the year, with our fortheir continued commitment.
experience for our customers and are investment programme producing Looking forward, conclusion focusing on training, better systems and further environmental improvements andoutlook processes and new ways for customers that also benefit our customers.
We cut Severn Trent has submitted a balanced to interact with us.
One area where we the number of sewer blockages and plan for AMP6, which offers better have targeted improvements is on our we reduced the number of serious services and continued better value New Connections process.
We recognise pollution incidents by over a third.
Were for customers, along with a healthier the need to provide customers with a fast also improving the quality of our rivers, environment.
At the same time, our plan and efficient service and are committed achieving our best ever waste water will deliver investment and growth in our to doing better to meet developers treatment works compliance of 99.29%.
business, to produce fair and sustainable expectations.
Knowing that we will supply them with returns for our investors.
We continue water is critical for our customers and This year, weve again seen our efforts to work with Ofwat to conclude the the security of supply index measures reected in our improved Service price review process.
We expect a our ability to supply water in a drought.
Incentive Mechanism SIM score, as draft determination from Ofwat on Our score this year was 100 based on our measured by Ofwat, but there is still 29 August and a final determination Ofwat measure see page9, reecting much more to be done.
Further details on12 December 2014. the work weve done to improve resilience are provided on page 20. and extract water sustainably.
Wales remains an important area of Our SIM score really matters to us it operation for us.
We welcome the Our non-regulated business delivered tells us if we are delivering 5 out of 5 publication of Welsh Governments a mixed performance, with growth performance every time, every day for Water Strategy and we will be playing in revenue and profits at Operating our customers.
We know we have lots our full part to make a success of its Services on the back of new contract still to do and that we need to deliver implementation.
We also welcome the wins and acquisitions, contrasting with a improvement quickly to keep pace publication of the Silk Commissions disappointing performance in Products, with changes in customer behaviours report into further devolution and look which recorded a loss for the year.
Weve made good forward to ongoing discussions about management team has been installed progress in our Quantitative SIM scores ensuring our customers in Wales with plans launched to reduce the cost with a 14% improvement this year, continue to receive excellent value base and return the business to profitable meaning that customers are receiving for money.
growth over the next 12 months.
a more responsive service from us.
We have taken a cautious view of the My focus for the next 12 months will Our Qualitative SIM score, which risks relating to these actions, and the be on making sure our customers are captures how our customers feel about costs are reected in these results, whilst right at the heart of Severn Trent and their interaction with us, is where we the benets will be seen progressively delivering further operational and process need to place more focus in the year throughout the coming year.
improvements, so that we are ready to ahead.
Forthe year as a whole for this deliver on our plan for the next five years.
measure, our score is 4.48 compared to Weve also delivered for our investors.
Under our current dividend policy, the 4.36 in 2012 13.
Although this leaves Our focus on efficiency, continuous dividend for 2014 15 is set to be 84.90p, us in seventh place out of the 10 water improvement and sustainable nancing a growth of 5.6%.
We will be in a position and waste water companies, we are helps us to maintain our dividend to communicate our dividend policy for improving at a faster than average pace.
the period 20152020 only after we have Severn Trent has one of the lowest levels Our tax position this year reects an received the final determination from of bad debt in the sector, at around 2.2% outline agreement we have reached with Ofwat on 12 December 2014. of revenues.
This is important for our HMRC on a long standing discussion I look forward to working with everyone customers because those who pay bear regarding overpayments of tax in prior in Severn Trent, as we build the next the cost of those who dont.
We therefore periods and have now factored this into phase of our journey to deliver for our put considerable effort into ensuring that our business plan for 20152020 to customers, shareholders, employees and customers who can pay actually do pay support lower customer prices in the next the environment.
and we have invested in new technologies regulatory period AMP6 see further that make it easier than ever to do so details on pages 11 and 12. see further details on pages 21 and 22.
This performance and continuous However, we recognise that economic improvement is made possible by our conditions remain tough.
As a responsible committed and experienced team.
Good business, its important that we help performance is underpinned by doing Liv Gareld, Chief Executive people who are genuinely unable to pay, things the right way, safer, better and faster.
