Heading Chief Executive Of cers review Sub heading In 2014 we delivered record sales and pro tability, and continued tostr tos engthen our pipeline of important medicines to enable imp people with life altering conditions peo to lead better lives.
to le At the same time we embarked on our course with the aim of At the becoming a leading global biotech building on the foundation becom laid by our One Shir laid by e reorganization.
For us, it was a year ofdelivering outstanding r ofdeli esults and superior shareholder r retur eturns, setting a clear dir ns ection and gaining momentum.
Moving forwar Movin d One of the highlights of 2014 for me was the ongoing jour One o ney to transform Shir to tran e into a high-growth, more effi cient, more innovative or innova ganization with a streamlined structure.
W We e made gr ma eat progress in this regard and our success was the r the re esult of a tr s emendous team effort to achieve a step change in gr chang owth, profi tability, cash generation and to incr incre ease the value of our pipeline.
a W We e wer we e also focused.
A prime example was our rapid and ef eff fective integration of Vir ecti oPharma following completion of the $4 billion acquisition early in the year the $4.
We successfully accelerated the gr accele owth of CINRYZE which came to us thr thro ough the Vir ug oPharma acquisition while obtaining operational syner operat gies and advancing the acquired pipeline.
Dr. Flemming Ornskov Chief Executive Offi cer 04 04 04 0 04 4 4 SHIRE PLC S SH SH SHI SH S S S S SHIRE PLC HIRE RE RE PLC PLC PLC PLC P PL L ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPOR A A AN AN NNUA NUA NUAL R L R L REPO EPO EPO PORT RT RT RT R RT 2014 T 2014 201 201 201 2014 4 4 4 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information A clear direction Our domain expertise in rare diseases is a key differentiator Our aspiration is to become a leading global biotech for Shire.
It enables us to make the most of our belief that delivering innovative medicines to patients with rare diseases those living with rare conditions are just as deserving of and other specialty conditions.
We are prioritizing those areas treatment as those living with more common conditions.
that enable us to realize our purpose and maintain leading To build on our distinctive focus and strengths, we have four positions in the therapeutic areas in which we compete.
strategic drivers: growth, innovation, effi ciency and people.
Ourcommercial excellence is driving superior top-line results In2014 we hit signifi cant milestones across all four.
andour operational effi ciency is enabling us to reinvest for thefuture.
We have highly effective business development Driving strong growth across all our businesses capabilities and a robust and innovative pipeline.
Simply put, Shire delivered growth through commercial excellence across we are a high-growth, highly innovative company making a all of our business units.
real difference in peoples lives.
In Rare Diseases, through our acquisition of ViroPharma, The best of two worlds weadded and accelerated the sales growth of CINRYZE 2 We are uniquely placed to make a difference in peoples lives 30% on a pro forma basis, an innovative product for due to our distinctive mix of complementary business units theprophylactic treatment of Hereditary Angiodema HAE and capabilities.
I like to think of it as a triangle with our attacks.
FIRAZYR, our treatment for acute HAE attacks, RareDiseases business unit at the center, where we are alsogrew strongly 55%.
In our GI business, LIALDA 3 increasingly focusing our R&D dollars, supported by the hasbecome the number one prescribed 5-ASA in the US in strength of the products in our specialty business units 2014and gained an additional 5% of market share in 2014.
Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal GI and Internal Medicine, InNeuroscience, VYVANSE sales grew 18% as more patients andour recently added Ophthalmics business unit.
Through continued to use VYVANSE to treat their Attention Defi cit this combination we get the best of two worlds the future Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD.
long-term growth and opportunities of Rare Diseases, which 1 was our fastest growing business 46% in 2014, and the continued foundation and growth of our cash-generating specialty products, which contribute signifi cantly to our RareDisease R&D dollars.
Moreover, there is an interplay between our business units Our distinctive mix of complementary that aids our current and future innovation and growth as we business units and capabilities adapt our existing therapeutic area expertise to a rare disease focus.
We are leveraging our domain expertise in rare diseases in the development of an intrathecal delivery device for enzyme replacement therapies and this year we partnered with ArmaGen to conduct research into therapies that can cross the blood-brain barrier for Hunter syndrome.
We have added to our Ophthalmics pipeline with the acquisition of the Ophthalmics specialist biotech company BIKAM Pharmaceuticals with its preclinical asset, SHP630, in development for the potential treatment of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.
In addition, through our acquisition of Lumena we have added late stage pipeline assets for rare GI hepatic conditions, and through our acquisition of Fibrotech we added an antifi brotic Rare agent for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.
Our most Diseases recent acquisition of NPS Pharma further builds upon our rare disease expertise with therapies for Short Bowel Syndrome SBS and Hyperparathyroidism HPT.
GI & Internal Neuroscience Medicine 1 Product sales growth including CINRYZE products sales acquired in January 2014 with ViroPharma.
2 2013 CINRYZE product sales reported by ViroPharma.
3 IMS SFSS Attribute Ranking Table Study.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 05 Chief Executive Of cers review continued We grew around the world too continuing to expand our Increasing ef ciency throughout our organization footprint with products available in 68 countries including Our ongoing drive to increase effi ciency gained momentum thelaunch of two products, VPRIV and AGRYLIN, in Japan.
through the year as we took advantage of the signifi cant Sales outside of the US were $1.75 billion, an increase of reorganization undertaken in 2013 to streamline and simplify 11% versus 2013.
This was a contributor to our achievements in the year, notably our profi tability, which is at an all-time high with a Non Much of our growth outside of the US was driven by our Rare 2 GAAP EBITDA margin of 44% : our ability to generate cash, Diseases business unit, particularly in Europe and the Middle 2 with cash generation of $2.4 billion in 2014: and our sales East and Africa, with these regions accounting for more than peremployee, $1.2 million.
We also simplifi ed our global 50% of our revenues outside the US.
Despite the clinical, footprint by establishing our US Operational Headquarters in regulatory, and commercial challenges with bringing a rare Lexington, Massachusetts and our International Operational disease treatment to market, we reached eight new Headquarters in Zug, Switzerland.
In addition, the launch of ELVANSE marketed as VYVANSE in the US has been Attracting, rewarding and retaining great people asuccess launching in four countries this year, making Throughout 2014 we continued to hire and retain excellent theproduct available in 12 markets outside of the US.
Our performance in a year which included international GI business unit has also shown strong growth the uncertainty and distraction resulting from the offer from this year, with MEZAVANT marketed as LIALDA in the US AbbVie, is a testament to the great commitment, skills and net sales growing by 12% and RESOLOR net sales resilience of our people, who continued to focus on their work increasing by 26%.
and delivered record revenue and Non GAAP earnings.
This refl ects not only the dedication of our people but also the Enhancing our innovation strength of our patient-focused culture.
Im proud that we are Through 2014 we continued to concentrate our R&D on rare increasingly recognized as a company where great people do diseases the majority of our research dollars now goes into great work to help transform lives around the world.
Overall, we invested $840 million on a Non GAAP 2 basis in R&D and we hosted our fi first R&D Day showcasing the innovation in our pipeline.
In 2014, we have 27 programs in clinical development, 22 of them distinct, the balance relating to new markets or new indications the most in Product sales: Percent CAGR Shires history.
In-line Mixing internal and external innovation, we have built a strong Existing Pipeline rare diseases platform in several areas, including enzyme Upside replacement, plasma-derived products, kidney and fi brotic $10 bn 10 x 20 Details related conditions, and now in rare gastrointestinal hepatic In-Line: $7 billion expected $3bn 3 diseases, with the acquisition of Lumena.
This enables us from on-market products todevelop products that can be brought to market in new 10% CAGR Pipeline: $3 billion areas where there is a high medical need.
expected from existing $7bn 3 Alongside our strong research capability in rare diseases, we pipeline made excellent progress in enhancing our specialty pipeline.
Upside: NPS Pharma, In Neuroscience for example, we explored product $5bn Lumena, Fibrotech, BIKAM, candidates such as SHP465, a potential treatment for ADHD CINRYZE new uses, early in adults.
We are also entering new markets with VYVANSE, stage pipeline and future having received FDA approval on January 30, 2015 for the business development treatment of Binge Eating Disorder BED in adults.
BED provide additional upside 1 affects an estimated 2.8 million US patients and VYVANSE to 10 x 20 isthe only FDA approved treatment for this condition.
2013 2020 $5bn represents sales from continuing operations.
1 Hudson JI, Hiripi E, Pope HG, Kessler RC.
The prevalence and correlates of eating disorder in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication.
2 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 166.
3 Shire announced its 10x20 aspiration on June 23, 2014 and seeks to achieve 2020 product sales of $10 billion from its In-line and Pipeline portfolio as at May 2014.
06 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information I am thankful for the leadership of our employees and their 10 x 20: a journey and a goal outstanding contributions through such a successful and To guide and encourage us, we have set the target of achieving eventful year.
Shire has become a place that attracts people $10 billion in product sales by 2020.
Our 10 x 20 goal acts as because it has the things they are looking for low hierarchy, our compass as we navigate excellent commercial execution quick decision making, interesting products, and collaborative across our business units, and strong innovation in our colleagues.
As we continue to grow and pursue our goal to be pipeline.
This is the direction we have set for ourselves.
a leader in biotech, Shire is a place which offers increasing 10 x 20 is a new and galvanizing target for us, but in many opportunities and rewards for everyone involved.
ways it is very much in character we are a high performance I would also like to thank our investors for their continued company setting another high bar to meet and exceed.
I am very pleased and proud of the fact that we attract also as much about the journey as the goal.
I like both the investors who continue to support us on our journey.
ambition of 10 x 20 and the adventure of getting there.
Aiming to lead in biotech Transforming lives Our four strategic drivers growth, effi ciency, innovation and Looking ahead, we will continue to build on our strong people are the engines propelling us forward on our journey foundation and achievements.
We have a clear growth to become a leading global biotech with a focus on rare strategy and a streamlined organization.
We know where we diseases and specialty conditions.
We have made signifi cant are heading and, in great measure, how we are going to get progress this year but we also recognize that we are still in the there.
But we also know that the year ahead will feature new early stages of our journey.
We remain committed to being opportunities and challenges that we are ready to make the alean, streamlined, innovation-driven and growth-focused most of so we continue to strive to strengthen and improve.
A company that is big on ideas and value, rather Through all of our change and progress one thing above all than simply big.
This is as much a mentality shift as an remains constant our patients.
Were on this journey for operational shift its about thinking differently and acting them and we are inspired to make a difference because we differently to get where we want to go.
want to deliver innovative medicines that have the potential totransform their lives.
Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH Chief Executive Offi cer $5.8bn 44% 1 2014 record product sales Non GAAP EBITDA margin Sales in 68 countries $840m 1 Weve continued to expand our footprint Investment in Non GAAP R&D 1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
