Introduction Chief Executives statement The delivery of an adjusted operating profit for the group in line with last year reflects the considerable achievement of all of our businesses in a year when EU sugar prices declined substantially.
6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The delivery of an adjusted operating in revenues achieved by our food profit for the group in line with last businesses in recent years has not been year reflects the considerable sustained this year.
It is against this achievement of all of our businesses background that I am pleased with the in a year when EU sugar prices profit and margin improvements delivered declined substantially.
by Agriculture, Grocery and Ingredients.
This financial year saw sterling strengthen Operationally, AB Sugar had an excellent against all of our major trading currencies year with good factory performances and particularly those in emerging and further substantial cost reductions markets.
Group revenue declined by from the performance improvement 3% to 12.9bn but, at constant currency, programmes which are well embedded actually increased by 1%.
Adjusted in each of the businesses.
We expect operating profit was 1% lower at 1,163m EU prices to fall further during the but increased by 2% at constant currency.
coming year, but remain confident that Currency movements have had a our well invested sugar assets position significant impact on our business us amongst the worlds lowest-cost segments this year and in order to sugar producers.
understand the underlying operating At Primark, a strong store opening performance of each of them, we have programme, excellent buying, and higher referred to the year-on-year changes at sales densities in our new stores, all constant currency.
came together to drive revenues to A key influence on this years within a fraction of 5bn with a further performance has been the impact on improvement in margin.
As well as our food businesses of price deflation expanding in our more established UK in some of our major commodities.
market we also opened large stores in a The prices of wheat, barley, corn oil and number of major cities across Europe, rice all fell during the year.
World sugar including Lisbon, Madrid, Berlin, Cologne, prices have also fallen and, as discussed Dusseldorf and Vienna.
This year saw the elsewhere in this report, we are in the opening of our first stores in France, firstly midst of a structural change in EU sugar in Marseille quickly followed by Dijon and prices.
As a consequence the growth then three stores in the suburbs of Paris.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We were delighted by the success of these French stores, both for the size of the crowds on opening days, which were overwhelming, but more importantly for the tremendous customer enthusiasm for Primark, in very different cities, which was sustained throughout the rest of the year.
Primarks response to the Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh in 2013 has been extensive.
In addition to the payment of compensation to the victims and their families, Primark was a founding signatory to the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh.
This Accord is a contract between over 150 apparel brands and retailers, international and local trade unions and NGOs, which are committed to carrying out factory inspections and improving working conditions in the Bangladesh garment industry.
Primark carried out building surveys in Bangladesh to assess the structural integrity of all of the 80 factories from which we source garments.
These structural assessments will be extended to other countries shortly.
Our businesses are encouraged to Summary Grocery made very good progress with take advantage of the technical skills, Looking ahead to the next few years profit and margin well ahead of last year.
geographical presence, capabilities and we see excellent prospects for Primark Twinings Ovaltine had another excellent experience that are available elsewhere and further development of Grocery, year, both in the UK and overseas, and in the group, in the development of their Ingredients and Agriculture.
We expect trading was much improved at ACH Foods own operations.
The Operating Review a further large reduction in profit for AB in the US and Mexico.
The recovery in showcases some examples of our Sugar during 2014 15 and some volatility profitability at George Weston Foods in success in leveraging the benefits of in the medium term with the reduction of Australia was well established this year.
being part of a larger group, an illustration excess stocks and as the sugar industry AB Agri deserves credit for the further of which was the collaboration between restructures.
By the end of our 2015 development of the business, particularly our enzymes, cereal extrusion and financial year much of the structural for the strides made by AB Vista as it Agri businesses to deliver the new change in EU prices will be behind us and extends its global customer reach.
cereal extrusions factory at Evansville we have every reason to beconfident of Profit in Ingredients recovered strongly in the US which would not have been further progress for thegroup thereafter.
this year as the new management team achieved by any of the individual George Weston at AB Mauri, our yeast and bakery businesses on their own.
Chief Executive ingredients business, made significant progress in reducing the cost base, restructuring operations and integrating the newly acquired European bakery ingredients business.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
