STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review A good financial performance while strengthening the business Dear Shareholder The journey to reshape Smith & Nephew proudly supports healthcare professionals in their daily efforts to improve Smith & Nephew continues the lives of their patients.
We do this by taking a pioneering approach to the design of our products and services, by striving to ensure and I am excited by our wider access to our advanced technologies, and by enabling better outcomes for patients prospects for accelerating and healthcare systems.
In doing so, we drive growth and create value for our stakeholders.
In 2014, we made great progress.
We drove a much improved performance in US Hip and Knee Implants and maintained our momentum in Sports Medicine Joint Repair and Trauma & Extremities.
Advanced Wound Bioactives, acquired at the end of 2012, again produced double-digit growth.
Our continued investment in Emerging & International Markets drove revenues up 17%.
Performance in Europe was weaker and Advanced Wound Management was held back by a distribution hold on RENASYS in the US, and I am confident that we have taken actions that will deliver a better 2015 across these areas.
Additionally, the Phase 3 trial results for HP802 were a disappointment, but we remain committed to developing pioneering Advanced Wound Bioactives treatments.
The Group generated a good increase in revenues and trading profit, and an 8% uplift in EPSA.
I am pleased by the changing mix of the business, as we successfully rebalance by strengthening our higher growth platforms.
These now represent more than half of our revenue, up from just 35% three years ago.
Pioneering design Smith & Nephew has a long history of pioneering design, dating back to our foundations in the 19th century.
In 2014, we launched many exciting products, including a cruciate retaining version of our JOURNEY II natural-motion knee, a first-of-its-kind DYONICS PLAN surgical planning tool for hip arthroscopy, and the HAT-TRICK Lesser Toe Repair System.
We continued to invest more in R&D, over 5% of revenue, and have a strong pipeline for 2015 and beyond.
6 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION For us, innovation is not just about products.
ArthroCare, completed in May 2014, has Our results It is also about how we do business.
We seek strengthened our Sports Medicine business.
new ways to serve our customers.
In 2014, Its technology and products significantly we pioneered a new commercial solution for enhance our portfolio, and we will use our Orthopaedic Reconstruction that fulfils the global presence to drive substantial new 22.9% unmet needs of customers searching for a growth.
The integration is progressing well.
1 Trading margin up 20bps different value proposition.
Called Syncera, this offers clinically proven primary hip and Enhanced efficiency knee implants combined with cutting-edge By simplifying and improving our operating technology to streamline the extensive model we are increasing our agility and support process.
Syncera has the potential to 83.2 efficiency.
In 2011, we announced a generate significant savings for the customer.
1 EPSA up 8% programme to generate annual savings of We are encouraged by the contracts signed $150 million.
By 31 December 2014, we had and prospective customers.
achieved annualised savings of $146 million, enabling investment in the Emerging & Widening access International Markets, R&D and other In the Emerging & International Markets growth opportunities.
we have built an entrepreneurial business In 2014, we announced a further programme resourced to maximise the significant to realise at least another $120 million of opportunities we see.
In 2014, it generated annual savings.
This work is progressing well.
more than $600 million revenue, with China, For instance, we are rationalising our global our largest market, growing revenue at over property portfolio and found major savings 30%.
15% of Group revenue came from these through better procurement processes.
These savings will more directly benefit the In 2014, we established a new commercial bottom line.
structure to market and expand our midtier value product ranges.
This will provide Great Place to Work wider access to our advanced technologies, helping us support an ever greater number of Achieving recognition as a Great Place to customers in delivering affordable healthcare.
It means having a workplace where employees are proud and excited to come each day because they Enabling better outcomes are doing work that makes a difference for We provide high quality products and customers and patients.
During 2014, medical education to help drive better clinical I was proud to congratulate our colleagues outcomes.
During 2014, we saw strong and in Spain for being the first country to achieve rising demand for unique products such as this distinction from the Great Place to Work our hard-wearing VERILAST Hips and Knees, Institute and it will not be the last.
Also, our VISIONAIRE patient-matched instrumentation sustainability performance was recognised and the PICO portable disposable again as we retained our rankings in both the Negative Pressure Wound Therapy system.
FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability These, and many other advanced Smith & indices.
Acting sustainably and responsibly Nephew products, also enable healthcare to deliver long-term benefits to society is professionals to treat more patients faster, important.
It is our employees who earn these improving the economic outcome for the awards, and I thank them for their efforts.
I am pleased with our momentum in 2014 as we delivered a good financial performance Strengthening our platform while strengthening the business, and you will find more details on our successful actions on In recent years, we have successfully pages 42 to 53.
Whilst the journey to reshape supplemented our organic growth through Smith & Nephew continues, we enter 2015 acquisitions.
Healthpoint Biotherapeutics stronger and more efficient and I am excited gave us a leading position in Advanced by our prospects for accelerating growth in Wound Bioactives, the fastest growing 2015 and beyond.
segment of Advanced Wound Management.
We have also completed a number of Sincerely, acquisitions in the Emerging & International Markets, strengthening our platform by adding products, manufacturing, distribution and sales teams.
Olivier Bohuon 1 Explanations of these non-GAAP financial measures Chief Executive Officer are provided on pages 176 to 179.
