Chief Executives statement Weexpect to increase our investment Our priority is to accelerate medium-term growth and in growth initiatives in the coming year.
reposition the business through consistent investment Smiths Medical saw a return to revenue growth during the second half, albeit in product innovation, sales effectiveness, and expansion against a weak comparator.
This followed in high-growth markets.
This investment is funded first half declines caused by weak procedure volumes, price pressure and by our Fuel for Growth programme, scheduled to the impact of a distributor destock in generate 60m of annual savings by 2017 with initiatives the USA, all of which had an impact on profitability.
Medical also had to manage underway across all divisions.
the inevitable disruption caused by the approach last year to acquire the business.
As expected, Smiths Detection saw declines in revenues against a strong comparator period, primarily reflecting weaker demand in cargo screening and transportation.
Profitability fell as we incurred additional costs on the delivery of existing programmes and with working capital adjustments as we adopted new divisional policies.
A new divisional president has taken charge and is focusing on driving operational improvements, as well as addressing the shortcomings in programme delivery.
These initiatives to tackle low-margin programmes and other ongoing productivity initiatives are likely to take another year to 18 months.
Smiths Interconnect saw a return to revenue growth in the second half, with strong demand from wireless telecom and test and measurement customers.
Productivity gains helped enhance margins, despite the lower volumes.
Flex-Tek grew revenues with gains in the construction and heating element markets, increasing Philip Bowman margins to recent highs as a result of its Chief Executive operationalgearing.
Results summary Our drive to reposition the Group to Strategy Smiths Group made progress, with accelerate revenue growth continued.
Our strategy is to grow shareholder value John Crane, Smiths Interconnect and This includes investing in product and transform Smiths into a world-class Flex-Tek all delivering organic revenue innovation, increasing our presence organisation by: growth and headline operating margin in high-growth markets, sales and Delivering revenue growth through improvement.
Disappointingly, these marketing effectiveness, driving a culture investment in organic drivers, including advances were offset by Smiths Medical of growth across the organisation, new product development and expansion and Smiths Detection as the healthcare and expanding our non-governmental in high-growth markets, and through and defence security sectors continued business.
Frustratingly, the benefits of this targeted acquisitions: to see challenging market conditions.
repositioning have been largely obscured However, both Smiths Medical and Smiths by the headwinds we continue to face Enhancing margins through a relentless Interconnect returned to growth in the in healthcare and homeland security.
drive for operational improvement across second half, with growth in Interconnects We are part way through a medium-term all our businesses: commercial markets outpacing pressures programme to reposition the business Developing smarter ways of working and on its defence revenues.
Profitability at for growth and, while this will take time, having the best people: Smiths Detection was affected by working this is the right approach to drive future capital adjustments, adverse price mix, shareholder value.
These initiatives Promoting a culture of responsibility additional programme delivery costs and will be funded by a relentless focus on in everything we do: charges associated with price audits for .
Generating strong operating cash-flows certain historical supply arrangements.
John Crane delivered revenue growth with better balance sheet management: The other significant headwind to the with healthy demand both from first-fit and business this year has been foreign OEM customers and energy aftermarket exchange, due to the relative strength of Allocating capital rigorously across services.
Growth was constrained by sterling, particularly against the US dollar.
the business, through both organic declines in upstream energy services.
Adverse foreign exchange translation and investment and acquisitions & disposals.
Excluding upstream, overall revenues transaction impacts totalled 43m, or increased in line with our medium-term We have continued to pursue these almost 8% of headline operating profit.
Margins have been boosted objectives and some recent examples As a result, Group revenue and headline by higher volumes and the restructuring are set out below.
The area where we see operating profit both declined.
benefits which have more than offset greatest opportunity is revenue growth.
cost inflation and investment in growth.
This is the key focus for the Group as we continue to reposition the business.
22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Engineered for growth product innovation Fuel for Growth funding the growth Headline earnings per share A key driver of future revenue and initiatives Down 10.9p value growth is product innovation.
Our We are funding investment in these technology leadership stems from our growth initiatives through our Fuel for 81.8p long-standing commitment to new product Growth programme, which is expected investment.
Company-funded investment to generate 60m of annual savings for R ead more on page 56 in R&D increased 5% at constant currencies reinvestment in sales, marketing and new and in note 6 on page 141 to 109m, with increases across most product development.
Customer-funded investment is expected to cost 120m over a threefell to 8m 2013: 9m as governments year period, which will be treated as an reduced funding: this took our total spend exceptional item.
There will also be some to 117m, or 4.0% of revenue 2013: 3.8%.
This Dividend per share We have completed several important restructuring is focusing on three areas: Up 2% new product launches through this site rationalisation with a particular long-term investment.
concentration on manufacturing footprint to support future growth while lowering John Crane was granted a patent for 40.25p costs: organisational effectiveness through technology that will monitor the condition of delayering and broadening management R ead more on pages 22-25 a gas seal to improve product performance, and in note 25 on page 168 spans of control: and the upgrading of extend lifespan and aid emission reduction information systems particularly in John in operations across the energy sector.
Crane to improve decision-making and to Smiths Medicals CADD-Solis PIB support the next stage of globalisation.
In Programmable Intermittent Bolus pump, the year, we incurred costs of 27m across launched in the US this year, provides the programme, which delivered savings continued growth opportunities, particularly Statutory earnings per share of 10m in the period.
In the coming year, in labour and delivery wards.
Another Down 21.1p we expect to achieve a cumulative savings exciting new product is EchoGlo, a catheter run-rate of 20m a year and incur 38m of specially designed to appear in ultrasound costs which will be treated as exceptional.
59.0p scans to help local anaesthetic procedures.
Smiths Detection has unveiled two Towards a world-class organisation R ead more on page 56 advanced handheld identifiers that provide The successful implementation of and in note 6 on page 141 quick and accurate field analyses one for our strategic initiatives depends on explosives and the other for a range of illicit us having the talent in place throughout drugs.
Smiths Interconnect is introducing the organisation.
Our processes to foster higher density semiconductor test sockets and retain the necessary skills have to enable testing of packaged chips to their been reinforced at all levels across the full limits.
Flex-Tek is now marketing a Group.
Jeff McCaulley joined in March to Free cash-flow tailor-made hose to exploit the growing lead Smiths Medical into its next phase market in compressed natural gas as of development.
Richard Ingram started 143m companies seek cheaper alternatives to oil.
at Smiths Detection in May and brings valuable experience in delivering complex R ead more on page 56 Engineered for growth high-growth programmes.
We have also increased and in note 27 on page 169 markets our focus on driving growth and value We have continued to invest to expand through the appointment of Brian Jones our presence in emerging markets to as Group Commercial Director and Silvio improve the Groups growth profile over the Bracone as Group Strategy Director.
During the year, revenue roles will strengthen and enhance the cofrom emerging markets was maintained, ordination of the Groups growth initiatives.
representing about 16% of Group sales.
Employees around the world To drive the growth agenda throughout Increases in John Crane and Smiths the organisation, we held a senior In over 50 countries Interconnect were offset by declines in management conference in May 2014 Smiths Detection and Smiths Medical.
We with the top 120 managers across the recognise that it takes time to establish a 23,200 Group.
The theme of the conference was local sales presence through recruitment, Engineered for Growth.
Featuring internal R ead more on pages 70-71 training and brand building.
In addition, and external speakers, we explored how and in note 8 on page 144 there are also product registration we could operate differently to accelerate processes in many markets.
As part of this programme, believe that this is the right strategy for we have identified four specific growth the Group to accelerate its growth profile priorities: innovation, driving growth and generate improved returns in the in China, sales excellence and quality medium term.
In Smiths Interconnect, we improvement.
These initiatives are just saw good growth in Asia in their connector beginning and we will provide updates business and secured contracts in data in future reports.
centres in India and Brazil.
John Crane continued to build infrastructure in select markets and to invest in local technical service capabilities.
For example Tianjin in China is now home to John Cranes third and newest global R&D centre, reflecting our commitment to innovation and new technologies for the global market.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 23 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Chief Executives statement Continued Promoting responsibility Outlook We continued to make good progress We remain well placed to benefit from on our safety and environmental metrics.
growth in energy demand, the need for The recordable incident rate improved new fuel-efficient aircraft, increased US again in the year to a new record low.
residential construction and investment in wireless networks.
We are cautious about We have also undertaken several initiatives sectors such as healthcare and homeland during the year to promote our Code security, which are subject to government of Business Ethics.
We built on the funding constraints, although there are anti-bribery and corruption course that signs that the defence market is beginning we launched last year by updating the to stabilise.
training on international trade compliance and competition & anti-trust.
We also Our priority is to drive operational recognise the growing importance of the improvements and efficiencies across emerging markets and the challenges of our business that will fund additional operating in these markets.
Following on investment in high-growth markets and from the success of the global ethics forum new product development to accelerate held in Brazil last year, we hosted our medium-term revenue growth.
third forum in Dubai in October 2013.
Outlook statements for the divisions These events highlight the importance are provided in the Operational review.
of our Code and enable the Group to share best practice and experiences.
Philip Bowman Chief Executive Cash generation and balance sheet We experienced another year of good operating cash conversion.
Headline operating cash of 490m represented a headline operating cash conversion of 97% 2013: 98%.
Free cash-flow was lower as a result of higher exceptional cash costs.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
We refinanced our existing revolving credit facility with a US$800m five-year facility which matures in February 2019 with two one-year extension options.
Dividend The Board has a progressive dividend policy for future payouts while maintaining a dividend cover of around 2.5 times over the medium term.
This policy will enable us to retain sufficient cash-flow to meet our legacy liabilities and to finance our investment in the drivers of growth.
While the medium-term objective is to maintain this dividend cover, we will operate some flexibility in applying the 2.5 times cover to take account of short-term impacts such as foreign exchange.
This is in order to underpin progressive returns toshareholders.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 27.5p per share giving a total for the year of 40.25p, an increase of 2%.
The final dividend will be paid on 21November to shareholders registered at the close of business on 24 October.
The ex-dividend date is 23 October.
24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014
