Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review Dear shareholder 2014 was a remarkable year that shows what AstraZeneca can achieve by following the science.
We strengthened and accelerated our pipeline, and increased the momentum behind our growth platforms.
Our efforts are creating significant value for patients and shareholders.
AstraZeneca has completed the first phase treatment of women with BRCA-mutated Respiratory, Inflammation and in its strategic journey.
We have rebuilt BRCAm ovarian cancer who have had Autoimmunity strong foundations for sustainable delivery very limited treatment options to date.
and are on track to return to growth by 2017.
The story of Lynparza shows what The American College of Rheumatology Fuelled by an exciting portfolio, oncology AstraZeneca can achieve by following annual meeting in Boston, MA has become AstraZenecas sixth growth the science.
Less than three years ago, accepted more than 15 abstracts of platform and will deliver life-changing Lynparza development was discontinued AstraZeneca work.
medicines to patients and long-term growth.
following Phase II study results.
These indicated that the progression-free survival We are making significant progress in the Achieve scientific leadership PFS benefit seen in the overall ovarian RIA therapy area.
Eight projects are in The changes we have made in the last cancer population was unlikely to translate Phase III or registration.
In particular, we are two years have transformed AstraZenecas into an overall survival benefit.
Attempts to leveraging biologics in severe asthma and pipeline and accelerated clinical identify a suitable dose of the new tablet COPD, and developing several promising programmes.
For example, we have already formulation also proved challenging.
assets in inflammation and autoimmune achieved our 2016 target for the number of disease areas.
These include dermatology, potential medicines in Phase III three years Our teams were undeterred.
They saw gout, systemic lupus and rheumatoid ahead of schedule.
The changes have also an opportunity to explore why the data arthritis.
In November, we strengthened our helped towards our goal of achieving showed better efficacy in patients with own capabilities by acquiring the rights to scientific leadership in our three main BRCAm ovarian cancer and sought to Almiralls respiratory business, and inhalation therapy areas: Respiratory, Inflammation re-analyse the Phase II data.
This included device subsidiary, which will help us develop and Autoimmunity RIA : Cardiovascular and obtaining the BRCAm status for almost the next generation of devices that meet Metabolic diseases CVMD : and Oncology.
all patients itself a great achievement.
We further strengthened our Looking at the data again made it clear that respiratory portfolio through our agreement We achieved a record 12 approvals in 2014 the team was right Lynparza significantly announced in February 2015 to acquire and, while we must expect occasional prolonged PFS compared with placebo in the rights to Actaviss branded respiratory setbacks, such as the discontinuation of patients with BRCAm ovarian cancer.
In business in the US and Canada.
a few early-stage projects, we have every parallel, the team also identified a suitable reason to be confident in our pipeline.
In dose and tablet formulation.
Phase III studies began in 2014 for addition to launching new medicines, such tralokinumab for the treatment of severe, as Lynparza and Movantik Moventig, by the This really does exemplify our values in inadequately controlled asthma.
end of 2016, we anticipate action and demonstrates our determination Furthermore, we decided to progress to push the boundaries of science to deliver benralizumab to Phase III in COPD based 12 to 16 Phase II starts life-changing medicines.
We continue to on the finding that patients with elevated 14 to 16 NME and major line extension explore the potential of this exciting new eosinophils seem to benefit from the drug.
regulatory submissions medicine, and additional late-stage clinical 8 to 10 NME and major line extension studies are underway to explore Lynparzas Highlighting the potential of our inflammation approvals.
benefit for a variety of other cancers.
and autoimmunity biologics portfolio, two Phase IIb studies for mavrilimumab and A highlight of the year came in December sifalimumab both met their primary when Lynparza was approved in the US endpoints.
Results from Phase III trials for and EU as the first PARP inhibitor for the brodalumab also met all primary endpoints Transaction subject to competition law clearances as well as other customary terms and conditions.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Strategic priorities overview Achieve scientific leadership our business shape 12 approvals of NMEs or major LCM projects in major markets is changing to become CVMD: Bydureon Pen US and EU, Farxiga Forxiga US and Japan, Xigduo more sustainable, durable XR US and Xigduo EU for Type 2 diabetes: Myalept US for generalised lipodystrophy: Epanova US for dyslipidaemia and profitable.
Oncology: Lynparza US and EU for BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer Neuroscience: Movantik Moventig US and EU for opioid-induced constipation 11 Phase III starts, including 5 NMEs: MEDI4736 and AZD9291 for non-small cell lung cancer: tremelimumab for mesothelioma: roxadustat for chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease: and tralokinumab for severe asthma 6 NME or major LCM regulatory submissions in major markets CVMD: Bydureon Pen Japan and saxagliptin dapagliflozin FDC US Oncology: Iressa US and Lynparza US Inflammation: lesinurad US and EU for the treatment of moderate to severe 9 projects discontinued psoriasis, with two of these trials showing superior efficacy compared to the current 3 acquisitions: the rights to Almiralls respiratory franchise and inhalation standard of care.
Following top-line results device subsidiary: Definiens: and completion of the acquisition of BMSs share from the Phase III programme for lesinurad of the diabetes alliance in combination with xanthine oxidase inhibitors in gout patients, our regulatory Return to growth filing in the EU has been accepted.
3% increase in revenue to $26,095 million Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases Accelerating performance of growth platforms more than offset impact of loss of exclusivity The 74th Scientific Sessions of the 15% increase in growth platforms revenue contributing 53% of total revenue American Diabetes Association in San Brilinta Brilique 70%: continued global progress Francisco, CA accepted for presentation Diabetes 139%: successful Farxiga Forxiga launch and good uptake 43 abstracts reporting results of our R&D of Bydureon Pen in the US in diabetes.
The Annual Meeting of the Respiratory 10%: Emerging Markets growth of 27% and decelerating European Association for the Study of US growth of 15% Diabetes in Vienna, Austria accepted 29 Emerging Markets 12% to $5,827 million abstracts for presentation.
Japan revenue -3%: due to mandated biennial price cuts, increased use of generics and Nexium recall in the fourth quarter A record total of six major market approvals in 2014 for medicines that treat Type 2 US revenue was up 4% to $10,120 million, with Europe down 1% at diabetes further demonstrates how we are $6,638 million: Established ROW revenue was down 4% to $3,510 million achieving scientific leadership.
We also had 22% growth in China, making it our second largest market positive results from a Phase III study of saxagliptin dapagliflozin combination in Great place to work patients with Type 2 diabetes and are progressing a regulatory filing in the US.
Our 2014 employee survey showed understanding of our strategy up by 14 percentage points, to 88%, compared with the previous survey in 2012 The acquisition in February 2014 of BMSs 4 points above the global high performing company norm.
Belief in share of the diabetes alliance was a our direction rose by 18 points, to 86% significant event for AstraZeneca and we now have one of the broadest non-insulin Following transactions, some 4,100 BMS and Almirall employees were anti-diabetic portfolios in the industry.
Our integrated into AstraZeneca diabetes strategy is to shift the treatment Simplified organisation with 75% of employees now within six management paradigm towards early use of combination steps of the CEO 40% in 2012 therapies, help accelerate the achievement of patients treatment goals and potentially Do business responsibly delay disease progression.
AstraZeneca launched the Healthy Heart Africa programme to address 2014 was a strong year for our growth hypertension in Africa for some of the poorest people in the community platform, Brilinta Brilique, both in terms of revenue growth and news flow.
The US AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 7 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review continued Focus onour pipeline Development projects At 31 December 2014, our pipeline comprised 133 projects, including 118 in 1 2 40 35 32 26 clinical development and 16 approved or 2014 launched.
Our late-stage pipeline has 3 4 33 27 19 20 transformed faster than we anticipated, with 2013 13 NMEs in Phase III pivotal Phase II, or 5 6 29 24 7 23 under regulatory review compared with the 2012 original target of eight set in March 2013.
Our early-stage pipeline has also grown Phase I Phase II Late-stage LCM projects 7 development rapidly through a sharp focus on novel 1 science and technologies, providing a I ncludes eight projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market.
Includes one project that is filed in at least one market.
2 I ncludes eight projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market.
sustainable discovery engine behind our 3 I ncluded four projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market.
Included four projects that were filed in at least one market.
I ncluded five projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market.
Included one project that was filed in at least one market.
5 I ncluded five projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market.
6 Included eight projects that were filed, approved or launched in at least one market.
7 P hase III pivotal Phase II, or under regulatory review.
Therapy Area Review from page 32 Department of Justices closure of its investigational non-small cell lung investigation into the PLATO clinical trial cancer NSCLC compound, AZD9291.
in August reaffirmed our confidence in AZD9291 is a highly selective, irreversible Brilinta Brilique and the PLATO trial.
In inhibitor of both the activating sensitising September, new data indicated that the epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR profile of Brilinta Brilique was comparable mutation and the resistance mutation whether administered pre-hospital or T790M.
The FDA has granted it in-hospital in ST segment elevation breakthrough therapy designation as myocardial infarction STEMI patients.
well as orphan drug and fast track status.
Most recently, in January 2015, we This will allow us to speed the medicines announced that the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 development and we are planning to file study, a large-scale outcomes trial involving for approval in the US in the second over 21,000 patients, had met its primary quarter of 2015.
At just over two years endpoint in both 60mg and 90mg doses.
after the compound entered clinical The study demonstrated that, when taken testing, this would represent a tremendous Focus onpersonalised in combination with aspirin, Brilinta Brilique achievement.
healthcare reduced more major cardiovascular thrombotic events in patients with a history In a development that enhances its value to By developing diagnostic-led, targeted of heart attack than using aspirin alone.
patients and demonstrates our commitment therapies, personalised healthcare to personalised healthcare, Iressa now improves our ability to identify patients Oncology includes blood-based diagnostic testing in most likely to benefit from our its European label for patients unable to medicines.
In 2014, we entered into We presented over 40 scientific abstracts provide a suitable tumour sample.
In the US, collaborations with diagnostic and related to our investigational medicines to the FDA has accepted a filing for Iressa as biomarker companies, including the American Society of Clinical Oncology a targeted monotherapy for the 1st line Illumina Inc. Qiagen and Roche, meeting in Chicago, IL and the European treatment of patients with advanced or to support the development of Society of Medical Oncology 2014 metastatic EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC.
companion diagnostics for our Congress in Madrid, Spain.
Immuno-oncology has the potential to We also acquired Definiens, a pioneer AstraZeneca has a deep-rooted heritage transform the way cancer patients are of a technology that improves the in oncology.
Our vision is to help patients treated by harnessing the bodys own identification of biomarkers in tumour by redefining the cancer treatment immune system.
Our broad pipeline of nextincludes almost 30 combination trials, either we hope to reduce clinical trial time generation medicines is focused on four underway or planned.
In a crowded field, and cost, and improve response rates main disease areas: breast, ovarian, lung we are particularly well positioned to explore and the delivery of the right medicines and haematological cancers.
For these, we synergistic combinations of immunotherapies, to the right patients.
are targeting immunotherapy: the genetic both with each other and with our own drivers of cancer and resistance: DNA highly targeted small molecules.
In 2014, damage repair: and antibody-drug we initiated a Phase III immunotherapy study conjugates ADCs.
for MEDI4736 in patients with NSCLC.
Research and Development from page 52 The potential of our oncology pipeline is Collaborations, such as those made in 2014 highlighted by our small molecule, with Incyte, Advaxis, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, 8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Focus onvalue creation long-term pipeline aspirations.
At the same time, strategic transactions, such as those To ensure the full potential of our with BMS and Almirall, support the science-led strategy is realised, our late-stage and marketed portfolio.
business model is evolving to include value creation through collaboration, In parallel with the pipeline transformation, out-licensing and divestments.
In 2014, and leveraging our global scale and we established an alliance with Lilly to commercial expertise, our business shape co-develop and commercialise our is changing to become more sustainable, BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, for durable and profitable.
As part of the account for nearly half our pipeline.
European Commissions Innovative This increases the probability of success Medicines Initiative, we also secured of our projects and potentially enhances partial funding for MEDI4893, a the longevity of our assets.
A greater focus potential infection medicine.
In January on innovative delivery devices can offer Focus onCambridge 2015, we completed the divestment of choice to patients while also ensuring the rare-disease drug Myalept to the durability of our products.
Overall, In 2014, we shared proposed Aegerion.
This provides another we believe the growing proportion of designs for our Global R&D Centre example of additional value creation.
specialty care products in our portfolio and Corporate Headquarters in will boost profitability.
Cambridge, UK as part of our plan to increase our proximity to world-class Business model from page 10 Great place to work bioscience clusters.
We also We continue to drive our cultural strengthened our partnership with transformation and operational simplification the University of Cambridge with four Pharmacyclics and Janssen are accelerating to support our strategic goals.
Our efforts to new collaborations and announced a our own R&D efforts.
The acquisition of nurture an enhanced culture of innovation collaboration with Cancer Research Definiens further strengthened our and enterprise are having a positive impact UK to establish a joint laboratory in the immuno-oncology capabilities, as described across the organisation.
Results from our city focused on novel, biologic cancer in the panel on the left.
2014 employee survey reflect the progress treatments.
Of two collaborations with we have made.
Employee understanding the UK Medical Research Council, Return to growth of our strategy was up 14 percentage points one will create a joint facility for early The steps we took to achieve scientific to 88% over the 2012 survey, and belief in drug discovery in our new R&D leadership in 2014 were complemented by our direction was up 18 points to 86%.
A Centre, and the second will fund our progress towards returning to growth.
simpler management structure is helping projects aimed at better understanding We are doing this through maximising the sharpen our focus and remove barriers, the biology of disease.
potential of our existing medicines, further accelerating decision making and leveraging our global scale and investing in increasing productivity.
our growth platforms and key geographies.
Our activities in Cambridge, shown on the Research and Development from Our commercial expertise and global scale, right, highlight the benefit of co-locating our page 52: Employees from page 62 including a strong presence in Emerging R&D around three strategic bioscience Markets, helped maximise the value of our clusters in the US, Sweden and the UK.
marketed brands in our main therapy areas, These moves are making it easier for our that follows the science.
That welcome which delivered over two-thirds of total researchers to collaborate with external includes Fiona Cicconi and Luke Miels, who revenues in 2014. partners and with each other to leverage both joined in 2014 and became members our small and large molecule capabilities, of the Senior Executive Team.
Our five growth platforms Brilinta Brilique, and our innovative technology to maintain diabetes, respiratory, Emerging Markets and the pace of pipeline development.
All of us should be proud of what Japan are sustaining near-term growth AstraZeneca achieved in 2014.
Together, as we progress towards our long-term Appreciation we can be confident that, by leading in ambitions.
These platforms accounted for The year 2014 was remarkable for science, we will transform the lives of more than half our revenues in 2014.
A period that might easily patients around the world.
In doing so, continue to focus on driving growth in these have distracted us with external events we will return to growth and deliver value areas, with the addition of oncology as a instead proved to be a time that to our shareholders.
growth platform in 2015 as we navigate a strengthened the case for our future as an period that will see some of our established independent company.
All of this was due products losing their exclusivity.
to the achievements of our employees, partners and collaborators.
I would like to As already indicated, targeted business pay tribute to every one of them.
In doing development reinforces our main therapy so, I would particularly like to welcome all areas.
A focus on early-stage academic those who have joined AstraZeneca and Pascal Soriot and biotech alliances supports our share our passion for working in a company Chief Executive Officer AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 9
