Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers statement A key part of the UKs healthcare system Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer pire Healthcare aims to be the UKs Spire has again delivered excellent results leading independent hospital group.
In 2014, we delivered tailored, for its patients, consultants and, with Spersonalised care to over 260,000 in-patient and daycase patients, an increase its strong financial performance in 2014, of 10.2% on the prior year.
In total, including out-patient visits, we saw over 700,000 its investors.
With our dedicated staff, patients.
In June, our outstanding performance was recognised when Spire Healthcare was and experienced management team, named Private Hospital Group of the Year at the 2014 HealthInvestor awards, the main a track record of investment discipline awards for our industry.
PATIENT CARE THE HEART and a focus on increasing productivity, OF OUR BUSINESS We aim to deliver care and clinical outcomes we are well placed to build on our of the highest quality for our patients.
They are our first priority.
We had no incidents of MRSA and our MSSA and c. difficile infection rates, both at 0.30 per 10,000 bed days, were lower than the equivalent NHS rates of 0.79 and 1.47 respectively.
06 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Across all our hospitals, our Care Quality OUR YEAR IN BRIEF 2014 highlights: Commission CQC compliance rate was Spires IPO in July 2014 marked a significant 99.5%, compared to an independent health step forward in our corporate development.
ST ANTHONYS OUR LATEST HOSPITAL sector average of 90% and a national average Acquired in 2014, St Anthonys is the While the IPO involved considerable of 85%.
next step in extending our coverage management time, the strength in depth of in and around London The outstanding quality of our care is our team meant that the business continued reflected in our patient surveys, where to develop positively across all our areas of See pages 10 and 11 93% of patients rated Spire as Excellent or strategic focus.
Very good, and in our survey of Consultant INVESTING IN OUR CORE BUSINESSES satisfaction, where 79% rated us as Investment in increased capacity continued Excellent or Very good and 97% would throughout the year.
recommend us to their friends and family.
Most significantly, in May, we completed Our reputation is built on our clinical the acquisition of St Anthonys, a 92-bed, performance and these results are a four theatre private hospital, located in testament to the leadership of our clinical Cheam.
With room for further expansion, team and the work of our staff.
It is their BRISTOL OUR FIRST STANDALONE St Anthonys will be a central platform skills, care and commitment, delivered day RADIOTHERAPY CENTRE for Spires continued growth in cardiology and night, that makes Spire what it is today.
Our Bristol radiotherapy Specialist and other areas of acute care and is another Care Centre is Spires first end-to-end Further details of our clinical performance step in our strategy to build services in and cancer pathway facility can be found in the Clinical and Operating around Greater London.
The acquisition Reviews on pages 38 to 41, and a review of received CMA approval in September.
See pages 22 and 23 the Boards Clinical Governance and Safety Spire Southampton Hospitals new 2 million Committees oversight can be found on Perform sports medicine centre opened pages 70 to 71. in June.
Including the flagship facility at STRONG PERFORMANCE St Georges Park, we now have 10 Perform Overall revenue for the year grew 12.0% centres nationwide.
to 856.0 million 2013: 764.5 million, Also in June, Spire Cheshire Hospital opened with positive contributions from all three of a new Orthopaedic Centre, including our major payor groups PMI, self-pay and on-site MRI and CT scanning and upgraded NHS.
Even though we had a higher NHS mix, out-patient waiting areas, while Spire HARPENDEN INVESTING IN NEW which traditionally has a lower margin, with Cambridge Lea Hospital opened a new CAPACITY TO MEET DEMAND continued productivity and cost-efficiency 1.4 million state-of-the-art reception New theatre and out-patient improvements, this growth generated and out-patient suite.
areas opened in 2014 in an increase of 6.1% in Adjusted EBITDA response to local demand to 159.2 million 2013: 150.0 million.
New operating theatres were opened at Operating profit before exceptional Spire Cardiff, Harpenden and South Bank See pages 36 and 37 items increased 2.7% to 114.1 million hospitals in the year, significantly increasing 2013: 111.1 million and cash conversion our capacity in these hospitals.
While we invested 105.1 million during the year across the business, including the acquisition of St Anthonys Hospital, capital restructuring at the time of the IPO reduced net debt to 424.3 million at year end, with a further 100 million committed, undrawn HULL AND EAST RIDING loan facility, we are well positioned to invest WORKING WITH THE NHS in the next phase of our development.
A chronic pain infusion service and Further details of our financial performance a specialist team of pain consultant can be found in Simon Gordons financial anaesthetists built up to meet review on pages 28 to 35. specific NHS requirements See pages 46 and 47 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 07 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers statement continued DEVELOPING OUR SERVICE OFFERING We are pursuing a range of development FOCUS ON KEY PAYOR GROUPS We continued to develop our higher and engagement activities with our PMI PMI acuity services, particularly in oncology and other stakeholders, more details of Deepen our relationships with and cardiology.
which can be found under Our Strategy key insurers on pages 18 to 21.
Our first dedicated radiotherapy centre, the Increase and deepen our relationships 13.1 million Specialist Care Centre in Bristol, REGULATION AND GOVERNANCE with GPs as referrers opened in April and our 2.9 million cardiac In October 2014, the CMA published its Final Continue to expand our higher acuity catheterisation lab in Cardiff was completed Order for measures to increase competition healthcare offer in May.
in the independent healthcare market after its inquiry.
We welcomed the recognition SELF-PAY The launch of a new cataracts pathway that there needs to be transparency of Continue to engage with GPs, enabled us to reduce the cost of treatment, arrangements between hospitals and particularly regarding areas with the result that 9.3% more patients were consultants, and support the drive to of NHS service constraint attracted to our facilities during the year.
establish an industry-wide information Extend transparent pricing We continue to offer fertility treatment at organisation to be the repository for quality and quality reporting some of our hospitals, but in line with our indicators and measures.
We fully support strategic focus, we sold our interest in the initiatives that help patients and GPs feel Increase brand awareness standalone London Fertility Clinic in August.
confident when choosing their healthcare NHS provider and we continue to work with our We have taken steps to further strengthen Continue to build key consultants to implement the Final Order.
our operational management, with the NHS relationships appointment of four Operations Directors, In March 2014, we published the findings of Expand our service offering Rob Anderson, Karen Newton, Paul OConor a report by independent consultancy Verita and Nicola Amery, to replace the single role into the work of consultant surgeon Mr Ian Invest to meet specific NHS needs of Chief Operations Officer, formerly held Paterson at our Spire Little Aston and by Andrew Gore.
Further details of our Parkway Hospitals.
We commissioned the operating performance can be found in report in April 2013 following a separate my Operating Review on pages 40 and 41.
NHS review into Mr Patersons work on breast cancer patients.
DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS The report criticised us for failing to monitor In November, we concluded a new, Mr Patersons work properly and for our long-term agreement with Bupa, the UKs handling of subsequent complaints.
Following I immediately gave a full and unreserved the conclusion of the CMA review of the apology to all of the patients and their independent healthcare sector, this families for any distress they suffered as represents a decisive shift to a more a result of their treatment by Mr Paterson partnership-style approach, aiming to while he was a surgeon at our hospitals, and build on our current, excellent working committed Spire to reviewing our processes relationship in order to drive volume in order to ensure that such a situation could growth in independent patient numbers, never happen again.
based on affordable healthcare, particularly for out-patients, and outstanding clinical outcomes.
The agreement runs from 1 April 2015 for a minimum of four years, with prices agreed for up to six years.
08 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Overall revenue for the year grew 12.0%, withpositive contributions from all three of our major payorgroups.
OPEN TO EVERYONE Fourth, we will continue to drive productivity REVENUE 12.0% The overall UK healthcare market is subject improvement and cost management, both to three major trends our growing and centrally and locally.
ageing population, the increasing incidence 856.0m Our strategy is already delivering across all of acute and chronic long-term conditions, these pillars.
In line with best practice for 2013: 764.5 million and the continued development of new, public company strategic reporting, further often expensive, technologies and treatments.
We include an These factors contribute to independent ADJUSTED EBITDA 6.1% analysis of our market, our business model, forecasts of growth in healthcare demand more detail of our strategy in action and exceeding 5% a year over the next five years.
the key performance indicators KPIs Set against realistic forecasts of GDP and 159.2m we use to judge our progress.
public funding growth, the NHS projects a 2013: 150.0 million growing supply and funding gap that could OUTLOOK A PICTURE OF HEALTH reach approximately 35bn per annum As I said at the time of our IPO and in Continued productivity and by 2020-2021. subsequent meetings with shareholders cost-efficiency improvements and potential investors, I believe that Spire help generate an increase of 6.1% We cannot provide the whole answer, but is ideally positioned for its next phase of the independent healthcare sector is in a development, ready to capture a growing position to help meet this demand, working OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE share of the UKs expanding independent with the NHS, as part of the overall UK EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 2.7% healthcare market and provide much healthcare system.
needed additional capacity in areas STRATEGY such as radiotherapy and cancer care.
114.1m Our strategy is based on four pillars.
We have a strong track record of investment 2013: 111.1 million First, we will continue to focus on our and growth, based on a culture of clinical relationships with each of our three major excellence and care that is highly valued Operating profit before exceptional payor groups PMI, self-pay and the NHS by consultants, GPs, payors and patients.
items increased 2.7% and cash conversion developing targeted responses to their We are well capitalised and able to fund reached 103.1% individual requirements.
further service and geographical growth.
And we have a clear strategy in place, Second, we will leverage and develop our focused on meeting the requirements existing well-invested and scalable hospitals, of all of our stakeholders.
maximising existing capacity and opening new theatres to meet growing demand.
Supported by Spires outstanding team, We will continue to build relationships I look forward to an exciting future.
with our patients, their referring GPs and Rob Roger the consultants who provide treatment Chief Executive Officer in our hospitals.
Third, we will develop new sites and services, targeting identified growth areas such as radiotherapy and cancer care, but also orthopaedics, cardiac and general surgery, and acquiring or building new hospitals in areas where Spire is underrepresented, Rob Roger and the IPO team proudly including London.
launches Spires first day of trading Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 09 Strategic Report Open to everyone WHERE ARE WE?
St Anthonys in Cheam, Surrey BUILDING OUR NETWORK THROUGH ACQUISITION At St Anthonys, we have inherited a uniquely caring .
Ourchallenge is to develop the hospital, and treat more patients, .
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Founded in 1904 by the Daughters of the Cross of Liege, St Anthonys is a 92-bed, four theatre hospital, with an eight bed ITU.
Skilled and dedicated staff are able to deliver high-quality healthcare in a calm and peaceful environment.
We acquired St Anthonys in 2014 as part of our London development strategy and, following CMA approval, have commenced an integration and development programme.
Spire protocols, administration and procurement are already improving efficiency.
A 27 million investment plan, including six new state-of-the-art theatres, will provide additional facilities for complex surgery and high acuity treatments.
27m Investment plan for Spire St Anthonys Hospital 7 miles London Bridge Station St Anthonys Hospital Spire Hospitals Located in Cheam, only seven miles from London Bridge, the acquisition of Spire St Anthonys Hospital is part of our strategy to extend Spires coverage in and around London.
