3 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executives statement The Group delivered goodprofit growth with underlying operating profit up 20.8%.
Our focus is on creating value for our shareholders by delivering the best possible offer for our clients and customers.
Kate Swann, Chief Executive Officer in North America and the Rest of the World, with capital expenditure This year, we delivered a good set of financial results driven by the of 76.0m.
We have significantly strengthened our balance sheet early implementation of our strategy.
We made solid progress in during the year, with year-end net debt down to 371.1m, reflecting all regions and are particularly encouraged by the strong growth both the proceeds received from the IPO and our strong operating inNorth America and Asia Pacific.
The Group delivered good profit growth on all measures, with underlying operating profit increasing by 20.8% on a constant During the year, we made good progress in terms of new business.
currency basis and by 12.3% to 88.5m at actual exchange rates.
We opened 48 net new units, including a substantial opening Our underlying operating margin increased by 0.5% to 4.8%, programme in North America.
We have also renewed a number of benefiting from higher gross margins and improved operational key contracts in various locations across the globe.
This reflects the good early progress made in embedding have secured a number of significant new contracts including at stronger retail disciplines across the business and leveraging Beijing, Dubai, Sacremento and Stansted airports.
Some of these Group-wide best practice and international scale.
new units will be with new brands and new partners for SSP, as we continue to develop our portfolio of brands and concepts further.
Revenue increased by 4.0% on a constant currency basis.
At actual exchange rates, given the strengthening of Sterling during the year, Looking ahead, the long-term outlook for passenger growth in total revenue was unchanged at 1,827.1m.
Like-for-like sales grew the travel sector remains healthy, and the Groups strong cash by 3.3%, with strong performances in the UK, North America and generation and balance sheet mean that it is well placed to deliver Asia Pacific, albeit trading conditions were more challenging in continued growth.
Net contract gains were 0.7%, driven by growth in North America from new contract wins.
We generated healthy cash flow, providing a platform for continued re-investment in the business as well as enabling a further reduction in leverage.
Underlying operating cash flow increased by 24.3% to Kate Swann 83.3m, and we continued to invest across the Group, particularly Chief Executive Officer 26 November 2014
