Strategic report Chief Executive's strategic review Introduction Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services for medical device manufacturers, hospitals and other industries.
Worldwide, we operate a complete range of sterilisation technologies including gamma, ethylene oxide EtO, electron beam, x-ray, steam and plasma.
Across the healthcare industry, Synergy also provides other niche outsourced services such as laboratory services pathology, toxicology, microbiology, and food and allergen testing and healthcare linen services.
All of our businesses have the benefit of significant barriers to entry, stable long-term contracts and good cash generation.
Writing last year, I anticipated that 2013 14 could mark an inexion point for Synergy with a return to stronger organic growth.
This year we have won new long-term contracts worth 39 million per annum in the US, 6.7 million per annum in the UK, and approximately 2.1 million per annum in Asia.
Our forward order book has jumped from 1.0 billion to 1.5 billion.
We have also progressed over half way to our target of having 50% of our revenue generated outside the UK and Europe.
The Americas and Asia & Africa regions now account for 25.4% of revenue and 20.4% of our adjusted operating profits, in the context of the Groups reported revenues of 380.5 million 2013: 361.2 million and adjusted operating profits of 61.3 million 2013: 56.2 million.
In constant currency, revenue growth was 4.1% and adjusted operating profit growth was 7.9%.
Although our order book has grown signicantly, the new Our objective is to grow contracts won will commence over the next eighteen months, and hence were not reected in this years revenue and earnings revenues.
In addition, it has been a difficult year with little, if any, healthcare volume growth in the developed byapproximately 15% countries, caused by the Affordable Care Act in the US and continued austerity measures in the UK and Europe.
We have also seen a further decline in Dutch linen revenues per annum through of 10.9% in constant currency terms and the last scal quarter, which is usually our strongest, was affected by acombination of organic extreme weather in the US and Europe.
On a constant currency basis, growth for the year was a respectable 8.6% excluding linen.
In light of the Dutch linen concerns we and acquisitive growth.
reviewed the Group strategy in November and a number of changes are being implemented during the new scal year.
14 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 c Expand the linen services into service adjacencies Strategy to broaden their growth prospects and reduce our Our objective is to grow revenue and earnings by dependency on pure linen.
Whilst the UK service has done approximately 15% per annum through a combination well, winning contracts worth over 5.1 million per annum, of organic and acquisitive growth.
With ination no greater the Dutch service is seeing a further contraction in their than 2% and volume growth in a similar 0-2% range for market as the Dutch health service restructures long-term the next few years, the growth challenge is significant.
The current strategy for this service is very much addressable markets are very large however, with the global based on cost leadership, so that at any given price, we AST market estimated to be worth 1.5 billion per annum, intend to make a higher margin than our competitors.
Our the UK HSS market worth 0.3 billion per annum and the focus in the new financial year is to restore revenue growth.
US HSS market worth 1.8 billion per annum.
To address the growth challenge we have implemented a four-step plan d Expand Synergys services into a third market with very that builds on our US-UK operating axis.
The key objectives strong adjacencies to both the AST and HSS businesses.
and strategies are to: Our attention is broadly focused on the inspection, testing and certication market, building on our existing laboratory a Grow AST by at least 10-12% per annum by continuing business.
During the year we acquired Genon Limited, a to internationalise the network through organic growth and small UK-based food testing laboratory, and we anticipate acquisitions, whilst differentiating our services through further acquisitions to help create scale in this space.
We technology and our people.
expect this new service to gain momentum during 2015 During the year we opened the new gamma facility in and beyond.
Marcoule France and after the year end, acquired the Bioster Leadership and a revised Group structure Group in Italy, extending our network across Southern and It remains a cornerstone of Synergys strategy to rapidly Eastern Europe with facilities in Italy, Slovakia and the Czech internationalise our business and to decrease our reliance Republic.
Globally Synergys AST business is number two on Europe.
However, we have to recognise that the US UK in the world and has the largest processing capacity.
axis is becoming increasingly important, as is the need to b Grow HSS by 10-20% per annum by focusing our extract scale benefit from our global operations in each outsourcing growth in the US, UK and Asia, whilst offering service line.
Accordingly the Board has decided to easily scalable HSS technologies to a broader market.
restructure the Group in the new scal year, replacing our regional structure with a service line structure.
In addition Our own surgical instrument management software, we have split the role of the Group Chief Executive officer SynergyTrak formerly known as TrakStar, supported CEO, creating a Chief Operating officer COO role to by radio-frequency identication RFID technologies, will oversee the day-to-day operations, whilst the CEO focuses increase operating room utilisation and reduce patient risk.
on strategy and long-term planning.
I have remained in my Synergy is the largest provider of healthcare outsourcing role as Group CEO, and the former CEO of the UK & Ireland services globally, and has the scale to differentiate itself region, Dr Adrian Coward, has become our COO and joins from in-house solutions and commercial competitors the plc Board.
by continuing to invest in new technology.
For example, Synergy recently introduced a new, patented RFID tunnel reader that can mass-read a large tray of instruments with one hundred per cent accuracy in less than 40 seconds.
This presents an opportunity to revolutionise the Our scale and expertise in hospital sterile assembly of instrument trays, as well as decrease risk in the operating room.
We will continue to invest in research serviceshas enabled us to invest in the and development R&D with the recruitment of a Chief development and exploitation of potentially Technology officer and a ring-fenced R&D budget of 0.5% of revenue per annum.
transformational technology such as RFID.
With recent wins of 41.1 million per annum in the US and China, together with a re-opening of the UK market, the Group is poised to see a strong return to growth.
We will see the revenue impact of the first of these large contracts starting in September 2014 and the second in May 2015.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic report Chief Executive's strategic review continued We believe that this structure will enable us to implement Outlook the new strategy effectively and to deliver the global organic The Board is confident that Synergys updated strategy growth we are striving for, whilst maintaining our reputation will build on the success we have seen in recent months for operational excellence and delivering a service that with new contract wins.
The continued internationalisation generates outstanding value for our customers.
of our services is broadening the available market, whilst our new structure, recent appointments and new service During the year we began the search for a Chief Technology range will contribute towards a faster rate of growth.
We officer to lead the R&D programme.
Elsewhere in the have a vision for how Synergys services will integrate with Group, we have made several senior leadership the needs of the changing healthcare industry, and are appointments to strengthen management, including: actively increasing our expenditure in R&D to ensure that Global Vice President of Quality Assurance we remain on top of technological advancements that could and Regulatory Affairs revolutionise our sector.
Through our global expertise and investment in technology and solutions delivery we have an Global Vice President of Human Resources increasingly attractive value proposition to help our Global President AST & Laboratories customers address the challenges that they face.
US President AST Looking ahead, our new contract wins of 43 million per annum will be implemented over the next sixteen months, US President HSS raising our growth rate.
In the short to medium term we Finally, on 16 May 2014 we completed our acquisition expect to see a 0.5% reduction in operating margins as we of the Bioster Group.
Bioster operates nine AST sites, channel investment into R&D, but this investment will be including six in Italy, one each in Slovakia and the Czech offset by our growing bid books and bid conversions that Republic and a small Joint Venture in Egypt.
All the nonwill ultimately drive top-line growth.
We have confidence Italian facilities specialise in EtO sterilisation, whilst in Italy, in our strategy, and in our realigned and signicantly electron beam sterilisation is offered at the Seriate, Bastia di expanded leadership team to implement our strategy.
Rovolon and Poggior Rusco facilities.
The remaining Italian facilities also offer EtO sterilisation, as does Poggior Rusco, providing access to both technologies at the one site.
In Dr Richard M Steeves addition, Bioster engages in HSS outsourcing, with twelve Chief Executive facilities across Milan, Venice, Florence, Pescara and 4 June 2014 Naples.
As with previous AST acquisitions, we expect that Biosters rate of growth will increase as part of Synergys global AST network and strong brand recognition in the global medical device market.
I am confident that Synergys updated strategy Financial strength will build on the success we have seen in recent Synergy is a robust business and in good shape with an months with new contract wins.
The continued internationally diversied business providing value-added services underpinned by long-term contracts.
Cash internationalisation of our services is broadening generation remains strong, with adjusted EBITDA increasing by 4.0 million to 103.3 million 2013: 99.3 the available market, whilst our new structure, million, before non-recurring items.
Net debt reduced to new talent and new service range will contribute 147.6 million, reducing gearing to 1.5 times EBITDA, well below our internal ceiling of net debt to EBITDA of towards a faster rate of growth.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
