TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Chief Executive Officers statement TalkTalk is all about giving customers consistently thebestvalue for money experience in the market At the end of the year, just over 25% of our fully unbundled customers FY14 Business Review were triple play.
We expect to add a similar number of TV customers Summary in FY15 as we did in FY14, which would take penetration to nearly 40% Our results for the year clearly demonstrate that our strategy is of our On-net base.
Our primary target market remains the large base driving revenue growth and will create sustainable shareholder of Freeview households in the UK c. 18m and we continue to expect value.
In total we invested an incremental 112m in FY14 in growing that in time nearly all of our On-net customers will convert to triple the business, primarily through TV, and this is reflected in our full play in line with increasing recognition of the convenience and value year EBITDA margin of 12.3%.
Our investment in scaling the TV base of bundling, and as we drive increased awareness of our compelling had its most pronounced effect in H1 with EBITDA margins of 9.0% content offer.
on revenue growth of 1.8% and total subscriber acquisition costs of 174m.
As expected H2 results showed a strong rebound in TV customers continue to rate the service highly profitability with EBITDA margin of 15.5% on 5.0% revenue growth A range of survey and usage data from our TV customers, including and after total subscriber acquisition costs of 144m.
The year those that have been with us for over a year now, consistently point also highlighted the traction we are gaining in TalkTalk Business tohigh levels of satisfaction with our TV service.
The vast majority of through its focus on value for money data connectivity products.
our TV customers both those upgrading from phone and broadband Corporate revenues grew by 5.6% year on year, accelerating and those who are new to TalkTalk have previously used Freeview as significantly from 1.3% growth in H1 to 9.9% in H2.
The dividend for their main TV service.
Consequently the integrated IPTV and linear the year of 12.0p is in line with our commitment to deliver returns programming functionality provided by the YouView platform remains to shareholders whilst also investing to grow the business.
one of the most highly rated features of our service, with the YouView net promoter score at 25.
We expect to deliver further significant progress in FY15, with While Plus customers value the ability to record programmes for Headline EBITDA margin in the range of 16.0%17.0% and dividend future viewing, all customers value the ability to seamlessly watch growth of 15%, and are on track to deliver our medium term financial catch-up TV, without having toexit the YouView programme guide.
targets of 4% CAGR in revenue and 25% EBITDA margin by FY17.
This remains the only programme guide currently available in the UK In addition, we see further strong growth opportunities beyond that offers this powerful functionality.
The value our customers place the medium term from leveraging our network capability and on this is a direct function of the volume of high quality free public customer scale.
service broadcast PSB programming in the UK.
Viewing data across all platforms shows that the vast majority of TV viewing even for 1.
The fastest growing TV business in the UK pay-TV subscribers is of live and catch-up free-to-air content.
Accelerating growth in TV 687,000 customers added, c. 25% Other features that all our customers rate highly includethe ease offully unbundled base ofaccess to a wide range of flexible, non-subscription pay content.
We added 687,000 customers to our fast growing YouView TV base This is especially so for those customers who have upgraded from during the year, more than all the other UK TV operators combined.
Freeview and are exploring paid for content options for the first time.
The rate of additions accelerated through the year as awareness of Equally, those customers who have switched from other pay TV our proposition grew.
During Q3 we launched and began gradually platforms report high levels of satisfaction with the range of content toscale our Essentials TV proposition, expanding the addressable available and the affordability of being able to select and pay for only market for our triple play product.
Accordingly we have seen an the precise content they wish to access.
increase in the number of new customers coming to TalkTalk, Content purchasing behaviour encouraging forfuturerevenue withathird of TV connections new to TalkTalk.
Whilst most of our TV customers have little or no previous experience The Plus TV proposition has continued to prove popular, both for of paying for content on their TV sets, their purchasing behaviour to existing customers wishing to upgrade from their Essentials phone date is encouraging for future incremental revenues, with an average and broadband packages, and for new to TalkTalk customers, ARPU forpay-per-view movies and boosts combined of c. 9.00. highlighting the willingness of customers to pay a premium for Withover 28% of our TV customers buying some form of pay content differentiated functionality recording to the local set-top box every month, the overall TV base is therefore showing an ARPU uplift andbundled features free anytime calls and seven Sky channels.
Wehave continued to develop our content proposition through With over twelve months of data from our growing base, we are pleased FY15, with some significant new additions to our range such as to report that early purchasing behaviours have proved resilient and Skyondemand Sky Movies, Sky Entertainment, SkySports : are consistent withour understanding of what our family-orientated, Picturebox NBC Universal new Subscription Video on Demand value-seeking customers want to watch.
Pay-per-view movie demand SVOD service: andnewlinear channels such as JSTV and Kyknet has grown steadily over the last twelve months, with customers ThemaInternational, Sony Entertainment TV, SonyAsiaTV and purchasing on average, just over one movie per month, generating Nicktoons.
In addition, we reached an agreement with FilmFlex that anincremental ARPU ofc.
4.00. will significantly increase our selection of TV on Demand TVOD titles.
06 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Content boost purchases have also remained resilient although 3.
TalkTalk business one of the fastest growing B2B aswehad expected, Essentials customers take longer to begin telecom businesses in the UK theirpay content journey and, initially, tend to buy fewer boosts.
Another year of strong performance Nevertheless the average boost ARPU of Essentials and Plus TalkTalk Business has delivered a strong performance, with Corporate customers at c. 11.00 is providing good incremental revenue for us.
revenues growing by 5.6% year on year and accelerating significantly through the year H1: 1.3%, H2: 9.9%.
High margin data products TV customers early-life churn significantly lower than that of revenues 37.5% year on year have been a key driver of this broadband customers performance with growth running in excess of the established Very few of our earliest TV customers have reached the end of declinein traditional voice revenues.
Our suite of flexible and theirfirst contract term, so it remains too early to assess their competitive Ethernet products based on our market leading out-of-contract churn behaviour.
nationalEthernet footprint has helped us win significant new However, the high levels of satisfaction with their service that our directand partner business during theyear.
TVcustomers are reporting, and the consistency of their content Revenues from wholesale broadband connectivity products through purchasing behaviour, has translated into materially lower early-life our partner channel also showed strong growth during the year.
In Q3 churn than for their dual play counterparts.
Average monthly churn we completed the migration of 103,000 Post Office customers onto onthe TV base through FY14 was approximately half that seen from our base, with revenues from these customers contributing to growth our dual play base.
across On-net, Corporate and Off-net.
The lower early-life churn, significantly higher net promoter score and With three consecutive quarters of year on year growth in Corporate lower surveyed propensity to churn give us a great deal ofconfidence revenues, TalkTalk Business is one of the fastest growing B2B telecom that mature triple play customers will also churn at a materially lower businesses in the UK.
Thisisa powerful testament to the strength of rate than dual play customers.
TalkTalk Businesss strategy, business model and competitive positioning in its chosen markets.
Continuing progress in Mobile and Fibre adding incremental value A focused strategy to grow revenues and profitability 7% of On-net customers now taking mobile TalkTalk Businesss strategy is consistent with the Group strategy We added 109,000 new customers to our Mobile base during the year, ofleveraging our network scale and capability tobuild market comprising 7% of our On-net base versus 4.5% of the base a year ago.
shareinvalue for money products, whilst simplifying its systems Mobile customers continue to add incremental value to us through a andprocesses and launching innovative new products to deliver combination of standalone economics each Mobile customer delivers sustained and profitable long term growth.
a positive net present value across the life of the contract, and reduced Our network is scaled for peak evening usage by consumers, churn and higher net promoter scores compared to dual play customers.
allowingTalkTalk Business to use excess daytime capacity for As discussed below, developing our mobile proposition is a key element business customers.
This together with our Ethernet capability of our innovation agenda for delivering long term growth, and we see over3,000 ofour exchanges are Ethernet enabled, with 95% real opportunity to drive higher levels of penetration and value creation.
countrycoverage allows TalkTalk Business to offer a wide range 5% of On-net customers taking fibre ofcompetitively priced, high-margin, all-IP data connectivity We added 134,000 new customers to our fibre base during the year, products.
With data revenue growth running faster than the decline comprising 5% of our On-net base versus 2% of the base a year ago.
inlegacy, low-margin voice revenues, TalkTalk Business is strongly Bandwidth usage continues togrow rapidly: traffic on our network has placed to grow revenues and market share profitably.
almost trebled in the last three years, as customers use more devices A key component of this is a focused approach to growth.
We see and watch more video content online, and customers downloaded three main segments where we are able to offer our customers anaverage of 34GB of content a month during FY14 46% more than significantly better value for money than ourcompetitors.
However, at current prices and usage levels, demand for fibre from our customers remains modest because of the scale and capability of our existing network.
With over 50% of fibre customers also taking TV from us, demand is very much driven by customers whose overall experience can be transformed by taking fibre, e. g. where distance from the exchange dictates copper speeds of less than 3Mbps.
07 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Looking forward, we expect the four main programmes todrive a 3.
TalkTalk business one of the fastest growing B2B number of major initiatives in FY15 that will unlock further significant telecom businesses in the UK continued savings through FY16 and FY17.
In terms of Getting Customers Current, Maintaining our strong partner relationships we plan to sell ourOff-net IP Stream base, rebrand our AOL base Our partner channel has continued to grow through FY14.
Of particular andsignificantly reduce the number of consumer and B2B tariffs.
note is the successful migration of Post Office phone and broadband Oursystems transformation will focus on a significant enhancement customers who came onto our base during Q3 as part of our five year of our CRM systems and upgrading our billing platform.
We will be contract with Fujitsu, the lead service integrator for the Post Office.
leveraging our customer data to enable better targeted marketing This agreement, one of the largest of its type in our history, is testimony activity.
There will be significant focus on improving our online customer to the appeal of our network for partners seeking quality, flexibility journeys to further encourage our customers to self-serve to both and competitive terms.
By working with partners we are able to reduce cost and improve customer experience.
These initiatives are leverage the low cost base of our network while not adding the expected to contribute towards further cumulative savings of over significant complexity that comes with tailoring services directly 40m by FY17.
Growing data product penetration in Enterprise 5.
SAC reduction from lower churn andfalling We saw strong growth in our direct business with a number of new costsper add contracts to supply wide area network solutions for medium and Reducing SAC is one of the key drivers of achieving our 25% EBITDA largebusinesses including Iceland Group MPLS network covering margin target.
We will reduce SAC through reducing churn, and 840 sites for a sixyear term : Hutchison 3G MPLS network covering therefore will need to recruit fewer new customers, and through 360sites for a three year term : the DX Group MPLS network covering reducing costs per add CPA.
We have made good progress on 72 sites for a five year term : Selfridges MPLS network covering bothelements during FY14.
twelve sites for a three year term and Fullers MPLS network covering We continued to make significant progress in two of the leading 200sites for a three year term.
As a result we ended FY14 with over indicators of churn during the second half of the year, with customer 17,000 Ethernet lines connected, c. 70% more than a year ago.
call volumes down 17.3% year on year and complaints to Ofcom down Growing market share in small businesses by 31% year on year.
In addition, we have continued to see materially We simplified our connectivity propositions for small businesses lower churn from customers taking additional products such as TV, during the year, launching amongst other things, the UKs most mobile and fibre.
The most important effect is seen in ourtriple play competitive business phone and broadband package for just 4.00 customers whose early-life churn is around half that of dual play per month excluding line rental.
In addition, we streamlined our sales customers, with TV customers also reporting higher net promoter and service processes for this important and growing segment and scores and lower intention to churn.
We have begun to see the impact see significant opportunity to grow market share.
of these effects in our reported On-net churn which, having spiked at 1.7% in Q2, subsequently fell to 1.6% in Q3 and 1.5% in Q4.
Progress in Making TalkTalk Simpler a40m As an illustration, reducing churn to 1.2% the top end ofthe costopportunity 0.8%1.2% range that mature triple play operators report over We have made good progress across the detailed programmes behind thenext three years, primarily by driving TVpenetration across Making TalkTalk Simpler during FY14.
We have actioned a number of thebase and further improving customer service, would lead initiatives across our four major workstreams Getting Customers toacumulative saving ofc.
30m over the period through fewer Current, Systems Transformation, Leveraging Data and Brilliant grossadds.
We commenced a programme to cease provision of non-core legacy access methods such as IP Stream, builta detailed We have also made significant progress in reducing CPA.
TVCPA roadmap for a Group-wide systems upgrade some of which has fellduring the year as planned, with the launch ofour lower cost already been implemented in TalkTalk Business, improved data Essentials proposition and growing self-installation of the service.
standards and executive level reporting, and launched a service and TVCPA across the second half of the year averaged c. 130 compared billing app MyTalkTalk on both the iOS and Android platforms that to c. 170 in the first half.
Similarly, broadband CPA fell from c. 190 has been adopted by 100,000 customers in just two months.
inthe first half to c. 180 in the second half as we increased online recruitment activity and reduced third party commissions.
We expect These initiatives, together with the continuing benefits ofsome of these trends to continue through FY15 and beyond, with volume ourlegacy programmes, delivered 14.5m ofsavings during FY14.
related savings in hardware costs and increasing self-service driving acumulative saving in excess of 70m over the next three years.
08 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Net debt 6.
Longer term opportunities for delivering sustainedgrowth Capex is expected to be within our guideline of 6% ofrevenue and In April, we announced that we have joined forces with Sky and CityFibre working capital is expected to show outflows similar to FY14 as we to create a new company that will deliver ultra-fast broadband see continuing strong growth in FY15 whilst also reducing costs.
services in the city of York.
The new joint venture company plans to Cash exceptional items related to Making TalkTalk Simpler are build a state of the art, city-wide, pure Fibre to the Premise FTTP expected to be 20m25m.
network to deliver broadband speeds of 1 gigabit 1,000Mbps direct to tens of thousands of homes and businesses in York, offering Dividend customers better quality and value than is currently available with While we shall continue to invest in growth in FY15, we are confident Fibre to the Cabinet FTTC.
of achieving our medium term financial targets and, accordingly, This will be the first time that a UK city has been connected with such expect to grow the FY15 dividend by no less than 15%.
high speeds on a city-wide basis and will give us the opportunity to FY15FY17 fully test a new cost effective approach to building a viable pure fibre In November 2013, we raised our FY14FY17 revenue CAGR target network, independent from BT Openreachs infrastructure.
from 2% to 4% and set our medium term EBITDA margin target of 25% Our initial investment in the joint venture, which will see us deploying to be achieved by FY17.
Weremain confident that we are on track to to 20,000 homes, will be 5m.
Subsequent investment to deploy achieve bothour revenue and margin targets.
across the remainder of the city will be of similar order of magnitude.
We expect revenue growth to be supported by modest growth in total We believe the economics of our approach to FTTP could prove highly customer numbers, ARPU progress from disciplined pricing and attractive, with a combination of scale and low cost build technology promotional activity, and growing scale in TV, mobile, and fibre.
We delivering a significantly lower cost per home passed than for the also expect TalkTalk Business revenues to grow at a faster rate than current FTTC infrastructure.
the Group average, driven by data products and new product innovation.
We expect to announce the process for selecting the next two Revenue growth is a key component of our EBITDA margin target.
citiesin due course, and are excited by the long term potential There are two other components: SACandoverhead reduction.
We expect to reduce SAC by requiring fewer gross adds tomaintain In conjunction with our plans to build a converged fixed-mobile offer our customer base as a consequence of lower churn from growing TV, using our 4G spectrum and femtocells, such a national roll-out would mobile and fibre penetration and better customer service, and by allow us to offer our customers seamless, unlimited and low cost reducing costs per add as a result of increased levels of self-service connectivity intheir homes and businesses, and significant and, over time, the falling costs of technology to provide TV.
opportunities to drive growth over the longer term.
Our Making TalkTalk Simpler programme is a key enabler of overhead Guidance reductions.
This will make it simpler for our customers to engage with us, whether it is to buy products and services, to manage their bills or to FY15 resolve problems.
To achieve this simplicity we will reduce the number Customer numbers of tariffs and access methods we use: reduce the complexity of our We expect to deliver modest growth in net adds in FY15 and systems: make better use of data: and drive a self-service model.
asimilar number of TV net additions to FY14.
These initiatives are expected to deliver further savings in excess of40m by FY17.
Revenue, Overheads and Pre-SAC EBITDA We expect FY15 revenues to grow by at least 4%, driven by modest growth in customer numbers and ARPU, andgrowth in TalkTalk Business revenues.
We expect overheads as a percentage of Dido Harding revenue to fall below thelevel reported for FY13, driving Pre-SAC Chief Executive Officer EBITDA margins ahead of those reported for FY13.
14 May 2014 SAC & Marketing and Headline EBITDA Based on current volume expectations and falling costs per add for both broadband and TV customers, we expect SAC and Marketing costs to fall year on year, driving strong growth in Headline EBITDA, with margin in the range of 16%17%.
