Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Full-year performance Highlights During the year, we continued to make steady progress in executing our strategy.
Speciality Food Ingredients sales up 4% up 4% in constant currency The delivery of profit growth in starchat 983 million with adjusted operating profit in line with the prior year based speciality ingredients and Food up 1% in constant currency at 213 million: Systems, along with another year of Continued strong growth in Asia and Latin America strong growth in emerging markets, Acquisition of Biovelop, and in China, the formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter was offset by the impact of the cold spring and agreement to acquire Winway Biotechnology in the US last year followed by the recent Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating profit 5% lower 4% lower in constant severe and prolonged winter, and an currency at 172 million due to soft beverage season and unusually cold increasingly competitive market for and prolonged winter in the US SPLENDA Sucralose.
Sales for the year were 3,147 million Adjusted profit before tax 2% lower at in constant currency at 322 million 2013 3,256 million, 3% lower than the prior year 3% in constant currency with Balance sheet remains strong with reduction in net debt of 126 million to 353 million 2013 479 million sales in Speciality Food Ingredients up 4% 4% in constant currency to 983 million Final dividend of 19.8p proposed making a total dividend of 27.6p 2013 947 million and 6% lower in Bulk 2013 26.2p up 5.3% on prior year Ingredients 6% in constant currency at 2,164 million.
Adjusted operating profit Successful deployment of upgraded IS IT platform across Europe with US was 2% lower 1% in constant currency and Singapore on track for the summer at 349 million 2013 356 million with adjusted operating profit in Speciality Food Board approval of capital investment of 100million over the next two Ingredients in line with the prior year at years in Speciality Food Ingredients to expand capacity for existing 213 million up 1% in constant currency and pipeline products and 5% lower 4% in constant currency in Bulk Ingredients at 172 million 2013 182 million.
Adjusted profit before tax Javed Ahmed was 2% lower at in constant currency, at 322 million 2013 327 million, and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 2% lower at in constant currency at 55.7p 2013 56.6p.
Financial management and balance sheet Our average quarterly cash conversion cycle improved by three days to 39 days 2013 42 days largely driven by a decrease in working capital due to lower nished goods inventories and lower corn prices.
The key performance indicators KPIs of our financial strength, the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and interest cover, remain well within our internal thresholds.
At 31 March 2014, the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.8 times 2013 1.0 times, against our internal threshold of 2.0 times and interest cover on total operations was 11.6 times 2013 11.1 times, again comfortably ahead of our minimum threshold of 5.0 times.
Net debt of 353 million at 31 March 2014 was lower than at the end of last year 2013 479 million, reecting the reduction in working capital and a decrease in the value of dollar denominated debt as a result of the weakening of the US dollar against sterling.
We continue to generate a good level of return on our assets with return on capital employed of 19.2% 2013 19.7%.
Changes in constant currency are calculated by retranslating comparative period results at current Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 07 period exchange rates.
Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW | CONTINUED Safety which have been key enablers in forming Our global marketing team is an As already set out in the Chairmans direct and higher quality relationships with integral part of the innovation and Statement on page 4, I am saddened regional food and beverage customers.
In addition to report that the performance of the to developing clear value propositions During the year, we opened an applications Group this year has been completely and positioning for our ingredients, this and technical service laboratory in overshadowed by three fatal accidents.
team is also developing consumer-focused Singapore the new hub of our Asia Pacic As a result of these tragic events, working strategies for specic applications in the operations, and established a sales ofce with the Chairman, the Board and the beverage, clean label, convenience in Japan.
Corporate Responsibility Committee, and dairy categories.
we are taking a fresh look at our overall We have also strengthened our presence At the start of the year, we acquired safety approach and procedures, through acquisition.
In October 2013, we Biovelop, an early-stage manufacturer not limited to the specic areas related acquired a 51% equity interest in Jiangsu of oat beta glucan which added a clean to these accidents.
Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, a leading Food 1 label, speciality bre with strong EFSA Systems business in China.
By combining I know I speak for all of my colleagues health claims to our existing corn-based Tate & Lyles global blending capabilities across the Group when I say that we bre-portfolio.
During the year, high levels and extensive recipe expertise with are determined to continue to improve of customer interest in PromOat Beta Howbetters strong local expertise and our safety programme so as to keep all Glucan has helped to build a strong infrastructure, Tate & Lyle Howbetter those that work at or visit our sites safe pipeline.
Work to expand capacity at provides us with an excellent platform at all times.
our plant in Kimstad, Sweden has begun from which to accelerate the growth of and we expect this will come on line Strategy and business update our Food Systems business in China.
in the current financial year.
Growth in Speciality Food Ingredients In March 2014, we announced the Since May 2010, we have made steady Focus on the customer signing of an agreement to acquire progress executing our strategy and As reported at our half-year results, Winway Biotechnology Winway, a leading growing Speciality Food Ingredients, we have made significant progress producer of polydextrose bre in China.
having delivered average annual volume in increasing customer collaboration Winway will provide us with our third global growth of 5% and compound annual by leveraging our global Commercial polydextrose facility complementing our operating profit growth of 7% during that and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago existing facilities in the Netherlands and period.
Excluding SPLENDA Sucralose, and our enhanced network of applications the US.
The acquisition, which is subject where an increasingly competitive laboratories around the world.
During the to government approval expected in the environment held back growth of the year, we commissioned an independent next few months, will allow us to further division as a whole, we have delivered analysis to understand better our accelerate the growth of our speciality a strong performance across the rest customers views of our developing bres business in Asia Pacic and of Speciality Food Ingredients, with innovation capabilities.
This showed a to expand our health and wellness compound annual profit growth of marked improvement in the way we are offering globally.
12% during the same four-year period.
perceived by those customers who interact Innovation with us at our Innovation Centre in Chicago, This growth has been achieved by rigorously Our Innovation and Commercial with around two-thirds of those stating that following through on the key priorities we set Development group ICD launched five we were exceeding their expectations.
out in May 2010, when we outlined a path new products during the year including This has not only led to us developing to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients PULPIZ Pulp Extender, a speciality food stronger customer relationships but also division by: diversifying our business starch that replaces tomato pulp in a range to winning new business with both existing geographically through building our of applications.
ICD also continued to play and new customers.
presence in faster growing, emerging a key role in the commercialisation of our markets and hence reducing our reliance SPLENDA Sucralose recently launched ingredients, particularly on developed markets: broadening our As announced in February 2014, the our salt reduction ingredient SODA-LO product portfolio through the development competitive environment for sucralose Salt Microspheres and our stevia-based, of a world-class innovation capability: intensied during the final quarter, driven no-calorie, natural sweetener TASTEVA and forming stronger relationships with by an increase in capacity in China and Stevia Sweetener.
During the year, a our customers through much greater a significant overhang of unsold Chinese number of customers launched products collaboration with them.
Against this backdrop, we incorporating these ingredients and we renewed a number of customer contracts Over the past year we have made further continued to work closely with customers for SPLENDA Sucralose, including some progress in each of these areas.
on formulation, product prototyping and on a multi-year basis, and as a result we testing to convert the increasing number of Entering new markets experienced an increase in the rate of price customer projects in the pipeline into sales.
We delivered another strong performance decline in SPLENDA Sucralose in the final in Asia Pacic and Latin America with Our innovation pipeline remains strong with quarter.
As previously announced, with double-digit volume growth during the a total of 35 products at various stages of these contracts in place and based on period, as we continued to leverage the development including ten in the final current market dynamics, we expect strength of our brand, our ingredients stages, some of which we plan to launch average prices in the 2015 financial year portfolio and our applications expertise in over the next 12 to 18 months.
The pipeline to be around 15% lower than the 2014 these regions.
Our successful expansion is well balanced with a number of line financial year.
into the emerging markets, which now extensions, next generation and represent 19% of Speciality Food breakthrough projects across our Ingredients sales, is a result of the sweeteners, texturants, health and investments we have made in building wellness and bulk ingredients platforms.
strong local teams and infrastructure, 1 EFSA European Food Safety Authority.
08 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Notwithstanding the competitive market Investing in a platform for Following the implementations of our global environment and the headwind of lower long-term growth IS IT platform over the summer, we will prices, we continue to see good long-term In order to support continued growth in the have completed virtually all the business volume growth opportunities in the global Speciality Food Ingredients division, the transformation initiatives we set out to market for sucralose driven by a number Board has approved, in line with our deliver four years ago.
offactors: disciplined capital process, capital We have strengthened our financial investment of 100 million over the next t Given rising rates of obesity and diabetes position, which provides us with the two years.
This investment will be used to globally, increased consumer focus on resources to invest in the business and the expand capacity at our speciality plants in health and wellness is continuing to drive exibility to make acquisitions where we Europe and the US and our recently food and beverage manufacturers to see high quality opportunities to accelerate acquired oat beta glucan business, support reduce or replace sugar content in their organic growth.
the growth in new products expected to be products.
The imposition of taxes by launched in the next 12 to 18 months and Since 2010, we have built a more robust, governments on food and beverage deliver cost reduction initiatives.
As a result, more global and higher-quality business products with high levels of sugar or we expect the ratio of capital expenditure that is capable of generating sustained calories is also creating opportunities to depreciation to increase in the next growth over the long term.
I would like and increasing demand for sucralose: financial year to approach 2.0 times, with to thank all of our employees across t Sucralose continues to be the high an average payback on these projects of Tate & Lyle for their continued hard work intensity sweetener of choice because 3.5years.
and dedication over the last year and look the combination of its superior taste forward to working alongside them in prole and heat stability that enable it to Earlier this month, we successfully continuing to deliver our objectives over be incorporated in a wide range of food, deployed the upgraded global IS IT system the next financial year and beyond.
This across our European operations and we provides an opportunity for sucralose to remain on track to implement the system Key performance indicators KPIs continue to replace other high intensity in the US and Singapore by the end of Our KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2014 sweeteners that have already been summer.
While we expect the total are detailed on pages 18 and 19. incorporated into low calorie products in investment in the IS IT platform and global Outlook the market as well as replacing sugar.
In Shared Service Centre to be towards the In Speciality Food Ingredients, we expect 2 calendar year 2013, 6,373 new products top of the 120 135 million range we to deliver volume growth across all major were launched globally incorporating disclosed in May 2013, we are starting to product categories but a lower profit sucralose, a 54% increase over the prior see the benets from this investment, in contribution from SPLENDA Sucralose year 2012 4,142 launches compared particular within procurement and shared is expected to offset a good performance 2 with 3,633 for aspartame up 4% on services, and continue to target a threeelsewhere in the division.
profits in this 2 2013 and 2,860 for stevia up 56% year cash payback from completion of division are expected to be more evenly on 2013 where we also have a strong the implementation.
weighted between the first and second offering through TASTEVA Stevia During the year, we incurred 46 million of halves than the previous financial year.
As a result, sucraloses value costs on the rollout of the common IS IT share of the global high intensity In Bulk Ingredients, we now anticipate platform, taking the total costs to 31 March sweetener market continues to grow, a slower start in the US in our first quarter 2014 on the global Shared Service Centre standing at 35% for calendar year 2013: associated with the prolonged and severe and IS IT platform to 124 million, of which t We also see good growth potential winter, combined with lower European 77 million was capital expenditure.
As a in the tabletop market where we now sugar prices in our second half, to result of bringing the IS IT system into have full freedom to operate worldwide.
outweigh a better performance across operation across the business, we expect other product categories.
While we expect the global market for our depreciation and amortisation charge sucralose to remain competitive, our to increase by 5 million in financial year Overall, and before the impact of 3 priority remains to increase volumes by 2015 and a further 4 million the year after.
currency movements, while we expect both growing and taking a greater share the Groups performance for the full year Conclusion of the global market for sucralose, by to be slightly lower than the comparative The transformation of Tate & Lyle leveraging our unparalleled applications period, we are well placed to deliver growth remains rmly on track and our strategy and formulations expertise and providing in the longer term.
of becoming a leading global provider our customers with the highest standards of speciality food ingredients will Javed Ahmed of quality, traceability and reliability in the continue to create long-term value Chief Executive industry.
Specically, our focus over the for our shareholders.
28 May 2014 next year will be to continue to renew existing customer contracts, aggressively Excluding SPLENDA Sucralose, Speciality pursue new business opportunities globally Food Ingredients has grown strongly over including those relating to the substitution the last four years and well ahead of the of other articial high intensity sweeteners wider market, underpinned by the good given the increasing price competitiveness progress we have made in emerging of SPLENDA Sucralose and drive further markets, innovation and working more cost savings and efficiencies through our closely with our customers.
two large-scale continuous production While we are operating in an intensely facilities in theUS and Singapore.
competitive, dynamic market for sucralose, 2 Source: Innova Market Insights.
we continue to see good volume growth 3 The estimated annual movement in operating opportunities and are well placed to secure profit and profit before tax caused by a one this growth.
cent movement in the US dollar is 1.7 million and 1.6 million respectively.
| 09 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
