Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Report from the Chief Executive experiencing and we have focused our resources on building on these strengths.
Two years ago, I also outlined plans to deal with the more Tesco-specific issues by improving our offer for customers in the UK through a programme of investment in improved service, quality and price.
It was important that we started when we did, and this programme of improvement continues and is being accelerated as competitive conditions intensify.
With our strategy already in place, we know what we need to do, and we know that we have to do it even more quickly.
These issues do mean that our headline numbers are not where we want or planned for them to be.
We have taken decisive action to improve performance, but the issues we face cannot all be fixed overnight.
We need to do more, we need to go faster.
I am, however, confident that we have the right strategies and the right team to compete effectively in the current market Philip Clarke Introduction and to ensure that we emerge a leader Chief Executive This year marks my 40th year at Tesco.
in the multichannel world of retailing.
I have found every single one of those years exciting and challenging, but I have Progress in 2013 14 never seen such a pace of change within We laid out our three strategic priorities the industry as I have over the past year, for the business in April 2013: driven by both structural and cyclical forces.
Continuing to invest in a strong UK business Consumer behaviours are changing more 2.
Es tablishing multichannel leadership in all quickly than ever before and that means we of our markets have to accelerate our rate of change too.
Pursuing disciplined international growth Our strategic priorities Customers are increasingly using technology in Our strategy has been developed all aspects of their everyday lives and the pace These priorities are even more relevant to drive sustainable growth through of transition to online shopping has been even today than they were when I announced three priorities: faster than we expected.
Since taking over them and we have made progress on each as Chief Executive of your business in 2011, of them.
Continuing to invest in a strong I have been clear of the need to transform UK business Tesco to be a leader in the multichannel 1.
C ontinuing to invest in a strong retail environment.
The way the market UK business 2.
Establishing multichannel has developed since then has underlined We launched the Building a Better Tesco leadership in all of our markets the importance of this strategic choice.
plan in the UK two years ago and invested 3.
Pursuing disciplined 1 billion in six key areas of the business: international growth At the same time, consumer behaviours Service & Staff, Stores & Formats, Range & continue to be strongly influenced by Quality, Price & Value, Brand & Marketing economic conditions which have continued and Clicks & Bricks.
As I made clear at the Further discussion around each of these to be tough in the markets in which we time, we had been running our stores too priorities is provided within my report on operate.
Overall, consumers are spending hot for too long and this investment was the following pages.
I have described below some choosing to shop online or in smaller of the progress we have made under each convenience stores rather than in large of the areas of the plan.
stores, which presents a particular challenge for Tesco given the number of large stores i Service & Staff we have around the world.
Having taken on 8,000 more colleagues in our stores, this year weve focused on So we face a mix of Tesco-specific issues providing further customer service training.
and broader issues affecting the whole We have delivered training to more than sector and it is important that we tackle 250,000 colleagues in the UK, helping both.
This is a large agenda and has kept them to make every moment with us fully occupied over the past year.
We have rescheduled 300,000 hours in the last year with the aim of Thanks to the foresight of my predecessors, having the right number of colleagues in our over the course of more than 17 years, stores, in the right departments and at times Visit www.
com ar2014 weve already developed strong online of the day that customers need them most.
to hear more from Philip Clarke and and convenience businesses.
This has other members of the leadership team ensured we are well-positioned to address We are seeing improvements in customer the industry-wide changes we are perceptions and the proportion of customers Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 03 Report from the Chief Executive continued rating customer service and staff helpfulness Whilst the direct impact of the meat as excellent has improved by 40% since contamination issue last year was limited 2012.
We know we need to do more in order to just four of our products, we have made to make service a point of difference for us marked improvements in the supply chain, and to deliver excellent customer service for shortening its length and focusing on every customer on every shopping trip.
This provenance, greater control and traceability.
will remain a key priority for the UK business Through our world-class testing programme, in the coming year.
we have tested over 5,300 products and we are the first major retailer to offer two-year ii Stores & Formats direct contracts for beef and lamb farmers Over the last two years, we have refreshed right back to the farm gate.
More than 300 over a third of our UK stores in some way.
farmers have signed up already.
This work has involved improvements to store environments and has prioritised the iv Price & Value departments that matter most to customers, Customers are actively seeking the best primarily fresh food.
We have applied the value, and this is more important than learnings from each phase of the refresh ever in a market which has become even This year, we completed the work to materially programme to the next, enhancing our more competitive over recent months.
It is improve our 8,000 core Tesco products.
approach as the programme has evolved.
essential that customers can trust our prices.
As a result, there are some newer initiatives We want prices to be stable, we want them that we will seek to introduce to some of to be logical and, of course, we want them the stores that formed the early part of the to be competitive.
Our Price Promise has refresh programme.
now been in place for over a year and provides instant reassurance to customers Following the trial stores we completed in that on fresh foods, on own-label and on 2012 13, our refresh programme to date has branded products they will not lose out been more focused on our Express format at Tesco.
and on our smaller Superstores.
Given the change in shopping behaviours I mentioned Every customer perception measure on above, our larger stores have been a drag price has improved over the last 12 months, on performance and this is one of the but there is still more to do on pricing.
most important areas that we need to We know how important it is to customers address.
Therefore, the focus of our refresh that they get the best possible prices on lines programme will now be on reinventing our that matter most to them.
That is why in largest stores to ensure that they are worth February, we announced that we are the trip for customers.
accelerating the pace of change including an initial investment of 200 million in It is essential that This year we have tested a number bringing down, and keeping down, prices of of ingredients for our Extra refresh key lines, starting with milk, carrots, onions customers can trust our programme, and begun to roll out a and eggs.
You can be sure that we will continue range of components to help make these prices.
We want prices to focus relentlessly on ensuring we are stores relevant destinations that customers competitive in the marketplace and where to be stable, we want actively choose to visit.
In 2014 15 we will we need to do more, we will do more.
refresh 110 of our Extra stores, aiming to them to be logical and, make them even stronger destinations.
v Brand & Marketing of course, we want them More of the ingredients will appear in these Clubcard is more important now than it has larger stores and typically they will feature to be competitive.
It is at the core of providing strong clothing and general merchandise a differentiated, personalised offer and it as well as tailored new food experiences, allows customers to choose how to unlock such as Giraffe, Euphorium, Harris Hoole greater value for themselves.
It is at the heart and Decks dependent upon the local of our unique relationship with our customers customer.
We will also be working hard to and we need to use the power of Clubcard to put Food First and create the best ranges personalise how we communicate with and of fresh foods.
We are looking forward to serve our customers, providing them with accelerating the appearance of these new offers and services which are relevant and features in our stores over the next three tailored to how they live their lives.
While this refresh work causes some using Clubcard to deliver more value for short-term disruption, the resulting uplifts customers and have delivered almost 60 will be long-lasting.
million personalised mailings this year for products that customers buy week in, week out.
iii Range & Quality This year, we completed the work to materially A good example of the power of Clubcard improve our 8,000 core Tesco products.
and of the advocacy that it can drive is Following the relaunch of our finest range the launch of Clubcard Fuel Save.
It is a in October, we relaunched our Healthy Living completely new concept for the UK retail range in January.
The customer response to industry.
Customers can earn money off the improvements we have made across our their fuel, just by doing their normal Tesco products has been pleasing, and our shopping.
It is inclusive every penny own-label sales account for around half of counts towards the level of saving whether our total UK sales excluding petrol.
customers are shopping online for their 04 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information weekly shop or popping in store for a matter most, more product innovation and sandwich, and they are in control of when quality improvements that delight, new and A good example of the they redeem their saving too.
In just the improved general merchandise ranges and first few weeks, more than three million more Extra stores becoming destinations power of Clubcard and customers saved money on fuel.
worth a trip in their own right, while our of the advocacy that it convenience stores will be best in class.
Clubcard Fuel Save is one example of the can drive is the launch things we are doing to improve loyalty.
Loyalty Our attention to service levels will intensify and of Clubcard Fuel Save.
has always been important to Tesco because we will deliver exceptional value for customers greater loyalty delivers greater lifetime value.
through Clubcard, just as we are doing through the recent launch of Clubcard Fuel Save.
vi Clicks & Bricks As I have already referenced, the pace It is this combination of accelerating growth in of the transition to online is rapid.
This new channels while investing in sharper prices, creates challenges for the industry but we improved quality, stronger ranges and better have a market-leading, profitable grocery service that places a strain on short-term home shopping business that already results.
But it is also this combination of generates 2.5 billion of sales in the UK.
actions and strategic choice that will deliver By any measure our service is industrysustainable long-term value.
Where we have leading, and it represents a world-class moved for example in ending the UK platform from which to build our position space race, in focusing on cash and capital of leadership in the multichannel world.
discipline, in developing grocery home Our Delivery Saver subscription service, shopping others in the sector have followed.
The pace of the transition which only launched in May 2012, is used Our aim is to continue to lead, recognising by over 200,000 customers.
We offer that structural change on this scale is a long to online is rapid.
This one-hour delivery slots in over 98% of the game and it is in our interest and your creates challenges for UK and Grocery Click & Collect is available interest to be a long-term winner.
Establishing multichannel have a market-leading, Tesco has always been about making leadership in all of our markets products previously seen as unattainable Against the backdrop of an accelerating profitable grocery home more accessible.
So we were especially proud shift to online shopping, our priority of shopping business.
of the launch of Hudl our very own tablet establishing multichannel leadership in which made tablet devices much more all of our markets has never been more accessible to more families across the UK.
Customers behaviours are It proved extremely popular with customers, changing, their expectations of retailers exceeding our own expectations, and earned continue to rise and they want to be able outstanding reviews from the technology to shop however, whenever and wherever press.
It was recently named ReThink Retail they want.
We are moving from the first Technology Initiative of the Year at the Retail curve of retailing one of bricks and Week Awards and we plan to launch a second mortar to the second curve built around device later this year.
a seamless blend of bricks and clicks.
Accelerating our plans for Establishing multichannel leadership is about customers in the UK putting the customer at the centre of our offer I am clear that we have strengthened the and building a seamless experience around foundations of the UK business, but I am them, whether they want to shop in store, also clear that we need to do more.
Above all online, in our restaurants, at the Bank or across else, we are focused on delivering the most a combination of them all.
Customer journeys Establishing multichannel leadership compelling offer for customers and we are are becoming more complex.
Customers is about putting the customer at the accelerating our plans.
Consequently, over bounce between channels and devices in centre of our offer and building a the coming months you will see a continuing whichever way they choose and they expect a seamless experience around them, focus on every day low prices on the lines that seamless experience.
Our goal is to provide a whether they want to shop in a store, zero-defect, end-to-end experience however online, in our restaurants, at the Bank or across a combination of them all.
our customers want to shop.
While this presents challenges, it brings lots of opportunities too.
Our scale, and our existing strengths from the first curve world, mean we are uniquely placed to lead in this new world.
It is clear to us that those customers who choose to shop across more channels with us spend more and are more loyal to Tesco.
Identifying our most valuable customers T and enabling them to shop with us however, whenever and wherever they want is our opportunity.
We have some ambitious goals and bold plans for our multichannel business in Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 05 Report from the Chief Executive continued 2014 15: to provide market-leading delivery Our work, however, to refresh seven of pricing, twice the number of Click & Collect our largest stores, including our stores in locations, including alternative locations such Dongsuwon and Yuseong, has delivered as London tube stations, and added-value encouraging results.
We also continued to products and services, including Tesco Banks grow our convenience portfolio, with the current account and digital wallet.
opening of 71 365 plus franchise stores.
In the medium term, we will offer one-hour We have had a challenging year in delivery slots to the whole of the UK, for Thailand, reflecting the impact of the non-food as well as food, and for third-party recessionary conditions on consumers sellers as well as our own products.
By doing and the political unrest.
Thailand is one so, we will effectively create an e-commerce of our largest international markets and infrastructure not just for Tesco but for others we have implemented a strong plan to as well.
It is because we have the potential improve our offer.
We have continued to to innovate on this scale that we believe build a strong multichannel business, your company will emerge a winner in the growing our grocery home shopping coming multichannel world of retailing.
and convenience businesses to almost 1,400 convenience stores.
Pursuing disciplined international growth In Malaysia, our performance has been more Last year, I described our international resilient.
We opened two new stores during the markets in three cohorts: year and grew our grocery home shopping business in its first year of operation.
South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand markets with significant future potential In Europe, we faced weak momentum Ireland, Czech Republic, Hungary, running into the start of the year and the Poland and Slovakia markets where challenges were common across our we are focused on holding our position markets with larger stores under-performing.
and improving returns Addressing these challenges we have China, India and Turkey markets where tailored our plans in each market to provide we know we must refocus on a more a more compelling fresh offer, focusing on profitable approach to growth seasonal events and leveraging our sourcing scale and supply chain capability.
We have Through our international businesses we also used our strengths in Clubcard and F&F have the opportunity to create value for to drive further improvements in our offer for customers and shareholders by leveraging customers.
Turkey in particular has faced very the know-how that we have gained from challenging economic and competitive nine decades of retailing in addition to using conditions and our focus is on finding a our scale to better effect across the Group.
profitable model for a country with excellent As well as doing even more to improve our long-term potential.
We are in early stage Through our international customer offer across all our markets, weve discussions with potential partners and, taken action to ensure that this value is should that not prove successful, we also businesses we have the realised across each of these three cohorts.
have a range of realistic alternative options.
opportunity to create In line with our third strategic priority, we An excellent example of our strategy in action value for customers have applied an even greater level of capital is our partnership with China Resources and shareholders by discipline.
While we continue to allocate Enterprise Ltd. Subject to the usual regulatory capital to markets where we see greatest approvals, it will give Tesco a 20% ownership leveraging the know-how potential for growth, our investment is lower stake of the largest food retail business in that we have gained from than previous years and will fall even further China.
The joint venture, which will be as part of our commitment that Group-wide self-funding going forward, will secure nine decades of retailing.
capital expenditure will be no more than significant cost and operational synergies, 2.5 billion for at least the next three and will move us more quickly to profitability in financial years.
We are spending more on what is one of the worlds most exciting retail our existing space due to our accelerated markets alongside an expert local partner.
refresh programme, we are maintaining our level of spend on technology and were We have entered into an agreement with spending significantly less on new space.
Trent Limited, part of the Tata Group, to form a 50:50 joint venture with Trent Taking our Asian businesses first, we have Hypermarket Limited, developing our a strong position in South Korea and it presence in the Indian market.
remains a high-returning business for us, but the sales trends have not been as we We firmly believe that our partnerships in would have wanted them to be in the last both China and India will allow us to capitalise two years.
The regulatory restrictions on on these enormously exciting markets in a store opening hours have continued to way which is disciplined in our use of capital impact our sales.
and focused on profitable growth.
06 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We firmly believe that Measuring our progress throughout the business.
One of the biggest The single most important theme running changes we have made over the last year our partnerships in both through all the developments I have is in the scale of our engagement.
We are China and India will allow discussed is that stores are no longer joining the global conversation around each necessarily the central point of our of the issues and are working hard to move us to capitalise on these relationship with customers.
Consequently to a more open, transparent conversation, enormously exciting we are re-orientating the indicators we sharing details of our activities, progress and use to measure and judge our progress challenges through our different channels.
markets in a way which to centre them firmly on the customer.
is disciplined in our use We want to make significant, lasting Our customers are at the centre of all our changes, not launch short-term superficial of capital and focused strategic decisions.
Quite simply, everything initiatives, and thats why the focus of this on profitable growth.
we are doing is designed to retain our loyal year has been gathering the best possible customers and attract more new ones who insights to set long-term direction.
shop across our channels and brands.
That is how companies build enduring like-for-like This insight-to-action approach holds the sales.
We are prioritising five key performance key to our success for the future.
Its the indicators which will help us measure and theme of this years Tesco and Society communicate our progress against our report, which is published alongside this strategy.
These measures place customers, report.
Im confident that if we continue and how they want to shop today right at down this path over the coming years, the heart of everything we do.
Focusing on we can use our scale for good across society driving customer loyalty and improving sales and make what matters better, together.
will lead to sustainable profits, returns and growth over the medium term.
Management I would like to thank Laurie McIlwee for his You can read more about our new key contribution as CFO over the last five years, performance indicators and how we are in particular to the progress we have made measuring performance of the business on our strategic priorities in the last three on pages 16 to 18. years, and before that his very good work on UK distribution.
I wish him all the best Tesco Bank for the future.
Our vision is to be the bank for Tesco customers and to offer simple, transparent Our Executive Committee has grown stronger and convenient products which reward our this year, welcoming Steve Rigby and David customers loyalty and strengthen their bond Hobbs, and I am confident that we have the with our business.
right team to deliver our strategy.
This year we have seen good growth in Conclusion our core banking products with customer While we do face short-term challenges, accounts for credit cards, loans, mortgages I am excited about the future.
We see many and savings up 14%.
In its first full year of more opportunities for the medium term trading, our mortgage product has made and beyond.
As customers expectations of good progress with balances reaching retailers evolve and we move into the new 0.7 billion.
We remain on track to launch era of retail, we believe we are uniquely current accounts in the first half of 2014 15. placed to lead.
Using our scale for good Tesco has always innovated for its Last year we embraced a new Value for the customers.
We have the building blocks business, recognising that when you are which will be essential for us to lead in the a large company, there is a particular future: an industry-leading online offer, For more information about our new key responsibility to be aware of how your actions unrivalled customer insight through performance indicators and how we are affect others.
This Value is: we use our scale for Clubcard, a first-class portfolio of stores, measuring our progress, see pages 16 to 18. good.
It is based on the recognition that if we and an outstanding team of over 500,000 harness the breadth of our skills and scale and colleagues around the world who are work together with our partners in the supply working harder every day to deliver for our chain, we can make a major contribution to customers.
In a rapidly changing market, some of the biggest challenges facing the retaining flexibility is essential and we are communities in which we operate, across the confident that we have a business plan world.
As part of this, we chose to take a lead which is right for todays market, and that in addressing three challenges which are we are making the strategic decisions to particularly relevant to us as a large global deliver leadership in tomorrows market.
retailer and are important to our colleagues and customers: reducing food waste globally, improving health and providing opportunities for millions of young people.
We have started the journey of tackling these Philip Clarke issues and we are embedding this new Value Chief Executive Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 07
