StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 07 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chief Executives statement Before anything else, i would like to thank We have continued to deliver on our five Also this year, we have built on the foundations our 57,000 colleagues across the Group, strategic drivers across the Group.
Unique of One Mainstream, which allows us to take whose hard work and determination is holidays now account for an impressive full advantage of our scale and buying power the reason for this years success.
71% of our Mainstream sales, the business and delivers more effective operations across benefits of which include higher average the sector.
One Aviation is a great example having delivered 11% growth in underlying selling prices, higher rates of retention and of the success of such collaboration, building operating profit on a constant currency earlier bookings.
Continuing to build on our one virtual airline operated from various basis, we have outperformed our growth portfolio of unique products, the UK business locations, delivering significant reductions roadmap for the second year in a row.
opened 10 new Thomson Couples resorts, in overheads and sharing best practice.
The merger with TUI AG will strengthen and nine Thomson Scene, one additional Holiday We are well positioned to build on our future-proof the combined group.
It will also Village and another flagship Sensatori hotel.
record performance next year as part of a enhance the certainty of long-term unique We are targeting a 76% mix of unique content new combined group.
Our Winter 2014 15 holiday growth and reinforce our clear by 2017 and we are confident that we will programme is currently 63% sold, with competitive advantage through further achieve this.
Online holiday sales stand at the UK sales to date up 4% year-on-year.
control over the end-to-end customer 38% of Mainstream sales.
This is up from Our Summer 15 programme has seen an experience.
This will mark the start of an 21% in 2007 and we are targeting 50% online impressive start to trading in the UK, with exciting new phase of growth, delivering sales for Mainstream by 2017. current bookings up 9% compared to 2014. significant opportunities and value to The TUI Digital Assistant app continues to customers, employees and shareholders.
It is clear to me that our colleagues are the be a huge success: it has now been launched driving force behind our fantastic results.
Our Mainstream strategy is delivering in five Source Markets and has been Our people are a key differentiator for sustainable, profitable growth through our downloaded one million times.
The app TUI Travel, they set us apart from our focus on unique holidays, direct distribution allows us to be present at every stage of competition and I would like to thank them and optimum leveraging of our scale, all the end-to-end customer journey.
We have for their continued commitment and passion.
contributing to the 13% growth in underlying continued to enhance the app over the year, operating profit on a constant currency Since the formation of TUI Travel in 2007 and are looking forward to implementing basis of the Sector this year.
we have been on a journey of value creation some key strategic developments to it over for shareholders.
Total shareholder return Accommodation & Destination had another the coming months.
A key development has has grown by 138% since that time, a strong good year.
The Accommodation Wholesaler been the introduction of the search and book performance against challenging market business was the stand out performer with functionality, allowing users to find and book conditions.
Future-proofing our business underlying operating profit growth of 21% their dream holiday using their mobile device.
through the merger with TUI AG will enable on a constant currency basis.
Over the year, We have continued to take delivery of our our continued sustainable growth going we sold 27.8 million roomnights across the Boeing 787 Dreamliners, with Arkefly and forward.
I am looking forward to completing Sector, up 10% on the year before.
Jetairfly flying their first this year.
The aircraft, the merger with TUI AG expected on Specialist & Activity has seen a more mixed which have received fantastic customer 17 December 2014 and to beginning the next performance: tougher trading in Adventure feedback, are delivering the targeted 20% chapter of our journey as a new, stronger, and Marine offset by strong results from the of fuel savings which, along with substantial combined group in the coming years.
North American Specialist and Education financial benefits, helps us to achieve our businesses, and weak comparatives in Sport sustainability commitment to operate led to a performance broadly in line with Peter Long Europes most fuel efficient airlines.
Chief Executive 11% Growth in underlying operating profit on a constant currency basis 08 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt Why we do it: Market overview the economic environment the sustainability challenge The global economic outlook remained steady in 2014 with GDP Travel and tourism is one of the worlds largest industries.
The growth 1 growth projections of 3.3% 2013: 3.3%.
The outlook results from and employment it creates makes it of critical importance to the global 3 mixed geographical performances with the UK, Germany and Spain economy contributing 9% of global GDP and 6% of global exports.
3 strengthening on 2013, offset by weak growth in the United States, It is responsible for 1 in 11 jobs globally and is the main source of foreign 4 as well as ongoing tensions in Russia and the Middle East.
Despite exchange in one-third of developing countries.
Travel and tourism also 4 these downsides, the positive trend is expected to continue into 2015, accounts for around 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions, half of which 1 when global growth is expected to rise to 3.8%.
Recent UN research shows that only 34% of countries said that their tourism sector was guided by a sustainable Within the Eurozone, growth is expected to register at 0.8% in 2014 4 1 tourism policy Therefore the challenge for our industry is to maximise and 1.3% in 2015, following two years of decline.
Our two main source the positive social and economic impacts of tourism while minimising markets, UK and Germany, registered the biggest growth increase 1 environmental impacts.
amongst advanced economies, growing 3.2% and 1.4% respectively.
Unemployment is slowly decreasing, down to 6.3% in the UK from Supporting local livelihoods and protecting the environment is not only 2 7.7% and to 5% from 5.3% in Germany.
the right thing to do, but brings a significant business benefit as well.
In 2012, we developed our Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012 2014, the leisure travel market which sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments Arrivals increased again by 5% to 1,087 million in 2013 following the in our priority areas taking care in destinations, reducing carbon record breaking 2012 where international arrivals surpassed the one emissions and engaging our colleagues and customers in sustainability.
3 billion mark for the first time.
The regional trends remain broadly in See our Sustainable development section on page 24 line with those of last year.
Europe, which is responsible for over 50% of and www.
global arrivals and our main focus both in terms of tour operator market and destination growth, and Asia, our focus for online accommodation the political climate growth, registered the largest increases on last year at 5.4% and 6.2% As a global organisation, we feel the impact of government regulation 3 respectively.
The Middle East was the only region to suffer a decrease, in all of the markets in which we operate.
Some of our activities, such albeit only by 0.2%, a vast improvement on the 5.4% decrease registered as those undertaken by our airlines, are heavily regulated.
Europe is the only region to see a year-on-year continue to focus upon how they can balance consumer protection increase in growth rate with all other regions showing slightly slower with the need to promote growth and protect jobs.
growth than the previous year.
A stronger euro also helped contribute 3 Our political and regulatory affairs team seek to engage with legislators to a healthy increase in tourist receipts in the region of $490bn.
at an early stage in relation to all of those areas of regulation which We are operating in an increasingly dynamic environment: this year may have a material impact upon the way we do business.
Our focus is saw the proliferation of peer-to-peer business models, a challenging always to work with governments to bring forward legislation that is fit environment for airlines both scheduled and Low Cost Carriers, and for purpose, properly balances the interests of industry and consumers the continued growth of online travel agencies.
Demand for leisure and treats all industry players fairly.
travel remains strong and, as our main markets recover from economic The last 12 months have seen continuing developments at the European stagnation, we are well positioned to maintain our market-leading level in respect of two major areas of legislative reform: Air Passenger positions and grow further.
Rights and the Package Travel Directive.
We have engaged consistently The range and quality of our product is well positioned to serve the with the Commission, the European Parliament and with member states interests of different customer types.
Our dedication to our unique as they have considered these reforms and will continue to do so over holiday strategy in Mainstream, and to product variety and scope the coming 12 months.
in online accommodation, coupled with a commitment to digital Aviation taxation also remains on the agenda as governments across the transformation across both models, ensures we continue to cater world look for ways to increase revenue.
Our role is to remind them of to the changing needs of our customer.
the importance of the travel and tourism industry as a driver for growth.
In the UK, the debate on airport capacity continues, following publication of a report from the Airports Commission in December 2013.
We will maintain a full role in that debate in order to ensure that the specific requirements of leisure airlines and passengers are fully understood.
IMF World Economic Update, October 2014 2.
United Nations Environment Programme UNEP, 2014 TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 09 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION OUR FOOTPRINT Our principal Mainstream brands operate from the UK, The global hotel market, which includes all hotel bookings, Germany, France, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, amounts to 378bn.
This is approximately halved to 181bn Poland, Switzerland & Canada.
The global travel expenditure when considering the bookings made through intermediaries combined of these 10 markets amounts to 509bn.
Our four rather than direct.
largest source markets of the UK & Ireland, Germany, France Of this 181bn, approximately 20% of inventory booked & Sweden make up over 70% of this spend.
MARKET through intermediaries, is sourced through a bedbank, SIZE & In the Specialist & Activity Sector we have over 100 brands amounting to a market size of 35bn for our Accommodation COVERAGE that deal with a variety of customer segments from luxury Wholesaler business.
travel to school sports to languages to adventure.
This makes The Accommodation only Online Travel Agent OTA segment it very difficult to quantify a defined market size or position, amounts to about 36bn: of this, the addressable segment though the focus is on attaining leading positions in the markets in which we operate: UK, Asia Pacific and Brazil individual markets and maximising growth opportunities.
Our core markets are projected to grow at a 3% CAGR over the The Accommodation only OTA market is projected to grow next three years.
Despite the more challenging environment at a CAGR of 5.5% over the next five years while the of recent years, we have seen consistent market growth and Accommodation Wholesaler market is expected to grow healthy projections for the mainstream holiday market.
MARKET GROWTH We remain market leading in almost all source markets in which Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Hotelbeds & we operate.
Bedsonline remains the clear leader in the Accommodation B2B space.
In addition, we have market-leading positions in a number of specialist segments with a portfolio of unique products, With our Accommodation OTA business we are positioned OUR unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experience.
strongly in the UK LateRooms.
com and are building our POSITIONING presence in the Asia Pacific and Latin American market through Asia Rooms and Malapronta respectively.
Customers research and booking preferences are constantly Online Accommodation only remains one of the fastest-growing evolving from offline to online, and from desktop to mobile segments in the leisure travel industry.
Our focus is to ensure we have channels that serve of internet use across the world opens up new markets all our customers needs, and that they offer a seamless and KEY TRENDS and destinations which guarantees steady growth.
& FUTURE OUTLOOK Unique holiday experiences continue to be popular and attract new customers and, with a diverse range of experiences on offer, TUI Travel remains well placed.
Source: Euromonitor TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 10 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Our structure TUI Travel is organised and MAinStReAM managed through three UK & iReLAnD the Mainstream Sector makes up principal business sectors: the largest part of our Group in terms of financial performance, scale, scope and number of employees.
this Sector incorporates our familiar power brands, such as our tour operators, with circa 1,800 retail stores across europe nORDicS and six airlines consisting of 136 aircraft throughout our key source markets.
We report via these Source Markets with the largest four reporting separately the UK & ireland, nordics, Germany and France.
the Mainstream Sector uses the tour Operator business model.
GeRMAny See page 13 AccOMMODAtiOn FRAnce & DeStinAtiOnS tUi tRAveL PLc the Accommodation & Destinations Sector A&D is a global provider of UnDeRLyinG OPeRAtinG accommodation and inbound travel PROFit MiX By SectOR services.
it competes in fast-growing areas of the travel industry through three business lines: Accommodation OtheR Wholesaler, Online travel Agent OtA and inbound Services.
Both Accommodation Wholesaler and OtA use the Online Accommodation business model while inbound Services is part of the tour Operator business model.
Mainstream Sector 82% Acc WhOLeSALeR Accommodation & Destinations Sector 12% Specialist & Activity Sector 6% See page 13 Acc OtA SPeciALiSt & Activity the Specialist & Activity Sector SAS comprises more than 100 brands offering a wide range of unique travel experiences to customers across the globe, from ski and sailing holidays to adventure travel and sports tours.
the inBOUnD SeRviceS Specialist & Activity Sector uses the tour Operator business model.
See more: How we do it: See page 13 Our Strategic framework and business models, page 12 TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 SectOR BUSineSS LineS SOURce MARKetS StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 11 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION cUStOMeR nUMBeRS Key DeStinAtiOnS Key BRAnDS ROOMniGhtS Canary Islands, 5.2m Balearic Islands passengers and Greece Canary Islands, 1.6m Greece and Turkey passengers Balearic Islands, 6.2m Turkey and passengers Canary Islands Morocco, Tunisia 1.4m and Turkey passengers Turkey, Canary 5.1m Islands and Spain passengers USA, Spain and Turkey 27.8m roomnights UK, Brazil, Singapore and Malaysia Spain, Turkey 13m and Greece passengers Italy, France 1.3m and USA customers TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 12 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Our strategic framework and business models Our strategic framework underpins everything we do and comprises our Vision, Strategy, Strategic Drivers and Making travel the Values that are innate within our VISION business culture.
Our strategic drivers experiences special are ingrained in our operations with a clear focus on Content, Brands & Distribution, Technology, Growth & Scale and People.
Our business Through our global brand portfolio models are derived directly from our and travel expertise we are focused STRATEGIC STRATEGIC strategic drivers and focus on the DRIVERS DRIVERS STRATEGY on delivering leisure travel two key areas of long-term growth IN ACTION PAGE within the market Tour Operator experiences designed for our 12 and Online Accommodation.
For more information please see the TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION How we do it: Our key strategic drivers 14 section page Unique, inclusive holidays Range and diversity 1 OUR of hotel stock Tailor-made holidays VALUES CONTENT PAGE Global destination and 14 source market coverage We respect our customers and never forget that they Market-leading brands Well known Accommodation 2 choose to spend their leisure time with us.
We share a Wholesaler and Trusted brands safety duty to maintain their loyalty and trust.
We anticipate BRANDS & PAGE Accommodation OTA brands CUSTOMER & security DISTRIBUTION customer desires and everything we do is with them 16 DRIVEN Online in mind.
We believe there is no such thing as a mass High levels of controlled market, and that it is just a huge market of individuals.
distribution We are passionate about being the best and about Flexible technological Market-leading technology 3 winning with integrity.
We seek the ideas and trends platforms to support TECHNOLOGY that change leisure-time markets for the better and PAGE PLAYING growth move quickly to action them.
TO WIN 18 We are not afraid of making brave decisions.
We want to do something new every day and we love what we do.
We are committed to sustainable development and to Leveraging scale Leveraging scale 4 making a positive impact on society.
We know leadership GROWTH has to be earned and we never take it for granted.
We PAGE RESPONSIBLE & SCALE communicate openly and easily and help each other 20 LEADERSHIP develop and grow.
We celebrate local differences and actively seek to contribute to a better world.
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and a Knowledge & expertise Knowledge & expertise 5 clear focus on the need for profitability.
We look for Driving innovation Driving innovation PEOPLE PAGE opportunities that have a commercial advantage for VALUE 22 us and add value to our customers experiences.
We DRIVEN predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time products based on their genuine appeal to customers.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 13 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Making travel VISION experiences special Through our global brand portfolio and travel expertise we are focused STRATEGIC STRATEGIC DRIVERS DRIVERS STRATEGY on delivering leisure travel IN ACTION PAGE experiences designed for our 12 customers ever-changing needs.
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION Unique, inclusive holidays Range and diversity 1 OUR of hotel stock Tailor-made holidays VALUES CONTENT PAGE Global destination and 14 source market coverage We respect our customers and never forget that they Market-leading brands Well known Accommodation 2 choose to spend their leisure time with us.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 14 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: 1. content Our key strategic drivers cOntent cASe StUDy The next few pages will provide further detail on what our strategic drivers mean to our Tour Operator and Online Differentiating Accommodation businesses.
This will focus on why they are important, how we adhere to them operationally, and through how we know they are working.
Whilst the focus of some of our strategic drivers will be considerably different, others Dreamliners demonstrate clear similarities, highlighting the underlying This year, our Boeing 787 Dreamliner unity between the two models.
fleet has continued to grow, with both JetAirFly and ArkeFly receiving their first aircraft.
The Dreamliner is a key differentiator for TUI Travel, further enabling us to provide an outstanding experience throughout the customer journey, not only in resort.
They have received consistently high scores in 1. content customer satisfaction questionnaires.
Brands & Distribution see page 16 3. technology see page 18 4.
Growth & Scale 20 see page Unique holiday mix now 71% 5.
People see page 22 TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 15 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Unique holidays form the backbone Our range and diversity of our tour Operator strategy is attractive to our customers Why is it important?
By pursuing a unique content strategy we are able to cater The increase in airline capacity, and continued success of to the needs of clearly defined customer segments, thereby Low-Cost Carriers, has created a large market of customers appealing to a wide range of our addressable market.
looking for a range of accommodation options all over the world.
The investment in designing and delivering our different hotel concepts attracts satisfied and repeat customers: To capture this market, it is imperative that digital content validated by higher satisfaction and retention scores is clear, relevant and well presented.
Getting this right will ensure customer loyalty and The inclusion of value added services and features, repeat customers.
such as private transfers and swim-up rooms, commands What are we doing about it?
Selling a wide variety of product, in terms of high quality, Our unique content books earlier than commodity destination and budget.
In FY14 we added a further seven products enabling us to manage our capacity and yield destinations to our Accommodation Wholesaler portfolio more effectively.
and increased our hotel count to nearly 70,000.
By offering content which is exclusive to us, we can In FY14 the Accommodation Wholesaler business diversified distance ourselves from the competition and limit its offering to also sell transfers and activities.
With nearly comparisons on meta search engines, e. g. Kayak or Trivago 20,000 transfers and activities contracted for FY14, it is What are we doing about it?
building a solid position in a profitable market place.
In Mainstream we are continuously reviewing our existing Over the past year Accommodation Wholesaler TTV has concept portfolio, adapting where appropriate for different grown significantly in the key regions of Asia and Africa source markets and opening new destinations.
which has contributed to an impressive divisional TTV growth rate of 15% year-on-year.
In FY14 we opened Sensatori Jamaica, the sixth property in the collection with a further three in Ibiza, Turkey FY14 saw a 37% increase in hotel inventory on Malapronta, and Cyprus on sale for Summer 15.
Sensatori has seen driven by domestic content.
year-on-year pax growth of 40% since it was launched in FY09.
Unique content has grown from 68% in FY13 to 71% in FY14.
Our Specialist & Activity brand Citalia launched Citalia Secrets, offering pre-departure knowledgeable advice and hidden secrets on customer chosen destinations in Italy.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 16 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers 2.
Brands & Distribution BRAnDS & DiStRiBUtiOn cASe StUDy Successful Sensatori Thomsons Sensatori brand champions affordable luxury and is designed to fuel the senses with world class spas and gourmet dining.
As a result of its huge popularity, it is set to grow by 50% over the next year, opening three new resorts: Sensatori Ibiza, Sensatori Resort Aphrodite Hills Cyprus and Sensatori Resort Fethiye Turkey.
Sensatori Resort Aphrodite Hills, Cyprus TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 17 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We remain committed to our focus Distribution is key to the on direct distribution and being successful performance of the online driven Online Accommodation business Why is it important?
The benefits from a direct distribution strategy are Unlike our tour operator business, we do not have input two-fold: it enables us to form a direct relationship with the into the physical content but instead create value with customer, and thereby understand more about what they our digital content, branding and distribution.
are looking for, and also drives down our distribution costs.
In our Accommodation Wholesaler business, we have a Customers increasingly expect a standardised service long established reputation to maintain so that we can and offering across different devices and therefore grow both with existing customers and in new geographies.
we need to ensure we are ahead of the curve with our Our customers expect an easy-to-use interface, breadth digital developments.
of content and reliable service: delivery of this is a critical success factor.
In a densely populated industry, the robustness of our brand names and the financial security and quality they Our Accommodation OTA brands operate in a far more promise are very important.
crowded market place where having a trusted and recognisable brand is vital in driving online traffic.
Recognisable brands are particularly important in Therefore working on our brand to increase awareness an online world, helping to direct organic traffic and is the most efficient way to attract new customers.
What are we doing about it?
FY14 saw particular focus on the growth of our agency In our capacity as an end-to-end operator we consider distribution arm Bedsonline.
Efforts in Europe and the online as the whole journey from inspiration, to booking, Americas in particular saw agent numbers increase by to the holiday itself, as well as returning and sharing nearly 30%.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business partnered with We recognise the changing role of the travel agency which easyJet holidays in mid-2014, becoming the operators remains an important part of the booking process for accommodation provider.
This partnership allows many of our customers.
Our new concept stores, which distribution of our content to a far wider customer base.
incorporate digital elements and inspiration, have seen increased traffic and improved customer interaction In our Accommodation OTA business we remain focused on and this year our Thomson stores beat cross industry building on our strong brand positioning of LateRooms.
com competition to win the Digital Store of the Year award.
in the UK and expanding in the emerging markets through AsiaRooms.
This year These efforts have seen our direct share of bookings LateRooms.
com brand messaging reached over one million increase from 66% in FY13 to 68% in FY14.
users across all social media platforms including Google, Thomson Sport, the sports-fan focused arm of Specialist Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest and Twitter.
& Activity, recently signed a partnership with Manchester City to be the clubs official supplier of supporter travel, and another brand, Gullivers, signed a similar six-year deal with the Welsh Rugby Union.
Mainstream Direct Distribution now 68% TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 18 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers 3. technology technOLOGy cASe StUDy TUI Digital Assistant now Live in Five This year has seen the international roll-out of the TUI Digital Assistant TDA.
Capitalising on the scale of our business, the app, which was first developed for the UK as My Thomson, has been translated for five of our key source markets.
With a total of over one million downloads to date 120,000 in the month of July 2014 alone the Digital Assistant is a one stop shop for everything customers need.
Available for Android and iOS devices, it includes everything from inspiration, research, booking, flight information and luggage allowance details, to maps to help customers plan the best route to the airports.
The TDA has a number of exciting new innovations planned in 2015.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 19 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION technology underpins the distribution investment in technology is and content pillars of our strategy essential for our online-based Accommodation businesses Why is it important?
The complexity of our product multiple components Why is it important?
and distribution pattern e. g. a six-month lag between Similarly to our tour operator business, the main areas purchase and consumption requires us to have robust where technology can benefit our business are through and inter-linking systems to ensure a seamless customer enhanced user experience at the front end and the service and reliable management information.
rationalisation of systems and platforms at the back end.
Innovation in technology means we can develop new ways As our OTAs interact directly with the customer, user to inspire our customers and make their booking process experience is of utmost importance as customers have as user-friendly as possible.
come to expect an intuitive and fast interface that delivers Enables us to offer our customers the best possible value relevant results.
by having an efficient technology infrastructure and Having efficient technology platforms allows us to therefore driving maximum savings and efficiencies.
drive cost savings and therefore provides further value to our customers.
This year Thomson launched a system called Connect, What are we doing about it?
linking the digital, retail and call centre businesses.
Connect Accommodation Wholesalers in-house platform is one allows customer information to be shared across booking of the most robust and flexible in the industry, allowing platforms, meaning online or call-centre bookings can be for quick connectivity with hotel suppliers as well as our followed up in shops.
The system will make customer data customer base of travel agencies, tour operators and OTAs.
available from the point of booking onwards, allowing FY14 saw the launch of the dedicated XML link for the frontline staff to offer a more personalised service.
transfer and activity bank which we expect to gain further In FY14 we launched Holiday Open Day, an online tool traction next year.
which allows the customer to virtually explore and In our Accommodation OTA business, we are continuing to select different options which our concepts offer and invest in a new platform to support our growth strategy: consequently suggest the most suitable product for the Brazilian OTA Malapronta started offering payments their next holiday.
by instalments in FY14 an option which is very popular in We rolled out the TDA in other markets from Sweden to that market, accounting for over 42% of online purchases.
Austria whilst simultaneously updating its functionality.
Following the success last year of the LateRooms app, apps The app had been downloaded one million times with more were launched for AsiaRooms and Malapronta in early FY14 updates in the pipeline.
and have generated over 600k downloads to date across Our Specialist business also launched a range of successful the three brands.
apps, most notably: Crystal Ski Explorer complemented by live Facebook, live chat and mobile optimised sites to support their multi-channel distribution strategy.
1 million tDA downloads TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 20 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers 4.
Growth & Scale GROWth & ScALe cASe StUDy Scale Leads to Success In December 2013, TUI Travel announced its One Mainstream strategy.
The purpose of One Mainstream is to generate further growth, innovation and cost efficiencies for the Group.
Leveraging our scale, we have been able to develop new functional groups, such as Mainstream Product & Purchasing, and Distribution & Online.
One Mainstream has also involved building business clusters from existing source markets, for example, TUI Benelux formed of TUI Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg, where operational efficiencies have been implemented through joint aviation operations to Mombasa and Zanzibar for Summer 14 and Florida for Winter 14.
Our five charter airlines are also changing One Aviation, another part of One Mainstream, is building a virtual airline.
This means that we will act as one wherever it makes sense to do so, maintaining local differences where the benefit of that differentiation is greater than that of harmonisation one team does not mean one location.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 21 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our scale and potential for Scale is a critical success factor for growth make us unique any online accommodation business Why is this important?
We are the largest integrated leisure travel company in the Online driven businesses need to compete with global world in terms of both scope of operation, geography and players and compete for customers in all markets to take customers.
We are market leaders in most of the markets market share.
in which we operate and we constantly strive to maintain In a price-driven, lower-margin business, it is imperative our leading positions.
for us to achieve high volumes which can be leveraged Enables us to drive economies of scale, further synergies to gain competitive advantage.
and cost efficiencies and therefore provides added value What are we doing about it?
Hotelbeds and Bedsonline are clear market leaders in the What are we doing about it?
B2B space with operations in over 100 countries.
We are We further deployed the Dreamliner aircraft across our continuing to follow our strategy of consolidating our Mainstream business, giving our customers a superior market-leading position by expanding in destination and flight experience and allowing us to offer new long-haul source markets.
destinations and more capacity to existing ones.
Our Within the Accommodation OTA division we cover three Benelux airlines Arkefly and Jetairfly were the latest to attractive markets: offer flights on the Dreamliner in August.
com has maintained its position as The Mainstream functions are working closer together number two against fierce competition in the UK with central structures in place for distribution, aviation, accommodation-only OTA market.
Our focus is on product and purchasing and digital.
This allows the profitable growth through product quality and different markets to collaborate on initiatives and learn multi-channel optimisation.
best practice from each other.
com is now an established and growing Our Specialist & Activity brand, TCS Expeditions, the brand in the Asia-Pacific region, focused on seven key world leader in private jet travel, added a new first-class APAC countries and intra-Asia corridors.
dedicated Boeing 757 custom-configured cabin with MalaPronta.
com continues to establish itself in 52 flat-bed seats to its fleet.
The plane was designed South America, a fast-growing and lucrative market.
in collaboration with Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts Accommodation OTA can benefit from access as part of the ongoing strategic partnership.
to the merchant stock available through For the second consecutive year in FY14 we delivered on Accommodation Wholesaler.
our growth roadmap of 7-10% EBITA growth at constant Accommodation Wholesaler saw a further 26% growth currency as set out at the beginning of the year.
in the number of XML links between their inventory and tour operators travel agencies booking systems.
One Mainstream now in place TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 22 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers 5.
People PeOPLe cASe StUDy Communicating the vision This year, we set out to unite the Groups 57,000 colleagues worldwide.
The video which was produced brings to life the human resources vision in a consistent, effortless and engaging manner for colleagues and ensures that all fully understand the employer brand.
The video explains how our vision of making travel experiences special is achieved through shared values.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RePoRT & AccounTs 2014 23 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION People are the key driver of any People are a key differentiator online business where agility, speed at tUi travel and innovation are essential elements Why is it important?
of success As a customer-facing, service-driven company our people are a key element of our success.
From reps in resort, cabin Why is it important?
crew, agents, to colleagues in head office the knowledge The online accommodation business is driven by the talent and customer focus of our employees is what helps us it employs: with thousands of people across a variety of maintain our market-leading positions.
Satisfaction and loyalty of our customers are important Digitally skilled and innovative talent are necessary for the ingredients to help us grow.
A key driver for this is their online accommodation industry, making it a competitive holiday experience and the service they receive from the sector as an employer.
time they book to the interaction in resort.
Given the nature of what we do, we need to attract and Building a strong brand proposition to attract and retain retain colleagues with specific skills across the tour the best talent.
Identifying knowledge gaps within the organisation and What are we doing about it?
providing colleagues with the necessary tools and skills Communicating with colleagues regularly and openly, to succeed in the online world.
whether it be informal blog posts from the Board, or Developing an online-driven culture where employees organised Town Hall meetings to give updates on the are encouraged to keep abreast of the latest trends strategy and five-year plan of the business.
whilst providing an environment which fosters new ideas Enhancing our existing development programmes for senior and innovation.
managers and executives and adding a new programme for The global and evolving nature of our business requires junior managers.
This year the Specialist & Activity Sector we look beyond European boundaries when it comes to added a fourth programme, Navigator, designed for those sourcing talent.
TUI Travel continues to tap into the vast at the beginning of their management careers, to help them talent pool of markets like Brazil and South East Asia to build networks, understand the breadth of the organisation fuel its global growth ambitions.
and learn about key industry trends.
Launch of a programme comprising Personal Reviews, Our International Graduate Leadership Programme and Organisational Management and Succession Planning with TUI UK Graduate Scheme continue to attract high-quality the view to ensuring we develop our internal talent with talent from across the world and are considered among clear career paths and targeted development programmes.
Within Specialist Holidays Group, part of our Specialist & Activity Sector, a Spreading Smiles programme was launched across all brands, showcasing how the Sector works together to generate opportunities for collaboration and teamwork.
Four senior female leaders within the business were recognised as some of the most influential women in travel at the British Travel Industry Hall of Fame.
57,000 colleagues across the Group TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 24 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Sustainable development The Group Sustainable Development Departments role is to drive We want our holidays to benefit local people and to protect change towards a more sustainable business and continue to lead the environment.
It is important to us not just because it is the industry.
The Department works closely with other Group the right thing to do, but because our products memorable departments and a network of sustainable development coordinators and unique holidays rely on beautiful and welcoming in each key source market Sector who have a remit to develop and tourist destinations.
Managing our impact means we can implement sustainable development strategy, supported by a network of champions.
maintain the quality, viability and desirability of our holidays for years to come.
Our vision is to make travel experiences We work with Forum for the Future, a global sustainable development special whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting NGO which selects a handful of companies as Pioneer partners, defined as leading organisations at the cutting edge of sustainability.
culture and people and bringing economic benefits TUI Travel has been selected as one of these partners.
Risk management Our commitment to Responsible Leadership see our values on page 25 extends beyond our Group.
In FY14 we were pleased that our Policy and mitigation for Group-wide risks relating to sustainability performance was recognised as follows: are facilitated by the Group Risk Management and Sustainable Development Departments, with responsibility for managing such For the seventh consecutive year TUI Travel was featured in the risks also shared by the businesses themselves.
Increasing legislative Climate Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI and was ranked joint and societal demands on a company like ours requires that we act first in the FTSE 350 for our approach to carbon disclosure and responsibly and identify and manage our risks effectively.
TUI Travel was the only company in the travel and leisure sector to feature in the 2014 CDLI.
net Key areas of risk identified are: TUI Travel was recognised by Carbon Clear for its approach to Legislative and societal demands in relation to size and management carbon reporting, ranking the Company 4th in the FTSE 100 in of TUI Travels carbon footprint.
com uk Ensuring that the actions of our colleagues uphold TUI Travels We continue to be listed on the FTSE4Good Index in recognition sustainable development policy.
of meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards.
Ensuring that the actions of our suppliers uphold TUI Travels We were a finalist in the business category of the World Travel environmental and social supplier standards.
& Tourism Councils 2014 Tourism for Tomorrow awards.
Putting measures in place to enable us to gain a better For further details on awards and our latest Sustainable Holidays understanding of the socio-economic impacts of tourism.
Ensuring we are aware of potential damage to, and the quality of, destinations due to ecosystem degradation and climate change.
Governance Being aware of customer expectation in respect of sustainability.
Commitment at the most senior level is vital for us to achieve our goal of leading the leisure travel sector in sustainable development.
For further information about sustainability risks and how we manage Johan Lundgren, Deputy Chief Executive, is responsible for reporting on them see our latest Sustainable Holidays Report.
We have also identified sustainable development to the TUI Travel Board and Jacky Simmonds, sustainability risks within the Principal risks section, see page 42 Group HR Director, is responsible for reporting on sustainable development to the Group Management Board.
Jane Ashton is the Director of Group Sustainable Development.
The Group Management Board acts as the Steering Committee, setting the strategic direction and long-term objectives for sustainable development across TUI Travel.
Fy14 highlights 69.9g 5.5m viewpoint of CO emissions per revenue customers stayed in hotels with Watch Johan Lundgren 2 passenger kilometre across sustainability certifications discussing the importance TUI Travel airlines making of sustainability to the our airlines the most fuel tourism industry efficient in Europe www.
com tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | proof 1 O t n n e O l. u t s T i r y n U a n c n I i d o n o O i i l l T p l l c s o l s c e i r u e e a O n m h s l a v O t O 0 r g e a l i 1 e l D p i e t u r n r a i A A e a l e a s s r v b g n f s e i i a i l l u d i i e t w t r l e d n y e s i. s v l a l a e l l i e r d e D w r e e a n e r t v n W e e e e r i l g A r c D s & c StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 25 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012-14 Our three-year Sustainable Holidays Plan was launched in 2012 and marks our journey towards For further details on our a more sustainable future.
It shows significant integration of environmental and social principles Sustainable Holidays Plan including in the way we do business including performance measures, processes and the customer our 20 commitments, see proposition.
It sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments in our priority www.
com sustainability areas taking care in destinations: reducing carbon emissions: and engaging with colleagues and Our Sustainable Holidays Report 2014 customers in sustainability.
Our Sustainable Holidays Plan aligns with our corporate strategy.
is due out in Spring 2015. viSiOn MAKinG tRAveL eXPeRienceS SPeciAL whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting culture and people and bringing economic benefits to communities TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 h i t g W d B e e e r. O n l r o s i o c v r t A m n e t b r s r o C T i g A O n o e a i n v t u U m g c s D a a I s s s f t r s r m T o e d e o t r o c p a r n s p u t & m o e a v e o s r n e e e u s n s l t s D r u O E e n d s a s O i n F B e o n s t i m s l a t t w r r u a a i e y F t i r i n A a 0 o l r e l l a g i r c 0 r e p t b s r n 0 a l i o g O c B, e e e d l l i 0 g r i e h c l i u 2 u w a r fi o O r l f o i i e t e n n d e d a i W - a n n l m h y O e t s o h u. c n f r c f e y t 26 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT GOAL By 2015 We will deliver 10 million Sustainable development greener and fairer holidays We will measure this by the number of customers we take to hotels with credible sustainability certifications from 2012 Destinations to 2014, e. g. sustainability certifications by working with the Global Sustainable Tourism Council such as Travelife and international environmental management standards such as ISO 14001 and EMAS.
In many destinations, TUI Travel accounts for a significant percentage We are proud of the positive role our industry plays around of tourist arrivals.
That means we contribute, directly or indirectly, the world.
The travel and tourism sector accounts for 9% to many of the jobs, tourism-related businesses and tax revenues in of the worlds GDP and 6% of its exports UNWTO, 2014. destination countries.
It is responsible for one in 11 jobs globally UNWTO, 2014 We are conscious of the pressures that tourism can place on local and is the main source of foreign exchange in one-third of populations and resources and therefore work collaboratively with developing countries UNEP, 2014. communities, governments and a range of other partners to support sustainable management of destinations.
Examples include: The Global However, we know that travel and tourism can also have unintended Sustainable Tourism Council, The Dutch Association of Travel Agents negative consequences and are committed to understanding and & Tour Operators, Deutscher ReiseVerband, GIZ, Association of British enhancing the socio-economic impacts of our holidays.
There are Travel Agents and The Travel Foundation.
also significant environmental challenges: for example, water will be a key challenge for our industry in the coming decades, particularly Fy14 highlights in island states.
Our challenge is to maximise the positive social and economic impacts of tourism in all our destinations and to minimise We took over 5.5 million customers to hotels with credible environmental impacts.
We are committed to influencing more hotels to achieve credible We featured over 5,900 hotels with sustainability certifications.
sustainability certifications which provides us with assurance that We organised sustainability supplier workshops in Germany, Greece, our suppliers are making continual sustainability improvements.
This Italy, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia and Turkey.
not only improves our sustainability performance but also benefits our suppliers.
We launched the TUI Collection a set of excursions tailored to give customers a true taste of the destination.
Excursions have to meet Our most sustainably-managed hotels deliver higher quality and specific sustainability criteria to be included in the Collection.
Analysis of over 1.4 million customer satisfaction questionnaires within TUI UK & Ireland in 2012 and 2013 showed that Aitken Spence Travels in Sri Lanka, part of our Accommodation & hotels with Travelife sustainability awards scored higher on overall Destinations Sector, won a Gold Award for its ecotourism initiative satisfaction.
From this, we can conclude that our customers experience at the 2014 Pacific Asia Travel Association PATA Awards.
a link between sustainability and quality.
TUI UK was the first travel company in the UK to be certified to the Good sustainability management and good environmental management Travelife standard for tour operators and Sawadee also achieved in particular can have a significant effect on a hotels operating costs.
certification in 2014, following on from TUI Nederland which was For example, depending on the region, energy costs can account for the first major travel company worldwide to be certified in 2013. between 5% and 15% of a hotels operating costs blueContec, 2012.
TUI Nordic was the first tour operator in the Nordic region to So encouraging hotel suppliers to use energy more efficiently, and also achieve ISO 14001 certification and TUI Deutschland successfully to use renewable energy wherever feasible, helps them save on one renewed its ISO 14001 which it has held since 2003. of their biggest costs as well as helping destinations prepare for a low carbon future.
5,900 11.5m This year, we featured over Over 11.5 million customers 5,900 hotels which had stayed in hotels with sustainability certifications sustainability certifications.
over the last three years For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report www.
com sustainability tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 27 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Sportsworld achieved ISO 20121 for sustainable event management.
Our majority shareholder, TUI AG, signed up to the UN Global Compact in September 2014, committing the Group to 10 universally TUI Nederland won the Overall winner award and the Best for child accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment protection award at the 2013 World Responsible Tourism Awards.
We are involved in hundreds of projects that support communities Our employee Code of Conduct commits us to respecting and and reduce environmental impacts.
Where we can, we focus on those observing human rights.
destinations where we send the most customers and where we believe we can make the greatest difference.
In FY14 this included Brazil, Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards we Cape Verde, Jamaica, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey.
expect from suppliers and their employees, contractors, agents and subsidiaries when working on our behalf.
The code covers human Measuring tourisms impact rights and labour laws, support for local communities, environmental impacts as well as bribery and corruption.
We are trialling a big picture approach to measuring and understanding the impact of tourism.
In partnership with the Travel Foundation, and Our internal policies, practices and guidelines also cover antiusing a methodology developed by PwC, we aim to value the various discrimination, grievance and whistleblowing procedures see economic, fiscal, social and environmental impacts of tourism in Cyprus.
page 71, health & safety see page 51, sustainability, anti-bribery & corruption, fraud see page 71, conflicts of interest, data protection PwCs Total Impact Measurement & Management TIMM framework and security, various sanctions and third party due diligence.
will be applied to our Mainstream Sector tourism operations, focusing on a selection of hotels in Cyprus.
This is the first time the methodology TUI Travel joined Transparency International UKs Business Integrity has been applied to tourism.
Cyprus was chosen for this project as it is Forum in 2014. a Mainstream destination and an important destination for TUI Travel.
We have been named a Top Member of the Code of Conduct for the The pilot is expected to provide new insights into the impacts, both Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel & Tourism positive and negative, of Mainstream tourism on a holiday destination in 2014 and our businesses support child protection projects and to highlight the practical implications of undertaking holistic impact and campaigns.
measurement more widely in the industry and or in other destinations.
The majority of our businesses have incorporated environmental and All the impacts will be measured and valued, so that they can be social minimum standards into contracts for accommodation suppliers.
considered alongside the more traditional financial measures used Our goal is to deliver 10 million greener and fairer holidays and to for strategic business decisions.
The impact of transport to from the encourage our hotel suppliers to implement credible sustainability hotels, hotel operations, the entire tourism supply chain within Cyprus certifications.
Travelife is the system of choice for the majority of and customer and employee spending impacts will all be within scope, our businesses and we helped them to develop new, stricter criteria, covering aspects of tourism such as: working conditions, social including human rights incorporating the principles of the Ethical community benefits, local economic benefits and tax contributions.
Trading Base Code, which were launched in 2014.
We expect to publish our learnings from the pilot in early 2015.
We continue to work with stakeholders to understand and respond commitment to human rights to human rights issues better.
Human rights are basic rights that allow individuals the freedom to lead To read our policies, visit: www.
com a dignified life, free from fear or want, and free to express independent beliefs.
TUI Travel is committed to the protection of human rights in compliance with applicable laws, conventions and regulations throughout our worldwide operations.
We acknowledge the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and have many policies and initiatives in place to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for how we are addressing key human rights issues and challenges.
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report www.
com sustainability TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 28 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT GOAL By 2015 We will operate europes most Sustainable development fuel-efficient airlines and save more than 20,000 tonnes of carbon from our ground operations We will measure this through TUI Travel airlines carbon average carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK and CO saved from our 2 2 major premises, retail outlets, brochure paper production, differentiated hotels and fleets of vehicles against 2011 baseline.
In 2014, TUI Travel airlines total carbon emissions were 5,014,068 We are committed to reducing carbon emissions which is tonnes, a reduction of 1.7% compared to 2013.
Emissions from aviation a key challenge for TUI Travel and the rest of the industry.
make up over 88% of our Companys carbon footprint.
We want to prepare for a low-carbon future by reducing We operate Europes most fuel-efficient airlines, investing in cuttingour environmental impact and encouraging our suppliers edge aviation technology and playing an active role in advocating and customers to do the same.
Travel and tourism accounts smarter carbon legislation.
for around 5% of global carbon emissions UNEP, 2014 half of which is attributable to aviation.
Fy14 highlights CO per revenue passenger kilometre RPK across TUI Travel Carbon management is a critical part of our business practices, 2 airlines in 2013 14 of 69.9g an improvement of 10.3% since 2007 08 protecting the environment and saving us money now and into the making us the most efficient airlines in Europe and beyond.
Across TUI Travel, improved management of energy, natural resources and fuel across our operations has saved a total of 28 million TUIfly was ranked the most climate-efficient charter airline in 2012 and 2013. worldwide for the third year in a row and most climate-efficient airline in the world with more than one million passengers for the We take this challenge seriously the carbon efficiency of our airlines is second year in a row in the 2014 atmosfair Airline Index.
one of TUI Travels key performance indicators as a business.
Our carbon management strategy covers not only aviation but also hotels, major Thomson Airways won the Best Aviation Programme for Carbon premises, retail shops, water transport and ground transport emissions.
Reduction at the 2014 World Responsible Tourism Awards.
Our customers trust us to make their holiday experiences special.
Arke achieved ISO 14001 certification an international environmental Predictable weather, personal comfort and beautiful destinations management standard.
TUIfly Nordic, Thomson Airways and TUIfly are part of the product we sell and all of these are threatened by are also ISO 14001 certified this certification now covers 80% of climate change.
We expect that national governments and international organisations 97% of our aircraft are now fitted with fuel-saving blended winglets, will take decisive action on climate change, including putting in place reducing fuel burn by up to 5%.
fair and effective regulation around carbon.
We have identified climate TUI Travel airlines were the first in Europe to use the new innovative change-related regulation as a material issue for the Company see Split Scimitar Winglets, reducing fuel burn by an additional 2%.
page 50, and monitor upcoming regulation that could have a financial or reputational impact on the Group.
Thomson Airways, Jetairfly and Arkefly have all taken delivery of the innovative Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft, which has exceptional environmental performance.
AiRLine GhG eMiSSiOnS DAtA FOR PeRiOD 1 OctOBeR 2013 30 SePteMBeR 2014 intenSity ReLAtive MetRic When calculating the carbongCO Revenue gCO e Revenue 2 2 efficiency [relative or intensity Passenger Passenger metric] the focus is on TUI Travel airlines Km Km Revenue flights, i. e. RPK.
This includes all flights conducted Arke 71.0g 71.7g 80% under TUI Travel airlines flight Corsair 83.4g 84.3g numbers.
It excludes subArke, TUIfly Nordic, Thomson Jetairfly 73.0g 73.8g charters flying for TUI Travel Airways and TUIfly are airlines: sub-charters TUI all ISO 14001 certified Thomson Airways 67.1g 67.8g Travel airlines fly for other covering 80% of our aircraft TUIfly 66.3g 67.0g airlines: positioning flights but includes ferry flights : ad TUIfly Nordic 65.4g 66.1g hoc flights such as for training, TUI Travel airlines average 69.9g 70.6g technical, all-cargo.
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
com sustainability tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 29 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We have partnered with Boeing for the next phase of their Greenhouse gas emissions ecoDemonstrator Programme, which aims to accelerate the TUI Travel has reported on all of the greenhouse gas GHG emission development and testing of technologies to improve the sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and environmental performance and sustainability of commercial Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Testing of the TUI-branded ecoDemonstrator 757 used for its Scope 1 & 2 and, where appropriate, Scope 3 inventory Flight Test Airplane will commence in 2015. of GHG emissions is operational control and it corresponds to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
TUIfly Nordic has joined the Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation NISA, which brings together key players from the TUI Travel is disclosing carbon dioxide equivalent CO e data for 2 Nordic aviation sector to push forward the development of both its absolute and relative emissions.
CO e refers to CO and 2 2 sustainable aviation fuels.
the other five Kyoto GHGs Methane CH : Nitrous oxide N2O : 4 Hydrofluorocarbons HFCs : Perfluorocarbons PFCs : and Sulphur Jetairfly and Arke introduced electric cars airside at Amsterdams hexafluoride SF.
Schiphol Airport and Brussels Airport.
6 All material GHG emissions have been included and disclosed following Jetairfly won the Environment Award at the 2014 Brussels Airport a thorough review of entities and the emissions sources across the Aviation Awards.
Companys UK and international operations.
The methodology for Carbon emissions have been reduced by 19% year-on-year across the assessment is based on voluntary and mandatory GHG reporting TUI UK & Irelands retail estate and brochures.
guidance issued by DEFRA the UK Governments Environment Department.
Please see tables below for our absolute and intensity We have developed collaborative partnerships with many stakeholders CO e and CO data for FY2014.
whose insight and guidance continue to help us develop our position on 2 2 aviation and climate change.
Examples include: CDP formerly Carbon An approximate figure of Group savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments required to achieve those savings in 2012 & 2013.
Part of previously identified cost savings.
Disclosure Project, Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group SAFUG, P wC the Companys auditors has verified the carbon intensity metrics displayed in the table Sustainable Aviation in the UK, Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy on page 28 PwC also assure our airline EU Emissions Trading Scheme data.
To read our in Germany aireg and AlgaePARC in the Netherlands.
airline carbon data methodology document and PwCs Assurance Report in full, please visit: www.
com sustainability carbon Carbon footprint covers GLOBAL GhG eMiSSiOnS DAtA FOR PeRiOD BReAKDOWn OF tUi tRAveLS Scope 1 direct emissions 1 OctOBeR 2013 30 SePteMBeR 2014 cARBOn FOOtPRint and Scope 2 & 3 ABSOLUte FiGUReS indirect emissions.
CO [t] CO e [t] TUI Travel airlines 2 2 The scope of the TUI Travel and aviation 88.4% tonnes of tonnes of carbon airlines carbon data is as Source carbon dioxide dioxide equivalent Water transport 4.1% follows: for the absolute fuel burn and carbon data Ground transport 0.4% Total Scope 1 2201 0122 113 3 calculations, all flights 2013 14 Major premises 0.6% emissions 5,865,385 5,927,861 conducted under each Differentiated hotels 5.5% Total Scope 2 airlines flight number Other indirect emissions including sub-charters emissions 315,201 315,374 Scope 1 covers including business flown by TUI Travel airlines direct emissions Other Scope 3 travel by air 1.0% but excluding sub-charters emissions 62,206 62,391 Scope 2 & 3 the TUI Travel airlines fly covers indirect for other airlines are Grand total 6,242,792 6,305,626 emissions included in the scope.
com sustainability TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 30 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt HOW WE DO IT GOAL By 2015 Our colleagues will rate Sustainable development tUi travel as a leader in sustainability We will measure this through the Your Voice global employee opinion survey colleagues results aiming to meet High Performing Company scores for responsibility towards the environment and community for all colleagues and senior leaders.
Responsible Leadership is one of our core values and Fy14 highlights commits us to making a positive impact on society, Sustainability awareness raising initiatives were implemented across the Group, such as TUI Nordics sustainability training video celebrating local differences and contributing to a for holiday advisers and Specialist Holidays Groups sustainability better world.
Our colleagues need to be enthusiastic week with a different theme for each day.
and knowledgeable about TUI Travels sustainability Our colleagues united to protect holiday destinations by taking part commitments and the role they play in delivering them.
in the Travel Foundations Big Holiday Beach Clean for Make Holidays Todays employees are not only motivated by money and status but Greener month in July.
Over 700 people took part, cleaning 30 plus also by the knowledge that their employers values align with their own.
beaches and collecting 400 bags of rubbish over 35,000 pieces.
The evidence shows that employees who are engaged in sustainability We have set up networks of sustainability champions, made up of who are encouraged to share their experiences with others are people who know how to inspire change in their business area.
For happier and more productive at work.
Values matter even more to the example, TUI Nordic has a network of ISO-coordinators who helped leaders of the future: 80% of 13-25 year olds want to work for a company to implement ISO 14001, TUI Deutschland has Environmental that cares about its impact on society Forbes, 2014.
Ambassadors who meet regularly, TUI Nederland has sustainability We want our colleagues across the world to understand, and bring to champions in each product department and TUI UK & Ireland has life, the TUI Travel values and know that they can take action in their champion networks in place in retail, head office and overseas.
Responsible Leadership is increasingly embedded Training programmes were rolled out across retail such as a into how we measure behaviour and performance across the Group.
sustainability module within TUI UK & Irelands new online induction.
We communicate regularly about the issues, successes and challenges of Community volunteering programmes are one of the ways we engage sustainable tourism to our colleagues.
Across the Group, sustainability our people in sustainability, enabling them to see projects in action information can be found in recruitment materials, intranets, newsletters, and develop their own skills.
Many of our businesses allow colleagues inductions, blogs by senior managers, short films and e-learning modules.
one day per year to volunteer for a charity in their local area.
For example, 80 colleagues from Bedsonline Asia and Hotelbeds in South East Asia travelled to San Remigio, in the Philippines, to help rebuild a school devastated by Typhoon Haiyan.
TUI Travel was shortlisted for a 2014 HR Excellence Award for embedding the Sustainable Holidays Plan throughout our Company.
FAMiLy hOLiDAy ASSOciAtiOn We are the largest corporate sponsor of the Family Holiday Association FHA, a charity that provides simple breaks to disadvantaged 700 children and their families in the UK.
In July, over 700 people Since 2009 we have raised more than dedicated their time to help clean up beaches in 2 million.
Peter Long, Chief Executive 20 destinations around of TUI Travel, was appointed President the world of the FHA on 1 October 2013. www.
uk For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
com sustainability tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 31 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOAL By 2015 customers will regard tUi travel as a leader in delivering more sustainable holidays We will measure this by our performance in consumer research in our key source markets.
customers Minimising waste in energy and resources helps us deliver value for TUI Travels vision is to make travel experiences special.
Hotels that treat their people and the local environment with Customers are at the heart of everything we do, and consideration are developing a quality product with friendly staff.
And that means we must involve them in order to become beautiful, unique destinations rely on the tourism industry committing a more sustainable business and help drive a more to protect them.
Fy14 highlights Our customers are critical to delivering some of our most important We are encouraging holidaymakers to engage in sustainable tourism sustainability goals.
We need to make sure that clear links are made through our kids club activities, school education initiatives, between sustainability and the holiday experiences they value, and customer donation schemes and sustainable tourism campaigns.
encourage them to take action in a way which is engaging and memorable.
We have found a positive correlation between more sustainable holidays Since 2011, over one million UK school children have participated and customer satisfaction.
in the Eco-traveller programme which teaches them how to make a difference on holiday.
According to the research we undertook in 2012, which covered 3,000 people in several of TUI Travels key source markets, modern Over 1.4 million raised through the World Care Fund customer mainstream consumers are more engaged with sustainability compared donation scheme.
The funds are channelled into projects that to traditional mainstream consumers: help address the environmental impact of tourism, and support communities around the world.
One in two would be willing to book a more sustainable holiday if available Fritidsresor, our brand in Sweden, was ranked the most sustainable travel company in Sweden in the 2014 Sustainable Brand Index and One in two want their holiday company to be clear about what by the Differ survey.
they do to make their holidays more sustainable Across the Group our businesses are working to reduce brochures They are more interested in social and community issues than and to use digital platforms throughout the customer journey.
traditional mainstream consumers The TUI Digital Assistant app has now been rolled out in Austria, The sustainability aspects that interest them most in the destination Germany, the Nordics, Switzerland and the UK and has been are: fair working conditions: learning about the country and the downloaded over one million times.
people: and changing their behaviour to help the environment.
Our Mainstream businesses in Germany and Austria have partnered Sustainability is not a primary driver of consumer preference for with myclimate to offset the carbon emissions from all customer mainstream holidays customers are more interested in price, quality, rental cars from April 2013.
To date, over 26,000 tonnes of CO has 2 food, service and unique destinations.
The good news is that these are been offset via projects in Turkey and China.
exactly the aspects of our holidays that sustainability helps to support.
GivinG BAcK The Intrepid Foundation is a not-for-profit organisation and has distributed over AU$3.5 million to more than 70 non- 1 million government organisations since 2002 Number of UK school matching customer donations dollar children who participated in the eco-traveller for dollar, contributing to health care, programme since 2011 education, human rights, child welfare, sustainable development and environmental and wildlife protection.
com sustainability TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 32 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Our people engaging and involving our colleagues JAcKy SAyS thAnK yOU Although TUI Travel is made up of a diverse and unique range of Our vision is to enable our colleagues to brands and businesses, they share many similarities due to a shared vision and common values.
be better connected, more in touch and in tune with our customers, whilst delivering Nurturing these values is key to our strategy.
Following the first TUI Travel Group-wide global opinion survey that took place in September personalised holiday experiences that will 2012, we identified three key areas to strengthen the engagement of always be remembered.
our colleagues: this year our focus in hR has been on developing Pride: Colleagues told us that they were looking for a better a consistent, effortless and engaging experience opportunity to identify with TUI Travel as a great place to work for our colleagues, which in turn will be Trust: We aim to build trust right across our organisation by giving transferred to our customers.
Once again, people more opportunities to get involved and delivering more our colleagues have shown great passion and targeted and transparent communications commitment to ensure tUi travel delivers Opportunity: Our colleagues asked us for better accessibility to holiday experiences that satisfy the everopportunities that would enable them to grow and develop within changing needs of our customers.
Colleagues wanted to develop a career within the Company rather than viewing their role as just another job i would like to say thank you to our people Over the past year we have continued to address these key areas for bringing the tUi travel values to life and through a number of Group-wide initiatives, detailed below.
making it such a great place to work.
Pride the introduction of an employer brand Jacky Simmonds People told us that TUI Travel was such a great place to work, they felt we should use the strength of our scale and size when trying to attract and retain people within the organisation.
We also wanted to find a JAcKy SiMMOnDS Group hR Director way to express what binds us today in a common and shared colleague Jacky Simmonds joined First Choice in 2000 from Hearst Magazines UK The National Magazine Company where she experience no matter where you work in TUI Travel.
To capture this, led the HR function for six years.
She was appointed as Group we have introduced an employer brand that describes, in a clear way, HR Director in 2010 having previously held a number of senior the experience you will have working for the Group.
It is centred positions across the Group.
Jacky was appointed HR Director for TUI UK & Ireland in 2007 and, following the merger, was around the three key pillars described on the following page.
central to the integration of the First Choice and Thomson businesses.
Since her appointment in 2010, there is a more aligned approach to HR across the Group which includes the creation of talent programmes, global functions for resourcing and the development of an integrated HR strategy.
Jacky has experience of leading large-scale transformation programmes on both a local and global level.
DAviD BURLinG Managing Director, tUi UK & ireland 2.
WiLLiAM WAGGOtt David was appointed Managing Director for TUI UK & 3.
JOhAn LUnDGRen Ireland TUI UK in October 2011.
David previously held For Executive biographies go to page 64 the position of Commercial Director for TUI UK following the merger of the Tourism Division of TUI AG and First Choice in September 2007.
David was key to the successful integration of the businesses, ensuring that both brands had clear strategy for growth.
David first joined Thomson Holidays in 1990 and is now a member of the Mainstream Sector Board.
In April 2012 he was appointed to the Group Management Board.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 33 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Winning Together: we are passionate about our work: we inspire Opportunity global jobs and learning opportunities and respect each other In July 2014, we launched an internal careers portal to increase internal visibility of job vacancies across parts of TUI Travel for the first time.
Freedom to Shine: our global businesses are fast moving, dynamic The portal is currently being developed further to give colleagues and rich in development opportunities access to an even wider range of opportunities across the globe.
Pushing Boundaries: we never stop looking ahead, seeking new We have also launched a Global Learning Management System which ways to delight our customers and grow our business.
We embrace will give colleagues worldwide access to state of the art learning once technology, innovate and adapt at speed, staying true to our values.
Since being developed, these pillars have been used in a number of The portal encourages colleagues to take responsibility for their own recruitment campaigns across the Group, and have provided a global development and is multi-lingual, accessible via the internet enabling identity for employees across the world for the first time.
learning anytime, anywhere, via laptop, iPad or smartphone, and assists collaboration by supporting the transfer of best practice across trust involving employees in the way we work the Group.
The Learning Management system has been developed to Weve given over 300 of our colleagues the opportunity to get directly facilitate a variety of different learning needs: personal and leadership involved in the work to transform our business.
development, compliance mandatory training and functional skills Many more colleagues are indirectly involved through focus groups, and knowledge.
As well as being embedded in the Finance Academy surveys and interviews, giving a broad representation of people a with over 2,000 people actively using it, the Academy has now been chance to have their say in making our business more innovative, embedded across our UK Retail and destination teams.
In January TUI Germany implemented Magellan, a software With this ongoing dialogue at all levels, we are building trust and programme allowing employees to be trained on a variety of topics bringing the Company closer together.
Beyond this, we understand including automated contract generation, employers reference creation trust as the experience of our colleagues in their daily work with their and feedback sessions.
More capability will be progressively added to the leaders and co-workers.
We have put a great deal of emphasis on the software to cater for all areas of the business.
ongoing, clear communication of our strategy and achievements as a We are very interested in finding out how these initiatives have worked Company, and will continue to invest in the development of our leaders to shift perceptions across the Group and will capture this during the at all levels.
Your Voice opinion survey in 2015.
MittU SRiDhARA chief information Officer 6. chRiStiAn cLeMenS Managing Director, 7.
JOAn viL Managing Director, tUi Germany Accommodation & Destinations Mittus main focus is transforming TUI Travel PLC into a digital online business that is able to serve its Christian Clemens joined the Group Management Board After developing his professional career in the Destination customers Anywhere, Anytime, Any Way.
Prior to this, he was CEO of TUI Nordic Services Division of the Barcel Travel Group, Joan Vil led global technology teams and formulated and from 2009 to 2012, joining the Company as General was appointed Managing Director of the Division in delivered several multi-channel technology platforms Manager Sweden in 2004 and then becoming 1999, which was integrated into First Choice Holidays and industry-leading digital products.
Prior to this, responsible for Denmark, Finland, Norway and PLC First Choice in 2000.
In November 2002, he Mittu has held senior IT roles at global organisations, Sweden as COO of TUI Nordic in 2007.
Between 1989 became a member of First Choices Group Management starting his career at American Airlines Decision and 2004 Christian held a number of senior roles with Board.
Joan is currently the Managing Director of the Technologies and moving on to companies including Thomas Cook Northern Europe.
Christian graduated Accommodation & Destinations Sector of TUI Travel Sabre Holdings, the worlds leading provider of IT as an engineer in Industrial Economy.
PLC and is also on the Group Management Board.
solutions decision support systems to the global travel He has an MBA from IESE, a degree in Economics and transportation sector, Ladbrokes PLC and AVIS from the University of Barcelona and has completed Europe PLC.
Mittu has featured in the top 50 of the international business school programmes with TechRepublic CIO50 list for several years.
Columbia Business School and IMD.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design 34 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Our people continued We also have a development portfolio for colleagues in the earlier Digitally enabling our people stages of their career who have been identified as high potential and Our Digital Transformation journey began in 2013, and has become or successors to commercial senior leadership roles in the future.
a key feature of our strategy to become a truly consistent, effortless and engaging team.
Perspectives, sponsored by Joan Vil, MD Accommodation & Destinations Sector, takes Rising Stars on a journey to widen their As part of One Mainstreams digital transformation, our vision is to understanding of the Group strategy and our expectations of future create a single environment that is available to our global colleague leaders.
The programme helps drive the mobility of talent across the base anytime, anywhere, any way.
This includes providing instant Group, supporting our culture of global leadership.
access to customer data, communications, colleague data, social interaction and working practices and improving collaboration and horizons, sponsored by David Burling, MD UK&I Mainstream, focuses efficiency in how we work and increasing the awareness in expertise on high-potential senior leaders who have been identified as successors and knowledge sharing.
In doing so, we will empower our colleagues to more senior roles.
The programme takes participants through to become brand ambassadors and encourage them to fully engage a business-led initiative to identify ways we can meet our business with our customers and their colleagues.
challenges whilst also developing their personal leadership styles at all levels.
In our Mainstream and Specialist & Activity Sectors, we have been piloting schemes allowing our reps in resorts to support customers To support all managerial development, we have introduced two new through iPads.
This ensures colleagues can engage with customers leadership programmes: over social media prior to and during their holidays, and thereby Leadership essentials focuses predominantly on self and people further improving customer service levels.
We have had great feedback leadership, how we expect leaders to behave in TUI Travel.
It is designed following these pilots and are looking into rolling it out across more for those who have just commenced their leadership journey to embed of the business.
the behaviours which encourage and bring out the best in people.
Real time communication and collaboration amongst colleagues has Leadership evolution an advanced programme focusing on people been facilitated this year by installing an instant messaging tool and business leadership.
This is for more experienced managers, Lync for teams based in the UK & Ireland and France.
This is both enabling them to explore the evolution of themselves as a leader an efficient and informative tool and allows people to make contact and the organisation in the face of a rapidly-changing environment.
In addition to these Group-wide development initiatives, we also offer investing in our leaders bespoke internal and external mentoring and coaching.
At TUI Travel, we know that we need talent and strong leadership, Through the People Performance management process in Germany, facilitated by development opportunities, in order to deliver our strategy 70 leaders had the opportunity to attend a development centre to and cement the businesss future.
Some of the key programmes to build on their leadership potential, where they receive feedback support these opportunities are as follows: from external consultants on their progress.
By creating a learning environment where people can demonstrate high performance, we are For high-potential senior leaders, there is our Global high Performance able to identify potential, and in turn give them more responsibility.
Leadership programme which focuses on their development whilst equipping indviduals to support our commercial business growth In Germany we offer selected colleagues an opportunity to take on and strategy.
Sponsored by the Deputy Chief Executive and MD of project-based work with a global perspective over a two-year period.
One Mainstream, Johan Lundgren, the programme aims to enhance Employees can take on the role of a People or Operational Leader, strategic thinking and leadership skills, creating the foundation for where they cover topics such as working in an international organisation, more active collaboration across the Group.
digital transformation, dealing with ambiguity, building resilience and change management.
Part of the selection process to determine if people The programme is run by the prestigious IMD business school in are ready to attend the two-year programme is successful completion Switzerland, where participants solve real strategic business priorities of a one-day Development Centre, aligned to the requirements of the in a learning environment which results in tangible improvement plans.
international Group development programmes Perspectives and Horizons.
All participants in this talent pool have the opportunity to apply for these international Group development programmes.
ttG 30 UnDeR 30 This year, three TUI Travel colleagues have been recognised as top up-coming talent in the Travel and Leisure industry.
Benjamin Dean International Graduate, Bart Quinton Smith Analyst, TUI UK & Ireland and Oliver Bowden Senior Retail Manager, TUI UK & Ireland have all been selected by TTG as members of the Tomorrows travel leaders: 30 under 30 scheme, which identifies and selects the brightest young talent in the industry.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 35 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Learning conferences have also been established as an instrument for In August and September 2014, 172 young people began their first the development of talent and management.
This initiative was started professional job through TUI Germanys retail, airline and TBS divisions.
by TUI Germany and is now a Group-wide measure in Mainstream Over the next three years they will have on-the-job training with the Germany, where colleagues share experiences and understanding.
aim of becoming merchants in tourism travel agents, merchants in The event covers strategic topics that underpin our business success dialogue marketing, office clerks and aircraft mechanics.
In addition and the satisfaction of our employees.
to their practical training, TUI Germany will also provide academic vocational schooling, aiming to give young people the best possible There has also been a series of seminars run for our leaders.
An example start in their careers.
of one of these seminars, Conflict management in change, was devised to ensure we are prepared for upcoming change processes as well as In June 2014, we launched a series of workshops for colleagues across dealing with resistance to change.
Around 100 leaders have participated TUI Germany, TUIfly, TUI Business Service, TUI 4U, TUI Service, so far.
TUI Aqtiv, TUI AG, Robinson Club and TLT Service.
These workshops have been designed in an interactive and innovative way to discuss Developing our talent pipeline exciting, current and forward-looking strategic issues.
The people in attendance found it extremely useful to debate current issues as The International Graduate Leadership Programme continues to well as network across multiple companies and learn more about the attract, develop and retain high-quality graduates who are earmarked culture at TUI Travel.
The events took place in different locations and to become our future senior Commercial Leaders.
were sponsored by senior leaders.
They will continue throughout the To reflect the increasing globalisation of our business, we focus on next financial year.
attracting graduates with an international mindset and a professional In the UK & Ireland we have a leading employer apprenticeship approach seen as suitable for our fast-paced, ever-changing programme.
We continue to partner with the Skills Funding Agency environment.
There are two small intakes annually, another eight and City & Guilds to deliver vocational training through our in-house graduates joined our team in September 2014 from France, India, accredited programmes department.
We deliver over 400 qualifications Spain, Croatia, Germany, Romania, the Netherlands and Belgium.
every year including apprenticeships, NVQs and Institute of Leadership There is a mentoring programme in place on the Scheme which provides & Management Certificate and Diploma programmes.
The programmes support throughout the 18-month duration, and senior leaders commit recognise and support all aspects of our business and provide to meeting and helping graduates with specific assignments.
Speaking qualifications ranging from Customer Service to Chefs and Sales to a minimum of two languages including English, our graduates are Airline Operations.
The UK&I team has supported the delivery of these provided with significant international commercial business exposure programmes in the Specialist & Activity Sector of the JCA business across the Group with the aim for them to become emerging leaders and Specialist Holiday Group SHG finance.
The expertise of the team within four years.
has supported both of these areas to attract, retain and develop Since 2010, 41 graduates have joined the business.
They complete four talented candidates.
business placements, a five-week overseas placement, attend four To support succession planning programmes, we have launched the one-week training blocks and participate in a Group project to look Institute of Leadership Management Qualifications Level 2 and 3 and at a business challenge.
Over 80% of these graduates are still in the currently have 82 colleagues on the programme.
We have been recognised in Germany by the online career are designed to support and develop talented Sales Advisers and platform for students, graduates and young professionals, Absolventa Assistant Managers, who undertake assignments and are offered who have commended us for having a career-enhancing and fair opportunities for secondment, which in turn aids the Group with International Graduate leadership programme.
Also, in TheJobCrowd succession planning.
top Companies for Graduates to work for, we have been placed 19th, 12 places higher than our 2013 ranking, with some excellent feedback We also have a placement scheme, with eight students joining the being given by our graduates.
2013 14 programme and another seven starting in 2014 15.
The placement students work in different areas of the business including In TUI Germany we deliver an intern programme which forms part Product, Early Trading, Late Trading, Cruise Trading, E-commerce of Adelante, an initiative started by the Chamber of Industry and and Purchasing.
There is also a School Leaver Scheme, which takes Commerce in Hanover to take action against the unemployment of students that have finished their A-Levels and, rather than going to young people in Spain.
In April 2014 two young Spaniards began their University, join TUI Travel.
This is a two-year programme where they three-month internship and from September they will commence a work in the same areas as the placement students and eventually will year-long internship.
aim to take on the same formal roles.
This programme is in its third year now and is working well.
We are working with City & Guilds to develop a specific qualification that can be awarded to those who complete the programme.
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design 36 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we do it: Our people continued In our Specialist & Activity Sector great progress has been made to A team of individuals strength in diversity develop a formal graduate sales programme.
This has been designed We have a global workforce with a wide range of different cultures to improve the sales capability within this sector, building on the agility and backgrounds, which gives depth and breadth of experience and of the Specialist & Activity sales model, which can move talent across understanding a team of diverse individuals, all of whom contribute portfolios as required, whilst ensuring future managers are given to our market leadership.
Illustrating this diverse workforce, 57 of our 210 senior leaders The Navigator programme is one which is specially designed for based across 24 countries are female.
Across our total workforce, colleagues who have been identified as young talent within Specialist approximately 61% of all employees and 30% of managers are female.
& Activity, and forms part of the Sectors succession planning.
It has We are clear that we do not tolerate discrimination under any now been rolled out to European-based colleagues within the Specialist circumstances and our ethos is that opportunities should be equally & Activity Sector, with plans to deliver this to colleagues based in the available to everyone.
We have principles and guidelines in place to US, in the future.
ensure this is maintained at every level throughout our Company.
Global mobility and collaboration Spotlight is a new programme which allows us to identify and In December 2013 we announced the transformation of our Mainstream target specific groups who are under-represented in the Group.
This was a turning point for opportunities in collaborative working practices, encouraging a global best practice Rewarding our colleagues and supporting model as well as global mobility, and driving a big picture mindset.
their wellbeing An example of this collaboration can be seen in our Digital Transformation When it comes to making travel experiences special, we recognise that model, where we have created centres of excellence hubs in which it is the dedication of our colleagues that makes the difference and we digital solutions are developed once and deployed to all Source strive to make sure they feel valued.
The success of the TUI Digital Assistant app pays testament Recognising the importance of good retirement planning, we continue to what can be developed within these multi-locational, collaborative to offer pension arrangements across the Group reflective of local hubs, and it has now been rolled out into five Source Markets.
legislative requirements, as well as the economic position of our Two initiatives have been developed with the specific aim of building business and local market practice.
the global mobility of our colleagues across the Group, and furthering In the UK there continue to be significant changes to pension legislation their career development.
following the implementation of pension auto-enrolment in 2013.
The first is a new global resourcing function, focusing on senior We are working closely with our partners to ensure that we can adapt leadership and internal talent pools.
This helps to drive international to facilitate these changes as they take effect.
moves and internal promotion across the business, which forms part The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is paramount and we have of our HR strategy, whilst the second is the development of talent built upon the work started by TUI UK & Ireland and TUI Germany by panels, to monitor talented indviduals so the business has an easy providing wellbeing programmes and initiatives for our employees.
way to input into talent discussions.
tUi tRAveL JOinS the tOURiSM inDUStRy cOUnciL TUI Travel has just embarked on a fantastic new opportunity to shape the development of the UK tourism industry.
Along with 21 other leaders in the industry such as easyJet, Expedia and VisitBritain, it has joined a partnership with the Government.
Together they will become the new Tourism Industry Council, using their expertise to develop skills and share best practices whilst enabling the tourism industry to innovate and grow.
This is the first time that such a partnership has been set up and further cements our role as a business leader within the UK.
Peter Long commented: The importance of outbound tourism in the UK can be overlooked at times but it is a significant part of the industry.
We alone take over five million Britons on holiday every year directly employing some 20,000 people in the UK.
Im therefore delighted to be part of the Council and I look forward to playing my part in the development of our industry now and in the years to come.
The partnership follows a recent government drive to increase the availability of apprenticeships within the country.
It is also, significantly, the first time that there has been a cross-government council including both the Tourism Minister and the Minister for Skills and Enterprise.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 37 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our apprenticeships continue to win awards!
Samantha Reed was a finalist and highly commended at the TT G Travel Seller of the Year 2.
Sophie Page was a recent City and Guilds Medal for Excellence winner 3. thomas newby was a regional finalist and highly commended in the National Apprenticeship Award TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Design 38 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we measure it: Key performance indicators KPIs Our KPIs enable TUI Travels stakeholders to monitor performance against our growth levers see more on page 55 and growth roadmap.
StRAteGic GROWth StRAteGy DRiveRS ROADMAP tARGet UniqUe hOLiDAyS OnLy AvAiLABLe FROM tUi tRAveL We target a unique holiday mix of 76%, as a proportion Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream businesses of total Mainstream and are exclusive to us.
Unique holidays provide value added services and Sector holidays by 2017. features which command a margin premium over commodity products.
We also target This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase in repeat continuous improvement bookings.
Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to manage our in customer satisfaction.
capacity and yield more effectively and it is very difficult for our competitors to replicate these concepts.
DiStRiBUteD DiRectLy tO the cUStOMeR GROWth FROM OnLine We target a direct distribution mix of 81% and Our direct distribution channels are central to the Groups strategy.
By an online distribution mix increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution of 50% in our Mainstream costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on our Sector by 2017. customer relationships.
As an online-driven business, we have a focus on the online customer experience.
During the year, we continued to see the benefits of the investments we have been making in our online platforms.
We are moving to one core online platform across Mainstream.
LeveRAGinG OUR ScALe Within Mainstream, we target overheads of less than As Europes largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all source 5% in each source market.
markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow the number of customers travelling with us.
Our One Mainstream structure is in place and yielding tangible benefits.
We have completed our strategic review of the Specialist & Activity We target underlying businesses and have refocused our plans for profitable growth and operating profit growth of improved operational efficiency.
We have a strong portfolio of between 8% to 10% per established and popular brands with leadership positions in market annum between 2012 and segments which are continuing to grow.
2017, including delivery of 9m business improvement savings during the five year period.
Key tO StRAteGic DRiveRS 71% 79% of our Mainstream holidays Customer satisfaction score BRAnDS & technOLOGy GROWth PeOPLe were unique in 2014 in UK, Nordics and Germany cOntent DiStRiBUtiOn & ScALe combined during 2014 See more about our strategic drivers on page 14 tt27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design ORGAnic SPeciALiSt DeLiveRinG & Activity GROWth MAinStReAM GROWth StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 39 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PeRFORMAnce Key PeRFORMAnce inDicAtORS Unique holidays mix as a proportion of In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by three percentage points across the 1 total Mainstream package holidays Mainstream Sector as a whole to 71% with improvements in all key source markets.
2014: 71% | 2013: 68% | 2012: 65% Customer satisfaction for the UK, Nordic region and Germany combined remained at the customer satisfaction for key Mainstream record levels achieved in 2013, with continued strong performances by our unique brands.
source markets 2014: 79% | 2013: 79% | 2012: 77% 1 Unique calculation for 2014 and 2013 updated to include Airtours brand and long-haul destinations not previously included within packages Direct distribution mix as a proportion of To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: i direct distribution mix: Unique holidays mix as a proportion of total total Mainstream package holidays Mainstream Sector package holidays and ii online distribution mix.
The improvement in direct distribution was driven by the online channel which has Online distribution mix as a proportion customer satisfaction for [key Mainstream of total Mainstream Sector package holidays increased by three percentage points in 2013 to 38%.
Within this, the UK improved source markets rated out of a total of 100%] by four percentage points to 51%, the Nordic region improved by three percentage 2014: 38% | 2013: 35% | 2012: 33% 2013: [xx%] | 2012: [xx%] | 2011: [xx%] points to 70% and Germany improved by three percentage points to 11%.
Mainstream overhead as a % of revenue The overall Mainstream overhead remained below 5% in 2014.
The One Mainstream programme is continuing to deliver significant benefits and operational efficiencies across 2014: 4.4% | 2013: 4.6% | 2012: 5.2% our source markets.
Underlying operating profit During 2014, the Specialist & Activity Sector saw a mixed performance from its various businesses, delivering a broadly flat result on a constant currency basis.
We saw an 2014: 40m improved result from our North American Education and North American Specialist 2013: 41m businesses.
Sport benefited from weak year-on-year comparatives as well as the Ashes and 2014 FIFA World Cup tournament.
However, these results were offset by soft trading in the Adventure and Marine businesses.
68% 38% of our Mainstream of our Mainstream holidays during 2014 were holidays during 2014 distributed directly by were purchased online us to the customer at constant currency rates TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 40 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt How we measure it: Key performance indicators KPIs continued StRAteGic GROWth StRAteGy DRiveRS ROADMAP tARGet Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Hotelbeds and Bedsonline is We target underlying a market leader, operating in the B2B segment with a global distribution operating profit growth for presence.
We have a clear strategy of consolidating our market-leading Accommodation Wholesaler position even further by continuing to grow our existing destinations of between 15% to 20% whilst accelerating our expansion into new markets with particular focus per annum between 2012 on Asia, Latin America and Africa.
In Accommodation OTA online travel agent our focus is to build on our We target growth in traffic strong brand positioning of LateRooms.
com in the UK and expand in the and roomnights in our emerging markets through AsiaRooms.
com across Asia and in Brazil with existing OtA brands MalaPronta, Brazils fourth largest accommodation-only OTA.
One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Groups We target continuous profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior returns improvement in Group on investment.
This improvement will allow us to invest further in the ROic and cash conversion future of our business which will benefit our customers, colleagues of at least 70% of profit and shareholders.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability We are targeting our airlines and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect to reduce per passenger our product into the future and also support product differentiation, carbon emissions by 9% brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
by the end of 2015 against a baseline of 2008.
Key tO StRAteGic DRiveRS 21% 12m growth in Accommodation business improvement BRAnDS & technOLOGy GROWth PeOPLe Wholesaler underlying savings delivered during 2014 cOntent DiStRiBUtiOn & ScALe operating profit in 2014 See more about our strategic drivers on page 14 tt27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design PiOneeRinG LeveRAGinG OUR GLOBAL SUStAinABiLity FOcUS On FRee cASh FLOW LeADeRShiP POSitiOn chAnGe in OUR GeneRAtiOn, ROic AnD inveStinG in in AccOMMODAtiOn SectOR OPeRAtiOnAL eFFiciency AccOMMODAtiOn OtA WhOLeSALeR StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 41 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PeRFORMAnce Key PeRFORMAnce inDicAtORS Growth in underlying operating profit We had another strong performance in Accommodation Wholesaler in 2014, with 21% growth in underlying operating profit at constant currency rates.
Top-line growth was driven Growth in roomnights primarily by continued expansion in Asia and Latin America.
2014: 16% Decrease in traffic Traffic and roomnights decreased by 6% and 11% respectively in the year, driven by a planned reduction in unprofitable marketing spend in AsiaRooms and pressure on 2014: -6% conversion rates as customers increasingly switch to mobile devices.
We expect this Decrease in roomnights trend to reverse as we continue to improve our mobile capability.
2014: -11% ROic ROIC performance was strong, but slightly lower than 2013 due to the impact of foreign exchange translation and an expected increase in the underlying effective tax rate, driven 2014: 14.6% | 2013: 14.8% | 2012: 12.2% by a change in the geographic mix of profit.
1 cash conversion We generated a cash conversion rate of 85% in 2014, significantly in excess of our target 2014: 85% | 2013: 93% | 2012: 78% of 70% of profit before tax.
Business improvement programme We delivered 12m of operational efficiency savings through the business improvement 2014: 12m programme in the last 12 months.
The programme is now largely complete.
1 Free cash flow excludes net aircraft pre-delivery payments and movements in restricted cash.
2013 cash conversion restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits carbon efficiency, measured through Our airlines per passenger carbon emissions reduced year on year, from 70.7g CO RPK in 2 tUi travel airlines average carbon emissions 2013 to 69.9g CO RPK in 2014, a 10.3% reduction against our 2008 baseline year.
This was 2 per revenue passenger kilometre g cO RPK 2 achieved through investment in new fuel-efficient aircraft, operational efficiencies, fuel 2014: 69.9g cO RPK 2 conservation activities and capacity amends.
2013: 70.7g CO RPK 2 2012: 73.0g CO RPK 2 14.6% 85% Strong ROIC performance in cash conversion during 2014 2014 at constant currency rates TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design
