Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW AIDAN HEAVEY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RESPONDING TO CHANGE WITH A FOCUS ON OPPORTUNITIES Tullow has taken prudent steps to adapt its strategy and adjust its organisation.
The Group is ready to operate effectively during challenging times, but to also be in the best position when opportunities arise and the cycle turns.
2014 in reflection We had many achievements during 2014.
In West Africa, 2014 was a tough year for the traditional oil and gas sector.
the Jubilee field in Ghana met its annual production target Oil prices fell dramatically in the second half of the year and the FPSO performed impressively.
The Atuabo gas plant and the E&P sector has been out of favour with investors was completed by the National Ghana Gas Company and for some time.
It is not the first tough year that I, or Tullow, gas is now flowing onshore.
The TEN Project, also in Ghana, have faced over the past 30 years.
However, it is vital during remains on schedule, on budget and is now over 50% times of change that companies do not allow themselves complete.
In East Africa, we made further discoveries in to get fixated on the difficulties caused by a low oil price.
In particular, the Amosing-1 and Etuko-1 well results That environment also creates opportunities that a truly at the beginning of the year helped underpin the South flexible and entrepreneurial company, like Tullow, can Lokichar Basins commercial potential.
We have also made take advantage of.
They must move quickly to adjust to the good progress with our development plans in both Uganda new oil price.
Companies must not stick their heads in the and Kenya and have achieved significant cost reductions to sand either and simply assume that the oil price will rise the Lake Albert basin development.
We also had a further again and bail them out of trouble.
Tullows strength in discovery, offshore Norway, with the Hanssen-1 well which these more challenging times rests on our ability to make added to the wider Wisting cluster of resources.
Overall, the necessary adjustments to our business and strategy however, we have not had the returns from our exploration quickly, to concentrate on key assets in our portfolio and campaigns as we would have liked.
This has been to ensure the strength of our balance sheet.
disappointing and we need to spend some time adapting our approach and re-evaluating our prospect inventory.
12 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We also took prudent steps in 2013 and 2014 to secure our Our investment proposition medium-term funding and strengthen our balance sheet: In the end, this focus on developments, prioritisation we have now issued two bonds totalling $1.3 billion, we of near-term value in our exploration programme and the re-financed our Revolving Credit Facility and we have an need for careful financial management, reflect my belief effective set of hedges in place to give us protection in that Tullow needs to compete for investors in a way that we case of further oil price falls.
have not had to in the recent past.
This is a challenge that we are committed to respond to.
Tullow has not changed A shift in our priorities fundamentally over the past year, but to carry on with the The key challenge for Tullow in 2014 and into 2015 has been same strategy in light of the changes and challenges in our to deal with the changed circumstances in our industry and, industry and the investment landscape would have been as a result, we have shifted our priorities and re-allocated wrong.
Therefore, because of the changes in emphasis that our capital expenditure.
This has seen our planned we have made to our strategy and the leaner, more focused expenditure on exploration and appraisal fall substantially.
Tullow that is now emerging, we are confident we will return However, this is not a permanent shift away from exploration.
value to shareholders over the coming years.
We will also Tullow owes its 1.3 billion barrels of contingent reserves and continue to have one of the best exploration portfolios in the resources to the spectacular success that our exploration sector and we will have the people and expertise to match.
team has had over the past 10 years.
The greatest value can be achieved by developing oil that companies have found In June 2014, members of your Board and key members of themselves.
We may have cut the exploration budget, but Senior Management laid out the long-term direction of travel our spend and acreage will still remain for Tullow at our Capital Markets Day substantial by industry standards.
East and the change in oil price has not Africa, the focus of our 2015 exploration affected this vision.
Towards the end and appraisal, has the potential to of 2016, we are targeting net production A difficult market creates deliver high returns, having reduced of over 100,000 bopd of high-quality, opportunities that a truly high-margin oil in West Africa and we drilling costs from $50 million per well flexible and entrepreneurial will have made substantial progress on at the start of the campaign in 2012 to company, like Tullow, the Final Investment Decision of our around $10 to $15 million per well now.
We are keeping a keen eye on the The best team of people longer term and will seek to take The loyalty of our employees and the opportunities that these new contractors is critical and I would like to thank them all for circumstances bring.
Part of our $200 million exploration their hard work and their dedication to our business in these budget will be spent buying up new licences so that, as tough times.
While 2015 promises to be an uncertain year for conditions allow, we can again drill those major, basinour sector globally, I am confident that because of the assets opening wells that have given us the inventory of reserves and people we have, the strategy we are following and the and resources we have today.
In the current market, opportunities we will be able to take, Tullow will remain governments will find it more challenging to lease licences Africas leading independent oil company.
and they will find it hard to include licence terms that insist on wells being drilled within a short time-frame.
It is also clear that there will be a long overdue shift in costs within the oil services sector and rig rates will fall dramatically.
There is every reason to believe that in three years time Tullow will be the best positioned explorer in Africa and the Atlantic Aidan Heavey Margins, and that we will be able to execute our strategy Chief Executive Officer at a much lower cost than in todays environment.
Changing our plans for the right reasons We remain entrepreneurial about our assets.
In the current market, instead of pursuing our farm-down of TEN, we have judged that the value the asset will deliver to us over the medium-term far outweighs how the market values it today.
And it is because of the strength and flexibility of our balance sheet that we are confident we can retain this important asset and fulfil our ongoing commitments.
Going forward we will continue to make decisions about which assets should be developed and which assets should be sold and, indeed, how they should be developed and how they should be sold.
We have also taken a long look at our costs, processes and structures to become leaner and more efficient.
This work is moving at pace and is expected to deliver cash savings of around $500 million over the next three years, which will be realised in savings to capital expenditure, operating costs and administrative expenses.
