t n C e o m n t t i s n e u v o n i u s s 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Positioned for growth Chief Executives review Ultras inherent agility has shown that the underpinning business model is robust and is positioning the Group for growth.
In response to changing market dynamics, Ultra continues to adapt its behaviours to maintain its agility, to position for growth and focus on customer need.
Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive Introduction in the early termination of our Oman In 2014 Group order intake increased Airport IT contract provided an unwelcome signicantly, reecting demand across our distraction, although this will allow us to market segments for Ultras specialist bring to a head what is a unique and Ultras people capabilities.
Market conditions, specically increasingly difficult commercial contract.
government spending pressures in the US The Group intends to vigorously pursue all Value generation Ultras Ultras and UK, continued to frustrate revenues in options towards a satisfactory settlement.
customer capabilities 2014, although excluding Oman the The Groups sustained investment and reach second half performance showed an constant focus on improving operational improvement on the first half.
Within the efficiencies, together with Ultras inherent Group, good progress has been made in agility has shown that the underpinning implementing market facing initiatives business model is robust and is positioning whilst continuing prudent cost the Group for growth.
The events that culminated Further details on Ultras robust business model can be found on pages 8-11 u i n o v u e n s i t t n m o e C n t 123.1 127.1 125.5 121.1 108.5 44.3 42.2 40.0 38.5 34.6 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dividend per share Underlying earnings per share 44.3p 123.1p KPI 5.0% -3.1% 2013: 42.2p 2013: 127.1p 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Operational highlights Ultras business model Features of the Groups accomplishments Ultras prime objective continues to be to in the year which will underpin future outperform the market in terms of annual performance included: increases in shareholder value, by delivering above-average increases in earnings and by The award of a 27m contract for the communicating effectively with Royal Navys Sonar 2050 Technology shareholders and the financial community.
Under The strategic framework, page 1, is this contract, which will be executed over focused on ensuring that Ultra meets its the next 10 years, the Group will deliver prime objective.
This is achieved through and support new hull mounted sonars the strategies for growth, which are for the Royal Navys eight Type-23 described on pages 12 and 13, allied with frigates.
The S2050 Technology Refresh the business model described on pages 8 programme will deliver, to the Royal to 11.
A key enabling component of Ultras Navy, a world-leading sonar capability business model is the Groups culture and providing persistent surveillance against values, which are further detailed on pages submarine and torpedo threats, at a 40 to 46. signicantly lower through-life cost.
The Group will continue to differentiate The award of a 12.9m contract from itself from its competitors through its Increase the Groups portfolio EDF Energy for the manufacture and 1 of specialist capability areas technical innovation and high standards of support of nuclear reactor ethical business conduct.
Under this contract cultural drive is a strong policy on ethics Ultra will manufacture and support and business conduct which is mandatory Increase the number of longsafety-critical nuclear reactor 2 for all employees across the entire Group.
term platforms and programmes instrumentation for use in EDF Energys Ultra educates its employees on anticurrent UK nuclear power stations.
This bribery and corruption policies, including is the second contract to benefit from gifts and hospitality practices.
In the period, Ultras recent investment in a state-ofBroaden the Groups 3 Ultra decided not to pursue business in customer base the-art nuclear instrumentation areas where it was not satisfied that its manufacturing facility and further ethical standards would be maintained.
cements EDF Energys and Ultras relationship.
Widen Ultras Executing against the growth strategies, 4 shown right, requires consistent geographic footprint The award of a contract by Airbus to management focus and drive.
Ultras design, develop, supply and support an management team has to balance dealing electrical Ground Door Opening system Read more on pages 12-13 with the particularly challenging short-term eGDO for its new A350 family of market conditions, whilst also ensuring that aircraft.
The eGDO system comprises a it is fully addressing the need to continue set of electrical actuators, sensors and to position the Group for mediumand fuselage-mounted control and indication long-term growth.
The members of the panels which allows airline ground Executive Team understand through maintenance crews to open the landing experience, what makes Ultra different and gear doors to access the landing gear how to focus the Groups businesses on bay.
Based on anticipated sales of the maintaining competitive advantage in the aircraft, this contract is expected to be various specialist market sectors in which worth in excess of 60m revenue to Ultra Ultra operates.
over the life of the programme.
Introduction 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Positioned for growth Chief Executives review continued Positioning for growth Ultras eight strategic clusters The acquisitions we have made this year are as follow: have added significant capabilities, market Underwater warfare access and a critical mass to the Group.
They have assisted us to take the next step in developing our business model, reMaritime aligning how we face the market.
Ultras broad portfolio of capabilities has been Land positioned into eight clusters, each facing a specic end market.
This gives a Aerospace framework around which the Group can more effectively apply its resources and exploit the domain expertise and C2ISR technologies in its businesses that face the same end markets.
This framework allows Communications Ultra to address opportunities with more complete offerings, whilst maintaining the Nuclear agility of a lower tier supplier.
As a result the Group can target opportunities in Infrastructure specic markets without losing the autonomy of its individual businesses.
The cluster approach also enables Ultra to take Full details on Ultras eight clusters an enhanced view of the capabilities in can be found on pages 14-23 each cluster and so better manage and prioritise the Groups investments against The Group constantly strives to broaden its specic end markets.
The Groups customer base and widen its geographic operational performance and delivery will footprint.
This not only provides growth, continue to be via three divisions.
Ultras track record of delivering but increases the robustness of the above average shareholder pence business model.
Ultra has made the strategic decision to prioritise a number of 2500 regions and sectors with higher growth.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc The Group recognises that new markets FTSE all share price index and geographic sectors take time to enter 2000 FTSE 100 price index and so these activities are carried out in a KPI FTSE all share aerospace defence measured and controlled manner, with due consideration of risk.
As Ultra continues to 1500 address larger projects and grow its prole in new geographical regions it will be necessary to implement improved project 1000 management and contract management skills.
Ultra, as an independent, nonthreatening partner, is able to support all 500 of the main prime contractors and local industry partners.
The Group is therefore well positioned to bring its specialised 0 equipment, systems and services to new 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 long-term platforms and programmes in new markets and regions.
Further details on Ultras robust business model can be KPI Key Performance Indicator, see pages 24-25 for details found on pages 8 to 11.
Command & Control, Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength In June 2014, the Group acquired Lab Summary To increase the breadth of the Groups Impex Systems LIS.
LIS is a developer and Performance for 2015 will benefit from portfolio of capabilities, Ultra continues to supplier of radiation measurement acquisitions made in 2014 and from foreign invest over 5% of revenue on internal solutions and services for use within the exchange translation at current rates.
development to generate new nuclear industry.
LIS provides systems However, set against the current market differentiated offerings.
These offerings are engineering, installation and support of backdrop of uncertainty over the timing and aimed at niche market sectors where full environmental radiation monitoring feasibility of proposed US DoD budgets, customers preferentially focus their systems, including alpha, beta, gamma together with election activity in both the expenditure.
These investment activities radiation and associated safety systems.
US and UK, overall Ultra expects 2015 are led by the businesses and are robustly The business has been integrated into performance to be broadly stable.
We will reviewed by the Executive Team and the Ultras Nuclear Control Systems business continue to balance investment for future Board.
In parallel, Ultra continues to invest within Ultras Information & Power growth with focus on efficiencies and in acquisitions, which bring complementary Systems division.
managing our costs to support profitability.
world-leading niche capabilities and Customer needs Looking further ahead our optimism market access to the Groups portfolio.
Ultra continues to adapt its behaviours to improves as market growth drivers present In February 2014, the Group acquired maintain its agility and commitment to revenue opportunities for our businesses 3 Phoenix Inc, a US business which is a meeting customer needs.
To support this, and the expected pace of order book leading supplier of specialist sonar, radar, the Group has made good progress in execution ticks up as a result of recent intelligence, surveillance and implementing market facing initiatives contract awards.
Further growth is reconnaissance products and solutions.
which help it gain a better understanding expected as the Group identies and The company has a 10 year track record of of customers real needs.
These improve its completes acquisitions.
Internally, following delivering critical real-time sensor and ability to offer differentiated and on from our cost management actions, we processing systems, primarily to the US comprehensive solutions in areas of are launching a group-wide initiative to Navy, but also to commercial customers.
preferential spend across all its market standardise our systems and some of our 3 Phoenix is now part of Ultras Tactical & sectors.
Ultras key behaviours LEAP and processes.
This will enable us to go beyond Sonar Systems division.
LAUNCH also help to position the Groups individual businesses efficiencies, whilst portfolio of capabilities into end market retaining Ultras critical success factors of In May 2014, Ultra acquired two facing clusters.
More information on these autonomy and agility.
The Board companies, Forensic Technologies FT and behaviours can be found on page 43. acknowledges the short-term headwinds ICE.
FT provides automated rearm but judges that the actions being taken ballistics identication and forensic analysis Oman Airport IT contract should enable the Group to achieve an systems to law enforcement agencies in The termination of the Oman Airport IT improved performance from 2016. over 65 countries.
FT is currently developing contract in February 2015 has had an effect a number of document security and on the Groups 2014 performance, with I would like to nish by thanking all of analytic products based on its existing revenue on the programme being limited Ultras employees for their continued hard capabilities and areas of expertise.
FT has to that reported at the half year 30 June work, dedication and enthusiasm.
The been integrated into Ultras Tactical & 2014.
The substantive reasons given in the ability to implement Ultras strategies Sonar Systems division.
notice of termination are related to Ithra successfully is entirely reliant upon the not meeting contractual milestones and engagement, commitment and passion of ICE designs, develops, manufactures and Ithras assessment is that the termination the Groups employees.
I am confident that supports aerospace products including, is unjustified, wrongful and unlawful.
Ultra Ultra is well placed to execute successfully motor control electronics, electrothermal is in discussions with its legal and claims the strategies and plans to ensure that ice protection controllers, pneumatic valve advisers regarding the termination and growth continues in the future.
controls and engine control interface units.
recovery of Ithras costs and claims.
It has ICE customers include Parker Hannin been considered prudent to take an Corporation, Cessna Aircraft Company and exceptional and non-underlying provision Rakesh Sharma Meggitt.
ICE has been integrated into in the year to December 2014 in respect of Chief Executive Ultras Controls business within the the Contract.
The provision, which totals Groups Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division.
47m, includes the write off of the debt owed on the Contract, termination costs and other liabilities.
