Chief executive officers review UNILEVER CONTINUED TO GROW AHEAD OF ITS MARKETS IN 2014 AND RE-AFFIRMED ITS REPUTATION FOR CONSISTENT TOP AND BOTTOM LINE GROWTH, ENSURING CONTINUED RETURNS FOR INVESTORS.
PAUL POLMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, ANSWERS THE KEY QUESTIONS ABOUT 2014.
Q: HOW WOULD YOU SUMMARISE Q: WHAT PLEASED YOU MOST I was equally delighted by the progress 2014 FOR UNILEVER?
ABOUT THE COMPANYS we made during 2014 in increasing our PERFORMANCE IN 2014?
There is A: In a volatile environment consistency much still to do, but beating our stretching of results is key.
Our model calls for A: The ability to deliver results while targets and ending the year with women consistent, competitive, profitable and balancing the needs of our multiple representing 43.3% of all managers was a responsible growth.
The consistency of our great achievement and a real sign of the sales growth, and good profit progress, delivery, even in these unusually volatile commitment felt across Unilever to make this is the fifth consecutive year of top and and uncertain conditions, helps.
It reassures progress in this area.
Finally we have made bottom line growth.
This was achieved me that the fundamental pillars of the further progress on sustainable sourcing, despite a challenging external environment.
business are strong and that we have decoupling growth from environmental developed the resilience needed to compete impact and increasing positive social Our business is growing ahead of our even in the most difficult circumstances.
impact throughout our value chain.
This markets with 60% gaining share and we has further enhanced our corporate believe this growth is also competitive.
The What pleased me specifically was that we reputation and lowered risk and costs.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP were able to take the short-term measures helps to ensure growth is responsible.
The necessary to respond to events further Q: WHAT DID ALL THIS MEAN consistency of our delivery is underlined by tightening our belts, for example, and FOR THE GROUPS FINANCIAL the fact that our average growth over the simplifying the organisation through PERFORMANCE?
last five years is 4.9%, making us one of the initiatives like Project Half for Growth most reliable performers in our industry.
while at the same time continuing to invest A: Weakening consumer demand certainly in the long-term drivers of growth.
The impacted our underlying sales growth yet Q: HOW WOULD YOU CHARACTERISE launches of some of our biggest brands into it provided a great opportunity to accelerate THE EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT IN new markets like Omo in the Gulf, Clear our efficiency effort.
Growth was therefore WHICH YOU HAVE HAD TO OPERATE in Japan or Lifebuoy in China were great profitable, with an improvement in core OVER THE LAST YEAR?
operating margin of 0.4 percentage points, driven by strong savings programmes.
A: Very challenging and among the most We also made a number of strategic Tight control of working capital contributed difficult I can remember.
We certainly acquisitions over the year to help strengthen to another year of healthy cash flow delivery faced more headwinds than tailwinds.
our portfolio further: the Talenti supermore than 3.1 billion which combined For the first time in many years, for premium ice cream business in North with the improvement in operating margin example, we had to confront the reality America, for example, and the Qinyuan water contributed to earnings per share EPS of largely flat developed markets and purification business in China, both take us growth of 2% or 11% adjusted for markedly slowing emerging markets.
into some attractive segments of the market.
Indeed, markets slowed from some 3.5% in 2013 to around 2.5% in 2014.
RESHAPING OUR PORTFOLIO At the same time, the world continued to be rocked by a combination of geopolitical We continued to reshape our portfolio instability and natural, climate-related in 2014 to ensure resources are best disasters that have sadly become the norm.
In June we sold the Ragu and Bertolli pasta sauces business All of these add a cost to doing business, in North America for approximately which is why we believe that confronting US $2.15 billion.
We invested capital these issues and looking for solutions to in growth opportunities by acquiring them rather than just being buffeted by a majority stake in the Qinyuan Group, events is the only long-term viable growth a leading Chinese water purification model.
Agility is equally important in this business.
This doubled our size in this environment and we have worked hard once sector, addressing a fast-growing again to reduce complexity and evolve the consumer need and furthering our aim organisational model for speed and efficiency.
to grow our business sustainably.
More details of our mergers and acquisitions activity can be found on page 29.
4 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Q: ARE THERE AREAS IN WHICH YOU WOULD LIKE TO HAVE SEEN INVESTING IN EMERGING MARKETS MORE PROGRESS?
into Saudi Arabia and the Gulf region.
A: Even though we have made significant Brazil saw the entry of the Baby Dove strides over recent years in improving our range and Omo stain removers.
organisational agility and our ability to respond quickly to events, there is still In China we undertook large capital room for improvement.
I would like to have expenditure, building a new dry savoury seen us react a little quicker, for example, plant and a new washing powder factory.
to the slowdown in a number of markets, In Indonesia, large-scale capital particularly China, where frankly we were investment was made in Siliwangi, caught off-guard by the speed and scale creating a plant for Cikarang Foods, of weakening consumer demand.
In terms adding significant capacity to dry and of our categories, all of them contributed wet savoury production.
In the albeit in different ways to the overall Philippines a new dry savoury factory performance of the Group and I have was built.
Detergent and ice cream confidence in the strength and long-term factories were built in Africa.
growth potential of our portfolio.
Unilevers strategic commitment to emerging markets continued in 2014 We are extending our distribution reach We took steps last year to sharpen the with significant investments in brand in the outer islands of Indonesia, rural portfolio even further with a number of launches, new production facilities and India and the north and central west of strategic acquisitions and disposal of our operations.
Brazil, while Singapore continues to be non-core brands, although there is always a major hub for our development of scope to do more and I would like to see the We undertook major launches of brands Unilever people at our Four Acres level of activity accelerate in the year ahead.
including Lifebuoy into China and Omo training campus.
It is also clear that we still need to do more to get our Foods category growing again, although we are winning market share.
There is no doubt that over the long term We also made progress in our commitment our investors have benefited from their to serve a wider group of stakeholders This is a tough business to be in with continued belief in Unilever, with total through the USLP and our Vision of much of our portfolio in flat or even shareholder return increasing by a further growing the business while reducing our declining developed markets but we have 18% in 2014.
Our employees remain a environmental footprint and increasing to do more to leverage the strength of our key priority of course and, despite the our positive social impact, not only in that wonderful Foods brands and bring back the constrained economic environment, we part of the business under our direct growth momentum.
By contrast, while our did not compromise on our investments control but throughout the whole value Home Care and Refreshment categories in training, personal development, safety chain.
This manifests itself in many delivered good or solid growth, we need to and other employee support programmes.
different ways everything from playing increase the levels of cash and profitability It was heartening to see employee our part in putting an end to deforestation if we are to invest in the many growth engagement scores remain at historically to ensuring we embrace and advance opportunities.
These will all be priorities high levels in our annual Global People human rights principles throughout the in 2015.
Survey GPS, with improvements across length of our supply chain.
You can see a all five metrics.
number of examples set out in other parts Q: HOW DID UNILEVER SERVE of this report.
THE INTERESTS OF ITS VARIOUS It is also clear that the demand to join STAKEHOLDERS IN 2014?
Unilever has never been greater.
We It was pleasing to see our efforts received over 2 million applications recognised once again in 2014, including A: Meeting the diverse interests of multiple or expressions of interest in 2014 and regaining sector leadership in the stakeholders is a challenge for a company for the second year running Unilever prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability of Unilevers size but also a great was ranked the third most in-demand Index DJSI and being ranked for the opportunity given our Vision to grow in employer among jobseekers on LinkedIn, fourth year running as the Number One a sustainable and socially inclusive way.
behind only Apple and Google, as more Company in the Globescan SustainAbility Once again, we made good progress.
and more young people want to work for index of leading sustainability experts purpose-driven organisations.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 5 Chief executive officers review CONTINUED Q: WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE PRINCIPAL CHALLENGES FOR UNILEVER IN THE YEAR AHEAD?
A: Operating in an environment of almost unprecedented volatility and complexity UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE will remain a big challenge for everyone.
Few people predicted that in 2014 we would see such a sharp slowdown in some of the major world economies or the escalation of geopolitical conflicts or the outbreak of pandemics like Ebola and oil prices ending the year at less than US $50 a barrel.
We must be prepared for a similarly unpredictable year in 2015.
1 2 3 The key is to have a model that responds to peoples needs and concerns, and an organisation that is both resilient and agile in the face of growing economic and geopolitical uncertainty.
We achieved that again in 2014 and I want to thank and recognise the supreme efforts of our 172,000 colleagues and the many more partners around the world.
4 6 5 Q: WHAT IS YOUR OUTLOOK FOR 2015?
A: We expect the economic pressures to continue.
Consumer demand in emerging markets is likely to remain subdued for some time to come.
There 7 is still little sign of a recovery in Europe 8 9 and, while conditions in North America have improved, any increase in consumer demand is likely to be slow and shoppers will remain focused on value.
We are also prepared for managing any continuing volatility on the worlds currency markets and for what could be 12 fluctuations in commodity costs as a 10 11 result of the reduction in oil prices.
At the same time, we expect the levels of 1.
Nitin Paranjpe competitive activity both from global Chief Executive Officer President, Home Care competitors and, increasingly, from 2.
Antoine fide Saint-Affrique local players to remain high in 2015.
Chief Human Resources President, Foods Officer 10.
Pier Luigi Sigismondi Despite these pressures, we are confident 3.
David Blanchard Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief R&D Officer that with the many positive changes we 11.
Kevin Havelock Chief Legal Officer have already made to Unilever we are 13 President, Refreshment 12.
Keith Weed well placed to continue delivering our 5.
Jean-Marc Hut Chief Marketing and objectives of volume growth ahead of Chief Financial Officer Communications Officer our markets, steady and sustainable 6.
Jan Zijderveld improvements in core operating margin, President, Personal Care President, Europe and strong cash flow.
Kees Kruythoff Board member President, North America For ULE biographies, please see page 55 of the Governance and Financial Report.
Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer 6 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
