STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 was a momentous year for Acacia REVIEW as we started our journey to become a leading company in Africa.
Brad Gordon Chief Executive Officer A track record of delivery Increasing production Reducing cost base Mines set up to perform Financial discipline Introduction well as pouring the first gold from the CIL Plant I am delighted with the progress we have made expansion at the mine.
With a contrarian approach across the business over the last 12 months.
we are taking advantage of the dislocation in the We continued to deliver operationally, with each market to expand our exploration footprint, and quarter showing lower all-in sustaining costs in November 2014 expanded into West Africa AISC.
This discipline enabled us to return through an exciting and highly prospective to free cash generation, for the first time since exploration project in Burkina Faso.
2011, which was one of our key objectives for the year.
Our continued operational Year in review improvement was driven by a fresh strategic 2014 was a successful year for Acacia, approach to running the Company focused with production increasing again to 718,651 on three key pillars: our business, our people ounces, 13% higher than 2013 and 4% above and our relationships: whilst continuing to the upper end of our initial guidance range invest in our future.
In order to further embed for the year.
Production increased at all three and reflect this approach, our shareholders mines with Bulyanhulu up 18% on 2013, voted to change the Companys name to Buzwagi up 15% on 2013 and delivering its Acacia Mining from African Barrick Gold on highest ever year of gold production and 26 November 2014.
Our ambition is that, North Mara remaining the standout performer, through the adoption of this new name, producing 273,803 ounces as the grade all of our people and external stakeholders from the Gokona pit continued to be strong.
become aligned with our new approach and goal of becoming a leading African mining On the cost side, we demonstrated consistent company.
We have already seen evidence cost control and have now taken US$600 per that this is happening as the new approach ounce out of our quarterly AISC since Q3 2012. is put into action.
This translated into full year AISC of US$1,105 per ounce sold, down 18% on 2013 and at the During 2014, we continued to enhance our bottom of our guidance range.
We delivered on mines and approved the development of an our targeted cost savings of US$185 million set underground operation at North Mara which out in the Operational Review in 2013 and our will significantly improve both the economics continued focus is on removing further costs of the mine and the social situation in the area.
As a result of the cost We are continuing to turn Bulyanhulu into a savings, cash costs per ounce continued to 20 world-class mine and during the year engaged come down and for 2014 we delivered cash cost For more information on our key contractors to accelerate underground per ounce sold of US$732, below our guidance performance indicators development to provide future flexibility as range and 10% lower than 2013.
8 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHERE WE STAND TODAY... During 2014, we produced 718,651 ounces of gold, a third consecutive year of increased production and an improvement of 13% on 2013.
Our AISC of US$1,105 per ounce sold was a reduction of 18% on the previous year and is now US$480 per ounce lower than 2012.
71 9k o z U S$ 1, 1 05 o z Production AISC Operational stability Cost discipline embedded throughout the Group across the business All three mines delivered Three successive years increased production of reductions in AISC U S$290m Operating Cash Flow AISC and cash cost evolution US$ oz Operating and capital 1,800 controls enforced 1,600 Cash flow driven by 1,585 1,400 North Mara and Buzwagi 1,200 1,346 1,000 1,105 800 941 812 600 732 U S$294m 400 Cash balance 200 Adding cash to the 0 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 balance sheet Cash cost oz AISC oz Prioritising allocating capital to shareholders ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 9 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Our relationships We have focused on improving our relationships with the communities around our mines and with the Government.
We have engaged more actively with the community, the media and our broader stakeholders.
We have also worked hard to strengthen our relationships with local and national authorities to ensure that we receive the appropriate support for our business in order for us to continue to be a key economic development driver for our host countries.
Our future The fourth element of our strategy is to invest in our future.
We believe that exploration is a significant driver of value for the business over the long term and now is the time to invest, which is a contrarian view to many in the market.
As a result, we are focused on building a significant land package across Africa in the We returned to cash generation for the first Our strategic approach most geologically prospective belts to provide time in three years during 2014, adding Our new approach to operating our assets our exploration group the best opportunity US$11 million to the balance sheet.
Whilst has focused on three key pillars: our business, to discover our next mines, as well as other this is positive, it does not reflect the scale of our people and our relationships: whilst continuing opportunities to drive shareholder value over change that took place during the year, with to invest in our future.
positive cash flows of more than US$100 million before growth capital, dividends and Tulawaka Our business Expanding our footprint sale costs.
It should be noted that the average We have made significant technical changes During 2014, we made our first entry into realised gold price of US$1,258 per ounce to our business, to ensure that each of our West Africa by entering into an earn-in was over US$100 per ounce lower than 2013 mines is correctly engineered and set up agreement over the South Hound Project in and over US$400 per ounce lower than 2012, to deliver free cash flow.
At Bulyanhulu we Burkina Faso.
The earn-in allows us to earn years in which we did not generate positive have changed to a mechanised mining method an interest of up to 75% over a four year period free cash flow.
and are working to ensure that the mine in the highly prospective project which already delivers in line with its geological endowment.
Total revenue for the year amounted to At North Mara we are moving forward with the US$930.2 million, which was in line with development of an underground operation We also had a successful year within our existing 2013 despite the lower average realised gold at one of the mines open pits which provides exploration portfolio as the drilling programmes price as sale ounces for 2014 exceeded prior strong economic and social returns.
At Buzwagi at Bulyanhulu led to the addition of 2.3Moz of year sales by 9%.
EBITDA increased by 5% we have shortened the life of the mine so that gold into resources at existing reserve grades to US$252.7 million in 2014 mainly due to a we are mining only profitable ounces.
This is approximately US$26.1 million reduction in gross direct mining half of our three year target to add 5Moz of gold costs, reflected in the 10% reduction of cash Our people resources at the mine as we look to ensure that costs to US$732 per ounce sold.
Earnings for Our second pillar is our people, who are our production matches the geological endowment the year were US$90 million, or US 22.1 cents core asset.
We have significantly reduced at Bulyanhulu.
We also made good progress in per share.
These were negatively impacted by the levels of management, restructured our Kenya with an extensive and successful aircore significant revaluations of our indirect tax balance corporate offices, commenced a new cultural drilling programme across the land package which held in Tanzanian shillings and out of the money transformation programme Tufanikiwe is now being followed up with deeper drilling.
oil hedges, partially offset by deferred taxation Pamoja Together we succeed and introduced changes at Buzwagi.
a behavioural safety programme Tunajali WeCare.
We are focused on creating a high-performance culture where our people are held accountable, but are given the tools to succeed.
As part of this process we have already uncovered real talent within the workforce as well as seeing talented people returning to Acacia.
10 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY... Strategic pillar Progress in 2014 Priorities for 2015 KPIs Converted to mechanised Achieve reserve grade Gold production mining at Bulyanhulu at Bulyanhulu and drive koz 1 production growth Approved underground 719 operation at Gokona, Bring the underground Our business North Mara operation at Gokona into AISC Focused on free commercial production Increased recoveries US$ oz cash flow.
at Buzwagi by 5% Achieve name plate mill capacity at Buzwagi 1,105 Embed new culture and Roll-out of designed cultural Safety TRIFR desired behaviours within change programme Tufanikwe Frequency Rate 2 workforce Pamoja 0.86 28% reduction in international Continue to drive reduction Our people workforce in international workforce Creating a highLocalisation Improve safety performance WeCare behavioural safety performance culture.
% of workforce Tanzanian to world-class levels programme rolled out 94.5% To limit the impact of the Increased dialogue with Community spend 2015 General Elections Government US$m 3 in Tanzania on our Group-wide community operations US$10.8m investment of approximately Our relationships US$11 million To enhance community Becoming the investment programmes Economic contribution of partner of choice.
to maximise benefits for US$920 million communities Progress West Kenya JV Drilling led to inclusion Reserves and Resources towards resource declaration of 2.3Moz of high grade Moz 4 resources at Bulyanhulu Continue to delineate further 30.1 Successful early drilling resources at Bulyanhulu Our future in the West Kenya JV Continue to expand land Discovering package across Africa Entry into South Hound JV our next mine.
in Burkina Faso Key risk summary Strategic risks Financial risks External risks Operational risks Our principal strategic risks relate Our financial condition and Like many businesses, Acacias By its nature, mining is subject to the fact that all of Acacias performance may be materially operations and financial to a number of hazards and revenue is derived from production affected by significant changes conditions are exposed to a risks.
From Acacias perspective, at our three operations in Tanzania in commodity pricing, given the number of external risks, such we pay a particular attention and thus our business could be level of business dependency on as political, regulatory and legal to risks relating to security, materially affected by significant the price of gold and, to a lesser developments within our trespass and vandalism, safety in-country developments.
This is extent, the price of copper and operating environment and risks relating to mining operations, why we assess opportunities to silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing regions, and wider factors such risks relevant to the continued diversify geographically through of these commodities, which are as occupational health and enhancement of operational exploration and acquisition targets.
largely attributable to factors life-threatening diseases in systems and equipment beyond Acacias control, will likely regions in which we have, or may effectiveness, and environmental have a corresponding impact in the future have, a presence.
on Acacias financial condition, particularly in the context of rapid pricing fluctuations.
Further detail on all of the above is provided on page 22 and as part of our principal risks and uncertainties on page 82.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED OUR AMBITION... To attract and retain the best people To operate the best assets To generate returns for all of our stakeholders To be a partner of choice for the communities and Governments across the continent Five year production and AISC prole set out in November 2014 1,800 900 1,600 750 1,400 600 1,200 1,000 450 800 300 600 400 150 200 0 0 FY12A FY13A FY14A FY15E FY16E FY17E FY18E FY19E Production LHS AISC RHS 2015 estimates based on the mid point of production and AISC guidance ranges 12 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Production Koz AISC US$ oz STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION To help us achieve our plan, we are focused on maintaining and strengthening our position as a high-quality African gold producer in order to develop our business for the long term.
Safety Outlook during the year.
This will be partially offset It is with sadness that I report that we The focus for 2015 is to continue to deliver by the higher-grade ore from underground.
experienced a fatality during the year, free cash flow from our high-quality portfolio As a result we expect to see a corresponding with Emmanuel Mrutu, an underground miner of mines as we work to enable them to deliver reduction in production at the mine.
at Bulyanhulu, passing away after having to their full geological potential.
We have been injured in a fall of ground incident at implemented changes across our business We are targeting further reductions to our unit the mine in March.
We fully investigated the in order to continue to drive cost reductions costs in 2015, predominantly driven by the incident and have implemented a number of and production growth.
We are focused on incremental production at Bulyanhulu, and recommendations to prevent re-occurrence.
continued delivery operationally in order to estimate the cash cost per ounce for the year, Safety is something I am passionate about drive free cash flow, of which 15-30% is including royalties, will be between US$695-725 and having been involved in underground mining expected to be returned to shareholders via per ounce sold, a reduction of up to 5% on 2014. for over 20 years, I am well aware of the risks.
dividends, with the remainder appropriately One of the key projects we started during the allocated across further capital returns, For 2015, we expect overall capital expenditure year was Tunajali or WeCare, a behavioural organic growth or acquisition opportunities.
of between U$220 million US$240 million, safety programme designed to embed the culture a further reduction on 2014 as we enforce of safety, rather than just relying on checks and We successfully overcame challenges to the stringent capital controls and move closer processes.
This programme has now been rolled business in 2014 and expect that 2015 will to industry average per ounce spend.
We out across all of our operations and we expect present similar challenges as we seek to expect sustaining capital of US$90 million this to have a positive impact on health and safety successfully deliver on the turnaround at US$100 million, inclusive of land purchases, practices going forward.
We continue to target Bulyanhulu, move into commercial ore as we scale up operations at Bulyanhulu and zero injuries and have every person going home production from the Gokona Underground set up the long-term future at North Mara, with safely every day.
project at North Mara and ensure that we capitalised development, inclusive of deferred maintain our strengthened relationships stripping, of US$125 million US$135million.
Indirect taxes with all stakeholders and the Government.
This is driven by increased development Further progress has been made with activity at Bulyanhulu which commenced in respect to the build-up of VAT, and the For 2015, we expect to see increased 2014 and is focused on opening additional Company received total net refunds for 2014 production of between 750,000-800,000 mining areas, and at North Mara as work of approximately US$49 million.
Total gross ounces of gold.
Production at each of the accelerates on the Gokona Underground refunds received in 2014 amounted to mines is expected to remain in line with project.
The increase in spend is partially US$132.8 million.
We have also continued Q4 2014 during the first quarter, with the offset by a reduction in capital requirements discussions with the Tanzanian Government bulk of the increase in production expected at Buzwagi as it moves towards the end on the establishment of an appropriate to be realised in the second half of the year.
Expansionary capital of mechanism to safeguard the recoverability US$5 million relates to additional underground of VAT payments over the long term.
These are At the mine level, we expect a significant drilling at Bulyanhulu aimed at increasing the centred around the establishment of an escrow ramp up at Bulyanhulu as we move through scale of the ore body as well as expansionary account for VAT paid on domestic goods, the year, driven by an improvement in head drilling at North Mara, predominantly under similar to that currently used to provide for grade, incremental production from the Upper the Nyabirama pit.
the refunding of VAT paid on imports, and our East Zone and an increased contribution discussions are ongoing.
As at 31 December from the tailings re-treatment.
At Buzwagi, As a result of the above, coupled with flat 2014, the outstanding amount relating to the production is expected to be broadly in line corporate administration costs, we estimate total indirect tax receivable, not covered by the with 2014 as we continue to operate around all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold for the 2011 Memorandum of Settlement, stood at the reserve grade of the asset.
At North year will be between US$1,050 US$1,100, a US$46 million, roughly US$49 million lower Mara, head grade is expected to decline reduction of up to 5% on 2014.
The evolution of than 31 December 2013. marginally as the Gokona pit transitions from these costs during the year will be driven by our an open pit to underground operation, leading production profile and as a result we expect to Barrick Gold shareholding to an increased proportion of ore being see lower costs in the second half than the first.
In March 2014, our majority shareholder sourced from the lower-grade Nyabirama pit Barrick Gold sold 10% of Acacias outstanding share capital to institutional shareholders.
The placing was priced at 275 pence and Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues reduced Barricks shareholding to 63.9%.
for their commitment, enthusiasm and hard This was a positive step by Barrick and work throughout what has been a transformative increased our free float by around 40% which year for Acacia.
I am delighted by our progress led to a subsequent increase in trading liquidity.
to date, and am driven by the opportunity to Brad Gordon make this company a leader in Africa.
I would Chief Executive Officer also like to thank our Board for their support and guidance through the year and I am very much looking forward to 2015 and beyond.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 13
