Strategic report INCREASE Increasing our customers competitiveness QUALITY HIGH-QUALITY DELIVERABLES FOR RIGHT-FIRST-TIME DIGITAL CONSTRUCTION ASSET Setting new standards for performance and capability Mat Truche-Gordon Executive Vice President Business Strategy 10 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COLLABORATION DECISION MAKING INDUSTRY-LEADING GLOBAL COLLABORATION ANYWHERE IN THEWORLD INFORMED AND TIMELY DECISIONS BASED ON TRUSTWORTHY INFORMATION AVEVA is driving this revolution with Our customers are visualising and rapidly How we do it newtechnologies that put trustworthy modelling existing assets to streamline information right in the hands of decision maintenance and revamp projects, saving Q.
How does AVEVA improve the quality makers and front-line personnel.
One time and money and reducing risk.
outstanding example is AVEVA E3D Insight the worlds first tablet app for design Q.
Is there a single process or A.
Both in our engineering and design review, anywhere, anytime.
This new app methodology that your customers should products and our Information Management has already been recognised by our industry use to make decisions when working with solutions, AVEVA builds in rules, templates with prestigious innovation awards and your technology?
and best practice functionality that leave universal praise from industry analysts.
In fact this is exactly the point of the construction deliverables are generated Q.
How is laser technology being used Digital Asset.
Each decision must be made directly from the 3D model, ensuring byAVEVA customers to increase quality with the information available at the time accuracy and completeness.
and based on the key business objectives.
procedures are supported by applications AVEVA technology provides users with the that demand correct use and approvals, and A. High-definition 3D laser surveying has most trustworthy information in an easily which create permanent audit trails.
come of age and AVEVA leads the market accessible way, enabling rapid, informed with technologies for exploiting the huge decisions that will drive their business Q.
How is AVEVA responding to the new potential value represented by photorealistic forward.
We give people what they need to mobile generation of technology?
laser scans of as-built assets.
These do their job as effectively as possible without powerful technologies are delivering new constraining them with entirely impractical A. Tablet devices, pervasive internet access capabilities and new levels of efficiency, both processes that demand rules and standards and Cloud technology are poised to in greenfield projects and in-life extension be defined up front.
and upgrades of existing brownfield assets.
11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report ENABLE Helping OOs, EPCs & Shipbuilders PROJECT EFFICIENCY DIGITAL ASSET HIGH-QUALITY CAPITAL PROJECTS ON TIME AND ON BUDGET 12 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS More powerful technologies for better management of projects and assets Helmut Schuller Executive Vice President Sales How we do it Q.
What are the principles that define an Q.
Can you give a few examples of how Integrated Project Execution IPE strategy anOperations Integrity Management for your customers?
strategy delivers tangible benefits to yourcustomers?
A. AVEVA technology provides a common ASSET environment for the sharing and use of A. AVEVA Information Management information by all disciplines and business technology enables OOs to develop OPTIMISATION processes, from initial order taking through andoperate robust asset management to final handover.
Information is created and strategies based on rigorously controlled, controlled by the relevant disciplines and quality assured and readily accessible made available, at specified levels of information.
The unique AVEVA NET maturity, for use across the entire project.
technology aggregates, validates, Information accuracy and reliability is contextualises and makes readily available assured: double-handling and duplication of alltypes of asset information, from whatever data is eliminated.
Planning, procurement, source, and independent of the original scheduling, fabrication and construction all authoring programmes, to support all work with definitive information created and aspects of asset operation.
New industrial updated by engineering and design.
It is gaming technology AVEVA Activity very rewarding to see how our customers Visualisation Platform AVEVA AVP now use our products and solutions to brings an unmatched level of capability to implement IPE strategies that meet operator training, task rehearsal and Work theirspecific business objectives.
How does the priority and reality of EPC REGULATORY COMPLIANCE and shipyard projects differ?
AND ASSET PRODUCTIVITY WITH LOW TOTAL COST OF A.
The business objectives of an EPC or OWNERSHIP shipyard project are very similar: both focuson project efficiency in order to meet schedules and budgets.
Many of the specific skills and processes are, of course, very different.
This is where the industry expertise of our global team is so important.
We have talented, experienced professionals who know the plant and marine industries that we serve.
They speak our customers industry and cultural languages and work closely with them to implement the right technology for their business.
13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Business model Organisation Business Strategy & Marketing Defining our business strategy and communicating AVEVAs vision internally andexternally Global Sales Focused on selling AVEVAs full product and solution portfolio to all of our EPC, OO and Shipbuilding customers EDS Engineering & Design Systems Operations Supporting the creation and evolution of the Digital Asset with engineering and Driving AVEVAs business design solutions for the entire life cycle strategy across all geographic regions to support the longterm growth of the Company ES Enterprise Solutions Building solutions that create, manage, maintain and exploit the Digital Asset for business processes across the life cycle Finance & Legal Meeting the essential financial management, legaland contractual requirements Sharing talent & of a growing global organisation resource across the organisation Business Services Delivering the people, talent and IT business systems that are critical to the efficiency and growth of the organisation Business model license our software for a specified number of At the core of AVEVAs business is the users by paying an initial licence fee followed intellectual property generated in its by an obligatory annual fee or by paying a software products.
The Group sells its proprietary software products by licensing rental fee over a fixed period of time.
In both cases, the customer has to continue to pay a rights to use the software directly to customers through our network of global fee in order to use the software.
This model continues to provide a strong recurring sales offices rather than through resellers ordistributors.
This strategy provides revenue base for AVEVA which allows us to invest in the future roadmap of our products.
customers with local sales and support and helps AVEVA to work closely with the leading Our Enterprise Solutions software involves a higher degree of services compared to our companies principally in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
These services consist of implementation and customisation We operate a right to use licensing model of these solutions and are provided either on a time and materials basis or under fixed forboth Enterprise Solutions software and engineering and design products.
14 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
