Strategic Report Incoming Chief Executive Officers statement Tom Albanese became our new Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2014.
Here he gives his initial impressions of the Company and outlines his first priorities.
Our people What I have found is a very effective management team and a professional and committed workforce, and I express my thanks to the outgoing CEO of the Group, Mr MS Mehta and the outgoing CEOs of the Iron Ore division, Mr PK Mukherjee, and Oil & Gas division, Mr P Elango, whose efforts to build these teams have been commendable.
There are some gaps which we need to fill, such as boosting underground mining expertise, but the organisation is staffed by highly capable teams.
It is clear to me we have commercial acumen in depth, as well as a proven process engineering capability and a tremendous culture of leadership development.
We will be building on our teams in the coming year, benefiting from strong internal talent and complementing it with fresh perspectives from external hires.
On that note I am delighted that we have hired a new CEO at our KCM business and a new head of Corporate Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility who is taking up this role with a strong emphasis on CSR: an area Taking the helm of a world class India has long held a fascination for me.
It is where I think we can present ourselves better.
endowed with a vast and largely untapped business is an honour, and I am Read more about our people potential in natural resources, and it is also p29 especially excited to be leading a a country of fast-growing aspirations.
It is diversified resources company like home to over a billion people driving demand Our assets Vedanta with a large presence in for consumer durables, transportation, My tour of the assets confirmed to me India, a country where I see the telecommunications and new infrastructure.
that we have much to be proud about.
potential for significant demand The Companys ethos of keeping a firm growth and the opportunity to Just prior to taking up the role, I spent six control on costs is clearly translated into months as Chairman of Vedanta Resources action on the ground, with our largest develop and harness natural Holdings Limited, that operates as a businesses ranking in the lowest cost resources to meet this surge subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc and quartile of the global cost curve.
the holding company for the operating companies, which gave me an opportunity to I have also been struck by the world class know the Company well, visit the operations quality of resources and resource potential.
and chair several monthly Executive In particular, four assets come to mind.
Our Committee meetings going through detailed prolific onshore Rajasthan oil and gas block: reviews of business performance.
I visited the Zinc India assets, also in Rajasthan, with almost every asset and spent a lot of time the largest zinc-lead mine in the world: our underground which left me as energised low-cost iron ore mines in Goa: and, with as my first mining job more than 30 years some operational improvements, the long ago.
I wanted the opportunity to look and life potential of the high-grade copper assets learn, engage with the workforce and gain at Konkola Copper Mines KCM in Zambia.
These are just four examples in a very exciting landscape.
As a resources explorer, I know that this sector and our organisation can play a vital role in Indias growth and prosperity.
14 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information It will be part of my remit to engage At the heart of this longevity is Corporate 1 with policymakers to help in harnessing Social Responsibility in its fullest sense: Indias resource potential and thereby a commitment to engage with local create growth and employment.
communities: to safeguard the wellbeing of the workforce: and to minimise wherever possible the impact made on the Immediate operating priorities environment.
Indeed, legislation is raising In the near term, I see a number of the bar on these issues, not just in India but key operating priorities and these will around the world.
While Vedanta meets receive immediate focus.
They are: or exceeds regulatory requirements, I am To ramp up aluminium production and focused on raising standards further.
2 To resume iron ore mining operations One of the first locations I visited was atGoa.
Lanjigarh, where we have ambitions to To improve the business at KCM.
ramp-up the refinery to a capacity of 5mt of alumina.
However, the bauxite for this is to be I will also focus on driving further the already supplied by the State Government as per our successful businesses, and this will include existing Memorandum of Understanding.
On maximising exploration and optimising behalf of Vedanta, I reiterate that we will not production at the Rajasthan oil & gas block consider developing any bauxite resources and a proper transition of the Rampura including the Niyamgiri mines, without Agucha mine at Zinc India from open-cast 1 the consent of the local communities.
Engineers at Sindesar Khurd zinc-lead mine, HZL.
to underground in the next few years.
2 Regarding our employees, we are conducting Safety: zero harm Engineers at Skorpion integrated zinc complex, ZincInternational.
a gap analysis to ensure our compliance Having spent my professional life with the UN Principles of Human Rights.
involved with the mining industry Iam also introducing two non-negotiables: across different countries, I know firstthe radical improvement in safety I hand the absolute necessity to strive mentioned above, and a reinforcement of for a zero harm environment.
the strong principles already in place here surrounding compliance, integrity and So although there have been some ethics.
Our performance in both these areas improvements in the Companys lost will be led by a strong tone from the top.
time injury frequency rate metrics, I So as I set to work in my have communicated to the Board, the So as I set to work in my first year as CEO, management team and the entire first year as CEO, Im very Im very excited about the potential ahead.
workforce that the fatality rates at our We have the people and the assets and operations are wholly unacceptable.
excited about the potential I look forward to setting a stage that will ahead.
We have the people enable even greater performances ahead.
I am therefore conducting a personal and thorough appraisal of our safety and the assets and I look We are all here for the purpose of adding management processes, contractor forward to setting a stage value, for our shareholders, our employees, management and compliance, and internal and all stakeholders.
Over the past 10 years safety leadership with the clear target of that will enable even greater the Company has created tremendous value moving towards a zero harm record.
for all three, and I am committed to continue performances ahead.
to do this in the future, and take Vedanta to This is not only the right thing to do by the next level of performance in all aspects.
the workforce, but in my experience, the safest businesses are also the Tom Albanese most capably led and efficient, with all Chief Executive Officer the benefits that flow to employees, 15 May 2014 communities and shareholders alike.
Protecting our licence to operate The most successful businesses in our sector have not merely gained a licence to operate: every day, they work to protect and maintain that licence.
In turn, they have assets that dont just last a decade but have productive lives that can span generations of workers.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 15
