12 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Chief Executives strategic overview Introduction Our revenue expansion was helped by the acquisitions we completed in the second half In 2014 Vesuvius continued to progress in of 2014, as we implemented our strategy to line with its objectives and strategy.
We have build a Technical Services offering for the steel restored our margins despite a mixed market and foundry industries.
The two acquisitions environment, built on our strong base in Asia, contributed an aggregate 3.6m of sales and invested in new Research & Development 0.5m of trading profit in 2014. centres and proceeded with acquisitions to Read more about Our performance on p26-41 build our new offering in Technical Services for the steel and foundry industries.
Our markets With the ongoing development of innovative Aggregate world steel production increased solutions that create value for our customers, During 2014 we delivered further by 1.1% in 2014.
Contrary to the trend of the we are confident that we will continue to last decade, growth in China was lower than margin improvement, underlying grow and deliver increasing value to our in the rest of the world, at 0.9%.
revenue growth substantially ahead in the European Union countries recovered of our end markets, and completed Performance overview somewhat, increasing 1.8%, along with the first acquisitions in pursuit of North America, up 2.0%.
South Korea Vesuvius reported global sales in 2014 of and Middle Eastern countries showed the 1,444m, down 4.4% on 2013 due to the our strategy to build a substantial highest growth.
significant strengthening of sterling against technical services business.
most of our major trading currencies 2013: The foundry market environment was Franois Wanecq Chief Executive 1,511m and the effects of disposals in 2013. mixed.
The continued decline of metal and At constant exchange rates and adjusted commodities prices resulted in a slowdown for the effects of acquisitions and disposals, in the mining industry, which negatively Revenue Trading profit underlying revenue was ahead of 2013 impacted the activity of the steel foundries in by 3.5%, and, significantly, ahead of the 1.444bn 142.8m South Africa, Australia, Indonesia and North underlying growth in our markets.
Conversely, the car industry enjoyed reported headline trading profit in 2014 was a good recovery in Europe after a very poor 142.8m 2013: 140m, an increase of 11.6% year in 2013, and experienced a record over the previous year on an underlying basis.
The truck market remained disappointing globally.
Value creating solutions Improved uptime, productivity and energy consumption in aluminium melting The challenge Our solution A team from our Advanced Using a novel installation and Refractories division was asked to application technology, our improve aluminium furnace uptime technicians were able to recommend and productivity at a high output changes to the existing furnace average increase average cO average energy 2 production facility in the US.
in refractory life reduction saving By incorporating products from A critical target for the project was the Alugard suite of monolithic 50% 1,932kg 3.9MWh to reduce the energy consumed refractories, the customers in delivering the operational aluminium team was able to requirement of holding the increase refractory performance aluminium alloy at 700C for and change their scheduled 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Over seven-year lifespan of panels OUR BUSINESS 13 More generally, the engineering sector was Increase penetration of value-creating Improve cost leadership and margins sluggish with industrial investment remaining solutions Our technology has been widely Our supply chain efficiency is the assurance at a low level as a result of the general underadopted by the most sophisticated producers that we deliver products and services to our utilisation of production capacity and the in the most developed markets.
However, customers at the right price while maintaining slowdown of Chinese industrial growth.
there are still substantial differences in the our margins.
We apply the principles of penetration of our solutions within the lean manufacturing across all our sites Read more about our market in our industry and consequently there is a wider to continuously improve our quality and Operating Reviews on p34-41 audience of customers who we believe productivity.
In addition, our global presence can benefit from them.
As steel producers and leadership allow us to benefit from a high Our strategy and foundry businesses grow in new areas, volume effect, and deliver excellent service The strategy we developed since launching they will require higher levels of quality and from local sites.
Vesuvius on the market is articulated around performance, and we will dedicate our Build a technical services offering Our five pillars designed to ensure long-term technical marketing efforts to help these customers processes require increasing revenue growth, improved profitability and customers develop.
See case study below levels of engineering services to reach the sustained cash generation.
capture growth in developing markets demanding levels of safety, accuracy and Reinforce our technology leadership Building on our long lasting presence in all consistency required by their end-customers Vesuvius was built and grew on technology markets, we can leverage the high growth quality specifications.
Grounded in our deep breakthroughs that enabled the steel enjoyed by our customers industries in understanding of customer processes, we continuous casting and foundry industries the emerging countries, which are large are building a new activity within Vesuvius to substantially improve their efficiency.
consumers of steel goods and foundry to offer a comprehensive set of technical Our technology leadership drives our unique castings.
Consequently, a majority of our services that will enhance process control value proposition and underpins our ability investment is focused on capacity expansion and monitoring at our customers sites, to deliver this value enhancement to our in these new territories in line with our thus improving quality and lowering total customers.
In terms of percentage of revenue, business model to produce at close proximity production costs.
we invest twice as much in R&D as our to our customers sites.
The benefits Use of Alugard insulating panels in a 600 kg aluminium furnace has been shown to save up to 1,932 kg CO 2 and 3.9 MWh over the seven-year lifetime of the panels.
Additionally, our fully engineered custom designed solution significantly enhanced secondary aluminium operations.
Specifically our services resulted in an increase of 50% in refractory life in the most erosive area of the furnace, with associated improvements in the productivity of the melting furnace, and reduction in the frequency of planned furnace outages for refractory repairs.
Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries.
14 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Chief Executives strategic overview continued Progress against our strategy Progress against strategy In 2014 we achieved considerable progress in the implementation of our strategy with Technology partnership with the commissioning of a brand new plant for Foundry products in Changshu China, Hyundai to improve safety, the opening of a new global research centre for Foundry in Enschede Netherlands, the quality and productivity commissioning of new capacity for Steel Flow Control in the Czech Republic and Brazil, and the ramp up of our new plant for Advanced Refractories in the United Arab Emirates.
Number of robotic tube Moreover we have started to build our changes Technical Services offering with the 2,000 acquisition of two companies focusing on data capture for the steel and foundry industries: ECIL Met Tec in Brazil and Process Metrix in California, USA.
Last year was also the first industrial installation of our robotic tube-changing system for continuous casting in Hyundai Korea and the conclusion of additional contracts for similar equipment elsewhere.
See case study right You will see in the various case studies set out in this Strategic report, clear examples of how we deliver this strategy across markets, geographies and business units.
The challenge The benefits We have been working in partnership with An improved sealing between ladle and tundish Hyundai Steel to achieve consistent operational reduces nitrogen pickup and limits the delay to practices, improve final steel quality, and less than 15 seconds in cases where an oxygen enhance plant safety by removing the need lancing operation is required to open the ladle.
for steel plant operational personnel in the Similar installations are now also scheduled exposed areas of the caster and ladle platform.
for customers in Europe, North America and South Africa.
Such competitive advantage is Our solution being steadily enhanced through the strategic Vesuvius introduced the latest generation of acquisition of companies with complementary tube changers the SEM3085, and a fully product ranges, particularly in the areas of automated robotic system to manage refractory sensors, instrumentation and automation, tube insertion and removal during the casting as well as R&D that expands Vesuvius process.
The success of this project has led capabilities through product development Hyundai to entrust Vesuvius with three new and multi-technology offerings.
ladle platform projects that incorporate robotic solutions.
OUR BUSINESS 15 Our businesses advanced Refractories Advanced Innovation as our foundation Refractories has been focusing on the Steel Flow control The Steel Flow Control Vesuvius has a proud heritage of bringing recovery of its margin rate by concentrating product line performed well in 2014 despite innovation to the markets we serve.
Our its product range on a smaller number of sluggish end-market conditions.
Aggregate developments in VISO isostatic pressing products and solutions that offer a real value world steel production grew by 1.1%, technology and in sliding gate systems were difference to our customers.
After the sale nearly half the growth rate of the previous key enablers of the continuous casting process of our non-core lower margin Canadian year.
This was partly due to a significant now deployed throughout the whole of the construction and German brick businesses slowdown in Chinese growth to below the steel industry.
Our innovations in molten in 2013, the perimeter of activity is now levels experienced across the rest of the metal filtration and casting feeding systems focused on core products.
Indeed this may be a signal of some have been used extensively to improve the even after correction for the effect of acceleration in the ongoing transformation quality of cast product in the foundry market.
disposals, and foreign exchange translation of the Chinese economy from an investment Maintaining that technology leadership is a effects, Advanced Refractories sales driven growth economy towards one that is central objective of our strategy, and the spirit increased by 4.5% in 2014 compared to consumer driven.
Such transformation will of innovation is at the core of all our activities.
The particular emphasis given to the induce a shift in steel quality demand, from higher margin lines such as precast, taphole Turning innovation into results Innovation the less sophisticated long products used for clay and Mag-Carbon bricks contributed to is all about translating an idea into a construction towards the high quality flat the improvement of our Group margin rate commercial reality.
In 2014, we increased our products used in consumer goods and the car by 215 basis points on an underlying basis spending on R&D by 2.8% over the previous industry.
This flat steel segment is the largest in2014.
year, on a constant currency basis to 26.1m, customer for our high technology products representing 1.8% of sales.
We currently Read more about Advanced Refractories and solutions and this development should have over 160 patent families, and 1,750 on p37-38 support a growing demand for our Steel patents granted worldwide, with 640 patent Flow Control products and our developing applications pending.
In 2014 we estimate Foundry division Our Foundry division was Technical Services offering.
At the same that 8% of our revenues came from products impacted by local political and economic time the relative steadiness of the developed launched within the past five years.
This is our instability in countries where we traditionally markets has contributed to our results due to first year analysing this revenue as an internal enjoyed good volumes and margins, such our very strong positions in these countries.
innovation benchmark, and our goal is to as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil.
At the same Overall, the value of sales from our Steel double this over the next five years.
time, the decline of metal and commodity Flow Control product line grew by 4.3% in prices reduced levels of investment in the Delivering solutions The innovation 2014 on an underlying basis, substantially mining industry with negative consequences process at Vesuvius begins with an intimate out-performing the 1.1% increase in world for those of our customers active in this knowledge of our customers processes steel production tonnage.
In addition, the start-up of our and needs.
Vesuvius solutions and products the successful progression of our recent new Chinese plant at Changshu took longer can greatly influence the quality of our acquisition Metallurgica, which sells fluxes for than expected.
As a consequence, our customers products and the efficiency of the continuous casting of steel, and which overall sales and margins were affected.
their processes, and all our new products and during 2014 improved its market penetration Measures were taken during the year to solutions are developed with value creation and profitability.
restore profitability in Brazil and Ukraine, for our customers in mind.
We have more while in Thailand some of the effects of Read more about Steel Flow Control on p35-37 than 200 technical experts supported by the instability corrected themselves.
During local development teams on all continents to the year, we dedicated significant effort to ensure we meet our customers needs.
These enhancing technology development and local development laboratories play a lead role innovation in this division, coupled with the in customising products for customers, and appointment of new management.
qualifying new sources of key raw materials.
Read more about our Foundry division on p39-41 16 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Chief Executives strategic overview continued Several of our local development laboratories New global innovation hub In December, R&D spend in 2014 are equipped with facilities for physical we opened our new Global Foundry R&D and computational fluid dynamics studies, Centre in Enschede, Netherlands.
This facility 26.1m together with capabilities allowing our will play a central role in strengthening the experienced scientists and engineers to technology leadership position of our Foundry analyse the complex interactions between business.
The centre is equipped with the Global Research & Development centres refractory materials and molten metals latest technologies for process simulation and Site Country existing in our customers operations.
modelling, advanced analytical capabilities, Barlborough UK These laboratories work hand-in-hand with and pilot scale foundry processes for iron, Bettsville USA our global network of 16 research centres to steel, and aluminium processing.
These stay constantly updated with information on capabilities will bring the Foundry R&D Enschede Netherlands the latest technological developments.
team closer to our customers, as we will be Feignies France better able to simulate their processes and Next generation product development Ghlin Belgium demonstrate the uniqueness of our products Our 16 research centres focus on Pittsburgh USA and technologies.
The laboratory in Enschede development of the next generation of will serve as the hub in a centre of excellence products and technologies in partnership model for R&D, coordinating the research and with strategic customers and leading development activities in our other Foundry universities.
These laboratories are staffed R&D centres located in Pittsburgh USA, with scientists and engineers possessing Feignies France, and Tamworth UK.
advanced degrees in various disciplines and are equipped with highly specialised Global centres of excellence In 2014, we equipment.
See case study below also acquired the site and completed the design process for a state-of-the-art global We regularly conduct customer seminars and centre of excellence for steelmaking and training sessions, to ensure that the full range foundry refractories, located in Pittsburgh of Vesuvius products and solutions are known USA.
We expect to relocate from the existing and properly used.
We also progressed on our planning for a global centre of excellence of Advanced Refractories in Visakhapatnam Vizag, India.
Product innovation The challenge Our solution In order to control continuous casting A recent development by Vesuvius Critical innovation operations, it is essential to know of the Accuoptix sensor integrates the temperature of the liquid steel a long-life optical detector, with in temperature in the tundish at all times during the an advanced electronic interface, sequence.
The existing technology to provide stable and accurate is based on one-time use probes or temperature signals over time.
measurement for costly and fragile continuous devices.
The optical detector replaces the traditional expensive and fragile continuous casting Platinum-Rhodium thermocouples used in the current generation of steel of continuous temperature measurement systems.
average reduction continuity of Reliability in cost temperature guarantee measurement 15% Lifetime 99% versus Accumetrix Platinum-Rhodium systems OUR BUSINESS 17 margin improvement We strive to deliver reliability and consistency through best-in-class quality management Since demerger, we have initiated plans to in our 65 production sites and 107 major restore our margins towards their historic customer locations.
In this second year of implementation, significant progress was made in reducing Quality policy Our quality policy clearly operating costs and refocusing the business defines the commitments and responsibilities towards high-margin, differentiated which apply to all aspects of the business.
offerings that create outstanding value for Reliable quality is intrinsic to our business our customers.
Underlying Group trading model, and is part of our Vesuvius brand margin improved by 71 basis points in equity.
Recognising this fundamental part of Our new Global R&D centre in Enschede, Netherlands 2014 and by 179 basis points since 2012, our promise to customers, over the past two Equipped with the latest development of notwithstanding the unfavourable exchange years, we have renewed our focus on quality, technologies, this centre is fundamental to rates that impacted most of the countries improving customer relationships and adding maintaining our technology leadership.
where Vesuvius enjoys its highest margins.
Since the inception of our Turbo.
Q quality initiative two years This outcome is the result of self-help ago we have reduced the number of repeat initiatives applied in many of our 65 customer complaints by a factor of three.
manufacturing sites, and the application See case study on p18 of the lean manufacturing concept in our processes, together with a constant focus Quality plan features Vesuvius 8D on our core activities.
methodology to resolve customer, supplier and internal issues is built upon the eight Quality and reliability disciplines we need to follow in order to Reliability in quality and delivery is vital to our eliminate problems permanently.
It is focused customers as they use Vesuvius products in on determining the root cause, implementing critical areas of their own processes.
The level effective corrective actions and preventing of risk attached to a catastrophic failure is repeatissues.
often such that, for people and equipment, no compromise can be accepted.
Reliability therefore is a primary commitment of Vesuvius.
The benefits creates a toolbox of sensors and Accuoptix combines the instrumentation to improve caster proven advantages of continuous process control, and deliver yield temperature measurement in and quality improvements for the terms of a reliable and consistent steel producer.
Being remotely data stream, with a reduced need installed, and designed for manual, for operator interaction.
It also manipulator or robotic handling, eliminates the problem of gradual the optical sensor is not submerged deterioration in performance and into the molten steel and is therefore ultimate failure of the thermocouple not destroyed in case of accidental Optical lens experienced with the existing sheath breakage.
It provides a manipulator arm Platinum-Rhodium systems.
The continuous, reliable and cost Tube holder cost effective system together effective temperature data stream with other Vesuvius developments for optimum process control.
Heat shield Tm VISO protection tube Patented quick fixing 18 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Chief Executives strategic overview continued We have committed to becoming a true Our Lean Programme started in 2008 with In total, more than 20 successful workshops learning organisation.
Every problem is the belief that: were held during 2014, providing significant welcomed as an opportunity for improvement results in terms of safety, productivity Standardisation of tasks and processes is the where lessons learned are analysed and increases and lead time reductions.
These cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity, shared in order to leverage the benefits workshops have involved more than 240 and continuous improvement across the Group.
participants from a wide cross-section of sites in 12 different countries.
Employee motivation and customer We are applying lean principles to improve satisfaction are critical foundations for shop floor quality, responsiveness, the long-term success of the Group and flexibility.
These principles drive implementation of: Improving information flow is instrumental What is Lean?
to guarantee fast and effective crossLean is all about creating more value Strong control plans to detect any defects functional processes.
for customers using less energy.
Lean as close as possible to their point of highlights seven waste areas that should occurrence in order to facilitate immediate Work on lean initiatives has intensified be minimized... problem solving in 2014 The Lean Network has been reinforced with new Lean engineers identified Accelerated product flow to allow N o w in all our major sites.
Each of these individuals quicker detection of issues and fewer NonOverWaiting has participated in a comprehensive induction quality production rejects less rework programme to bring them up to the highest Standardised production methods to ensure standard of excellence.
t i m e Transport Inventory motion Excessexcellent quality.
See case study below processing Our Lean engineers implement Lean tools and Lean programme techniques across all Vesuvius facilities.
They deliver training and coaching to operations Cost leadership and margin improvement managers, group leaders and team leaders are two of our strategic priorities, and in a who, in turn, introduce Lean tools into their business where we need to manage the day-to-day activities to help achieve targets challenges presented by the volatility in and improve the current situation.
our end-markets, a focus on process efficiency and quality is fundamental.
The Group has developed a three-day See case study opposite Standardised Work workshop to continue the deployment of Lean practices, with a special emphasis on safety, quality and productivity improvement.
Quality and reliability From 2011 to 2014, our Quality We develop our problem solving capabilities Breakthrough initiative has allowed us through training and coaching in the correct Quality to divide by three the percentage of use of our 8D-Practical Problem Solving repeats out of our total number of methodology.
In 2014 we solved 870 breakthrough customer complaints.
problems using this technique, an increase of 50%.
We also took an additional 2014 focus: 162people through our four-day 8D-PPS training module, which brings the total Spreading the Quality Breakthrough number of people trained to 978.
LEARN practices and tools FROM EACH PROBLEM Vesuvius is improving the quality of raw Increasing our problem solving capabilities materials by better Supplier Corrective Improving the quality of our raw materials.
DONT LET Action Request management, developing OUR CUSTOMERS DOWN incoming inspection at all manufacturing To spread the Quality Breakthrough sites, qualifying suppliers through supplier practices and tools, we took 325 managers assessments and improving the quality of through the two-day Turbo.
Q training in our raw material specifications.
This comes on top of were added in Europe and China in 2014 to the 93 senior managers including Group focus specifically on supplier assessments.
Executive Committee members who had This allowed us to bring the number of been trained in 2013.
Further sessions were assessments performed from 65 in 2013 organised in plants in local language.
OUR BUSINESS 19 Lean Programme Our solution Following the Group Standardised Work training Productivity deployed in 2014, the Trinec team applied Lean principles to the workplace, reorganising the two improved by workstations to reduce risk, remove unnecessary movement and improve ergonomics.
22% applying The benefits These Lean working practices have reduced Lean principles stoppage time to change patterns by nine The challenge minutes a 90% reduction, increasing In our Czech facility of Trinec, a production cell productivity by 22% to 215 parts per shift.
dedicated to insulating sleeve application, was The site is now able to meet the increasing Reduction in Increase in facing an increase in work volume and price demands of its customers with the same stoppages productivity pressure from customers.
The cell struggled to number of employees.
meet the growing demand in production as it was 90% 22% only able to produce 20 parts every 40 minutes, partly due to a required stoppage of ten minutes at the end of each pattern.
Capacity was limited to 176 parts per shift.
5S housekeeping tool 5S is a key tool to reinforce the importance of operating in a safe environment Separate Sort Shine Standardise Sustain for all employees.
It also contributes to reducing work in progress and unnecessary movement increasing efficiency, improving production flow and ensuring quality.
5S is based on the five important steps to improve cleanliness and workplace ownership, illustrated here.
20 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business Chief Executives strategic overview continued continuous improvement In 2015, we Process Metrix, a Californian company As we increase our presence at our customer will maintain our focus on the deployment of providing laser measurement of refractory sites, our employees are exposed to harsh Lean practices with a continuing emphasis on: wear in liquid steel vessels was acquired environments in locations where the in August, and ECIL Met Tec, a Brazilian complexity of risk management is increased.
5S to reinforce the ownership of the work company involved in the measurement of We continue to focus on health and safety environment by workers and continue to temperature and chemistry of steel was as a fundamental responsibility.
increase safety acquired in October.
We will continue Read more about Safety on p46-48 to pursue these types of acquisitions to Equipment efficiency and reliability reinforce our capability to provide engineered improvement with a large Total Productive Sustainability services that allow our customers greater Maintenance programme.
The additional management and control over their We are committed to the positive integration capacity generated by this initiative will processes.
of our site activities into local communities allow us to reduce our cost of production and to contributing proactively to the and allocate saved capital expenditure to Our investment spend in 2014 amounted protection of the environment.
During 2014, new Lean flexible automated equipment to 76.5m, out of which 53.1m was spent we reduced our global consumption of for key products on plant and equipment and 23.4m energy and our emissions of CO.
Equipment flexibility improvement with the we continue to develop solutions for our continuing implementation of the Single customers to help them reduce substantially Efforts to continue to reduce working capital Minute Exchange of Die production method their waste, their energy consumption and during the year were affected by a general their CO emissions.
See case study opposite A focus on batch reduction planning using drift of payment terms from our customers, 2 Kanban, a scheduling system for just-in-time predominantly in China, passing on the management focus production to support inventory reduction financial constraints encountered in the steel and foundry industries.
This increase was Towards the end of the year we undertook Labour efficiency through the reinforcement partly compensated for by a reduction in our a change in the leadership of several of of initiatives to standardise work, using inventory days across all of our businesses.
Glenn Cowie who had the Kaizen continuous improvement Overall our net debt increased slightly, driven substantially improved the performance framework.
of Advanced Refractories, took over the Foundry division and Tanmay Ganguly, Portfolio management and capital Read our Financial review on p26-31 previously Managing Director of Vesuvius allocation India Limited and Vice President for Vesuvius Health and safety After the divestments undertaken over the Steel division activities in India and South East last two years in the Advanced Refractories Safety remains our primary operating priority Asia, replaced Glenn as President Advanced business in order to concentrate on the higher which we take as a key indicator of our Refractories.
Luis Reyes, previously Vice margin specialty segment, and the disposal performance.
The Safety Breakthrough plan, President Flow Control North America, was of our Precious Metals Processing division in initiated in 2008, delivered a considerable appointed President Technical Services with 2013, we initiated the development of a new reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency a mandate to drive growth in this important business in data capture for the steel and Rate LTIFR, from 9.8 to 1.8 in 2012.
In new area and develop our recently acquired foundry industries which is the starting point 2011, a renewed action plan called Turbo.
Both Tanmay and Luis have joined for our strategic focus on Technical Services.
was developed with the objective of reaching Glenn on the Group Executive Committee in a further level of improvement in our LTIFR.
However, 2014 saw this improving trend continue to plateau and we have not yet been able to capture the benefits of this additional Group-wide programme of internal safety audits and improvement opportunities with permanent actions now operating in our facilities.
OUR BUSINESS 21 Our overall management focus is now on Sustainability impact building and implementing an excellence plan in the management of our operations.
This will involve the entire population of our Reduce rejection rates and employees around six key areas: customers, innovation, strategy, business support, supply CO emissions in an Indian 2 chain agility and talent management.
We are setting precise roadmaps in each of these automotive foundry areas to reach the status of a truly best-inclass company.
This process will help us to deliver our strategy for growth, promote permanent ongoing innovation, higher efficiency and the success of our new technical services initiative.
Outlook While the global economic backdrop remains uncertain in our main markets, we expect the underlying trading environment in the current year to be broadly similar to that experienced in 2014.
We are confident we will be able to continue to drive improvement in our trading margins and working capital performance through self-help actions, and we will focus on the acquisition of bolt-on companies to reinforce our growth opportunities.
We will do this whilst retaining a strong balance sheet in order to give us financial flexibility.
The challenge The benefits An automotive foundry in Western India Our bespoke toolkit delivered measurable producing 36,000 MT A brake discs for improvements in quality and margins, as well global car manufacturers was experiencing as reducing the environmental impact.
Cast Franois Wanecq, Chief Executive inconsistencies in the quality and performance products have become much more consistent, 3 March 2015 of their cast products, resulting in high rejection and rejection rates have been reduced by 60% rates of 1 in 20 5%.
Our customer reported from 1 in 20 to 1 in 50.
Lower rejection rates that their incumbent supplier had not offered have also resulted in fewer castings to re-melt, a solution to address this issue.
resulting in 2% less energy consumed, and lower CO emissions.
2 Our solution Working closely with the customer, our technical and sales teams developed a bespoke solution which included the Foseco Metal Stream Inoculation system, Foseco Inoculation product technology and our thermal analysis systems ITACA to optimise application rates.
application rate increase Reduction in rejection Energy reduction rates 25% 60% 2%
