06 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Chief Executives review A focused strategy: accelerating growth Our strategy is helping to accelerate growth, transforming Victrex from its manufacturing and sales roots into an integrated and focused solutions partner.
Last year we communicated our evolved strategy which focuses Over the course of the year we demonstrated that our strategy is onProduct Leadership.
Put simply, this blends our inherent technical helping us to drive growth and enhance value across our markets excellence, marketing know-how and innovation to deliver superior of Automotive, Aerospace, Electronics, Energy and Medical.
Going and leading edge products and solutions for our customers and forward, we will continue to move further downstream towards our ourmarkets.
end customers with new technologies and product forms eg pipes, film, principally through organic means.
We will continue to consider Our strategy also means that we are focused on a smaller number acquisitions at the right price, but only if they can accelerate our of larger and more impactful targets in the future.
Rather than growth and reduce development time.
All of this will broaden the manufacturing a product and chasing every single sales opportunity, applications for our products, an area we continue to invest in.
we will truly pioneer the development of the market for PEEK and our polymers.
Our focused strategy will also help us to translate and sell more In the future, we aspire to maintain our margin strength and enhance of our materials within our markets, further building on our position as our profitability and shareholder value, particularly as we work market leader.
Our strategy is supported by our significant investment to fillour new capacity with a diverse mix of more impactful and in new production capacity, which will come online during 2015, at a large scale business, thereby improving our medium term operating time when the diversity and breadth of new business opportunities are efficiencies.
Our future growth programmes remain healthy across growing, validating our decision to invest.
Aligned with our technical, our three growth horizons, with a mix of long and short lifecycle marketing and innovation strengths, our capacity will act as an enabler business, and a focus on more impactful developments.
Working for larger business opportunities and opens the door to commercial with our customers as genuine long term solutions partners on discussions with a wider range of potential customers, helping to development programmes will provide mutual benefits.
differentiate us from our competitors.
By helping our customers to solve their own technical challenges Our customers continue to specify VICTREX PEEK and our polymers and gain competitive advantage, we will continue to provide a to replace metal and other polymers, and to capture a unique clearpoint of difference for Victrex.
combination of performance properties, which lead to application The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 31 signed on behalf benefits such as lightweighting to improve efficiency and durability, oftheBoard energy and emissions reduction: improved reliability: environmental tolerance: as well as faster patient recovery and clinical benefit in medical applications.
Getting our materials specified requires detailed and diligent pre-development work, using our strong technical expertise.
We have proven time and again that, once specified, we David Hummel can build the position of our materials within ourmarkets, whether Chief Executive itbe more PEEK polymers on aircraft, in cars, insmartphones, in oil 8 December 2014 and gas operations, or in newer and emerging medical areas.
