V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 12 12 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Chief Executives review A defining year for the Group Our emerging markets are performing well, although our mature European markets continue to face challenging conditions.
However, we have continued to make good progress in delivering our long-term strategy, bybuilding firm foundations for the future with our substantial investments in Vodafone Red, Project Spring and unified communications.
We had been very happy to stay invested in the business over the years, Review of the year despite our minority position, because of the strong growth and returns It has been a year of substantial strategic progress.
The sale of our generated, and the attractiveness of the US market.
However, the Board Verizon Wireless stake has rewarded shareholders for their support, viewed the offer of US$130 billion as a very attractive price at which and enabled the acceleration of our strategy through the acquisition to exit.
The completion of the transaction enabled us to return a record of Kabel Deutschland, the pending acquisition of Ono and our Project US$85 billion to our shareholders, while retaining ample financial Spring investment programme.
flexibility to pursue our own strategy both organically and through Our operational performance has been mixed.
The Groups emerging targeted acquisitions.
See page 14 for more information.
markets businesses have performed strongly throughout the year: we have executed our strategy well and have successfully positioned Strategic progress ourselves for the rapid growth in data we are now witnessing.
In Europe, We have made very substantial progress on our strategy in the past where we continue to face competitive, regulatory and macroeconomic year, despite the significant challenges faced in Europe.
With the pressures, we have taken steps to improve our commercial performance, acquisition of Kabel Deutschland in Germany and the planned particularly in Germany and Italy, and are beginning to see encouraging purchase of Ono in Spain, our continued fibre build in Portugal and early signs.
Spain, and our fibre plans in Italy, allied to last years acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide in the UK, we are becoming a leader in unified Verizon Wireless transaction communications across Europe.
This enables us to access a large and The sale of our 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, the leading mobile growing fixed revenue pool where our market share is currently much operator in the United States, was the culmination of a highly successful lower than in mobile, while also helping us defend our mobile business 14 year investment which began when Verizon and Vodafone entered from converged offers.
into a partnership to create Verizon Wireless in 2000.
We continue to provide a market-leading network experience in most of our markets, and now have 4.7 million 4G customers across 14countries all our major European markets, as well as South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
Early experience from 4G shows us that customers use roughly twice as much data compared to 3G data usage, driven principally by video streaming.
Smartphone adoption continues to grow strongly in all markets and the increased availability of mobile applications and low cost devices is driving significant growth in data usage.
Data traffic in India increased by 125% year-on-year, and at the end of the year we had 52 million data customers in India alone, with seven million of these being 3G data customers.
Data adoption is becoming truly mass market.
Our Vodafone Red plans are now available in 20 markets, with 12 million customers at the year end.
The footprint of our money transfer service, M-Pesa, continues to grow and we expanded the service with launches in the year in India, Egypt, Mozambique, Lesotho, and our first European market Romania.
In India the service is now nationwide.
Enterprise now represents 27% of Group service revenue.
The creation of a discrete Enterprise unit is also beginning to bear fruit, as we focus on a smaller number of products with the potential for global application.
Our strategic focus areas Vodafone Global Enterprise, serving our biggest multi-national accounts and our machine-tomachine unit, where we are a global leader, delivered further growth.
We continue to develop Vodafone One Net to provide converged services for smalland medium-sized companies.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 13 Where we aim to be five years from now Consumer Europe Unified Consumer Enterprise Communications Emerging Markets A leading mobile data provider Converged services in all A strong leader and first Major enterprise provider key European markets choice for data with full service offering Supported by: An excellent network experience A simplified and cost-efficient business model and operations Project Spring accelerates and extends our strategic priorities through investment in mobile and fixed networks, products and services and our retail platform, to strengthen further our network and service differentiation.
Read more about our strategy 21 Project Spring Outlook Project Spring is our organic investment programme which will allow In the short term, we continue to face competitive, macroeconomic and us to accelerate and extend our strategic priorities through investment regulatory pressures, particularly in Europe, and still need to secure our in mobile and fixed networks, products and services, and our retail recovery in some key markets.
While we are therefore heavily focused platform.
Announced alongside the Verizon transaction in September on the successful execution of our significant capital investment 2013, Project Spring will strengthen further our network and service programme, we are also absolutely committed to operational efficiency differentiation.
The transition to 4G and unified communications, and standard operating models across all markets.
We anticipate that coupled with an improved economic outlook for Europe, lead our investments will begin to translate into clearly improved network us to believe Vodafone has a unique opportunity to invest now.
performance and customer satisfaction in the coming year.
In the medium term, this will become more evident in key operational metrics We expect total investments, including Project Spring, to be around such as churn and average revenue per user ARPU : and subsequently 19 billion over the next two years.
The main elements of our into revenue, profitability and cash flow.
investment are: I am confident about the future of the business given the growth 4G in Europe: we aim to reach 91% population prospects in data, emerging markets, enterprise and unified coverage by March 2016: communications.
We have commenced our Project Spring two-year investment programme which will accelerate our plans to establish 3G in emerging markets: with 95% population stronger network and service differentiation for our customers.
I expect coverage in targeted urban areas in India the first signs of this to become evident later this year, with wider 4G by March 2016: coverage in Europe and 3G coverage in emerging markets, improved network performance and increased customer advocacy.
While cash next-generation fixed line infrastructure: laying fibre flow will be depressed during this investment phase, our intention to more base stations and deep into residential areas to continue to grow dividends per share annually demonstrates our across Europe and in selected emerging market confidence in strong future cash flow generation.
urban areas: development of enterprise products and services: extending our M2M reach to 75 countries and rolling out hosting and IP-VPN services internationally: and Vittorio Colao Chief Executive investment in our retail estate: modernising 8,000 of our stores to improve the customer experience.
Market overview, Our strategy Our financial and where are and positioning guidance we going?
