08 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ceos q&a: a chat with LOOkING TO jameshenderson THEFUTURE james henderson became our neW chief eXecutive officer on 1 august 2014. here he sets the scene on Where William hill is today, outlines the eXciting times ahead for the group and discusses the importance of having responsible gambling at the heart of the business.
James Henderson Chief Executive Officer James, youve been with the What makes you Making technology one of your Group for 30 years.
How do you think William Hill can three priorities is a brave move.
Im fortunate to have worked in almost Looking across the world, William Hill stands Technology is the foundation on which every part of the Group in the last 30 out as a rare example of a land-based market everything else sits.
It underpins so much of years.
The pace of change in the gambling leader that has successfully transitioned into what we have already achieved and what sector and at William Hill specifically has digital market leadership while maintaining we want to deliver going forward.
Weve built accelerated hugely in the last decade.
You cant overstate Online by both in-sourcing the best third-party Digital has really broadened our horizons and the enormity of the change that happened software and developing our own proprietary weve responded to that opportunity.
Weve in the Group to achieve that.
Were continuing to do that while gone from being a land-based, UK-centric we have the scarce asset of a team that increasing our self-reliance by stepping up the business to one of the worlds leading betting understands and is responding to the very development work we do internally.
And we have some different challenges of land-based and Today, weve got different business platforms of the best people in our industry working on online.
So the more that regulations liberalise for Retail, Online, the US and Australia.
to allow us to provide our full offering as Over time, that may slow us down and it will in Italy, for instance the more that favours International opportunities are particularly restrict our options so its time to look at this us competitively.
Weve been very focused on very carefully in technology terms.
The right strengthening Online, then moving onto Whether its through acquisitions or technology approach will facilitate all our the US, Italy, Spain and Australia.
Now is a organically, weve got a strong track record goals differentiating and personalising what good time to lift our heads and look at other of generating value from the Stanley we offer our customers, opening up Retail to opportunities.
In some cases, like the US, acquisition to creating William Hill US to all those Online innovations, bringing our vast we just dont know what regulation may look gaining a top three position in both Italy and product range seamlessly to Australia and the like but were well positioned for whatever Spain.
William Hill Australia is now properly US, allowing us to integrate acquisitions faster happens so as not to get caught flat-footed.
equipped to compete and Im confident it will and giving us wider options for international Whats important is to have flexibility in our prove a good acquisition in a very attractive expansion, for example through  and to have a team of experts market.
In many markets, the regulators business deals.
looking for those right opportunities.
also respond positively to us because we have a strong track record in encouraging responsible gambling.
Find out more: Page 10 in the Our strategic priorities section Strategic report 09 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Whilst We face challenges as an industry, there are also plenty of opportunities to keep strengthening William hill.
What would you say Gambling is a basic human instinct and its What changes culturally going to happen whether we like it or not.
is the biggest challenge atWilliam Hill with you Q Q The advantage of having a regulated industry youre facing?
is the transparency and control it gives to Regulatory change is always our biggest Theres a lot about our culture thats already government and through them, to society.
opportunity and our biggest threat.
Weve got some of the most passionate, What we all want is to be able to make Managing this is about having the right committed and excited people in our industry decisions on the basis of good quality data.
approach to responsible gambling and an working at William Hill.
And weve been able Thats why research such as that reported open, proactive and collaborative way of to attract great talent from other industries on by the Responsible Gambling Trust last engaging with governments, regulators, the because were about entertainment, were December is so important, because it takes wider industry and anyone concerned about about innovation and, lets be honest, were the whole debate forward in a productive what we do and how we do it.
Weve always surrounded by sport every day!
manner to enable us to make changes and been a responsible company and that ethos for governments to set policy based on When youre looking to change, adapt and sits at the heart of our operations.
Thats not facts, not opinion.
innovate as quickly as we are, you need a just about compliance.
As a company and as culture that doesnt stand in the way but Find out more: an industry, we need to keep learning, to keep Page 30 in the Corporate responsibility section actively supports and encourages it.
You cant improving and most importantly to keep do that dictating from the top.
If theres one criticism I have be collaborative, youve got to trust people of us and the industry its that a lot of the good and youve got to be prepared to fail.
If youre work weve done has gone unnoticed.
Ive not failing often enough, youre probably not made improving communication a priority for pushing far enough.
Our industry makes a positive contribution to society, not only through the jobs we generate and the economic contribution we make but also through our social contribution.
