Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Group Chief Executives review Delivering our strategy to drive strong results In each country our management teams Performance have significant opportunity to develop I am pleased to report a good overall result our businesses depending on market in 2013 14 against a backdrop of good conditions.
In the USA, for example, market conditions in the USA and continued where the market has been growing, this weak demand in Europe and Canada.
year we have continued to drive above The standout performance was the USA market revenue growth and gross margin where we achieved a record 7.7 per cent improvements.
However, in the Nordic trading margin, strongly outperforming region, Central Europe and France, where the markets in all of our major segments.
markets have been tough, we are focusing Like-for-like revenue growth in the UK was on holding market share and protecting lower as we continued to protect gross gross margins and controlling operating margins.
We faced economic headwinds costs tightly.
We are working very hard to In summary in Continental Europe and here we have improve customer service to gain a greater taken further action to lower operating share of our existing customers business.
Our strong balance sheet means We are also looking at ways to improve how we have continued to invest in technology excellent cash generation we manage our sales teams to win new and processes to develop more efficient customers and to provide a more responsive business models to support improvements service to our existing customers.
Eight bolt-on acquisitions in operational efficiency and to improve our See pages 14 to 17 for more about our trading margin, which is now up to 6.0 per 3 completed progress accelerating profitable growth cent for the ongoing businesses.
See pages 26 to 35 for more about significant investment ourperformance Investment in new business This year we have stepped up capital investment to a total of 201 million Group strategy and models, technology 2012 13: 140 million, a significant businessmodel andinfrastructure proportion of which was invested in the Our strategy is unchanged and you can development of more efficient business read about our progress this year in the rest models.
This has included new distribution of this Strategic report.
Over recent years we centres and distribution hubs to support have embedded the process of allocating our expansion plans.
We have also invested capital for investment to those businesses in the branch network, including 26 new capable of generating the best returns for branches, supporting showroom expansion shareholders.
For example, a significant and branch refurbishments.
You can read proportion of investment is now being more about our progress in this important allocated to our USA operations where we element of our strategy on pages 18 to 25. have strong, market-leading businesses All of our businesses are developing with considerable growth opportunities in technology, process and network large, fragmented markets.
We have also infrastructure to help us become more continued to develop detailed business unit productive.
This year this included the strategies with the objective of accelerating successful implementation of new core profitable growth in these businesses.
financial systems in the UK, a new European This is now working well, although outside data centre, major telecoms and network of the USA where market conditions have upgrades in the UK and the USA and been much slower to recover, we have not master data and middleware projects to made enough progress to date.
support our business model development initiatives.
In 2014 15, we expect capital expenditure to be in the region of 200 million to 220 million as we continue to invest in these transformational projects.
Wolseley plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information The associated incremental operating Sustainability Our people costs will be approximately 30 million.
We have made good progress in Our achievements are, of course, down to Shareholders rightly expect our investments several components of the sustainability the people who work for Wolseley.
So on to generate appropriate returns and this is programme this year.
A robust health and behalf of the Executive team I would like assessed as part of a rigorous investment safety programme protects our workforce, to thank all of my Wolseley colleagues for appraisal process.
It is also worth bearing whilst improving productivity and we made their continued dedication and commitment in mind that some projects are updating good progress reducing our lost workday to our customers.
We have much work to systems infrastructure, which will support rate by 2.8 per cent.
However, the vehicle do in the years ahead, but we continue the business for many years to come.
collision rate increased slightly by 0.2 per to approach this with a growing sense of See pages 18 to 25 for more about our cent this year and that is disappointing.
optimism and an absolute sense of purpose.
4 investment in new business models We have mitigating actions in place to deliver a better performance going forward.
Bolt-on acquisitions Over the last two years Wolseley has also anddisposals succeeded in reducing carbon emissions by 7.3 per cent and the tonnage of waste As well as organic expansion we have sent to landll by 18.0 per cent both per Ian Meakins many opportunities to deploy capital on million of revenue generated.
In order Group Chief Executive bolt-on acquisitions.
During the year, we to achieve this, the businesses have acquired eight businesses with annualised implemented many projects, not least an revenue of 444 million.
These were small 8,000 solar panel installation on the roof of bolt-ons in our existing geographies that our largest distribution centre in the UK in will be integrated rapidly into our strong Royal Leamington Spa, which will more than businesses to yield good cost synergies account for its power needs and achieve and deliver attractive returns.
We would carbon savings ofaround 1,280 tonnes expect that in the coming year we will be a year.
able to invest 200 million to 300 million on acquisitions.
However, we will only acquire See pages 48 to 53 for more about our sustainability programme businesses which are appropriately priced and clearly support our strategic objectives.
At the same time, we will also maintain a Looking ahead conservative, but efficient, balance sheet, with investment grade credit metrics.
The overall like-for-like revenue growth rate for the Group since the beginning of the new During the year we announced the exit of financial year has been broadly in line with the Cheapy DIY business in Sweden and the fourth quarter of 2013 14. the AG plumbing and heating business in Austria.
In addition, we recently announced Overall we expect the Groups like-for-like that we are reviewing exit options for the revenue growth rate for the first six months future of the ISB wood solutions business of the new financial year to be about in France.
See pages 26 to 35 for more about this yearsacquisitions Wolseley plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
