Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 At a glance our divisions Delivering complex and critical support Marine and Technology Divisional CEO Archie Bethel Revenue by division % Customer by geography % Employees 10,262 Description Marine and Technology is the UKs leading maritime support business and 4 4 the largest provider of through-life 3 engineering support services to the 2 Royal Navy.
With an unmatched range 1 of engineering and technical skills, 3 the division delivers a wide array of cradle-to-grave engineering services to defence, commercial marine and energy markets in the UK and internationally.
1 2 Principal Naval Marine activities Submarine through-life support, re t 1.
UK 81% and refuelling, warship maintenance 2.
Africa 8% and re t, Queen Elizabeth class aircraft 3.
Canada 4% carrier assembly and naval base 4. International 8% 4.
Rest of the World 7% management.
Energy and Marine Services Engineering support to the oil and gas, offshore renewables and commercial marine markets.
Public Private split % Customer by category % Technology Specialised systems and technical services that improve our customers capability in international defence and commercial sectors.
4 3 3 International Through-life support of Victoria Class submarines in Canada and ANZAC 2 Class frigates in Australia.
Surface ship 1 maintenance, repair and overhaul in 2 New Zealand.
1 Key customers Royal Navy, Australian Government, New Zealand Government, Canadian Government, Defence Equipment and 1.
UK Defence 53% Support, BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, 2.
UK Civil 30% Navantia, Daewoo Shipbuilding and 3.
Private 19% 3. International Civil 11% Marine Engineering, Hyundai Heavy 4. International Defence 6% Industries, BP and Shell.
See p20 for the Operating review Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Defence and Security Support Services International John Davies Kevin Thomas Peter Rogers 6,352 9,768 1,678 Defence and Security is a major support Support Services has leading positions Babcock is a leading supplier of provider to all three Armed Forces across several civil markets.
The division engineering support services to the delivering leading-edge training, has three core capabilities: it teaches energy, mining and construction infrastructure and asset support.
vital skills, manages critical assets industries in southern Africa.
With a The division trains c 50,000 servicemen and delivers complex programmes presence in both Oman and the United pa and provides management and for civil government and blue chip Arab Emirates the division is also support to c 17,000 military vehicles, commercial organisations.
The division building local partnerships to expand including the MoDs white and is the UKs largest nuclear support Babcocks presence in the region.
company and the leading provider of apprentice training.
Air Teaching vital skills Africa Elementary, basic and fast jet training Management and delivery of apprentice Sole distributor of heavy Volvo and support to aircraft including the training for Network Rail and training equipment for the mining industry and Sea King, Apache, Hawk, Lynx, Grob delivery for Volkswagen Group and the DAF equipment for the infrastructure and Tucano.
Land Managing critical assets Construction, erection and maintenance Vehicle eet management for the Support to assets, including baggage of high voltage power lines.
MoDs white eet and construction handling systems, broadcast support, Engineering support to Eskom eets.
Army technical and mechanical vehicle eets for the emergency services power stations.
trade training and maintaining the and the mining and construction operational training vehicle eet.
Crane hire to the infrastructure and construction sectors.
Sea Delivering complex programmes A range of training for the Royal Navy Nuclear decommissioning, major rail Middle East and other international navies including track renewal and the upgrade of Support to Royal Air Force of Oman.
sea safety and re ghting training.
high-voltage overhead power lines Monitoring and developing and communications infrastructure.
opportunities for other Babcock Infrastructure services in the region.
Integrated estate management and infrastructure support to the MoD in the UK and Germany.
British Army, Royal Air Force, Central government, commercial Volvo, DAF, Eskom, mining and Royal Navy, Defence Infrastructure organisations, including BMW and EDF, construction companies and Organisation, BAE Systems, international emergency services including the The Royal Air Force of Oman.
Metropolitan Police and LFB, bodies operating in regulated sectors including the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and Network Rail.
See p26 for the Operating review See p32 for the Operating review See p38 for the Operating review
