Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16 Chief Executives review Securing longterm growth opportunities We are delighted to report another successful year of broadOver the previous pages we have set out our strategy and based growth across the Group.
During this year, not only business model and have demonstrated, through examples of have we delivered strong financial results, we have also activities across our operations this year, of how we seek to made considerable progress strengthening and growing our create value.
We have not changed our focus we will continue underlying businesses through major new contract wins, to seek opportunities to develop from our position as the UKs through acquisitions and by extending the breadth and depth leading engineering support services company and grow in of operational support we currently provide for our customers.
The contracts we have won during All of this creates an even stronger platform for the future the year, the opportunities we are bidding and the recent success of our business and supports our commitment to acquisitions we have undertaken all support this objective.
provide superior and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
The examples on the previous pages also show our strategy in action.
They set out how across our businesses we have A positive market environment continued to strengthen our market leading positions, Our business model is ideally suited to the current market demonstrating the unparalleled depth of knowledge and environment.
Throughout this year, many of our customers expertise our customers have come to rely on.
They show have continued to experience signi cant financial constraints how we focus on ensuring we meet or exceed our customers or budget cuts.
Despite concerns expressed in the media that requirements, over the long-term, by understanding and outsourcing to private companies creates risks for the delivery recognising the criticality of their activities, and by using of critical services, we have seen our customers continue to our technical expertise to ensure they get the right solution.
consider outsourcing as a safe and effective way of achieving Vitally, in todays economic environment, we focus on ensuring both financial ef ciency and increased operational ef ciency.
our customers bene t from working with us.
We seek to deliver We are well positioned, with stringent financial controls, a cost saving solutions aligned to service improvement and our wealth of experience and demonstrable track record, to help contracts are designed to ensure we both share in the success our customers formulate the best support solutions for their or failure.
Throughout the operating review we describe activities and initiatives that, over the course of this year, have Across the Group, health and safety is our first priority.
We would further strengthened our ability to support our customers.
not be able to maintain our market leading positions or have the scale of opportunities ahead of us if we did not also have Our strategy driving growth an excellent track record and strive for continual improvement The continued success of the Group demonstrates the strength in all our health and safety activities.
that our strategy and business model have brought to our operations.
They fide ne the way we do business and explain our Our strategy is key to our future success and only by remaining focus on creating value: they set us apart from many others focused on it will we continue to build the underlying strength operating in our sector.
Over the course of the year all the contracts we have won, the opportunities we are bidding or tracking and The future success of our business in both the UK and overseas the acquisitions we have under taken support and build on key will come from the signi cant opportunities we are currently elements of our strategy.
bidding or tracking, as well as further new outsourcing opportunities we are helping to formulate and new market prospects we have been considering.
The clear framework provided by our strategy guides not only the way we operate but, more importantly, ensures we pursue the right opportunities for growth, both organically and through acquisitions.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 The acquisition of the Avincis Group Avincis is a clear Driving organic growth demonstration of how we believe we can create value through During the second half of the 2013 14 financial year, we were acquisition.
Although the acquisition takes the Group into a successful in winning new contracts and contract extensions new sector specialist helicopter and xed wing services the with a value of around 3 billion and include: business is fully aligned with Babcocks existing strategy, meeting the management and decommissioning of the 12 Magnox all our strategic objectives and with a business model we nuclear sites in the UK, one of the biggest and most signi cant recognise.
Avincis delivers mission-critical support and complex contracts to be let by the NDA services in highly regulated environments.
It is a leading provider of helicopter and xed wing emergency services in Europe and the management of the London Fire Brigades eet of over Australia and a leading provider of critical offshore crew-change 500 vehicles and 5,000 pieces of specialist equipment for helicopter services to the oil and gas industry in the UK sector of the next 21 years the North Sea.
the provision of overhead line electri cation works for The business is well positioned for growth and we can use our Network Rail as part of its vital investment in the UKs scale, capabilities and balance sheet to support and accelerate rail network these plans.
Through Avincis strong presence in Europe we the successful rebid and extension to the technical, will also seek to develop some of our existing operations and commercial and apprentice training we deliver for the capabilities into these new geographies.
The enlarged Group Volkswagen Group UK along with recruitment and will also bene t from a wider customer base and enhanced administration services.
Details of these and other contracts are set out within divisional In addition to Avincis, during the last financial year we also reviews.
The majority of the contracts we have won are with acquired four other new businesses.
This re ects the con dence they have in Conbras Engenharia Ltda, a privately owned company our ability to deliver complex and critical support as well as operating in the public and private facilities management the deep understanding we have of their technical and sector of Brazil and operational requirements.
Where we have won contracts with new customers, we have been able to do so by successfully National Training Institute NTI, based in Oman, providing transferring existing skills and capabilities.
training solutions for customers in the energy, oil and gas and construction sectors in the Middle East.
Acquisitions supporting growth Since we first began the transformation of Babcock into a Both are established businesses with well-regarded local Support Services company in the early 2000s, acquisitions management teams and strong reputations.
We have identi ed have played a key role in our development.
Brazil and the Middle East as key growth markets and we will use these businesses as a base from which to develop a broader We are very clear about our objectives when considering Babcock presence.
Therefore, any business we acquire must align with our strategic objectives and have a similar Skills2Learn is a specialist virtual reality and e-learning based business model to ours.
We will use acquisitions as a way of: training business that will provide Babcock with a broader range of innovative training solutions that we can offer to bringing new capabilities into the Group to strengthen or customers and extend the services we are able to offer our customers Context Information Security ContextIS provides specialist entering new geographies where we believe the economic technical consultancy services in the cyber-security market.
or market dynamics are creating opportunities to develop a ContextIS has a strong reputation and capabilities which Babcock business based on strengths and capabilities within signi cantly enhance our ability to provide resilient solutions our UK operations for our customers requirements.
entering new market sectors which are fully aligned with our Excellent visibility and future growth prospects strategic objectives and business model.
Over the past year we have retained the excellent visibility We expect the businesses we acquire to have their own growth we have of our future revenues which is a key feature of plans, which we can accelerate, as well as being capable of our business.
This is based on the long-term contracts and delivering value for our shareholders and acceptable returns partnering agreements which form the basis of our order book.
on investment within a reasonable time period.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Chief Executives review continued The order book at the end of 2013 14 stood at 11.5 billion Bid pipeline history bn 2013: 12 billion, slightly down on the end of the previous financial year but stable on the 2013 14 half year position.
With a number of signi cant contract announcements coming 17.5bn in the final quarter of the 2013 14 financial year and in the 20 first part of the 2014 15 financial year that are still at preferred bidder stage, we expect the order book to increase signi cantly during the first half of this financial year, as final signature on these contracts is achieved.
In addition, we continue discussions 15 with the Ministry of Defence MoD about the introduction of the Maritime Support Delivery Framework within the Marine and Technology division, expected to complete in mid-2014 10 which is expected to add a further c 2 billion to the order book.
As we start the 2014 15 financial year we have over 60% of Babcocks excluding Avincis anticipated revenue for this year already contracted and over 30% for the 2015 16 5 financial year.
Going forward, the order book of Avincis, whose acquisition was completed on 16 May 2014, will also be added to the Groups 0 10 11 12 13 14 total order book.
At the end of December 2013, Avincis had an The bid pipeline currently stands at 17.5 billion 2013: order book of 1.9 billion, which provided visibility of 85% of its 15.5 billion.
This is slightly below the declared bid pipeline anticipated revenue for its next financial year and 56% visibility of 18.5 billion announced at the time of the Interim for the year after.
Management Statement on 11 February 2014, adjusting for a number of recent contract announcements where our bids Order book history bn were unsuccessful, including Network Rails switches and crossing frameworks and Tranche 1 of the Next Generation 11.5bn Estates Contracts.
15 With the signi cant value of bids recently announced that have not yet reached final contract signature, bids at preferred bidder stage, that will transfer to the order book during the first half, 12 stand at c 3 billion.
Defence and Security 47% Order book by division % 3.
Support Services 25% 2 4. International 1% 8.3 12.0 13.0 12.0 11.5 3.4 7.0 9.5 15.5 17.5 Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 The majority of the bids in the pipeline continue to be new Outlook business, with rebids representing only 11%, and re ecting the Our business model, the scale of our operations, the depth and complexity of the contracts we are competing for, 75% 2013: breadth of our experience and our track record of delivering 74% of the pipeline comprises bids with a total contract value operational and financial ef ciencies provide an excellent of over 100 million.
The bid pipeline is supported by tracking platform to bene t from the positive markets which continue opportunities of c 14 billion.
to offer us medium and long-term opportunities in both the UK and overseas.
The strength of the order book and bid pipeline Bid pipeline by contract size % continue to provide excellent visibility.
During the year, the Group has won a number of important contracts and has made a signi cant investment in acquisitions, strengthening the existing capabilities of the Group as well as creating opportunities in new markets and geographies.
4 The acquisition of Avincis meets Babcocks strategic objectives 3 as it brings into the Group a market-leading business with a 2 strong growth platform and its combination with Babcock will generate even greater growth opportunities and value creation 1.
100-50m 8% Building on the strong growth in revenue and earnings delivered 3.
50m-25m 6% 1 in the 2013 14 financial year, the Board is con dent the Group 4.
25m 11% will continue to make further strong progress in the 2014 15 financial year.
Bid pipeline by contract type % Peter Rogers CBE Chief Executive 1 2 1.
New business 66% The Avincis business also brings with it a pipeline of opportunities at both bidding and tracking stages which stood at c 5.9 billion at 31 December 2013.
Of this we would expect around 600 million to be added to the bid pipeline.
However, as bidding timetables for Avincis contracts are signi cantly shorter than for traditional Babcock contracts, we expect a more rapid movement of bids from tracking into the pipeline and, if successful, into the order book.
