Strategic Report CHIEF 2014 has seen signs of greater stability and improving clarity emerge in markets where budgets have been EXECUTIVES constrained in recent years bythe wider economic backdrop.
In this challenging but stabilising environment, BAESystems has delivered a solid overall performance in2014, building on the good programme execution of REVIEW recent years.
Defence and security continues as a high priority in anumber of the Groups domestic and international markets, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
TheGroup has also continued to win signi cant new BAESYSTEMS business.
Order intake of 4.3bn was achieved from international markets outside the US and the UK contributing to the 40.5bn order backlog at year end.
HAS DELIVERED Thatlarge order backlog provides good, multi-year visibility across many of the Groups businesses.
In addition, the Group has achieved over 10bn of order intake in the A SOLID OVERALL USand UK each year over the last three years.
These USand UK programmes provide the Group with the intellectual property which can be used to develop international andsupport businesses for the future.
PERFORMANCE US In January 2014, a US bipartisan budget agreement IN 2014. provided a two-year window of defence funding visibility and some emerging stability.
Only minor trading disruption was apparent in the last quarter of 2014 as Ian King, Chief Executive the government operated under a Continuing Resolution until the mid-December passage of an omnibus appropriations bill for the 2015 scal year.
This included stable Department of Defense funding compared with 2014, and included funding for ground vehicle programmes and for additional F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
US budgets are now relatively stable, with some early indications of a modest improvement in 2016.
On 1 February 2014, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAESystems, Inc.
Following his appointment, and recognising the needfor continued competitive enhancement, the Groups US organisation was streamlined into three operating sectors with resultant reductions to administrative overhead.
The Groups Intelligence & Security business continued to face a challenging environment serving US government security community customers.
1 TOP 12 PROGRAMMES BY SALES VALUE IN 2014 The Groups top 12 programmes, which include platforms, services and electronic systems contracts, contributed 43% of the 1 Groups sales in 2014.
These contracts are multi-year and will continue to deliver a 1 signi cant proportion of the Groups sales over the next five years, providing long-term visibility and sustainment of revenues.
At 31December 2014, these programmes represented 36% of the 40.5bn order 1,2 backlog.
I ncluding share of equity accounted investments.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, andisstated after the elimination of intra-group orders.
BAE Systems 14 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report The Groups Electronic Systems activities bene ted from intheUKare committed to carrying out a Strategic Defence and Security Review after the general election the broad base of high-technology defence systemsand in May.
The Group bene ts from a large order backlog equipment and continued good growth in commercial oflong-term committed programmes with many key aircraft electronics.
We have maintained our leadership decisions now addressed for several years.
position in the US electronic warfare market.
The selection of BAESystems to supply an advanced, We recognise that the economic environment in the integrated electronic ight control system for Boeings UKremains challenging, placing further pressure on new 777X programme was a notable achievement, manyareas of public spending, including the UK expected to generate signi cant new business in future defencebudget.
Through a continued focus on cost years.
The award adds to established positions providing control, programme execution and ef ciency, the ight and engine controls across multiple commercial Groupis working to deliver continuous improvements aircraft platforms.
inaffordability for the UK customer to ensure that the Groups large, long-term contracts deliver both value There was strong margin performance in the Land andworld-class capability.
&Armaments business and a number of order awards on programmes that sustain key combat vehicle In the air domain, Typhoon production and the Groups industrial base capabilities.
In December, BAE Systems extensive in-service military aircraft support and was awarded a contract for the engineering and upgrade business in the UK provide a strong core of manufacturing development phase of the Armored high-performing business.
2014 has seen asigni cant Multi-Purpose Vehicle programme, which will sustain acceleration of capability expansion ontothe Typhoon these capabilities in the longer term.
Activity is underway to integrate additional weapons and sensors onto the aircraft for BAE Systems is a major provider of ship repair services thefour European partner nations and international to the US Navy.
Consistent with the US Navys increased customers.
InNovember, the formal launch of a funded, focus on Asia-Paci c operations, the Group committed multi-nation development programme for an advanced, a$103m 66m investment to install new oating dry  radar was a key milestone dock facilities in its San Diego shipyard.
Performance issues identi ed in 2013 in commercial Our participation in the F-35 Lightning II combat aircraft shipbuilding continued to depress margins in the US programme includes UK-manufactured rear fuselage and Support Solutions business.
There were also further empennage assemblies as well as electronic systems charges taken in 2014.
The operational challenges content from the Groups US-based business.
The Group identi ed in 2013 on the Radford ammunition facility expects signi cant growth in production volume with the maintenance contract have been mitigated signi cantly planned acceleration of aircraft deliveries.
The outlook for the Groups UK maritime businesses is In November, the Group was disappointed to learn that robust.
The build of two Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft the Republic of Korea had decided to terminate for carriers is progressing well.
The first of Class was named convenience the US Air Forces Foreign Military Sales in a formal ceremony by Her Majesty The Queen on contract with BAE Systems to upgrade Koreas F-16 4July and subsequently oated out of the dock in which aircraft eet.
she was assembled, enabling assembly of blocks for the UK second vessel to commence as the first vessel In the UK, the defence and security market has been continues out tting alongside.
Notwithstanding the continued constraints on the decision, announced by Prime Minister David public spending in some sectors, BAE Systems Cameron at the NATO Summit held in the UK in October, continues to bene t from long-term contracts in the to commit to the operation of both vessels, providing a airand naval domains.
Both major political parties continuous-at-sea UK carrier capability.
1 TOP 12 PROGRAMMES BY SALES VALUE IN 2014 F-35 Lightning II Bradley Fighting Vehicle modi cation US ship repair European Typhoon aircraft End-user: Air forces of more than End-user: US Army End-user: US Navy End-user: Air forces of the UK, tencountries Germany, Italy and Spain BAE Systems is executing contracts A series of Multi-Ship, Multi-Option BAE Systems has a signi cant for Bradley modi cations.
With its contracts for non-nuclear naval ship Manufacture of 236 Tranche 2 and workshare on the worlds largest Bradley-based solution, BAE Systems repair, maintenance and upgrade 88Tranche 3A Typhoon combat defence programme.
The Group has been awarded a contract for atfacilities located on the East, aircraft.
There were 16 Tranche 2 designs and manufactures engineering and manufacturing West andGulf coasts of the US, aircraft deliveries in 2014.
As at sub-assemblies, including the aft development onthe US Armys aswell as Hawaii.
This repair and 31December 2014, 219 of the fuselage and empennage, in the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle modernisation work is central to 236contracted Tranche 2 aircraft UKand provides key capabilities, programme that will help to sustain theUS Navys lifecyclemaintenance had been delivered to the four including the electronic warfare the Groups US combat vehicle and service life objectives.
P29 P38 P35 P35 P38 BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 15 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES Actions continue to implement and nalise contracts International REVIEW forthe restructuring of the Groups naval ships business In Saudi Arabia, the Group delivered a further following last years agreement with the UK government.
11Typhoon aircraft in the year and developed its CONTINUED In August, the Group was awarded a contract for the position as a key part of the Kingdoms defence build of three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Royal industrial base.
Navy, sustaining shipbuilding skills between the In February 2014, agreement was reached with Carrierprogramme and the start of manufacture for theSaudi Arabian government on price escalation theanticipated Type 26 frigate programme.
The Group fortheSalam Typhoon programme under the current continues to work on the Type 26 assessment phase 72-aircraft contract.
and is discussing proposals with the UK Ministry of Defence for the future phases of the programme.
In June, we announced a reorganisation of the Groups TheType 26 programme will provide long-term clarity portfolio ofinterests in a number of industrial companies forUKcomplex warship manufacture, including at the in SaudiArabia and an enhancement of its existing Groups facilities on the River Clyde in Scotland.
relationship with Riyadh Wings Aviation Academy LLC Riyadh Wings.
The reorganisation brings together Following the Scottish independence referendum in shareholdings of BAESystems and Riyadh Wings in September, the people of Scotland decided to remain Saudi companies specialising in training, electronics within the Union.
The decision was welcomed, removing andIT systems engineering under a single holding uncertainty for the Groupsemployees and its business company.
The reorganisation is intended to enhance based in Scotland.
thegrowth prospects of this portfolio of businesses In October, the Group agreed a multi-year Maritime andreinforce an ongoing commitment to increasing Support Delivery Framework contract for the operation localemployment.
ofthe Royal Naval Base at Portsmouth and global In Australia, where BAE Systems is the largest defence support for half of the Royal Navys surface eet.
contractor, the government approved, in May 2014, a In December, a signi cant contract for the upgrade of commitment to grow defence spending within a decade the Spear sh torpedo was secured.
to 2% of Gross Domestic Product.
In the submarines business, Artful, the third of a The Group delivered the first of two Canberra Class planned seven Astute Class submarines, was launched Landing Helicopter Dock LHD vessels for the Royal in May.
Alongside build of Astute Class boats, Australian Navy and manufacture of the second ship engineering work continues to accelerate as part of isprogressing well.
Following the high level of activity theassessment phase of the Successor submarine onthis programme, there is currently no material programme.
The Successor programme is the potential follow-on workload contracted.
BAESystems and the replacement of Vanguard Class submarines, intended Australian government continue to discuss options to toenter service towards the end of the next decade.
sustain industrial capabilities and meet future naval requirements following on fromthe high level of Cyber security workloadon the LHDprogramme.
BAE Systems continues to develop its strategy for commercial cyber security, with growth being delivered BAE Systems is a 37.5% shareholder in the MBDA and a number of important contract wins in the year.
MBDA bene ts from Order backlog in the Applied Intelligence business salesto equip a range of air and naval platforms grewby 37% in the year, building on the 60% increase acrossEuropean and wider international applications.
InDecember, MBDA received a 301m 234m contract to supply the air-to-air missiles for Indias We continue to target strong growth opportunities in Jaguaraircraft eet.
The MBDA business has seen commercial cyber security markets and the acquisition increased bidding interest on ground-based air defence of SilverSky in December accelerates the Groups systems in some regions.
strategy to grow in the commercial cyber market, providing an established channel to US customers.
TOP 12 PROGRAMMES CONTINUED European Typhoon support Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers UK ship support Astute Class submarines End-user: Air forces of the UK, End-user: Royal Navy End-user: Royal Navy End-user: Royal Navy Germany, Italy and Spain Design and manufacture of two The five-year Maritime Support Design and manufacture of seven Availability-based service contracts 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers.
The Delivery Framework contract for nuclear-powered attack submarines.
forsupport to the customers first of class, HMS Queen Elizabeth, support to half of the Royal Navys Artful, the third of class, was operational commitments on achieved oat-up in July and continues surface eet on UK and global launched in May and completed Typhoon aircraft, including out tting in advance of sea trials in operations, as well as the hermaiden dive in October.
The maintenance, support and training.
Block build for the second ship management of Portsmouth remaining four boats are at various is 80% complete and assembly at NavalBase.
stages of manufacture, with the Rosyth has commenced.
The ships seventh and final boat expected are expected to enter service in toenter service towards the middle 2017 and 2019, respectively.
P38 P39 P39 P39 BAE Systems 16 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report M&A two times underlying earnings and to make accelerated In August, the Group announced an agreement for returns of capital to shareholders when the balance theproposed sale of its 75% holding in BAESystems sheet allows.
Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions are considered where market conditions are right and Land Systems South Africa Pty Limited to Denel where they deliver on theGroups strategy.
SOC Limited for cash consideration of approximately 641 million Rand 36m, subject to closing adjustments.
Responsible business The sale is expected to be completed in 2015.
The way the Group conducts its business is of equal importance as product delivery.
We continue to embed As part of the reorganisation of the Groups interests in responsible business conduct throughout the Group.
Saudi Arabia, in September, BAE Systems acquired an During 2014, our employees received business conduct additional 59%shareholding in Saudi Development and refresher training and our Code of Conduct was updated Training Company for 440 million Saudi Riyal 72m.
and will be rolled out to all employees during the first half In September, the Group completed the $21m 13m of 2015. acquisition ofSignal Innovations Group, Inc. a small-scale, The safety of our employees and those using our products high-technology provider of imaging technologies and is a priority for the Group.
We continue to drive safety analytics to the US intelligence community.
improvements and, in 2014, achieved an 11% reduction In December, BAE Systems completed the acquisition inthe Recordable Accident Rate see page 20, which ofSilverSky for $232m 149m.
represents the seventh consecutive year of improvement.
In December, BAE Systems entered into an agreement Management with Esterline Corporation for the proposed acquisition Kevin Taylor, previously Group Strategy Director, has ofEclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. for cash consideration been appointed as Managing Director, Applied Intelligence, of approximately $28m 18m, subject to closing to lead the business as it enters the next phase of its adjustments.
The Texas-based business employs strategy to target accelerated growth and further approximately 90 people and provides highly-advanced developour technology for government and commercial Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance products customers.
Kevin will remain an Executive Committee and services to the US defence and intelligence member.
The proposed acquisition has not yet Looking forward completed.
BAE Systems bene ts from a large order backlog, Balance sheet and capital allocation long-term programmes and high-technology capabilities.
Following the triennial funding valuations of all of The Group continues to address customers needs theGroups UK pension schemes and subsequent across a broad international market base.
In addition, discussions with trustees, new funding agreements BAE Systems has established a good balance of havebeen concluded, with overall fide cit funding business activities in both advanced products and remaining broadly consistent with 2014. value-added support services.
The Group is well positioned to continue to deliver shareholder value by In February 2013, the Group initiated a share repurchase addressing customers continuing defence and security programme of up to 1bn over three years.
As at needs as economies recover in domestic markets and 31December 2014, BAESystems had purchased defence priorities continue toevolve.
119million shares for 495m under the programme.
The Groups balance sheet continues to be managed conservatively in line with the Groups policy to retain itsinvestment grade credit rating and to ensure operating exibility.
Consistent with this approach, the Group meets its pension obligations, pursues organic investment opportunities, plans to pay dividends in line with its policy of long-term sustainable cover of around Ian King, Chief Executive TOP 12 PROGRAMMES CONTINUED Successor submarine Salam Typhoon aircraft Salam Typhoon support Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme End-user: Royal Navy End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force Design and development of a Supply of 72 Typhoon combat Five-year output-based maintenance, andRoyal Saudi Naval Forces nuclear-powered submarine as aircraft.
As at 31 December 2014, support and training contract thepotential replacement for the 45 aircraft had been delivered under awarded in 2013 for Typhoon aircraft Provision of support to operational Vanguard Class eet to carry the the contract.
We continue to as they progressively enter service.
capability, including contracts UKs Trident nuclear deterrent advance the capability and Flying hours and key performance awarded in 2012 to provide towards the end of the next decade.
through-life support of these aircraft.
indicators continue to meet manpower, logistics and training to contracted levels.
the end of 2016 and to upgrade training aircraft, and in 2013 to upgrade Tornado aircraft.
