6 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Build to Last: transforming the business Importantly, however, the Group retains Lean Balfour Beattys underlying many core strengths: a strong brand and Deliver rapid performance improvement performance has been declining reputation underpinned by market-leading by strengthening operational and financial since 2010, with the sharpest and innovative engineering capability, controls, and transparency and simplifying deep customer relationships as the organisation with detailed indirect cost and most noticeable decline demonstrated by important recent reduction plans, plus the launch of the My occurring over the last 12 months.
contract awards, geographic span and Contribution productivity initiative across This has been caused not only scale, and the commitment of a talented the whole organisation.
Similarly, apply by the significant operational and dedicated workforce.
The business these processes to lean out delivery for our model also balances Construction customers of our value added capability, issues impacting the UK Services and Support Services with a eliminating waste Zero Waste in scheduling construction business over the successful Infrastructure Investments and materials.
Metric: operating profit and last two years, but also because business which will continue to create operating cash generation.
This Investments the cost base of the Group is too Expert business provides an important anchor high.
There have been significant Customers value our engineering, to the Groups balance sheet and profits, design and delivery capability.
We will working capital outflows since while creating real and substantial attract, retain and develop key employees opportunities for the Construction 2009.
This trajectory has made and subcontractors in an increasingly Services operations in the UK and North it imperative to identify and competitive environment by investing America and Support Services in the UK.
in training and talent to enhance the address the key issues rapidly, Although the majority of legacy problem Groups engineering, design and project in order to begin at once to contracts should be completed during the management and delivery capability.
restore the Group to strength.
current year, major challenges remain and Metric: annual engagement survey and the cultural transformation will take longer.
The key is that we have made a good start Understanding the problems Trusted and our transformation programme, called Over the last few months, Deliver on our promises through Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction.
independent reviews have been strengthening the successful execution underway on operations that account of projects and services through Build to Last for 70% of the Group by turnover and disciplined stage-gated bidding, In mid February 2015 the Group the remainder should be underway contracting and risk review processes.
launched its Build to Last programme.
This is designed to address the Groups it is clear from the outputs as well performance as it affects all stakeholders Safe as from wide-ranging discussions with customers and supply chain, employees Nothing is more important.
If we are senior operational leaders that the root and subcontractors, investors and not safe we are not in business.
Safety cause lies in the Groups rapid fourfold communities by driving continuous, is a non-negotiable licence to operate revenue expansion since 2000, largely measurable improvement against at all levels and for all employees, by acquisitions which were insufficiently four goals: Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe.
This resulted in an overly communities.
complex, devolved organisation with poor controls and weak disciplines Read more on p10 in cost control and project bidding.
Following a major industry downturn, the UK construction business was extensively restructured in successive waves and began to exhibit serious project issues which, together with other factors, resulted in substantial operating losses for the Group.
The cost base remains too high, with Group-wide overheads approximately 1% of revenue above industry benchmarks.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 7 The Build to Last programme is designed toensure that Balfour Beatty can also build to last for itself, starting with the right foundations.
Over time the aim is to bring each differentiated by best-in-class expertise, T he Investments portfolio business unit to sustainable industrya lean innovative supply chain and robust provides an important standard performance in what appears execution.
For over 100 years and to be a beneficial market environment, throughout all of its recent problems anchor to the Groups creating substantial value for the Balfour Beatty has been delivering balance sheet and profits.
major projects for its customers and communities lasting infrastructure that Actions underway Read more on p27 shapes and improves peoples daily lives.
Successfully delivering the Build to Last The Build to Last programme is designed goals will require leadership, rigorous Initial phase self-help to ensure that Balfour Beatty can also implementation and intensive focus Over the next two years we should work build to last for itself, starting with the on disciplined contracting processes.
through the severe legacy of problem right foundations.
A programme office has been set up construction projects.
However, in tackling I remain convinced that all our operations with UK and US workstreams and a the cultural change required to ensure can achieve industry-standard performance benefits tracking system.
Following the these issues are behind us, we face major as markets improve.
The real prize is a announcements of a new Chairman, short-term challenges.
The key is that we sustainable return to profitable growth, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial are determined to address this through built on the Groups unique capabilities but Officer to strengthen the Board, new self-help.
Our transformation programme, underpinned by leaner, stronger processes senior appointments include global leaders Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction and and flawless execution.
for IT, commercial and project execution, we are driving initial improvements of and business process re-engineering.
200 million cash in, 100 million cost Longer term we want to make Balfour In addition, senior leadership within the out over 24 months.
In addition, our Beatty a leader in its core markets, UK Regional and Engineering Services Investments portfolio will provide the delivering superior returns to the businesses will be strengthened by the financial flexibility of both reliable income benefit of our customers, employees appointment of a new chief operating and the sale of maturing assets into a and shareholders.
All senior management incentives strong market.
have been matched to key programme To maintain balance sheet strength goals.
The Group-wide cash generation throughout this period, we have already drive has been rolled out with planning cancelled the share buyback and rephased and training to project level.
In the UK, our pension fund payments with the enabling functions those not related to support of the Trustee.
We have also front-line delivery are being consolidated decided not to recommend a final dividend to remove duplication and improve Leo Quinn this year, but expect to reinstate the efficiency, to deliver significant cost Group Chief Executive dividend at an appropriate level by takeout.
The Groups property portfolio March 2016. is being streamlined to reduce overheads and detailed procurement initiatives, commencing with key suppliers and areas of direct and indirect spend, will deliver meaningful and growing savings.
All of this demonstrates the scale of opportunity to drive major near-term improvements in cash generation and profitability.
At the same time, Build to Last is also about relentlessly holding course.
The objective is to shape a Group leading in its core markets and balfourbeatty.
