Chief Executives review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH PERFORMANCE 2014 was another year of significant progress for Capco.
The London a global and growing city business performed strongly delivering a total return of 25 per cent, London is a global and growing city.
Its economic prospects are underpinned by a clear and focused strategy to drive value creation strong and according to the London Plan, published by the Greater at Covent Garden and Earls Court.
London Authority GLA, the Capitals population is expected to grow by two million by 2031.
For London to continue to thrive and The successful equity raise in May provided the business with provide, it needs more places for people to live, work and enjoy.
additional exibility to accelerate value across the business which is demonstrated in these results today.
Our overall aim is to provide Covent Garden and Earls Court are two of the Capitals greatest long-term market-leading returns for our shareholders, through addresses and are well placed to succeed against this backdrop of our distinct approach to creating places.
Our approach to creative asset management at Covent Garden will continue to ensure its success as a vibrant destination Our balance sheet remains robust, with a conservative loan-to-value for retailers, visitors and residents while the Earls Court Masterplan ratio of 12 per cent.
Following a restructuring of our bank facilities is a unique opportunity to provide thousands of new homes, and a successful US Private Placement, our cost of debt has reduced creating the new great estate of London.
to 3.4 per cent and we have moved to a predominantly unsecured debt model at Covent Garden.
Valuations The Group has benefited from strong valuations following positive Over the last five years Capcos business has grown from a total performance across the business.
The property portfolio is valued at property value of 1.2 billion to over 3.0 billion.
To ensure we have 3.0 billion as at 31 December 2014, having grown by 21.9 per cent the capacity and capabilities to drive continued performance from on a like-for-like basis over the year.
our growing estates, Gary Yardley and Soumen Das responsibilities will expand to include Managing Director roles with responsibility Covent Garden a leading global destination for oversight and investment performance at Earls Court Properties Covent Garden has reinforced its position as a leading global & Olympia and Covent Garden respectively.
Our creative approach to managing and investing in highlight the depth of knowledge and expertise that they both our estate continues to attract premium brands and the districts bring to the Group and their new responsibilities will support me vibrancy continues to attract quality footfall.
in delivering the strategy we have in place for Capco.
The estate experienced its strongest year of performance since Capcos listing in 2010 as our consistent and successful 8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Earls Court Masterplan continues to advance.
Our investment Market Value Market Value Market vehicle with TfL over EC1 & EC2 was successfully established and 2014 2013 Value 1,2 m m Change works started in December for the demolition of these buildings, further fide-risking the land in this part of the scheme.
Earls Court Covent Garden 1,636 1,156 24.5% Village, which relates to two-thirds of the EC1 & EC2 area, received Earls Court Properties detailed planning consent and the Empress State Building received detailed consent for residential conversion.
EC1 & EC2 609 453 27.9% Lillie Square, the first opportunity to bring new residential product 3 3 Lillie Square 182 153 9.9% to the Earls Court Masterplan area, was successfully launched last 3 Empress State 278 265 4.9% spring and established a positive pricing benchmark for the area, as its central location, connectivity and premium specication Other 105 63 17.9% generated high demand.
The first phase is now substantially sold.
Venues 211 161 27.6% The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create a new Other 4 estate in central London.
The masterplan is in one of the GLAs opportunity areas, making it a strategic scheme for London and 4 Total property 3,025 2,251 21.9% received formal outline planning consent in 2013.
of Londons rapidly growing population and its housing needs, 2 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital options are now being considered to intensify the masterplan to expenditure and fixed head leases.
optimise the development potential of this strategic project.
3 Represents Capcos 50 per cent share on a proportionate basis.
Venues strong operational performance 4 A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property to Olympia London has been reinvigorated following Capcos 30 the market vale is shown in note 16 Property Portfolio.
million investment in recent years.
Over 80 per cent of Earls Courts repositioning strategy is now embedded across the estate.
The 2014 shows have moved to Olympia London in 2015, following estate is valued at 1.6 billion as at 31 December 2014, delivering Earls Courts closure in December 2014.
Olympia London continues a like-for-like increase of 24.5 per cent over the year.
We achieved to attract new events highlighting the renewed appeal of this record new lettings, with ERV up 13.7 per cent on a like-for-like historic venue.
The initial yield is 2.5 per cent and the The Venues business performed ahead of expectations in 2014 with equivalent yield is 3.7 per cent.
EBITDA for the year of 11.1 million.
Its valuation was up 27.6 per Following a very strong year of lettings progress and a positive cent to 211 million on a like-for-like basis, reecting the successful outlook for rental growth, we are confident that we will be able to transition and its bright prospects.
grow the value and prominence of our estate.
Our ability to drive Outlook superior rental growth through our distinct approach to managing Capco remains well positioned to deliver further significant value Covent Garden gives us confidence to increase the ERV guidance for its shareholders from its strategy to drive value creation at to 100 million by 2017.
This represents a continued underlying Covent Garden and Earls Court.
growth rate of circa 10 per cent, in line with the last five years and would imply an ERV of 125 million by December 2019.
At Covent Garden, the focus continues to be on attracting new premium retail and restaurant brands, to drive rental growth, while Covent Garden is now an important destination for contemporary investing selectively in acquisitions and developments which luxury and dining brands looking for a premium location in enhance the estate and meet our return objectives.
This demand for well-managed prime space has seen a new Zone A rental level of 1,000 achieved on James Street, a new record At Earls Court, the focus is on continued enablement of the level for the estate.
In addition, our creative asset management EC1 & EC2 land through demolition, planning applications which strategy, where every street has a plan, has seen the introduction of enhance the vision for the scheme, as well as sales of Phase 2 at brands including Bobbi Brown, Clinique and Nigel Cabourn as well Lillie Square.
The balance sheet is strong and exible, strengthened over the year It has been a year of significant investment activity on the estate with our new bank facilities, a US Private Placement and the as we have expanded our footprint in this prime area with successful equity raise in May.
We remain alert to the uncertainty acquisitions totalling 167 million.
We have a solid pipeline of which may arise from the upcoming General Election.
However, opportunities ahead of us.
We are on site and works are underway Capcos strategy is clear and focused and with two unique assets in for the redevelopment of Kings Court.
The scheme will improve the prime central London, we are well positioned to deliver long-term ow of footfall on the estate and unlocks the opportunity to extend value for our shareholders.
We enter a new year with confidence.
our place-making approach to Floral Street.
Earls Court a central London Opportunity Area The valuation of Capcos interests at Earls Court, represented by Earls Court Properties, has grown positively in the year to 1.2 billion.
This represents an increase of 17.9 per cent over the year on a like-for-like basis benefiting from Capcos value creation strategy Ian Hawksworth though planning, land assembly and land enablement, as well as Chief Executive positive market conditions in London.
