STRATEGIC REPORT Chief executives review During 2014 we continued to focus onfinding innovative ways to combine ourcore capabilities and bring new propositions to the market.
Alison Platt Group chief executive officer 2014 proved to be a progressive and circa 19% of total revenues, has enabled Access to credit also remains a key driver successful year for Countrywide plc, marking usto build arobust model for integrating and the introduction of the Mortgage Market our first full year as a public company and acquired businesses, whilst generating strong Review in April 2014 undoubtedly slowed continuing our track record of delivering recurring revenues.
Our ability to achieve demand in the housing sales market.
consistently improved margins through the the changes placed significant demand on adoption of improved back office processes the market, requiring considerable changes As the chairman has already mentioned, the has been particularly pleasing this year and to the way a customer accesses mortgage market for house sales during 2014 can be further validates our business model.
credit, we welcome the change.
We believe split into two distinct halves: a strong first half the underlying robustness of stress testing continued the recovery started in late 2013, During 2014 we continued to focus on affordability and evidencing with customers, indicating that total market volumes were on finding innovative ways to combine our core which supports the selection of the most a trajectory back towards pre-2008 levels: capabilities and bring new propositions to appropriate choice of product and lender achallenging latter half of 2014 highlighted the market.
The best example of this was our forthem, underpins a strong and more the sensitivity of consumers to changes in residential property fund in partnership with secure future for the housing market going the lending environment, concern about Hermes Investment Management Hermes, forward.
Every one of our 600 plus mortgage interest rate rises and uncertainty in fiscal one of the UKs leading property fund managers consultants is trained and fully qualified changes impacting the cost of house moves.
which from a standing start already has around tothe FCAs required standard and our 14 million of assets under management.
The slowdown in house sales transactions commitment to a robust quality and compliance The fund is focused on owning and managing was particularly acute in central London as framework remains resolute.
residential properties across the country for the impact of consistently escalating prices the UKs growing private rented sector and Consumers remained sensitive to wider over the last few years began to rebalance sees us combining Hermes ability to bring economic conditions in 2014 and sensitivity toa more sustainable level.
By contrast to capital with our expertise in utilising our to potential rate rises coupled with worries housing sales, 2014 was another strong dataand property management capability.
about fiscal changes, was a feature of slowing yearfor the residential lettings market.
demand in the second half.
The changes to The breadth of our business, built over the The evolving market Stamp Duty and Land Tax in both Scotland, last few years, has paid significant dividends and then latterly England and Wales impacted The aspiration towards home ownership despite a market that has housing transactions sales more acutely at the high end of the remains a core part of the UK consumer below the long term average.
The continued market where the impact was punitive slowing landscape, and the market is evolving strong growth in our private residential lettings sales in London being a particular outcome.
toreflect the changing priorities of the business coupled with our wide geographic generations.
2014 was another strong year base has enabled us to deliver not only strong Our customers for first time buyers entering the market, revenue growth but another year of margin although the average age of those buyers Our emphasis on best in class service provision, improvement.
The fact that circa 40% of our crossed the 30 year old barrier for the first sector expertise and efforts on behalf of our profit is now generated from non-cyclical time.
This dynamic is also evident in the customers as well as our approach to investing activities which are not directly related to growth of the private rented housing market in our employees, were recognised again theresidential transactions market is a strong in the UK.
While the growth of the private in2014 with our external awards reaching endorsement of the progress made in our rented sector has slowed in recent years, record levels.
We received the following strategy to diversify revenues, and we believe aproduct of better access to finance, it still awards during the period: there is significant scope to grow these seems likely that 100,000 more people net Lettings Agency of the Year non-cyclical businesses further.
This rate Countrywide RESI Awards 2014 : ofgrowth will continue to place upward Investment in broadening the business pressure on rents for the foreseeable future.
Best Large Chain ESTAS 2014: Estate continued in 2014 and saw significant It is important to recognise that for many Agent Awards and Letting Agent Awards : investment in the residential lettings business, people, renting is now a choice, rather than aswell as Lambert Smith Hamptons Large Lettings Agency of the Year anecessity, with a much improved selection acquisition of BTW Shiells in Northern Ireland.
TheNegotiator Awards 2014 : of product available to them, together The continued programme of growth in the withthe flexibility that renting offers over Property Management Company of the Year Lettings business, which now accounts for home ownership.
The Negotiator Awards 2014 : Employer of the Year Countrywide TheNegotiator Awards 2014 : 08 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 1 3 The Groups strategy Channels to market Our people To optimise market share and maximise The most dynamic, talented and We aim to help more people move profitability while ensuring that our cost professional people in the industry home in the UK than any other base remains flexible business and will focus on growing profitable market share.
2 4 Our products and services Our infrastructure Read more about our strategy Designed to meet their expectations and A reliable, economic and scalable see pages 16 to 17 optimising profitability for the Group infrastructure enabling delivery of shared services to support all Group businesses National Estate Agency of the Year Gold as its first ever intermediary partner for We will also continue to grow our lettings Award The Sunday Times Award 2014 : and mortgage distribution in the UK further business, both through property management underlining the importance of our ability to offer and by increasing our investment in the Best Surveyor Valuer Panel Managers ready access to skilled and qualified advisors.
Ibelieve that these Mortgage Strategy Awards 2014. activities, together withthe escalation of our On behalf of Britains top mortgage lenders, commercial real estateactivities, where there Our people our 400 strong professional surveying team are also many opportunities to grow recurring delivered over 300,000 valuations on homes 2014 was another strong year for the revenue streams, position us well to achieve across the UK, representing a substantial performance of Countrywides people.
our aimof building a business that can percentage of all valuations undertaken in Weinvested in the creation of 1,400 jobs perform welland deliver robust shareholder the UK and our life and general insurance across our network and placed increased returns throughout the market cycle.
business, in partnership with AXA and emphasis on bringing in young people Friends Life delivered insurance products As well as delivering strong growth ina starting their careers in the property sector.
toin excess of 150,000 customers for challenging market, we have launched the In our professional services businesses, theirpersonal protection needs.
Building Our Future programme which is wecontinued our commitment to training aimed at defining our ambitions for the future 92new surveyors, with ages ranging from Strategic opportunities and establishing the ways in which we can 24to 55, who achieved a 93% qualification become the stand out player in all of the rate.
Our conveyancing business took 34 Throughout the year we have built on markets and sectors in which we operate.
graduates into its academy who are due to Countrywides position as the clear market take their assessments during 2015.
The leader in all of its core UK businesses and I look forward to leading the Group through success of our Hamptons Academy proved been successful indelivering the strategy the next chapter of growth forthe benefit of the value of creating fast track careers for setout at the time of the Companys IPO.
our customers, employees and shareholders.
school leavers and graduates and we will Ofparticular note isthe significant progress seek to widen these initiatives across the we have made diversifying our revenue network in coming years.
streams into more property activities that areindependent of the housing transaction External partners cycle and this trend remains a key tenet of Alison Platt our vision of how the business will continue Throughout the year we remained focused on Chief executive officer to grow.
Countrywide is already a highly building strong relationships with our partners 26 February 2015 integrated player, but there is a clear opportunity in the interests of our mutual customers.
to expand further by fully leveraging the Weremained resolutely focused on working expertise and customer base of our substantial with the leading banks andfinancial services network ofregional offices to offer our brands in the UK to bring improved products customers multipleservices.
and services to the market.
2014 marked a milestone, with HSBC choosing Countrywide 20 Segmental review: This strategic report was approved by the Strategic report 20 Estate Agency Board of directors on 26 February 2015 08 Chief executives review 22 London & Premier and signed on its behalf by: 10 Our markets 24 Lettings 12 Our business model 26 Financial Services 14 What sets us apart?
28 Surveying Services 16 Strategy 30 Conveyancing Services 18 R isk and risk management Alison Platt 32 Lambert Smith Hampton Chief executive officer 34 Group financial review 38 Corporate responsibility ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 09
