Group Chief Executives Review Strong performance in a recovering market We have traded very well throughout We have achieved considerable progress in building profitability 1 and driving ROCE.
Profitability has more than doubled to the year on the back of stronger market 390.6m 2013: 192.0m before exceptional items and we conditions in all parts of the country, our achieved a ROCE of 19.5%, exceeding our target of 18% two years ahead of schedule.
A continued focus on both profitability substantial land investments over the last and ROCE will maximise sustainable shareholder value.
five years and continuing improvements The stronger market conditions have resulted in a significant in our underlying performance.
increase in activity levels and we have been particularly focused on maintaining discipline and control through every aspect of the business.
We have strengthened our Balance Sheet, ending the year with a net cash balance of 73.1m 2013: 25.9m net debt the first time we have been in a year end net cash position for eight years.
During the year we have also continued to identify and implement operational improvements that will further enhance our future performance.
Our performance Building profitability The very substantial increase in profitability has been driven by our land investment strategy, the efficiency of our business model and the prices we have achieved for the outstanding homes we have built.
Land investment Our vision is to lead the future of housebuilding by putting Since re-entering the land market in 2009, we have approved customers at the heart of everything we do.
the purchase of 3.8bn of land.
All land approvals must meet our minimum hurdle rates of a 20% gross margin and 25% 2 Our Our ROCE without assuming price inflation.
During the year, returns priorities principles on newly acquired land exceeded these minimum hurdle rates.
Customer first Keeping The transformation of our land bank from older low margin land people safe to newly acquired high margin land is progressing well.
In 2014, 65% 2013: 49% of completions were from newly acquired high margin land and this will increase in FY15, underpinning further Being a trusted improvements in financial performance.
We expect 95% of all partner Great places completions to be from new land for FY17 and that the Group gross margin will be a minimum of 20%.
Delivering Building strong Driving value sustainable community During the year, private average selling price increased by 12.9% shareholder relationships Building from 213,900 to 241,600.
This reflects our strategy of changing value excellence the mix of homes we sell and ensuring we maximise value Safeguarding coupled with house price inflation of around 5% for the year.
the environment We are continuing to focus on carefully matching the type Investing in and style of homes we build to local demand conditions.
our people Ensuring the 1 R eturn on capital employed ROCE is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, operating financial health charges relating to the defined benefit pension scheme and operating exceptional items, of our business divided by average net assets adjusted for goodwill and intangibles, tax, cash, loans and borrowings, retirement benefit obligations and derivative financial instruments.
2 Si te ROCE on land acquisition is calculated as site operating profit site trading profit less overheads less allocated administrative overheads divided by average investment in site land, work in progress and equity share.
8 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Private average selling price Profit before tax Approved land purchases Return on capital employed 241,600 390.6m 1,198.1m 19.5% 2013: 213,900 2013: 192.0m before 2013: 1,047.3m 2013: 11.5% exceptional items The proportion of larger homes in attractive locations has A shortage of skilled labour did increase costs, with bricklaying increased and we are building fewer apartments.
Outside the most affected area.
However, these costs form a low of London, the proportion of our completions that were proportion of our total cost base.
Overall we have seen a low apartments fell from 21.5% to 17.4% during the year.
single digit increase in our build costs.
Over the next twelve months we expect low single digit build cost inflation.
Stronger market conditions have led to an increase in underlying house prices.
During the year we saw this reflected in the higher Driving returns on capital prices being achieved for our homes, particularly in London, the During the year we continued our focus on increasing return South East and the East of England with smaller increases on capital achieving a ROCE of 19.5%, up from 11.5% in FY13.
As a result, we exceeded our target of 18% two years ahead of schedule and we have now revised our target to a ROCE A key component of our marketing proposition remains quality of at least 25% for FY17.
Higher quality homes on attractive, well designed developments command a price premium compared New land coming into production is a key driver of return on to the second-hand market in many areas.
capital for the business and we have a 25% hurdle rate for all the new land we acquire.
On completed sites to date that were Efficiency and costs acquired since 2009, we have generated a 39.2% ROCE.
Higher production volumes across the industry placed a number of well publicised pressures on the supply chain.
A stronger Balance Sheet Increased costs and shortages of materials were experienced Over the last three years we have moved from net debt of across the industry, however we experienced limited disruption 322.6m as at 30 June 2011 to net cash of 73.1m as at to our build programme.
This reflects our stronger trading performance combined with control of working capital.
Our operating model of building a high proportion of standardised products, strong supplier relationships and Our priorities centralised procurement contracts has served us well.
We have developed four priorities to deliver leading financial performance and returns for our shareholders: customer first, great places, building excellence and investing in our people.
For each area we have a number of targets in place that will drive the performance of the business.
We believe that by innovating in these areas and consistently applying best practice, we will maximise sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Customer first A fundamental part of our strategy is to increase customer preference by building great homes and providing an outstanding experience for our customers.
We have again achieved a customer recommendation score of over 90%, achieving a HBF 5 Star customer rating for the fifth consecutive year.
We are the only major housebuilder to achieve this.
We ensure that the value of our David Wilson and Barratt brands are maximised through carefully defined market Mum-to-be Melissa and her partner Richard are settling into their positioning and by offering the right house types to the right new home at Meadow Rise in Stockton, where they were the 200th market segments.
During the year we have refreshed the Barratt buyers.
Barratt Homes and Barratt London brands and this is proving popular with customers and our employees.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Group Chief Executives Review continued 80% of customer leads are now generated through our on strategically sourced land, and as our rate of strategic land websites and 94% of leads are actioned within five working conversion increases, we expect strategic land to deliver around hours.
The cost-effectiveness of our lead generation is also 20% of completions in FY17.
reinforced by a national call centre that is now handling over 70,000 enquiries per year.
18.2% 2013: 24.1% of the land acquisitions approved in the year originated from the public sector.
This is an area We continue to develop a series of optional extras for our of competitive advantage for the Group as the procurement customers to ensure that we meet their requirements.
Last year requirements are complex and require high design, 57% of our customers chose optional extras with an average environmental consideration and delivery capability.
In terms of design, we are now using Building for Life 12 on all new sites to ensure that we create great places to live.
We are the only major housebuilder to commit to the full implementation of this standard.
We are continuing to see the benefits of the operational changes we have made in terms of efficiency and the focus we have placed on improving the design and quality of the homes we build.
The Prime Minister, Rt Hon David Cameron MP, visited our West Building excellence of Bedford development to meet some of our apprentices.
The quality of our building processes and the homes we sell to our customers is of critical importance.
For the tenth year in a row we have won more NHBC Pride in the Job Awards for the In the longer term we are continuing to research the lifestyle excellence of our site managers than any other housebuilder.
choices of our customers to ensure we understand emerging consumer trends.
We believe that a right first time approach is the most cost-effective option and we will continue to focus on the Great places excellence of our build processes.
Building great places requires the ability to secure outstanding sites at the right price and ensuring that through thoughtful Where there are cost advantages and quality can be design they are transformed into attractive places to live.
guaranteed, we are already adopting modern methods of construction MMC in certain elements of home construction We are positioning ourselves as the local developer of choice such as roofing systems.
In the short term we will develop this based on the quality of our business and the ability to secure approach further and in the longer term we believe there will be the right planning consents.
As a result, we have been able to opportunities to develop a whole house MMC approach develop innovative partnerships with a number of land owners.
During the year we approved 1,198.1m 2013: 1,047.3m of land investment amounting to 21,478 2013: 18,536 units on Investing in our people 156 2013: 145 sites.
As at 30 June 2014 the Group had 4.7 Attracting and retaining the best people by investing in their years excluding JVs of land supply, slightly exceeding the development is fundamental to the success of our business, Group target of 4.5 years.
This reflects our success at both particularly as the industry continues to recover and skill acquiring operational land in the market and converting land shortages remain.
During the year over 750 of our sales advisers attended our We have made good progress on building our strategic land internal sales academy, which awards a nationally recognised portfolio, which now comprises c. 69,200 plots 2013: c. 59,800 qualification, to ensure that our sales and service capability on plots.
In the year 10.0% 2013: 7.0% of total completions were site is enhanced.
The first cohort of 36 assistant site managers 10 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Trumpington Meadows, Cambridge, winner of the Evening Standard Large Development of the Year, a Building for Life 12 commendation and an NHBC Pride in the Job Award.
started our foundation degree course at Sheffield Hallam 2013: 164.3m.
JV private forward sales were 148.9m University and we now have 64 students on the course in total.
In addition, we announced a new target to recruit 1,100 Outlook apprentices, interns and graduates over a three year period.
This has been a very strong performance and the outlook During the year our graduate scheme was voted the best in for the Group is positive.
the UK in the Job Crowds Best Companies for Graduates to work for.
We are continuing to see the benefits of the operational changes we have made in terms of efficiency and the focus Current trading we have placed on improving the design and quality of the Current market conditions remain strong.
Following the launch homes we build.
These disciplines coupled with the strength of Help to Buy in April 2013, sales rates over the summer period of the market and the quality of the land we are acquiring will last year were exceptionally strong.
This year we have seen a support a further significant increase in performance in FY15 return to more normal seasonal trends.
We started the new and progress towards the new ROCE target we have set of financial year with a strong forward order position and in the at least 25% by FY17.
last ten weeks net private reservations per active site per week have averaged 0.62 FY14 equivalent period: 0.66 in-line with With our strong projected cash generation, we are pleased our targets.
to announce that our ordinary dividend programme will be supplemented by a special cash payment programme for Pricing remains strong as we focus on achieving the best value the three years to FY17.
The first special cash payment is for the outstanding homes we build and continue to see the 100m in November 2015, with 125m in November 2016 benefits of reduced sales incentives coupled with improvements and 175m in November 2017.
In combination, we expect in selling prices arising from both underlying price inflation and to return around 950m of cash through ordinary based changes in mix.
on consensus earnings and special cash payments to our shareholders in the next three years.
As at 7 September 2014 total forward sales excluding JVs for the Group were up 22.3% at 1,505.9m 8 September 2013: 1,231.3m equating to 7,682 plots 8 September 2013: 6,676 Mark Clare plots.
Private forward sales excluding JVs were 1,145.6m Group Chief Executive 8 September 2013: 880.4m, up 30.1%.
JV total forward sales at 7 September 2014 were 249.8m 8 September 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
