06 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Achieving targets We have seen another period of outperformance from our UK assets this year.
Margins on normal trading sales have increased as have net asset values, and we have delivered on our target to reduce debt and gearing.
Andrew Cunningham Chief executive Grainger has had another period of strong financial performance and we have created NAV growth significant growth in the asset value of the Company.
Our triple net asset value has 20% risen 24% to 242p per share, and our gross net asset value has risen by 20% to 291p per share.
Profit before tax increased 26% 291p to 81.1m FY13: 64.3m, while margins on sales of vacant properties rose strongly UK portfolio market value to 49.2% FY13: 44.9%.
NNNAV growth growth The market value of our portfolio once again outperformed the general 24% market in capital value terms, increasing 14.6% compared to the 9.5% average of the Nationwide and Halifax indices.
14.6% This achievement reflects the nature and geographic location of our assets and the 242p benefits of our strong asset management capabilities, which have always been and will continue to be a key strategic focus.
Strategic report Governance Financials 07 CHELSEA HOUSES A unique portfolio of 61 freehold houses in Knightsbridge and Chelsea, which provide significant 55 m potential for value enhancement 14% Increase in through refurbishment and Increase in square portfolio value footage after extensions.
refurbishment VALUE ADD OPPORTUNITIES Market commentary There remains, however, a significant 80 assets worth 2m and over at vacant As we indicated when announcing our half undersupply of housing in the UK and, possession value out of our UK portfolio of year results in May, we have seen strong along with a slowly improving economy, c. 11,500 units.
house price growth over the year and, for jobs market and expected population Rent levels in the market rented sector the first time in many years, we have seen growth, this imbalance supports a positive remain robust, with stable increases seen values in the UK increase in every region house price inflation environment, albeit throughout the year.
The UK market rented in which we operate.
In addition, the at more sustainable levels.
In the regions properties which we manage strongly performance of our portfolios have been we have seen positive momentum in terms outperformed the market.
According to the supported by strong sales margins.
We also of sales and capital values.
Specifically, Office of National Statistics, the average continue to see growth in London, albeit at we expect to see a gradual improvement private rent increases in the UK were varying rates.
in those regions with stronger economic 1% for the year to September 2014.
Sentiment within the housing market prospects.
In our own experience in the Our portfolio saw like-for-like rent increases has been dampened by wider concerns south of England over recent months, at both renewals 4.2% and on new lets about the economy combined with we have seen the time to complete 9.1%.
This outperformance is due to our the possibility of interest rate rises, the sales slightly increase and the number active asset management, refurbishment mortgage market review and the Labour of viewings diminish: this has been most investment programme and strong asset Partys proposed mansion tax, should they apparent in central London.
characteristics which are in high demand.
assume power after the next election.
The business is well placed to respond Although political manoeuvring in the This political uncertainty and the outcome to the market.
Our assets have defensive run-up to the General Election, such as the of the forthcoming election has likely been qualities which help maintain strong values proposal for a mansion tax, risk creating a factor in the reduction in house price due to their size, type, location, pricing and uncertainty over the next six months, it is inflation in some areas of London as well as condition.
Moreover, it is important to note encouraging to note that the main political reduced transaction levels.
that, although 68% of our UK portfolios by parties are broadly supporting growth value are in London and the South East of policies in terms of housing supply and England, only 27% of our assets are located institutional investment in the private rented in Central London.
In addition, we have sector, which is important to our longer term strategy.
08 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES MARKET AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED The whole development has been renovated beautifully.
We were amazed to have a garden, and with all the shared areas, it instantly had that homey feeling.
Louise, Macaulay Walk resident The Government and the Conservative We continue to believe that the regions Strategy and future outlook Party are pursuing policies with the provide increasingly attractive investment Grainger is a specialist residential company.
intention of supporting house building, the opportunities.
In line with this, we have Our objective is to be a leader in the mortgage market and the private rented recently announced a new partnership residential market, delivering sustainable sector and Labours Lyons Review of the agreement with Sigma Capital which long-term returns to our investors and our housing market was broadly welcomed by provides us the exclusive option to acquire partners from a combination of sales, rents the industry, setting a positive direction of sites from their significant pipeline of and fee income.
travel for the formation of Labours housing build to rent developments outside of The four strands of our strategy remain: policies in the run-up to the election.
London, located across the UK in major leading the market: ensuring our assets This backdrop continues to provide regional cities.
are located and managed to deliver the a good tailwind for institutional investor We are also pleased to have been best returns: balancing the sources of our interest in the UK private rented sector, selected by the Greater London Authority, income: and optimising our financial and and we see clear opportunities for growth along with the London Pensions Fund operational gearing.
which we can leverage in order to further Authority as part of a Bouygues-led Our strategy and our business reflect our long term strategic direction for consortium to develop 211 build to rent the changing dynamics of the residential the business.
units in a scheme at Pontoon Dock in market.
We will use our core skills trading, East London.
managing, investing, developing and Investment focus We acquired the Chelsea fund management and our agility to take As we have indicated previously, with our Houses Portfolio in April for 160m, advantage of the opportunities presented deleveraging programme now concluded, a demonstration of our continued by these changes.
we are in a position to increasingly turn our commitment to reversionary assets.
Our core business is the acquisition, attention to growing the business through The portfolio has significant potential for management and sale of properties purchases of reversionary assets and value enhancement through refurbishment subject to regulated tenancies and other investment in build to rent opportunities.
Since acquisition, the reversionary assets.
continued on page 16 As such, we have been active in business portfolio has performed ahead of development over the past year, with our expectations and the vacant possession strong team of experts pursuing a number value of the portfolio has increased by 4.2%.
