Group Chief Executives review Recovery in Continental Europe and the development of our US platform, through the acquisition of Studley, Inc. together with our core strengths in the UK and Asia, enabled the power of the Savills network and brand to drive the improved results of 2014 Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Executive 4 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Our strategy Savills geographic and business diversity were key to achieving Our strategy is to deliver value as a leading advisor to private, the years result.
Our performance analysed by region was institutional and corporate clients seeking to occupy, acquire, as follows: Revenue m Underlying Profit Loss m manage, lease, develop or realise the value of prime residential 2014 2013 % growth 2014 2013 % growth and commercial property in the worlds key locations.
Commitment to clients We aim to deliver the highest Continental Europe 96.5 81.3 19 0.1 3.9 n a standards of client service through motivated and high calibre people United States 112.3 6.8 n a 12.4 1.6 n a Unallocated Cost n a n a n a 13.7 10.1 36 2. Business diversification Total 1,078.2 904.8 19 100.5 75.2 34 3.
Geographical diversification Our Asia Pacific business represented 33% of Group revenue 4.
Maintain financial strength 2013: 39% and our overseas businesses as a whole represented 52% of Group revenue 2013: 49%, reflecting the contribution 5.
Strength in both prime residential and commercial property from Savills Studley in the US.
Our performance by service line is set out below: Key operating highlights Revenue m Underlying Profit Loss m 2014 2013 % growth 2014 2013 % growth Acquisition of Studley, Inc. in May 2014 transformed Transaction Savills US capability and the business has traded strongly Advisory 494.6 358.2 38 67.8 47.2 44 since acquisition Property Management 338.6 329.0 3 18.6 17.6 6 Transaction Advisory revenues up 38% driven by the contribution from Savills Studley in the US, the recovery in Consultancy 217.0 191.6 13 23.4 17.6 33 certain Continental European markets, a record constant Investment currency performance in Asia and a strong performance Management 28.0 26.0 8 4.4 2.9 52 in the UK Unallocated Cost n a n a n a 13.7 10.1 36 Record revenue in the UK on the back of a strong London Total 1,078.2 904.8 19 100.5 75.2 34 performance and recovery in the regions Overall our Prime Commercial and Residential Transaction Return to profitability in Continental Europe following business revenues together represented 46% of Group revenue improved markets conditions and the benefit from the 2013: 40%.
Of this, the Residential Transaction Advisory business management actions taken in recent years represented 14% of Group revenue for the year 2013:16%.
Our Property and Facilities Management businesses continued to Further growth from non-transactional services with perform well, growing overall revenue by 3% despite the adverse Consultancy revenue up 13% and Property Management impact of currency translation on our substantial business in Asia revenue up 3% with improved margins Pacific.
The business represented 31% of revenue 2013: 36%.
Consultancy remained proportionately constant at 20% of Cordea Savills investment management business grew revenue but substantially increased profits by 33%.
The revenue 8% and profits by 52%.
Assets under Management Investment Management business showed 52% growth AUM rose by 41% to 7.2bn in profit and substantial AUM growth of 41%.
The strength of our key commercial market positions and the People resilience of our residential businesses drove an improved I am delighted that the UK commercial property management performance for Savills in 2014. business won the Retail Agency of the Year.
Savills was named the Property Industry Superbrand of the Year for the sixth As anticipated, we experienced a quieter market in mainland consecutive year and we were awarded the Times Graduate China, Hong Kong and Singapore but improved trading Employer of Choice in the property industry for the eighth year conditions elsewhere in Asia, particularly Japan, counter-balanced running.
Also in the UK our Residential business was awarded the shortfall.
both the National Residential Agency Adviser and the Residential Consultancy Practice awards.
In Asia, we won a large number of Our business in Asia Pacific and UK regions achieved accolades from the industry including Best Real Estate Agency record years.
The US business, enhanced by the Studley, Inc awards in China and Vietnam and Best Property Consultancy acquisition, saw a significant improvement and it has a strong Marketing in Singapore.
These awards are a testament to the pipeline going into 2015.
Cordea Savills continued to grow strength of our people and as always I thank them for their and this was reflected in underlying profit growth of over 50%.
continued commitment, loyalty and hard work.
Continued recovery in Continental Europe saw the business return to profit.
Overall the Group increased underlying profit by 34% to 100.5m 2013: 75.2m.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax increased 21% to 84.7m 2013: 70.1m.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 5 Group Chief Executives review continued B Bu us siin ne es ss s mod mode ell A global network Market intelligence and of connected people local knowledge Brand Strong cash generation Our people, our clients Sustainable growth and relationships and shareholder value Financial discipline, risk mitigation and strong governance Reputation Advisory, management A diverse and and transactional coherent offer services Our business model above illustrates in simple terms how we This also supports our ability to advise on all aspects of multi-use create shareholder value, qualitatively, through improving the development schemes worldwide.
We recognise that real estate strength of our premium brand, and quantitatively, through the transaction markets are cyclical, so we seek to provide a delivery of profits and dividends to shareholders.
We treat every combination of services, in part to mitigate transactional volatility client as an individual and take time to understand what they with less cyclical offerings.
This is combined with our ongoing need and how we can best service them.
We do this by: drive for cost efficiency and margin improvement and the maintenance of a prudent capital structure to enable us better to Delivering value withstand the overall cyclicality of our core transactional markets.
We deliver consistently high quality, client-focused real estate advisory services, offering a broad range of specialist advisory, People at the core management and transactional services in the key global markets We have ensured that our stakeholders choose us by building in which we operate.
Recognising that owners and occupiers our brand and reputation on the quality of our people, relationships, are increasingly global in their outlook, we deliver this through resources and processes.
All that we do is underpinned by the disciplined development of our operational capability, which strong governance and high standards of responsibility, which creates opportunity and progressively enhances our service supports the sustainable development of our business.
More offering in our chosen markets.
Approximately 46% of our detail of our governance structure, policies and practices can revenue is generated by Transaction advisory fees: the remainder be found later in this Annual Report on pages 35 to 48. comes from non-transactional business by way of fees for Property and Facilities Management and Consultancy services Because of our personal approach to business, our people and the remainder from Investment Management fees.
are fundamental to our business and we have worked hard to ensure that they enjoy working at Savills, to promote their A diverse, coherent offer personal and professional development, to encourage them We actively diversify from a business and geographic to develop their careers within the Group and to share in the perspective with the aim of mitigating the risk of exposure to success of the business.
any one economy or market.
We have cultivated a diverse client base drawn from small local businesses, private individuals, global We firmly believe that our people are key to delivering excellent blue-chip investors and occupiers, government departments service to our clients and achieving our objectives, they give us and local government and health authorities.
We have built and a unique perspective of the markets in which we operate and maintained our position as a leading player in both the prime connect our clients with real estate opportunities and market residential and prime commercial real estate markets, aligning intelligence.
By choosing Savills, our clients have access to over with the global trend amongst private and institutional investors 27,000 staff with a broad range of experience, skills and local to recognise both types of real estate as an investment asset class.
knowledge, based in offices in key real estate locations across the globe and benefit from our extensive market research material.
6 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
