Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Bill Oliver Chief Executive 17% increase in net asset value pershare The combination of our extensive experience, robust business Secure excellent returns model and consistent strategy has come together this year to generate exceptional growth for the business.
This has Through a focus on resulted in record results with an increase in profit before all long-term significant tax of 68% to 138.1m 2013: 82.2. m and a 17% increase in added value net asset value per share to 324.9p 2013: 278.8p.
While protecting This successful year has seen many high points, the most our assets recent being the receipt of a resolution to grant planning permission in November 2014 for the redevelopment of the See pages 0811 New Covent Garden Market sites at Nine Elms in London.
We are targeting to achieve unconditional status in the first half of 2015: this will be a hugely significant milestone for the project and the business as a whole and will have a substantial and positive impact on the valuation of our portfolio.
Wehave achieved Our other major projects, the 1bn regeneration of Longbridge, Birmingham and the 450m Bay Campus for significant progress Swansea University, have made excellent progress during the period.
The first completed building at Bay Campus was handed over to the University on time and within budget in across all of our December 2014, whilst the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store at Longbridge is now under construction and scheduled to complete in time for Christmas 2015 trading.
In line major projects as well with the growing prominence of Longbridge as a business location, we moved our Head Office there in October 2014.
The development, a flagship project for the Company, as increasing exemplifies every facet of our regeneration skills and is a natural base from which St. Modwen can continue its growth.
ourpipeline of active Both Longbridge and the Bay Campus contribute to our active pipeline of commercial development activity across the UK which now amounts to over 3m sq ft, and we are well positioned development to capitalise on the continued upturn in the market.
This pipeline and the increase in our construction activity, not only underlines the recovery of the regional property market but also opportunities to over demonstrates our ability to think long-term and to manage our 5,900-acre land bank effectively throughout economic cycles.
20 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Our residential business has performed well in the period development and have been successful in acquiring new delivering an overall profit increase of 167% to 24m opportunities in competitive situations, which we will start to 2013: 9m with good sales rates being achieved across build out in 2015. the Country.
With the Persimmon joint venture now As tenant demand improves across the UK, this has had a firmly established, we are focusing our attention on our positive impact on rent roll across our commercial portfolio and housebuildingbrand, St. Modwen Homes, which completed we are witnessing a steadily increasing stream of enquiries.
258 new homes over the period and has nine active sites.
There is good take up across our Town Centre regeneration Meanwhile, the Persimmon joint venture completed 562 new projects, notably at Wembley Central where we will soon homes in the period from eight sites.
conclude works to the final phase of this 90m mixed-use We continue to look at new and innovative ways to use our land development in London.
At our Technology Retail Park in Rugby in order to maximise its value and to ensure that it is developed we are already 100% pre-let on the 70,000 sq ft out-of-town to best complement its surroundings.
Against the backdrop of retail scheme and, in addition to securing planning permission for Marks & Spencer in June 2014, we are now in detailed a diminishing energy supply across the UK, we are pursuing a discussions with a number of national retailers seeking to take number of energy-related opportunities, including the delivery space in Longbridge Town Centre in 2015. of gas fired Combined Cycle Gas Turbine power stations on two sites.
Both are at differing stages of the planning process In terms of the residential market, demand has been sustained but we anticipate further progress for at least one of these but there are concerns over interest rate rises, changes to the opportunities during 2015. mortgage market and the usual uncertainty in the lead-up to the 2015 UK General Election.
However, there remains a structural STRATEGY OVERVIEW lack of housing supply across the Country and, as a result, demand for our land from national housebuilders continues Our strategy remains fundamentally unchanged.
Similarly, good sales rates have been maintained to add value to our 1.3bn land bank through planning and throughout the year both for the Persimmon joint venture asset management initiatives that are carried out by our regional and St. Modwen Homes sites and we anticipate a sustained teams of skilled property professionals.
At the same time, performance into 2015. we prepare sites for redevelopment through remediation and securing planning permissions and dispose of those assets to which we can no longer add value in order to release capital BUSINESS OUTLOOK for reinvestment.
We will continue to build on the success of 2014 over the This strategy, supported by our long-term approach to next 12 months and now look to take full advantage of the development and our proven business model, has enabled market recovery.
We will focus our efforts on delivering our usto create value throughout the cycle and to take immediate commercial sites in the regions, growing our active commercial advantage of the market recovery as reflected by record profits development pipeline of over 3m sq ft, and progressing our inthe period.
key projects, including the redevelopment of the New Covent Garden Market sites.
We will remain true to this long-term strategy and adopt a pragmatic approach as residential and commercial markets We expect the current favourable residential market conditions continue to improve.
As the economy gets stronger, we will in the regions to be sustained throughout the year, and through ensure that our business grows by increasing our active pipeline the planning process we will bring new sites forward for of development opportunities, creating a firm base for the sale or development, as well as focusing on delivery within continuing delivery of shareholder value.
St. Modwen Homes and the Persimmon joint venture.
With a record year now firmly under our belts, we are in a very MARKET OVERVIEW good position to grow the business further in 2015 and deliver another year of success for our shareholders.
We are one of the few property companies in the UK to have stood firm in having a regional development bias whilst also progressing projects in and around London.
With the economic recovery now gathering momentum, we are already well positioned to capitalise on the upturn, particularly in the regions.
Bill Oliver Chief Executive Currently, we have an active pipeline of over 3m sq ft of commercial development across the UK, and we continue to nd 2 February 2015 increase our construction levels across our commercial portfolio as companies look to expand or move into new premises.
We are mindful of the increasing cost of construction materials and continue to work closely with our supply chain to sustain build quality.
We are also undertaking some speculative St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 21
