Chief Executives Strategic Review A strategy to deliver long-term growth Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 2014 showed the strength of our strategy and business model which continues to deliver sustainable long-term value for our shareholders.
Weir has chosen to operate in the minerals, plant optimisation or brownfield expenditure.
winter at the start of the year.
The average oil and gas and power markets because These factors led to a further reduction US onshore rig count increased 6% while they each have excellent long-term growth in demand for original equipment.
the average number of wells drilled rose prospects: as the worlds population 5% as a result of greater efficiencies.
continues to increase and urbanise, More positively, a number of greenfield it will need access to more energy and projects in South America, which were Pressure pumping markets benefited as natural resources.
While our end markets approved in earlier years, moved from US customers worked through their excess are subject to business cycles, they their construction phase to production stocks, with frack fleet utilisation increasing fundamentally offer excellent structural during the year.
Global ore production to an estimated 87% from 82%, stimulating growth prospects and a solid platform from increased by around 3% in 2014 with demand for original equipment, in contrast which to deliver sustainable returns for strong iron ore production growth in to recent overcapacity.
Aftermarket activity shareholders across the economic cycle.
African mining markets were was also supported by the trend towards This is achieved by the successful execution impacted by the Ebola outbreak in West more intense shale well completions as of the Groups clear strategy which relies on Africa and by significant industrial action operators increased the number of frack the hard work and dedication of our 16,000 in South Africa, particularly the platinum stages per well, ran 24 7 operations and employees.
I would like to thank them for all miners strike through the first half of the pumped higher volumes of water and sand their hard work and commitment in 2014. year.
Overall, markets in Australia, Brazil and per stage, leading to greater wear and tear China gained momentum.
A challenging year for commodity prices remained subdued while weak demand A weaker than expected global economy and geopolitical concerns in the east of The growing well count also ensured coupled with increases in supply contributed the continent reduced activity in Europe.
growth in pressure control markets which to a very challenging year for most benefited from more complex drilling and commodity prices in 2014.
In mining, iron In oil and gas markets, a multi-year period completion solutions in higher pressure ore prices fell by almost 50%, and copper fell of stability lasted until the fourth quarter shale basins, with pad drilling techniques by 14%.
Gold prices were broadly flat over of 2014 when oil prices experienced their now used on the majority of well sites.
the period and remained below the levels largest fall since 2009.
This reflected required to drive higher capital investment.
concerns that the global market would be Across pressure pumping and pressure However, growing ore production levels, over-supplied in 2015, as a result of strong control markets there was a slowdown combined with declining ore grades, production growth, particularly in North in activity towards year end as customers supported increased aftermarket demand.
America, combined with relatively weak started to revise their spending plans demand growth.
International benchmarks, to reflect the reduction in oil prices.
The trend among major mining companies Brent and WTI, both fell more than 40% to reduce capital spending continued with in the final three months of the year and Internationally, there were good activity an estimated 17% reduction in industry continued to fall steeply in early 2015. levels in Saudi Arabia and increased capital expenditure.
There was a limited Throughout 2014 North American natural production in southern Iraq.
Mid and number of new, or greenfield, projects gas prices remained below incentive levels downstream markets continued to grow started and a cautious attitude towards despite a brief spike caused by the harsh as a result of Liquefied Natural Gas LNG 10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Operating profit Revenue 450m 2,438m -4% 0% and refinery developments, particularly in impact, chiefly as a result of the strength cost to customers: and the commercialisation emerging markets, although project delays of Sterling compared to the US Dollar and of a new turbine by-pass valve which was were a common feature in the second half emerging market currencies, reported developed by Power & Industrial.
pre-tax profits of 409m were 2% down on 2013.
This foreign exchange exposure You can read more about our approach to North American hydro power markets saw was largely translational and had limited innovation in the products and technology a recovery after difficult conditions in 2013. impact on our competitive positioning.
Nuclear new build progress also increased including the announcement of the first Free cash flow decreased to 79m, The Groups commitment to Collaboration development of a new nuclear power reflecting investment in the first half in is aimed at ensuring the best ideas are station in the UK for almost 20 years.
working capital to support record second shared among colleagues, customers half activity levels and 101m capital and suppliers.
It also means working with Our financial performance in 2014 investment.
Return on capital employed, other companies, particularly where we Overall, in a challenging year, order input excluding 2014 acquisitions, increased can benefit mutual customers.
That was the in constant currency was up 9% on 2013, by 60bps to 18.1%.
motivation for entering into a development with each quarter ahead of the prior year agreement with Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC comparator.
Aftermarket input was up Delivering our growth strategy subsidiary MTU America.
The agreement 14%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas, As the financial performance demonstrates, will see our engineers jointly develop positive trends in Minerals and good growth the Groups strategy delivered good purpose-built power systems for hydraulic from Power & Industrials valve operations.
underlying constant currency revenue fracturing that will be entirely integrated so This was offset by flat original equipment and profit growth in 2014. that the engine, transmission and pump are input across the Group reflecting sharp specifically designed to work together in a declines in greenfield mining orders and Our distinctive strategy and business complete packaged power system.
This will power project delays, offset by a 47% model is supported by our four strategic meet customer demands for technology increase in Oil & Gas as demand for pillars.
Innovation, which has been part which increases flow and pressure rates Pressure Pumping equipment recovered of the Groups DNA since it was founded and provides longer run times.
from the depressed levels seen in 2012 by two engineers almost 150 years ago.
Aftermarket input accounted for Collaboration, which brings colleagues, Our collaboration with Anglo American, 67% of total orders, up from 64% in 2013. customers and suppliers together to help one of the worlds largest diversified achieve better engineering solutions.
mining and natural resources groups, Group revenues were up 9% on a constant Value Chain Excellence VCE, which drives was recognised with the award of the currency basis while the proportion of greater efficiency in our own operations and prestigious External Collaboration Award revenues from aftermarket sales increased helps make our customers more effective.
at the 2014 Procurement Leaders Awards.
In Minerals, And finally, Global Capability, ensuring we Our Global Framework Agreement GFA revenues were down 4% as aftermarket are there wherever and whenever our is designed to provide improvements growth was more than offset by lower worldwide customers need us.
in reliability and power savings by retrodemand for original equipment.
Both original fitting Weir-developed technology to equipment and aftermarket revenues in These strategic pillars have helped underpin existing pumps.
In doing so, the life of key Oil & Gas increased by 32%, reflecting the Groups past success and remain central components has doubled, and in some higher average rig count, increasing frack to our future growth.
In 2014, I am pleased cases trebled, while power consumption intensity and market share gains.
Power & to report we made significant strategic has been reduced significantly.
The division Industrial revenues were broadly flat, on a progress in all four areas.
added a further GFA in 2014 with Kinross reported basis, following a 185m foreign Gold Corporation, one of the worlds leading exchange headwind.
Innovation is critical to the future success gold mining companies, which will see Weir of a global engineering company.
In recent Minerals become Kinross preferred supplier Group margins declined by 70bps on a years we have significantly increased of a range of mining equipment.
This reflected research and development efforts to ensure the impact of industrial actions in South we maintain our market leadership positions.
Value Chain Excellence VCE was Africa on Minerals margins and operational In 2014, this has involved: the design, introduced as a strategic pillar to recognise challenges in Power & Industrial.
Combined manufacture and installation of the worlds the importance of aligning our operations with flat reported revenues, this translated largest slurry pump in a mine in Chile: gaining more closely to the specific needs of our into a 4% fall in underlying operating profits market share through our new premium fluid customers ultimately helping us achieve to 450m.
On a constant currency basis end technology in oil and gas markets which our ambition of becoming their trusted operating profit increased by 5% and also supports the reduction in breakeven partner of choice.
pre-tax profits by 7%, reflecting a record costs in the unconventional industry: the second half profit performance for the launch of a new vertical slurry pump, which Group.
After a 35m foreign exchange allows upgrades to take place at reduced The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Delivering our growth strategy manufacturing and service operations which meet the demands of our customers continued into larger facilities, improving efficiency including producing the worlds largest In 2014, our continued focus on streamlining and customer responsiveness while also slurry pump.
our operations and leveraging the Groups maintaining appropriate capacity.
It is global scale, helped improve customer estimated these changes will produce We have also increased academic responsiveness while at the same time annualised savings of 35m: 20m of partnerships with some of the worlds supporting the Groups overall performance this benefit will be realised in 2015, leading universities, including Imperial through cost savings of 46m.
A new VCE with one-off exceptional costs of College, London to develop research management system was developed to 49m recognised in 2014.
The Group programmes into new technologies.
further integrate this approach across all also recognised a non-cash 160m oil of the Groups businesses to support our price driven impairment of Pressure Improving working capital performance culture of continuous improvement.
by further extending Value Chain Excellence initiatives.
Key to our success is the competitive In addition, the Oil & Gas division The Group continued to leverage its global advantage we derive from our Global announced additional plans to reduce scale to deliver significant procurement Capability, ensuring Weir is wherever and around 550 posts as a direct response to direct savings of 46m.
Pressure Pumping whenever our customers need us.
In 2014, the sharp fall in oil prices and in anticipation reduced its older inventory by more than this included extending our comminution of the consequent reduction in activity.
50% and there were significant reductions strategy which has seen the Minerals When added to the efficiency review in working capital in Weir Minerals North division further expand its product offering and other measures taken earlier in 2014, America, but there remains more to do into the crushing, screening and grinding the Group will have reduced approximately across the Group.
segment of the mining mill circuit, which 1,200 posts across the workforce with helps separate rock from ore.
In addition to the majority of these actions completed by Further embedding safety at the our own strong organic growth the Group the end of the first quarter of 2015.
These heart of our culture.
acquired Chinese-American equipment have been difficult decisions but they are The first stages of the Weir Behavioural provider Trio Engineered Products in necessary to closely align the Group to Safety Programme have been adopted October 2014.
Trios crushing technology current customer demand and position it to throughout the Groups global businesses.
will extend Weirs comminution product take advantage of future growth prospects.
Total Injury Rate fell by 20% in 2014.
While portfolio and give real scale in the domestic In 2015, additional exceptional costs of circa I am pleased with this progress we must Chinese mining markets, while also 20m, based on current cost reduction continue to focus on doing even better until providing opportunities for growth in plans, are expected in relation to completion we become a zero-accident workplace.
the expanding US aggregates market.
of the Group-wide efficiency review and additional measures taken subsequent to Fully capturing growing aftermarket The Oil & Gas division extended its the financial year end in response to oil opportunities in Minerals and pressure control presence in Canada with and gas market conditions.
accelerating progress in our the acquisition of Metra Equipment Inc, comminution strategy.
a small Saskatchewan-based wellhead Globally, Weir has also continued to The Minerals division completed the manufacturer.
Carefully selected and promote a working environment which acquisition of Trio Engineered Products, successfully integrated acquisitions are allows all of our employees to achieve their helping accelerate organic growth in its an important part of the Groups growth potential.
In 2014, we continued to offer comminution strategy.
It also benefited plan and these acquisitions, along with comprehensive professional development from the first aftermarket orders for its the Boards approach to Metso Corporation, opportunities and rolled out our refreshed recently introduced range of High Pressure demonstrate the range of large and small values to our global workforce.
Comminution opportunities we continue to pursue to orders increased 63% year on year and help accelerate our organic development.
I would also like to record my appreciation aftermarket orders were up 86%.
to Steve Noon following his retirement as The Groups capacity in the growing Divisional Managing Director of the Oil & Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback Middle East market was extended with Gas division.
Steve was instrumental in and broadening international oil and the opening of a new regional headquarters the development of the division and its gas opportunities.
for the Oil & Gas division in Dubai.
This will contribution to Weirs growth story.
He Pressure Control frack rentals and zipper allow products to be manufactured locally has been succeeded by Paul Coppinger, manifolds gained market share.
There was for the first time, capturing opportunities previously president of Weir Pressure strong growth in the Middle East, including as shale energy production internationalises, Pumping, the divisions biggest business unit.
opening a new regional headquarters and while also serving the regions conventional manufacturing facility.
In September, I was pleased to welcome opened two new service centres in China.
the UK Prime Minister, David Cameron, A large order was won in Australia for our Good progress was made in the planning to our facility in Yateley, Hampshire to combined Pressure Pumping and Pressure for a best-cost campus in Malaysia which see the hard work of our employees in Control offering in the country.
will include construction of a new foundry, serving the European minerals market.
machine shop and continuous rubber Accelerate Valves growth, building on processing plant.
Work is also under Delivering on 2014 key priorities a strengthened operational platform.
way to upgrade the Groups Information In last years Annual Report, I set out Aftermarket order input growth of 26% Technology capacity including the rolla series of key priorities for the year: followed increased targeting of the Power & out of a common Enterprise Resource Industrial divisions installed base of original Planning ERP across the Minerals division.
There was good growth in some through the pursuit of innovative markets but others were impacted by project The Group undertook an efficiency review new products.
Overall, orders were broadly flat.
to identify areas to further align resources The Group continued to invest in A restructuring programme to save 10m to capture future growth prospects.
This fundamental research and development, across the division and increase efficiency resulted in a programme which will see extending our product portfolio.
This has in the supply chain and Valves operating the consolidation of a number of smaller included the development of new products structure is being implemented.
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 2014 demonstrated the strength of In 2015, global GDP is expected to 2015 priorities Weirs strategy and aftermarket-focused continue to increase.
Deliver benefits from the Minerals business model as we captured good over the pace of that growth, combined facility restructuring programme, the growth opportunities in fast changing with growing supply, is expected to integration of Trio and the investment in markets.
Significant progress was made lead to continued price volatility in many a common Enterprise Resource Planning in developing new products, working in commodities including copper and oil, ERP platform.
partnership with customers, expanding the Groups two largest exposures.
Ensure agile response to oil and gas end into new markets through the acquisition We will continue to make progress in market conditions and maximise of Trio, and streamlining our operations to delivering our strategy while remaining opportunities from new product launches.
agile in responding to market conditions 3.
Drive improved performance in Power as they evolve.
The Group has already & Industrial, including benefits from Outlook acted following steep price declines divisional reorganisation.
Weirs global market leadership positions in key commodities, particularly oil, 4.
Accelerate pace of new technology and the significant strategic progress the by taking additional measures to developments.
Group has made in recent years mean it is reduce operating costs.
Drive reductions in lead times and well placed to benefit from the structural working capital through application growth trends in our key end markets.
While visibility in oil and gas remains of the Value Chain Excellence roadmap.
Long-term growth in demand for energy limited, it is clear these initiatives will only and commodities will be driven by partly offset the impact of a substantial increasing world population and accelerated reduction in demand and the associated by greater urbanisation.
In addition, the pricing pressure.
As a result we are Group will benefit from the need for more planning for a significant reduction in complex engineering solutions to replace constant currency Group revenues and Keith Cochrane depleting natural resources.
However, Chief Executive we will continue to invest in extending 25 February 2015 the Groups global leadership positions and increasing market share, supported by a strong balance sheet and the cash generative nature of the Group.
UK Prime Minister David Cameron visits Weir Minerals Yateley site in Hampshire, UK.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13
