STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Diego Hernndez Cash costs before by-product credits were When I joined Antofagasta in August 2012 $1.83 lb, 2.2% higher than in 2013, impacted the mining industry was already starting to by the lower grades and the one-off signing move into a cyclical downturn and it was bonuses paid during the year, partly offset by clear that 2013 was going to be a difficult While this prolonged the weakening of the Chilean peso.
Net cash year as we adjusted to the changing downturn has certainly costs, at $1.43 lb, were 5.1% higher than last business environment.
year as by-product credits were lower due to created a more difficult The copper market continued to weaken lower production and a weaker gold price.
environment, it is not throughout 2014, much as expected, with The single most significant pressure on a surprisingly sharp drop at the beginning exceptional: this situation costs came from the payment of bonuses of 2015.
However, while this prolonged has arisen several times to employees on the signing of new labour downturn has certainly created a more contracts at each of our mining operations.
difficult environment, it is not exceptional: this during my career.
In Chile, we enter into labour agreements situation has arisen several times during my with employees for periods of up to four career.
The secret is to use the opportunity years, which included agreed pay increases to make changes that will benefit the Group and cash bonuses, typically paid up-front in once the market recovers changes that are line with local industry practice.
During 2014 difficult to achieve in periods of high growth the payment of the one-off bonuses and the and high prices.
We have therefore spent provision of loans totalled some $0.04 lb.
this year bedding down the improvements made in 2013 and implementing further The bonus payments were offset by initiatives.
In our 2013 Annual Report I noted movements in the Chilean peso, which that the process of resetting the Groups weakened by 15.2% during the year, reducing cost base would take at least until the end of costs by $0.10 lb.
As copper makes up over 2014 and this has been the case.
The work 50% of Chiles exports, when copper prices continues and we are making good progress have fallen historically the peso has fallen in reorganising our supply structures, cutting as well, acting as a natural hedge for copper inventories and reducing operating and producers.
In addition the Group made capital costs.
some $80 million of savings during the year, equivalent to $0.05 lb.
These were achieved 2014 HIGHLIGHTS mainly through the merger of the Esperanza Copper production declined by 2.3% to and El Tesoro mines into Minera Centinela, 704,800 tonnes in 2014, slightly lower than but also from other savings initiatives.
the record production levels achieved in 2013.
Further savings will be made in both areas Gold and molybdenum production were also during 2015 and are expected tototal lower at 270,900 ounces and 7,900 tonnes, $130 million.
This decline reflected expected lower grades for all metals, particularly copper grade at Los Pelambres and Centinela Cathodes and the gold grade at Centinela.
Overall production of metals was, however, slightly better than we forecast at the beginning of the year.
08 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 O OV VER ERVI VIEW EW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION provide a healthy growth pipeline for the Although the expected surplus in the Group over the coming five to ten years.
copper market in 2014 did not materialise, the average copper price fell from $3.32 lb At Antucoya, construction has continued in2013 to $3.11 lb and closed the year at throughout the year with all major milestones $2.88 lb.
This resulted in the average realised being achieved on schedule.
The operation price of copper being 8.5% lower in 2014 is scheduled for start-up during the second at $3.00 lb.
The average realised gold price quarter of 2015 and will be operating at full declined by 7.1% to $1,261 oz, while the production of 85,000 tonnes per year of realised molybdenum price increased by cathodes in 2016.
The project is expected to 10%to $11.0 lb.
be completed at the budgeted construction cost of $1.9 billion.
HEALTH AND SAFETY At the Encuentro Oxides project we are I am sorry to report that during 2014 trialling the use of our own project team to we had five fatalities in three separate manage construction.
Normally a project of incidents at the Groups mining operations.
this size would be managed by an EPCM This is unacceptable and I, and everyone contractor, but, following a review of at Antofagasta, extend our deepest management processes, we established condolences to the families of the that this project management model deceased.
The circumstances have been increased costs and reduced our control over fully investigated and have led us to make project construction, potentially resulting changes to our procedures and practices.
Constrained sources in lost opportunities.
We also undertook to The health and safety of our employees and reduce the original $756 million capital cost our contractors is of paramount importance to of potential supply from estimated in the pre-feasibility study and we us and we are constantly striving to improve greenfield projects will have succeeded in this, with the feasibility our performance.
In 2013, we introduced a ensure that the longerstudy estimate showing capital costs reduced new safety and occupational health model by $156 million.
and during 2014 several new measures were term copper fundamentals implemented as part of a process seeking to Completion of the feasibility study for remain strong.
Our most the Pelambres Incremental Expansion important target remains zero fatalities and project was expected by the end of 2014. we will continue to endeavour to achieve this.
The technical aspects of the feasibility study have been completed, but the necessary POSITIONED FOR GROWTH permitting required before construction has During 2014, we made good progress not.
The Environmental Impact Assessment advancing the projects under construction EIA requires a baseline study of at least at Antucoya and Centinela, and early works 12 months which is currently under way.
started at Encuentro Oxides shortly before The formal completion of the feasibility the completion of its feasibility study in study will be after the EIA is submitted as it November.
The feasibility study on the may indicate that additional work should be Pelambres Incremental Expansion continued included in the feasibility study.
At this stage through the year and the pre-feasibility study the pre-feasibility study capital expenditure on Centinelas Second Concentrator will be estimate of $1.2 billion is unchanged.
A pre-feasibility study was also completed in 2014 on the Twin Metals Minnesota project.
These projects Antofagasta plc | 09 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO During the year the Group announced that OUTLOOK The pre-feasibility study for the construction the Michilla mine would run out of ore and of a second concentrator at Centinela will be The Groups forecast for 2015 production is close in December 2015 on completion of completed in mid-2015.
The 90,000 tonnes 710,000 tonnes of copper, 250,000 ounces its current mine plan.
The mine originally per day concentrator will be located about of gold and 8,000 tonnes of molybdenum.
opened in 1959 and was acquired by the 7 km south of the existing concentrator and The copper production forecast comprises Group in 1980.
Many of the workers from will be fed by ore from Esperanza Sur to the 385,000 tonnes at Los Pelambres, 255,000 Michilla are being redeployed at other north and Encuentro Sulphides to the south.
tonnes at Centinela, 30,000 tonnes at operations, but inevitably there will be some The scoping study estimate of the capital cost Michilla and 40,000 tonnes at Antucoya.
Severance terms were agreed of the project is $2.7 billion and will increase Local protests reduced expected copper with the mines unions at the end of 2014 for Centinelas annual production by an average production at Los Pelambres by some 8,000 employees who work through this year, to of 140,000 tonnes of copper, 150,000 ounces tonnes of copper.
These protests, along with help minimise the uncertainty and allow for of gold.
the adverse court ruling mean that there is planning in this difficult time.
However, as some inherent uncertainty as to the potential The EIA for the project will be submitted an alternative a sale process has also been impact on Los Pelambres 2015 production to the appropriate regulatory authorities in initiated to determine if there is a purchaser levels and the Groups cost forecasts of cash mid-2015.
If it proceeds smoothly through that wishes to acquire the operation on costs before by-product credits of $1.75 lb the approval process the EIA should be acceptable terms, and if there is, the mine and net cash costs of $1.40 lb.
ready approximately as the feasibility study may continue in operation for some time is completed in mid-2016.
Production is then The new year started with a rapid drop in the to come.
expected to start in 2019. copper price to below $2.50 lb and although SUSTAINABILITY there has been some recovery since then, At Centinela the feasibility study on the the outlook for 2015 is for price volatility to molybdenum plant has been completed In July 2014 we introduced a new clean continue.
However, if the Chinese economy and the necessary permits required before source of energy at Los Pelambres when grows at the expected rate of 7.0% it now construction can commence are expected in the El Arrayn wind farm came online.
appears more likely that the copper market mid-2015.
The plant has now been designed It now supplies the operation with about will be largely in balance rather than in surplus to be easily expanded to accept feed from 20% of its energy needs.
Pelambres also as was expected a few months ago.
In the the Centinela Second Concentrator project.
agreed to purchase energy from two solar medium to long term the copper market Capital costs are estimated to be $125 million plants that will begin producing in 2015 continues to look positive.
When the world with average production of some 2,400 and 2016 respectively.
By mid-2016, nearly economy picks up again and demand growth tonnes per annum of molybdenum in the first 50% of Pelambres energy will come from accelerates, constrained sources of potential five years starting in late 2016. renewable sources.
supply, in particular from greenfield projects, Early in 2015, we completed the acquisition The Group continues to work with the will ensure that the longer-term copper of Duluth Metals Limited to gain 100% communities where it operates: promoting fundamentals remain strong.
ownership of the Twin Metals Minnesota initiatives where communities, local project for a cash consideration of C$53m.
governments and private companies The Duluth Complex is an attractive formulate a joint vision for both public geological deposit and the Group will focus and private investments.
These initiatives on further optimisations of the project while increase local involvement, strengthen social advancing the permitting process.
investment and contribute to improving the sustainable development of the surrounding communities.
10 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC MINING DIVISION 38 THE EXISTING CORE BUSINESS 39 GROWTH PROJECTS report AND OPPORTUNITIES 44 TRANSPORT 48 WATER 49 CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE 12 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 50 THE MARKETPLACE 20 FINANCIAL REVIEW KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE 22 RESULTS 61 KEY RELATIONSHIPS 25 TURNOVER 62 STRATEGY FOR THE CASH FLOWS 65 MINING BUSINESS 28 FINANCIAL POSITION 66 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 30 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT RISK MANAGEMENT 32 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 66 A Ant ntof ofa ag gas ast ta a pl plc c || 11 11
