Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information CEOs statement Since 2008 we have been reshaping Trading performance is challenging GSK to help us deliver more sustainable Pharmaceutical and Vaccines sales Our proposed sales and earnings performance, grew in Emerging Markets by 5% and increased innovation in our products Japan by 1%.
This three-part and better access to our medicines was offset by US sales declining 10% for patients worldwide.
as a result of continued pricing and transaction with contracting pressure, particularly in 2014 marked further progress against our respiratory business.
these objectives, most notably with our Novartis will proposed innovative three-part transaction We have worked hard to improve our with Novartis.
This will fundamentally formulary positioning and coverage in fundamentally reshape the company and is a major step the US and as we move into 2015, we towards fullling our strategy of creating are starting to see some early encouraging reshape the Group a simpler, stronger and more balanced signs of how this will help us regain market platform for long-term growth.
share and deliver improved performance in respiratory.
In addition we continue to and is a major step Trading conditions continue to be make good progress transitioning to our challenging, particularly in the US primary new portfolio of respiratory medicines and towards fullling care market.
This led to sales for the year have recently launched two new products, declining 3% CER to 23 billion and Incruse Ellipta for COPD and Arnuity core earnings per share down 1% CER our strategy Ellipta for asthma and we await a regulatory to 95.4p, with some of the sales pressure decision for mepolizumab, potentially mitigated through delivery of cost and a very important product.
We continue to make returns to shareholders a priority and this Within HIV, ViiV Healthcare grew 15% year increased the dividend 3% to 80p with sales of Tivicay and Triumeq reaching per share and expect to hold it at this 339 million in 2014.
The launches of level for 2015. these products have been among the best in class.
Future success for the Group will be underpinned by our R&D organisation Performance in our Consumer Healthcare which continues to be productive.
business was impacted by some supply In addition to a substantial advanced issues with sales for the year falling 1%, pipeline we have a large number of but increasing 2% in the last quarter exciting early phase assets in key following progress in remediation of these therapeutic areas which are rapidly issues.
We expect to see increasing benefit moving forward through the clinic.
through 2015 from an improved supply situation and I remain confident in the During 2014, we also kept up the pace outlook for the business.
on innovation in our business model, continuing to evolve our relationships Reshaping the company for with doctors and customers to ensure a sustainable future we meet societys expectations of In April, we announced a proposed a global pharmaceutical company.
innovative three-part transaction with Novartis where we will acquire their vaccines business, form a joint Consumer Healthcare company and sell Novartis our marketed oncology products.
excluding divestments completed in 2013 4 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information The proposed transaction will give In addition to these organic programmes, Operating in emerging markets is substantial global scale to our Consumer the proposed Novartis transaction will especially challenging given the issues Healthcare business which will become allow us to target synergies of 1 billion many of these countries face with funding a market leader in more than 30 countries per year by the fifth year following and maturity of their respective healthcare as well as being the number one company completion.
We have identied a further systems.
However, we continue to believe worldwide for over-the-counter medicines.
1 billion of annual cost savings to be that with robust compliance systems and, delivered over the next three years as by working closely with local governments, We are currently the worlds leading we also reshape our Pharmaceuticals our presence in these markets can help vaccine manufacturer and the proposed and R&D organisation.
improve access to medicines and broader transaction further strengthens this position healthcare.
while allowing us to expand our portfolio, The business remains cash generative most notably in meningitis, build our with net cash inow from operations of Broadening access to our medicines geographic reach, particularly in the US, 5.2 billion for 2014, although this was Enabling the broadest possible access and bring together expertise in virology impacted by global currency uctuations, to our medicines remains a priority.
I was and bacterial infection research.
particularly the strength of Sterling in the delighted in 2014 that we again topped first half of 2014. the Access To Medicine Index for the In selling our marketed oncology assets fourth consecutive time.
Nothing better to Novartis for $16 billion we have realised Evolution in our business model demonstrated our commitment to innovation a very attractive price for a part of our As well as making financial savings, and access in everything we do than our business which, while fast growing, was our restructuring programmes are also work on a vaccine for malaria which was sub-scale and will benefit from being part seeking to modernise our ways of working led during 2014 and our very rapid of a more established oncology company.
and through 2014 we have continued response to the Ebola crisis.
In working on to challenge ourselves to do more on We expect to complete the proposed our candidate Ebola vaccine, we have been this agenda.
transaction in the week commencing able to achieve in around ten months which 2 March 2015.
We have made substantial progress rolling would otherwise have taken several years.
out changes to how we compensate our I pay tribute to everyone from GSK involved Sustainable R&D pipeline to support sales representatives.
These changes build in these two projects.
future growth on the reforms we started in the US more Over the last few years, our R&D Outlook than two years ago and I was pleased to organisation has had an exceptional Looking to 2015, we are focused on see our most recent healthcare practitioner period of productivity and since 2009 successful execution of our strategic satisfaction research showing that GSK we have achieved more FDA approvals priorities.
Closing the proposed Novartis now ranks first in the US among our of new molecular entities NMEs than transaction is clearly key, alongside peer group for the value we bring to any other company.
consolidating and building on the early practitioners work.
progress we are seeing in respiratory as Following approvals received in 2013 well as successfully launching other new Adding to this, by 2016 we will have fully for respiratory products Breo Ellipta products.
We will also need to ensure the implemented our commitment to stop and Anoro Ellipta, Tanlar and Mekinist Consumer Healthcare business continues paying doctors to speak on our behalf and in oncology and Tivicay in HIV, we to recover from its supply issues.
instead will deliver a new multi-channel received four further approvals in 2014: system which will transform how doctors Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta in Some of the sales headwinds faced by the receive information from us.
respiratory, Triumeq in HIV and Tanzeum Group in 2014 will continue to adversely for type 2 diabetes.
We are undertaking these reforms to affect performance during 2015 with a ensure patients are put first in everything greater impact in the first half of the year.
We are awaiting FDA decisions on Breo we do and to eliminate any perception However, with annualisation of these Ellipta for use in asthma and mepolizumab, of conict of interest.
We believe these factors and successful execution of our our first-in-class anti-IL5 treatment for changes are not only the right thing to priorities, we expect a stronger performance severe eosinophilic asthma.
We continue do, but that they will also be a competitive in the second half of the year.
to see significant organic pipeline delivery advantage.
They follow our initiatives on and this year we expect up to 25 phase II In 2015, we will also be making a decision clinical trial data transparency and other or III starts.
on whether to undertake a minority initial companies are now also making more of public offering of ViiV Healthcare.
In our advanced pipeline we see significant their clinical study results available.
potential, for example, from our vaccine to In addition, following the closure of the Operating to our values prevent shingles, our triple combination proposed Novartis transaction we plan How we operate is as important to us as therapy for COPD and our new long acting to hold an Investor Day where we will issue delivering financial performance.
In addition to specic earnings guidance for the year and why the issues we saw in China last year these we have a number of very exciting prole the medium and long-term shape have been wholly disappointing and caused early stage assets in therapy areas such and opportunities for GSK.
harm to the Groups reputation.
We have as immuno-inammation, immuno-oncology taken significant steps to rectify the issues Finally, I would like to thank all our and cardiovascular disease and a number identied in our Chinese business and to employees, partners and suppliers for of prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine apply appropriate lessons to our operations their continued commitment and support.
Given the complexity of our Cost control and financial efficiencies sector and the challenges of working in We remain focused on cost control and global healthcare, we will continue to improving financial efficiencies.
year we delivered around 400 million of incremental savings compared with 2013 through our various restructuring initiatives and ongoing cost reduction efforts.
Sir Andrew Witty Chief Executive officer GSK Annual Report 2014 5
