Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks RESORT Constant Currency 2014 2013 Growth Growth Theme Parks Visitors m 12.0 11.2 7.2% Revenue m 331 314 5.6% 8.4% THE RESORT THEME PARKS OPERATING GROUP DELIVERED A SECOND Underlying EBITDA m 87 81 7.2% 11.6% SUCCESSIVE YEAR OF STRONG REVENUE AND EBITDA GROWTH SHOWING Underlying operating profit m 60 54 11.0% 16.4% CONTINUED PROGRESS SINCE THE MARKET CHALLENGES FACED IN 2012.
Like for like revenue growth 7.2% THIS WAS ACHIEVED THROUGH EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS OF PLANNED CAPITAL INVESTMENTS: TRANSFORMING THE THEME PARKS INTO SHORT BREAK DESTINATIONS:  Finally, Warwick Castle extended its Horrible Histories Foul Fayre across the full operating season.
Trading performance for the Resort Theme Parks RTP AND CAPITALISING ON GROUPWIDE STRATEGIC SYNERGIES.
Operating Group overall in 2014 built on the good performance of 2013 to show continued growth in visitor numbers, revenue Resortpositioning A key future growth driver for RTP is increased investment in and profit.
Growth in visitors of 7.2% resulted in growth in unique accommodation offerings to drive increased additional revenue of 8.4% and underlying operating profit of 16.4%, short break visitation, multi-day stays and pre-booked visits.
both converted on a constant currency basis.
In 2014 we successfully introduced the new 90 bedroom THORPE SHARK hotel at Thorpe Park and extended and The strategic focus for RTP continues to be to create a improved the accommodation offering at Warwick Castle portfolio of differentiated short break destinations based at including the addition of two luxury Tower Suites within the unique theme park locations.
Once again 2014 saw the launch Castle itself.
Later in the year we launched the 69 bedroom of new compelling experiences at each of the RTP resorts, Azteca hotel at Chessington World of Adventures alongside in accordance with our established capital investment cycles.
the relaunch of the existing hotel as the Safari themed hotel.
The successful launch of each of these was key to ensuring revenue growth at every one of the six RTP resorts.
Strategicsynergies RTP both contributes to and benefits from the wider Merlin The high-year capital investment in RTP was the launch of a Group in terms of strategic synergies, with the continued major new roller coaster Flight of the Demons at Heide Park success of customer promotions and the development of the Resort in Germany, targeting the thrill-seeker market.
In addition, Merlin Annual Pass.
The problem of queues impacting customer Alton Towers introduced CBeebies Land in association with BBC satisfaction remains a key challenge for the theme park industry Worldwide.
Based on the TV channel of the same name, this generally and a number of initiatives to alleviate the impact of successfully attracted a wider demographic to the resort of queues were trialled in 2014.
These included the introduction families with children under the age of six.
Thorpe Park also of mobile apps and electronic screens showing queue times and introduced a strong and internationally known Intellectual providing tips to avoid queues.
We also trialled an online ticketing Property IP based attraction with Angry Birds Land, including platform and a mobile based Reserve and Ride virtual queuing a new and exclusive 4D movie experience developed in system at Thorpe Park.
Further initiatives and trials will continue association with Rovio, the owner of the Angry Birds IP.
successful introduction of a lower priced Thorpe Park season pass, together with a new web mobile booking platform and Customersatisfaction pricing structure, also helped to deliver growth in a challenging With the uplift in visitor numbers to our attractions in 2014 it economic environment for the resorts core 16-24 age group.
was vital that we maintained focus on our key KPI of customer Chessington World of Adventures launched Scorpion Express, satisfaction.
It is a testament to the great teams across the RTP the reinvigoration of an existing ride complete with new theming, resorts that all sites increased their scores year on year.
fire effects and near misses, to cost-effectively deliver a new ride experience for the resort.
Gardaland introduced Prezzemolo Lookingforward Land, a new wet and dry play area based on the parks famous Gardaland will have the high-year capital investment in 2015 which character mascot and targeted at younger children.
In Italy the will be Oblivion, a major roller coaster drop ride.
Our longer term economic and political landscape continued to be difficult but aim is to transform Gardaland into a major European short break despite this Gardaland has seen modest revenue and EBITDA destination for both Italians and international visitors alike so this growth.
This was driven by the key management initiatives of will be an important step on that journey, as will the launch of a increasing penetration of international tourists visiting Lake Garda: new highly themed Adventure hotel planned for 2016.
Work launching a successful value for money season pass initiative for is also underway at Alton Towers on the 2015 launch of the both the resident and tourist market: and further targeted cost saving initiatives to improve operational efficiency.
Enchanted Village including both lodges and luxury tree-houses.
31 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CBEEBIES LAND AT ALTON TOWERS RESORT We introduced a new highly recognisable land to an existing area What did of the theme park.
This was aimed primarily at families with young we do?
children, a previously under-represented demographic at Alton Towers, for whom a short break is considered an attractive proposition.
Having identified the potential of the target demographic, our How did attraction and creative teams identified CBeebies as a strong and we do it?
compelling Intellectual Property IP asset that could deliver increased park visitation and short break visits to the resort.
The team from Merlin Magic Making negotiated a licence deal with BBC Worldwide who own the rights to CBeebies.
The creative teams then worked closely with the BBC to develop a compelling experience that would transform an existing under-utilised area of the park with attractions and rides featuring famous CBeebies characters and shows such as Postman Pat, Charlie and Lola, In the Night Garden, Tree Fu Tom and Justins House.
In 2014 Alton Towers saw a 10% increase in visitors driven by What was CBeebies Land, as well as an 8% increase in leisure room nights the result?
Research confirmed that 17% of visitors to CBeebies Land were new visitors to Alton Towers.
CASE STUDY 32 Main Contents MERLIN Magic Making MERLIN MAGIC MAKING IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE CREATING THE MAGIC HEART OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES.
EMPLOYING OVER 300 PEOPLE, THIS WE CONTINUE TO DEVELOP SOME VERY SPECIALIST IN-HOUSE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: CREATIVE: PRODUCTION: STRONG INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RELATIONSHIPS AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT GROUP CONSTANTLY RAISES THE BAR IN INNOVATIVE THINKING.
It is never quiet when it comes to looking at the creative and innovative ways that we are able to drive the business forward.
2014 has been no exception, with a host of new and exciting projects coming to fruition.
Our Midway roll out programme continued during 2014, including our first Dungeon foray outside of Europe, with the launch of the San Francisco Dungeon, in the USA: three Madame MERLIN MAGIC MAKING Tussauds launches our most ever!
including our first business PRODUCING THE MAGIC in Beijing: as well as a LEGOLAND Discovery Centre and a Finds new business opportunities all over the planet.
FANTASTIC LEGO MODELSRECORD Creates the highest class visitor attractions and NUMBERS OF MADAME TUSSAUDS FIGURES compelling propositions.
Things were no less impressive in our existing businesses Takes creative ideas and produces amazing whether it was scaring the beegeebies out of you in our new content for our attractions.
haunted house concept in LEGOLAND Billund: confronting the When reporting last year we thought that our production teams Delivers them at market leading speed and value.
wing coaster Flug Der Dmonen at Heide Park: riding the rapids had scaled unbelievable new heights BUT we are excited to say in our new LEGO CHIMA water park in LEGOLAND California: that we have been even more productive in 2014. or just taking a well earned rest in our new Azteca hotel at FINDING THE MAGIC Chessington World of Adventures Resort.
Our five LEGO model facilities across the USA, UK, Denmark, Germany and Malaysia have again been able to deliver fantastic We continue to develop some very strong Intellectual Property LEGO models to new accommodation in LEGOLAND SITES ALREADY SECURED IN CHINA FOR 2016 IP relationships with the BBC, Rovio and Marvel as evidenced Deutschland and our new and best ever!
LEGOLAND After a successful delivery of the 2014 pipeline things are looking by our most recent openings of the amazing CBeebies Land Discovery Centre in Boston, as well as over 20 assignments very positive for 2015, with all sites secured and design and build at Alton Towers: Angry Birds Land at Thorpe Park: and our in our existing businesses.
Marvel Super Heroes 4D film at Madame Tussauds.
Madame Tussauds figure production has again been at its highest 2016 is also shaping up to be in line with our strategic plans, with 2015 will see IP relationships developed even further.
We will ever, with over 230 wax figures produced for new openings in two sites already secured in China, as well as a number of other introduce a Star Wars exhibition in the Madame Tussauds attractions Singapore, Beijing, San Francisco and globally across the existing site opportunities in progress.
in London and Berlin see Case Study on page 37.
In Midway our estate of attractions.
drive to introduce new brands continues at pace, so most exciting We have strengthened the team in North America with our first ever of all will be the launch in London in the summer of the worlds Site Search Director based full time in the USA, meaning we now have first Shrek Midway attraction Shreks Adventure!, created in in-house Merlin influence in all our major development geographies.
close collaboration with the DreamWorks Animation team.
35 WORLDWIDE Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents MERLIN Magic Making MERLIN Magic Making WE AGAIN PLAYED A CENTRAL ROLE IN THE WIDER AQUARIUM COMMUNITY It has been a very busy year for Merlins Animal Welfare and Development team, with a whole host of projects centred around the welfare and wellbeing of our creatures.
Early on in the year we successfully moved a group of captive bred penguins from our New Zealand SEA LIFE Centre to our National SEA LIFE Centre in Birmingham in the UK, a story which was followed on UK national television by BBC2, for We have teamed up directly with the Lucasfilm team and put together What are their Penguins on a Plane mini-series.
the first ever Star Wars Madame Tussauds exhibition, ready for launch we doing?
Two separate exhibitions are being produced, one We again played our part in the wider aquarium community, with in the Madame Tussands flagship attraction in London and one in our leading roles on a number of BIAZA British & Irish Association hugely successful Madame Tussauds in Berlin.
Initially for a five year of Zoos and Aquariums Committees and active participation period, the success of the Star Wars intellectual property is set to in a number of industry conferences, think tanks and meetings.
DELIVERING THE MAGIC go from strength to strength with the launch of a new series of Core to this wider community strategy has been our continued films over the next few years.
work on a number of projects with the SEA LIFE Trust.
WELL PLACED TO MEET THE NEXT SET OF CHALLENGES Innovation has also been a key activity in 2014, with a number Our creative teams have been working hard to produce a series How are of trials taking place with technology aimed at enhancing the Another record breaking year in project management has seen us of realistic sets which depict the epic Star Wars story.
SEA LIFE visitor experience, be it transparent touch screens: working on 49 major projects in eleven countries during the year, brought to life with original music from the films, special sound effects, the development of Remote Operated with the projects in total representing a capital investment of lighting, props and even smells, enabling our guests to feel like they are Vehicles giving unique underwater views: over 230 million.
right in the middle of the action.
The heroes of the sets, of course, will or new low energy lighting systems for be the world famous Madame Tussauds figures, representing some of our aquarium displays.
We delivered new accommodation offerings across five different the most iconic characters ever to be produced.
sites to support our resort strategy: opened three new Madame Tussauds as part of our six Midway roll outs including our first ever Madame Tussauds boat ride!
: introduced The Dungeons to We will have produced a unique chronological story, through both the What will the the USA our first outside of Europe : developed fantastic projects prequels and the original trilogy, which will allow guests to immerse results be?
with Intellectual Property partners, the BBC and Rovio at two themselves in the amazing story of Star Wars.
Visitors will be able to We moved a group of of our parks: launched our third !
winged coaster at another: stage a Lightsaber duel with Anakin Skywalker: feel like they are brought LEGO Duplo and CHIMA Worlds and water parks piloting the Millennium Falcon with Chewbacca: or recreate the iconic captive bred penguins from into the LEGOLAND Parks: launched and relaunched SEA LIFE I am your father moment with Darth Vader.
The scene is set for this Centres and a LEGOLAND Discovery Centre: expanded a to be one of the best Madame Tussauds exhibitions ever undertaken!
our New Zealand SEA LIFE Madame Tussauds and brought penguins to the heart of England!
Centre to our SEA LIFE Centre in Innovative thinking across the whole of Merlin Magic Making remains our guiding philosophy.
This, as well as delivering Birmingham in the UK, a story compelling propositions to entice our customers to come which was followed by BBC2 and visit, along with our aim to drive great value from everything we produce, means that we are well placed to meet the next set of challenges so bring on the fun!
CASE STUDY 36 37 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents TEAM MERLIN TEAM MERLIN WE DESCRIBE OUR COMPANYS CULTURE AS THE MERLIN WAY.
IT CAPTURES Women now work at every level within Merlin including the Employeeengagement Board and the Executive Committee.
107 or around 35% of all We believe that our people lie at the heart of all we do and THE ESSENCE OF HOW OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ALIGNED WITH OUR ONE our senior leaders are women as are 4,065 or approximately are committed to being the best company to work for in our 50% of our permanent colleagues globally.
Whether permanent or temporary, full or part time, ULTIMATE GOAL OF DELIVERING MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES TO OUR based in Germany or Singapore or anywhere else in the world, Other engagement initiatives we want to attract people from all walks of life and make GUESTS.
OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY IS SUPPORTED BY THREE PILLARS: EMPLOYEE We encourage all of our attractions to use the Merlin intranet sure they have a truly great experience working for us.
ENGAGEMENT: TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT: AND COMPENSATION AND to publish newsfeeds of interesting information and developments Our employment policies, amongst many other things, are at their sites, as well as providing further regular communications testament to this and include Equal Opportunities, Global BENEFITS.
OUR STRATEGY DRIVES US TOWARDS OUR AMBITIONS: TO BE through the more traditional routes of newsletters, team briefs Whistleblowing and Global Study Support.
THE BEST COMPANY TO WORK FOR IN OUR INDUSTRY: TO NURTURE OUR The Wizard Wants to Know In addition, all our employees can be actively involved themselves Our annual online employee survey, GLOBAL LEADERS: AND TO REWARD PERFORMANCE.
WE MEASURE OUR through a number of popular initiatives.
These include: The Wizard Wants to Know, SUCCESS THROUGH THE OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES STAR - our online global recognition scheme that saw more went out in the summer to all than 90,000 Stars sent out worldwide in 2014, in recognition our employees across the globe.
WE CONTINUE TO RECORD IN OUR ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY.
of an outstanding contribution or as a simple Thank You for a This survey is our chance to find job well done.
out how engaged our people are Spark an idea - an online portal for colleagues to share their and to hear what its like to work ideas, big or small.
We have received hundreds of ideas since for this magical Company of we launched this scheme in 2012 and lots have already been ours.
We are excited that 97% put into practice in our attractions.
We never cease to be completed the survey and thrilled amazed by all the fabulous ideas that our people come that 95% said that they enjoy up with.
We think these The Merlin Way film competition - run every year to give our are truly awesome scores!
people everywhere the chance to make a two minute video clip demonstrating just how they make The Merlin Way come Our overall staff engagement score is one of Merlins key to life.
They can be so good that we show these inspirational performance indicators and is derived from the responses to films when we are looking to attract new recruits to come a number of key questions within the survey.
We are delighted and join us at Team Merlin.
that our staff engagement score was exceptionally high once again.
It was way above our 80% target, something that we are all very proud of.
The largest driver of this, we believe, is The Merlin Way, our spell of values that wins the hearts and minds of our employees to deliver the most magical, memorable experiences to our guests.
Diversity We believe that our people are the single biggest reason behind the Companys success, so we always strive to make life at Merlin better for all of them, with diversity being an important part of this.
We have designed our strategy to give us the best people for all roles, regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation or any other factor.
Our aim is to ensure that everyone has equal access to all opportunities wherever possible.
Further details of our disability agenda are outlined in our Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 58.
In terms of gender diversity, we have launched the Women at Merlin W@M programme to help us give women the chances and support they need to achieve their ambitions and develop into senior roles.
Throughout 2014 W@M activities included a number of different events, workshops and webinars.
Our diversity strategy was recognised when we won the Women 1st Large Business Award this year.
That was incredibly gratifying and a strong indication that we are doing the right things.
The Merlin Way: our spell of values that wins the hearts and minds Hosts at LEGOLAND Windsor making it fun!
of our employees to deliver memorable experiences to our guests.
39 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents TEAM MERLIN TEAM MERLIN Merlin employee exchange programme Talentanddevelopment The Merlin Employee Exchange Programme helps our people It is essential to Merlins future growth that we recruit and via a job swap in another attraction that can be anywhere in develop the Team Merlin of the future.
We are an entertainment the world to help them develop new skills, experiences, and company, dedicated to providing memorable experiences to our relationships, positioning them for their next step in their guests, so we seek out the people who have a love of fun and professional journey.
a natural ability to inject some magic into the lives of our guests when they come and visit one of our attractions.
Once recruited, And finally, at any time our teams can access Merlins School we then nurture their talents and support their development of Magic, our online training resource run in conjunction with throughout their careers with us.
the renowned Ashridge Business School.
Recruitment  We use technology more and When you rely on your people as much as we do, we believe it more in our hiring strategy to is essential to provide compensation and benefit programmes improve the application process, which are competitive and which support our business with social media a big part of and culture.
We work on building relationships in developing Share plans markets to improve our campaigns This year we made good progress towards our goal of helping there and make us as appealing as many of our colleagues as possible to take an equity stake in as possible to local candidates.
We call this owning a piece of the magic, and we believe Our recruiters need to be experts it is an important way of making Team Merlin even more in choosing Merlin people with committed to our success.
the right skills and attitudes, so we have online tools to help them Following our Listing in November 2013, we launched our share best practice, as well as first Employee Sharesave plan in January 2014 to give all our videos with opinions and ideas permanent colleagues the chance to save money over a three from our senior leaders.
year period to buy Merlin shares.
This was communicated Colleagues at Alton Towers bringing some fun to CBeebies Land internally with a comprehensive, multi-media campaign that XLR8 included videos from our CEO, webinars, face to face briefings, We have a well-established fast track graduate programme in intranet updates, posters and table-top teasers.
Overall, almost place for marketing and general management positions, which 30% of permanent staff took up the opportunity to start saving we call XLR8.
Roles on the programme are always tailored to the to buy shares.
In the UK, the take-up rate was 40%, with some individuals who are supported through their career every step of teams having more than 80% of their people taking part.
The success of this can be seen through our 2012 intake, all of whom have progressed to permanent roles in 2014.
We We have also continued to roll out the other long term incentive have also promoted lots of our previous XLR8 alumni into senior plans that we launched last year, making grants to more than 50 positions across the Group during the past year.
The 2014 intake colleagues who joined Merlin or were promoted to senior included fun-loving, talented recruits from across the UK, North management grades during the year.
America, Germany, China and Australia.
Other benefits initiatives Leadership development programmes We run a number of programmes to support our teams We have many superb leadership development programmes in and continue to harmonise our local benefit structures on place, including our flagship Xcalibre course, run with Kingston a territory by territory basis.
University in the UK and aimed at leaders who have bags of potential.
We also have the Merlin leadership programme, which With our rapid growth, 2014 has seen a big step up in the we run across the globe.
In addition, during the course of last year we introduced some Bootcamps, which are development number of colleagues moving to new countries to support centres specifically for our general management, finance and our business growth.
Our international mobility programme is HR team members.
These courses include a combination therefore proving invaluable in helping us move our talent of personal development and safely, securely and comfortably.
competency assessment to help us identify and nurture talent.
We offer an external, confidential Employee Assistance Programme to support our staff when they need it.
We also offer reduced-cost gym memberships at a number of sites and have various wellness initiatives around the Group.
Actors from the Blackpool Tower Dungeon, ready for Scary Fun!
