STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT FOCUS: OPERATING SMARTER DELIVERING ON COMMITMENTS Mark Cutifani We have delivered on the major operational and portfolio commitments for the year that we made to shareholders.
Most prominently, we shipped our first ore from the Minas-Rio project in Brazil ahead of schedule in October, and expect to bring the project in $400 million below the revised budget.
However, the steep drop in the iron ore price has resulted in a $3.5 billion post-tax write down in the carrying value of Minas-Rio.
We are, though, clear TRANSFORMING THE BUSINESS about the assets potential and the differentiated nature 2014 was a year of significant operational of its high quality products in the market.
We have made substantial progress towards creating a improvement against sharp commodity platinum business fit for the future.
We have defined the price declines amid generally adverse shape of our future platinum portfolio, taken the hard decisions to close down a number of shafts, restructured the market conditions.
assets that we plan to divest to demonstrate their long term commercial viability, set disposal processes under way and, most importantly, aligned our plans with government and Our diversified product portfolio provided us with a with our employees.
degree of insulation from the particularly sharp price falls for the bulk commodities of iron ore and coal, albeit in an I have been clear that a platform of operational excellence is environment where weaker commodity prices accounted fundamental to delivering the full potential of this business.
1 for $2.4 billion of underlying EBIT reduction.
The Our top 16 priority assets contribute the majority of value to operational turnaround of a number of our priority Anglo American and offer the scope for the greatest upside.
operations and the continued weakening of many producer The majority of those assets are now performing above plan country currencies $1.3 billion positive impact to underlying compared to only three in 2013 and the remainder are EBIT also helped to mitigate the effects of the generally improving in line with our expectations.
After adjusting for the 2 We have focused urgent attention on the performance of platinum strike, copper equivalent unit costs in local our largest and most valuable mines, a number of which had currency terms decreased by 3% real in 2014, and we become severely constrained in recent years due to a lack of have delivered a $500 million sustainable reduction in mine development, with the positive results seen in our 2014 overhead and project study and evaluation costs compared operational performance.
Underlying EBIT of $4.9 billion, a 25% decrease, and underlying EBITDA of $7.8 billion, an 18% The redesign of the pit at the Sishen iron ore mine in decrease, reflect the substantial operational progress we South Africa and the implementation of our new Operating have made to restore the performance of our mines, though Model have successfully unlocked the challenge of excess further progress is necessary to meet our return targets waste material that needs to be mined to access the orebody.
Underlying earnings reduced by 17% Sishen hit its target production level for 2014 of 35 million to $2.2 billion.
tonnes Mt of iron ore and is now on track to recover its production level to 38 Mt in 2016, in excess of our original Our safety and environmental performance is a leading 37 Mt target.
At the same time, its sister mine at Kolomela indicator of how we are running the business.
The greater continues to outperform its nameplate capacity of 9 Mt per the degree of planned work and stable operations, the safer annum, producing 11.6 Mt in 2014, due to plant throughput we will be.
We have seen a very meaningful improvement optimisation, delivering ore feed at a lower unit cost and across our key safety and environmental performance complementing the improving Sishen performance.
metrics, taking into account the five-month platinum strike, reflecting our focus on high risk activities, standards and Similarly, at our Los Bronces copper mine in Chile, the controls.
Despite the positive progress, I am saddened to waste backlogs and other pit constraints of previous years report that we still lost six colleagues during the year, so we have been cleared and the mine and plant have been have a lot more work to do and our focus is unrelenting to stabilised, enabling record material to be mined in the year achieve zero harm.
and continuous ore to be fed into the plant.
At the Collahuasi joint operation, also in Chile, the performance of the mining We have shown in 2014 that we are adapting and delivering operation has been stabilised and improved and attention and are on the right track to transform the performance will move to the plant in 2015.
As a result of these of Anglo American.
Our mining operations are the engine interventions to turn around the operations, we have been of our business and we have delivered higher and more able to steadily increase production expectations for our consistent volumes, with a clear focus on increased stability, 1 Excludes fide Beers Copper business during the year, to achieve full year productivity, margins and returns.
There is significantly more volume price and production of 748 kt of copper, a 7% increase on the original improvement potential as we continue to build the capability impact of the strike guidance for the year.
to achieve a step change in performance and returns from at Platinum.
2 See page 202 for our exceptional resource endowment.
the definition and calculation of copper equivalent unit costs.
08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report The performance of our diamond business fide Beers is clear: that without securing and sustaining our social is a clear demonstration of the benefits and value of our licences to operate, more operations and developments will diversified business model.
The integration of fide Beers face disruption, costs will escalate further and opportunities into Anglo American is complete: fide Beers contributed will be lost on all fronts.
We are working tirelessly through $1.4 billion of underlying EBIT in 2014, 28% of and the partnerships with the likes of the Kellogg Innovation second largest contributor to the Groups total, and Network and faith groups to change the status quo, to listen delivered a 15% return on capital employed ROCE.
to what our host communities need not what we think they need and to uplift the industry to realise our vision of becoming real partners in their future.
DISCIPLINED ALLOCATION OF CAPITAL Consistent with our focus on returns, we must be disciplined OUTLOOK with our deployment of physical and financial resources to those assets that will provide us with the greatest value for Despite the headlines of economic uncertainty and capital employed and potential upside.
Through our asset geopolitical tensions, the underlying fundamentals of our review process, we identified a number of assets principally business applying world class technical skills to world in our Platinum, Copper and Coal businesses that are likely class assets remain attractive over the long term.
Declining to deliver greater value under different ownership, enabling us ore grades, a very small number of new mineral discoveries to concentrate our resources on our most attractive priority and project developments, ever rising government and assets.
A number of sales processes are under way: however, community expectations, and infrastructure and energy our value hurdles will need to be met prior to divestment, challenges all point towards a constrained supply picture in what is a challenging environment for asset sales.
The for most of our products in a world where the major proposed merger of Lafarge with Holcim, on which the sale consuming economies are still growing, albeit at a slower of our 50% shareholding in Lafarge Tarmac to Lafarge is pace of growth.
Chinas continuing growth slowdown dependent, is progressing in line with the announced has significantly altered the demand profile for many completion timetable of the first half of 2015 following a commodities, but successful reform and rebalancing should positive decision by the European Commission in December make the economy more resilient in the medium to longer 2014, but remains subject to certain other conditions.
While Europe and Japan are still struggling, we have seen more encouraging news on economic developments We are committed to maintaining a robust capital structure in the US and an apparent strengthening of Indias economy.
which balances long term business value growth with sustainable capital returns to shareholders.
In 2014, net In the immediate term, I expect tough trading conditions debt increased to $12.9 billion and we expect to touch a to prevail during 2015, but we are determined to continue peak level of $13.5-$14 billion during 2015, after receipt to build on our already very significant operational of Lafarge Tarmac sales proceeds.
Anglo American is improvements, drive towards an effective and efficient fortunate to have a world class resource endowment, organisation and culture, and to be unwavering in our including a number of attractive, predominantly brownfield capital discipline.
We will continue to allocate capital to our most value accretive options and pursue a THANKS syndication approach for major greenfield developments, in line with managing individual risk exposures and On behalf of my executive colleagues, I would like to thank achieving our long term net debt target of $10-$12 billion, all our people our employees and contractors and the assisted by our asset disposal programme.
extensive network of stakeholders in our business for their continued dedication and support as we make the changes Our revised Operating Model is delivering strong underlying necessary to create a more agile, robust and sustainable results and we are building on those foundations to Anglo American.
We are transforming this business.
We complete the next phase of the transformation process.
have a clear direction and we are creating a different, better Our focus on ROCE drives the right behaviours within the future for Anglo American and for you all.
business and we are moving all the levers within our control 3 to deliver $4 billion of additional EBIT in 2016 compared Lastly, I thank all the members of the Board, led by our to 2012 EBIT, all of which has now been fully scoped.
We chairman Sir John Parker, for sharing their extensive are intensifying our efforts to identify the additional EBIT collective experience and providing the support for our necessary to mitigate recent downward pressure on prices.
strategy to deliver our full potential.
PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE Societys expectations of the mining industry have long been in the spotlight, often for good reason, and our reputations can be shaped by the actions of others.
At a Mark Cutifani global level, mining activity occupies a tiny fraction of the Chief Executive earths surface yet, to a community neighbouring a mine, it may feel somewhat different.
The business imperative 3 Attributable and at 30 June 2013 exchange rates and commodity prices.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 09
