Strategy Chief Executive Officers review Operating review Technology In 2014, the management team delivered strongly Keller is the global leader in many technologies against the Groups strategy.
A combination of and has the broadest range of products in the improving conditions in the US, our business industry.
Much of the Groups growth over the improvement initiatives and our risk management years has come from transferring technologies programme delivered further growth in revenue from one geography to another.
Developing and and operating profit.
Revenue of 1.6bn was an transferring technologies therefore continues to all-time high for the Group and we increased the be a major focus for us and is important for operating margin to 5.8%, marking good progress securing future growth.
towards achieving our through-the-cycle target of 6.5%.
We identify opportunities for technology transfer, promote centres of excellence, organise training Update on business improvement and workshops in new technologies and then initiatives facilitate and co-ordinate research and Safety development.
Examples of successful technology Safety remains paramount in our business and transfers in the year include introducing the Groups Think Safe programme continues to geotechnical products to our relatively new drive improvements and raise awareness.
Whilst business in Africa and introducing driven piling Justin Atkinson we are pleased to report that the Groups AFR into our Asian businesses.
Chief Executive Officer reduced from 0.61 to 0.39 during 2014, one of our employees died in a work-related accident Conditions in our major markets whilst on a jobsite in Ghana in mid-June.
Such In the US, expenditure in private non-residential a tragic event reminds us of why we must be construction increased significantly for the second relentless in our efforts to eliminate work-related year, with good growth in most segments.
In the accidents and increases our resolve to redouble residential market, housing starts were up 9% our efforts on all aspects of the Groups safety year-on-year although this was primarily driven programme.
To that end, the Groups Think Safe by multi-family homes as growth in single family programme is being updated and relaunched starts paused in the second half of the year.
Perhaps most encouragingly, 2014 saw a return to growth in public expenditure on construction, Large contracts with year on year spend up 2% after four years The more ambitious development projects and of decline.
infrastructure plans that have started to appear on the world markets in the past few years are In Canada, construction activity in the Western an indication of the impact of population growth Canadian resources markets remains subdued but and related urbanisation.
Recognising this market demand in the commercial and infrastructure trend, for the last three years we have been segments is holding up well.
targeting larger contracts, which in our specialist market start at just 5m, to supplement the small Conditions in most of our European markets to medium sized contracts which we perform remain challenging, particularly in Southern as a matter of routine.
Looking at Kellers most important increased the number of orders of larger markets, there are some reasonable prospects contracts and during the year 25% of revenue in both Poland and Austria, despite the overall was from such contracts.
We expect to make markets being relatively quiet: demand for our further progress in this area.
services in Germany remains flat: and the UK is the one market which has returned to steady, Risk management albeit slow, growth.
Three years ago we increased our focus on risk management including the creation of the post of There are good opportunities in the Middle East Group Technology & Best Practice Director.
Since but the market remains very competitive.
Since that time local risk systems and procedures have we acquired Franki Africa in November 2013, the been refreshed, a Risk Management Framework construction market in South Africa has picked has been introduced, our Bid Appraisal System up.
Whilst there are some exciting opportunities has been updated and KPIs for poorly performing elsewhere in the continent, a number of them are contracts have been introduced.
As a result of in the oil and gas arena and their timing is these actions, the trend in improved contract therefore uncertain.
Although the The management exceptional contract dispute in the UK predated Construction expenditure in the Groups Asian this recent period, lessons have been learned markets remains generally robust.
There are a team delivered from this project and have been disseminated number of significant infrastructure projects in throughout the Group.
Singapore and the Malaysian construction market strongly against is buoyant.
In India, we are continuing to see signs Equipment of increasing confidence after a couple of our strategy.
We have been working hard over recent years relatively slow years.
to improve the utilisation of our equipment by transferring equipment to where it is most In Australia, construction expenditure across needed, scrapping our older or obsolete virtually all segments, including the resources machinery and by investing in newer equipment.
sector, has been subdued for some time and This has meant that capital expenditure has there are no significant signs of this changing in increased in 2014 to be above depreciation, a the short term.
The exception has been in LNG, level we expect to continue for the foreseeable where Keller has won and performed successfully future throughout business cycles.
We have a a number of large projects, including the small plant facility in Southern Germany where Wheatstone project, although the foundation we manufacture a limited amount of proprietary works for the LNG plants under construction in equipment which cannot be bought on the open Australia are now effectively complete.
Whilst market and which we believe gives us a significant there are some significant infrastructure projects competitive advantage.
We have committed to on the horizon, these are unlikely to come to further investment in this facility in 2015. fruition in 2015.
6 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Keller Group plc snapshot Our vision To be the best at being global and the best at being local.
What we want to be To provide technically advanced and cost-effective foundation solutions in order to deliver long term value to Our mission our shareholders.
What we set out to achieve Our services What we do P. 23 Piling and Ground Anchors, nails Specialty Post-tension Instrumentation earth retention improvement and minipiles grouting concrete and monitoring North America Asia Our markets We are the market leader in North America where In recent years we have built up our presence in Asia.
Where we operate we have had a market presence for over 30 years.
P. 89 Australia EMEA We operate under five business units throughout Our EMEA division has operations across Europe, Australia.
Although they specialise in different the Middle East and Africa, and a developing business techniques, on very large or complex projects, they in Latin America.
may join forces, under the Keller Australia brand.
Our business model is founded on a number of key Expertise Business model pillars and is the key enabler of our strategy: Safety How the business delivers Technology value People P. 1011 Our strategy is to extend our global leadership in Expansion Our strategy specialist ground engineering through both organic into new, higher growth regions How we will achieve our growth, particularly in developing markets, and mission New technologies and methods targeted acquisitions.
P. 1213 developed or acquired There are five main elements to our strategy: Transfer of technologies and methods within our current regions Design and build capability and offering alternative solutions Continuous improvement to maintain our competitive edge A We measure our strategy against a focused set of five Revenue growth compared with market growth KPIs key performance indicators: B Operating margins How we monitor our success P. 23 C Return on net operating assets D Accident Frequency Rate E Staff turnover rate The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Market cycles Risks Group business model, strategy and resources.
Tendering and management of contracts How we manage our markets We have five key risks across our business: Expansion and operating environment Safety P. 2223 People There are four main areas where our business impacts Safety Resources and on society and where we have responsibilities which Environment relationships extend beyond our financial performance: Workplace and People What we need to achieve Communities our mission P. 2425 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7
