Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Trading in 2014 was principally On a reported basis, adjusted operating Chairmans and 3 profit declined by 8% to 198.1 million driven by a strong North American and LFL operating profit decreased by 6%.
Chief Executives performance, partly offset by Sales growth of 2% was insufficient to offset more challenging conditions in the combined effect of a lower gross margin Review the Eurozone and China.
arising from sales mix, anticipated headcount increases, investments in our strategic growth initiatives and overhead cost inflation.
Consequently, operating margins declined by one percentage point on a LFL basis to 16.9%.
Net interest charges decreased by 3.5 million to 5.6 million, principally reflecting lower average net debt levels and a reduced average interest rate.
The combined effect of the above movements was a decline of 6% in adjusted profit before tax from 205.6 million to 192.5 million.
Financial position and dividend Operating cash flow continued to be strong, with 89% of our operating profit being converted into cash.
Combined with normal dividend and tax outflows and the consideration paid for the six acquisitions made during the year, this resulted in net John OHiggins John Hughes debt increasing by 21.5 million compared Chief Executive Chairman to the end of 2013.
At year end, net debt stood at 125.6 million, around 0.6 times the full-year EBITDA of 219.8 million.
Results overview The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 30.5 pence per share which, Following a good fourth quarter, the Group Sales combined with the interim dividend delivered full-year sales growth of 2% on a of 16.0 pence per share, gives a total of constant currency organic like-for-like, LFL 1,173.7m 1 2 46.5 pence per share for the year, an increase basis.
Reported sales declined by 2% to of 9%.
The dividend is covered 2.7 times.
1,173.7 million, with a one percentage point 3 Adjusted operating profit This is consistent with our policy of making contribution from acquisitions being more progressive dividend payments based upon than offset by a five percentage point adverse 198.1m affordability and sustainability.
The dividend impact from foreign currency exchange will be paid on 26 June 2015 to shareholders 3 movements.
There was a good performance Adjusted earnings per share on the register at the close of business on from three of our four business segments, with 29 May 2015. combined sales growth of 4% across 12 4.4p the Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls Dividend Strategy segments.
Sales declined by 3% in the Materials We have a clearly-defined strategy and Analysis segment, although it did recover to 46.5p in 2014 we maintained our focus and deliver good growth in the fourth quarter.
investment on our key strategic growth This segment faced weak demand initiatives.
in the metals, minerals and mining industries, which was only partially offset by sales We continued to invest in innovation and growth in the pharmaceutical and new product development, increasing R&D semiconductor sectors.
More detail on the spend broadly in line with sales growth to contribution made by each of the four 86.5 million and launching new products business segments can be found in the across all segments.
R&D expenditure as a Operating Review on pages 30 to 37. percentage of sales remained at 7.4% for the full year.
We believe that this investment Regionally, sales to North America grew by will further strengthen our market positions 6%.
Sales to Asia Pacific increased by 1%, and leaves the Group well placed to deliver with good growth in Japan offset by a flat good growth rates through the cycle.
performance in China and a slight decline 1 Unless otherwise stated, references to sales increases elsewhere in the region.
In Europe, sales Our drive to expand Omega Engineering decreases going forward relate to the LFL sales declined by 1%, with strong growth in the Omega beyond its predominantly US increase decrease rather than the reported sales increase decrease.
UK offset by weakness in Germany and other customer base to become a global business 2 The numbers stated in this report have been restated Eurozone economies, particularly during continued in 2014.
In January 2014, we to exclude the trading results and impact of the the second half of the year.
Sales to Germany opened an office in Japan, supplementing disposal of the Fusion UV business which was sold declined by 3% in the year.
Sales to the previous investments in China, Korea, on 31January 2013.
Rest of the world declined by 1%, with good Singapore, Brazil and Mexico.
Since then we 3 Unless otherwise stated, figures quoted for operating profit, net interest, profit before tax, tax, earnings sales growth in Brazil offset by a decline in have further strengthened Omegas presence per share and operating cash flow are adjusted in Europe and Asia through additional sales to both Africa and Russia, the latter measures for an explanation of adjusted figures due to the imposition of economic sanctions investment in digital marketing and local and reconciliation to the statutory reported figures see Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
operational capabilities in these regions.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 02 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Since the end of 2014, we have invested Lisa, Bill and Ulf bring significant knowledge Focussing on operational a further 28.0 million on another and relevant experience in the energy, excellence bolt-on acquisition: ReliaSoft, a reliability automotive and aerospace and mining At Omega, initiatives to deliver operational engineering software business that is industries respectively, and their expertise improvements such as reduced process being integrated into an existing software will be a valuable addition to the Board.
time, improved delivery performance business in Test and Measurement.
More We would like to thank John Warren for the and inventory reduction are being information on all of these acquisitions significant contributions he has made to the implemented.
For example, changes can be found within the Operating Review Spectris Board since his appointment in 2006, to the thermocouple wire re-spooling on pages 30 to 37. and wish him well for the future following his process have improved lead times from retirement from the Board in April.
five days to two days and reduced nished stock inventory by $500,000.
Management and Board Spectris values There were a number of changes to Spectris Executive Committee in 2014.
Our values are central to Spectris, guiding Eoghan OLionaird joined the Committee our decision-making and ensuring that we on 3February and assumed Jim Websters always comply with the highest standards, responsibilities for the Materials Analysis wherever we are in the world.
We want to be and Test and Measurement segments.
Before a company that our people are proud to work joining Spectris, Eoghan was president of for, where they feel valued, motivated and the Leica Microsystems division of Danaher capable of reaching their full potential.
Jo Hallas joined We believe that our values are pivotal to on 16 May, taking on responsibility for our success and growth and this has been It is pleasing to see that this investment in the the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial demonstrated by the relentless commitment geographic expansion of Omega is starting Controls segments following the departure given by all our employees across the world to show results, with good sales performance of Steve Blair.
Jo was formerly general during the year.
In October, we conducted in 2014, particularly in Asia.
manager of Residential Controls at our first ethics survey, an independently-run We made six acquisitions during 2014, Invensys plc.
anonymous survey to help us assess our ethical culture and the effectiveness of our investing a total of 94.1 million, adding There were also a number of changes a new business within the Test and ethics programme.
The feedback from the to the composition of the Board of Spectris survey, which in aggregate was very positive, Measurement segment and boosting the during the year.
On 25 April, Lisa Davis growth prospects of several of our existing will help us continue to evolve and improve joined the Board as a Non-executive Director.
our programme during the course of 2015 businesses.
A new strategic growth platform Lisa is now a member of the Siemens AG was created in the Test and Measurement and beyond.
managing board and chair of Siemens segment with the addition of ESG Solutions Corporation in the US.
On 19 December, ESG in December.
ESG is a leading supplier Summary and outlook we announced that Bill Seeger and of microseismic monitoring equipment and Ulf Quellmann would join the Board as Trading in 2014 was principally driven by a analysis solutions.
Its technology enables its Non-executive Directors with effect from strong North American performance, partly customers, who are primarily in the oil and 1 January 2015.
In addition, Bill will assume offset by more challenging conditions in the gas and mining sectors, to optimise the role of Chairman of the Audit and Eurozone and China.
Assuming a similar production and improve their return on Risk Committee from John Warren with macroeconomic environment in 2015, we investment.
We believe that there is a immediate effect.
Bill was previously group expect to deliver progress as we benefit from significant opportunity to strengthen ESGs finance director of GKN plc up until August our investment in new products and from the market position, expand internationally 2014, a position he had held for seven years, acquisitions made during 2014 and the early and accelerate its growth, both organically and prior to that spent over 20 years in senior part of 2015.
These investments, together and via further acquisitions.
finance roles within the automotive and with our broad end-market exposures and The other five acquisitions four in the aerospace industries.
He currently serves as strong financial position, provide the Board Materials Analysis segment and one in the Test chairman of the audit committee at Smiths of Spectris with confidence that the Company and Measurement segment all strengthen Group plc.
Ulf is currently global head of is well positioned for 2015 and beyond.
existing businesses, bringing treasury at Rio Tinto plc, having worked in new technologies and customer access.
the metals, minerals and mining industry Two of the acquisitions in Materials Analysis for the past 12 years.
Prior to that he held increase our presence in the life science a number of senior management roles sector, a fast-growing market that we at General Motors.
identified as a key growth opportunity After nine years of service, John Warren in early 2012.
Since then we have invested will retire as a Non-executive Director of both through in-house product development Spectris plc immediately following the Annual and strategic bolt-on acquisitions to develop General Meeting AGM on 24 April 2015. this new business stream.
We remain With effect from 1 January 2015, he stood encouraged by the progress we have down as Senior Independent Director and made to date and the growth prospects Russell King has assumed this role in addition for this business in 2015 and beyond.
to remaining Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
