Strategic report Group Chief Executives report The good results in 2014 again demonstrate the fundamental strengths and resilience of our business, with record profits and margin improvement achieved against an unhelpful economic background and a stiff currency headwind.
Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive Operate sustainably andhelp improve Introduction Segment revenue changes our customers sustainability, which is The good results in 2014 again demonstrate m at the core of our business operations.
the fundamental strengths and resilience of our business, with record profits and Our focus is on generating our own growth and outperforming our markets.
Our direct margin improvement achieved against an 2% 2% 8% 13% -6% unhelpful economic background and a sales approach provides opportunities for us to unlock unrecognised customers stiff currency headwind.
Our direct sales 16.0 business model leverages the skills and needs, which is especially valuable in an 12.0 environment of subdued and slowing global experience of our 1,300 sales and service industrial production growth.
Our business 8.0 engineers across the world, to generate is very resilient but not immune to any solutions to customers energy and water 4.0 market weakness.
savings, emissions, productivity, quality and 0.0 cost problems.
In so doing, we reinforce the We are actively engaged in the trusting, long-term relationships that we have implementation of our growth strategy with our customers and further build our -44m across the organisation, with the pace of installed base, which underpins the resiliency strategy roll out increasing as we progress EMEA Asia Pacic Americas WatsonFX of our business that also benefits from the Marlow priority projects.
In addition, we have high replacement element to our sales.
strengthened our acquisition strategy and Rates of change at constant currency.
During 2014, we undertook an extensive sharpened our target search criteria with the aim of expanding the capabilities of our strategic review that confirmed both the quality of our business and identified how core steam specialties and Watson-Marlow Segment operating profit businesses, extending geographic coverage we could do better what we already do well.
changes m This evolutionary strategy is captured in our and increasing our addressable markets into related areas.
six strategic priorities: Increase direct sales effectiveness 4% 4% 31% 20% -10% Market environment through sector focus, enhancing our Steam provides the heat source across a customer value propositions: 10.0 wide range of industries and niche peristaltic Develop the knowledge and skills of 7.5 pumps are used across a range of sectors.
our expert sales and service teams, 5.0 This wide spread, coupled with the fact that enabling them to better understand 2.5 a large proportion of our revenue is derived our customers processes and apply 0.0 from customers operating and maintenance engineered solutions to their steam and spend, means that our markets tend to niche pumping and fluid path problems: reflect the rates of growth in industrial -15m Broaden our global presence, production both in individual markets, EMEA Asia Pacic Americas WatsonFX achieving a first-to-market advantage from Marlow early entry into new markets: Based on adjusted profit at constant currency.
Leveraging R&D investments, Unless otherwise stated, all references are to adjusted profit, widening our range of new products and which excludes certain non-operating items as set out in note 2 on page 120. solutions, which is crucial to the long-term growth and sustainability of our business: Optimise supply chain effectiveness, enhancing product availability, increasing flexibility, reducing costs and optimising customer service: 30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 regionally and worldwide.
The nature of our Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, with Record operating profit and margins business is that we generally lag movements growth in most of the larger operations, and were achieved in 2014.
Group operating in economic conditions by a couple of in Asia Pacific, with Korea performing well.
profit of 153.0 million was 12% higher at quarters.
Global industrial production growth constant currency, with a strong currency Sales of 678.3 million show a reduction picked up modestly in the second half of headwind reducing the reported increase of nearly 2% compared with sales of 2013 and into 2014 but has been slowing to 1% over the prior year operating 689.4 million in 2013, due to unfavourable again since the latter half of 2014 in both profit of 151.6 million.
Watson-Marlow currency movements that impacted developed and emerging markets.
performed very strongly and there were sales by 6.4% on translation.
Sterling was operating profit increases at constant Whilst the price of oil may influence the cost stronger against every one of our reporting currency in each of the steam specialties of energy to our customers, the correlation of currencies, compounded by significant segments in the Americas, Asia Pacific the price of oil to our sales is weak: payback currency weakness in a number of our and EMEA.
on energy cost savings being only one of smaller markets.
These stiff currency a wide range of motivations for customers headwinds have now largely abated and There was a strong increase in operating to trade with us.
Our direct sales business if recent exchange rates prevail for the full profit margin, rising to 22.5% from 22.0%, model means that our sales engineers year, sales in 2015 would show a further net despite the stiff currency headwind.
work closely with customers to identify reduction of 2% on translation into sterling The Group benefited from continued improvements to their steam systems, and versus 2014 average exchange rates.
price management actions and broadly peristaltic pump and associated fluid path flat raw material and component costs.
Watson-Marlows brand has been changed systems.
Typical benefits, other than energy Improvements in our internal supply chain to Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group, savings, include reduced CO e emissions, 2 enabled a reduced level of subcontract reflecting the evolution of the business water savings, productivity improvements, costs and increased efficiency, and from a manufacturer of niche peristaltic efficiency improvements, reduced quality generally business and product mix pumps and tubing, to its current position costs and regulatory compliance.
was favourable versus the prior year.
as a world leader in niche peristaltic pumps We continued to invest in product and Market conditions in Europe weakened and associated fluid path technologies.
market development for the long term, steadily through the year, with year-on-year Organic sales growth in Watson-Marlow of however, we tightened controls of growth in industrial production close to zero 9% was spread across virtually all product overheads through the second half of by the year end.
This included negative lines, with new products continuing to the year, as the world economic growth growth all year in France and Italy, and make a valuable contribution.
Our business is steadily slowing growth in Germany but with increases in both project work and base seasonally biased to the second half and, a continued positive reading in the UK and business, with progress in most industry as expected, this was slightly accentuated indeed Spain.
sectors except precious metals mining, in 2014 by shipment of the larger than where sales were down on the prior year.
In the Americas, industrial production normal backlog built up in the first Geographically, growth was strongest in growth continued at a healthy pace in North half year.
Asia, from a relatively smaller base, as we America throughout the period, in contrast to further penetrate developing markets, and negative growth through the period in South Market outlook sales were well ahead in North America and America, including in Brazil and Argentina EMEA.
The acquisition of BioPure added We continue to benefit from the many where economic conditions remain difficult.
a further 4% to sales, taking total constant improvements made to our business in In Asia Pacific, industrial production currency growth of Watson-Marlow to 13%.
recent years and expect further benefits growth was positive but slowed markedly for all stakeholders over the coming Organic sales increased by 3.4% in our in the second half of 2014 due to the years as we implement growth strategies steam specialties business, with higher than widely reported deceleration in China and across all aspects of our business to drive average increases in controls and energy negative growth in Korea in the final quarter.
management that are of increasing strategic Market conditions were, however, good in focus.
Higher sales came from improved Industrial production growth prospects Australia and some of our smaller operations base business, reflecting sustained demand have been scaled back for 2015. in Indonesia and the Philippines.
from customers operating and maintenance However, we have an outstanding growth activities, while project work remained record and a direct sales business model Progress in 2014 broadly flat due to a continued lack of that offers opportunities for self-help, Group sales increased by just over 5% confidence by customers to invest in higher whilst deriving a large proportion of at constant currency to 678.3 million, value expansion, productivity and energy revenues from customers operating comprising organic sales growth of over saving projects.
Geographically, organic and maintenance budgets, giving a high 4% and nearly 1% from the acquisition of growth was led by the Americas, with sales degree of resilience to our business BioPure Technology Limited in January up in North America and well ahead in Latin in more difficult economic conditions.
Growth was strongest in WatsonAmerica: the latter supported by some We are increasing investment and adding Marlow, with all geographic regions currency-driven pricing gains in Argentina.
resources in support of our growth ahead.
In the steam specialties business, Organic sales rose modestly in EMEA, due strategy and we are confident that, the Americas segment saw good overall in part to project work in Italy, and rose in through these actions, we can continue organic sales growth, with progress in North Asia Pacific due largely to Korea.
Sales were to outperform our markets and deliver America and a good gain in Latin America, flat in China as industrial overcapacity in further improvements in our business.
the latter including the benefit of currencymany sectors and government initiated antirelated price increases in Argentina.
corruption measures across the country, Organic sales were modestly ahead in reduced overall levels of project work.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 4.
