Co m p utac e n t e r 20 years on 4 Chief Executives review Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our markets p6 Our strategy p8 Digital transformation Being the champion brings growth and of the user builds on our innovation back on heritage and provides the CIOs agenda.
Resources and relationships p7 Our business model p14 We focus on our best The customer-centric people, infrastructure and model is designed tools to deliver convincing to provide long-term results for our customers.
years would not have been possible on our sophisticated and demanding.
The significant 2014 was my twentieth own, and the relationships we have with our strategy work undertaken by the Groups year as Chief Executive vendors, sub-contractors and other external Board and Management over the previous Officer of Computacenter.
stakeholders have been, and remain crucial 24 months has allowed us to bring further in any success that we have.
clarity to what we want to deliver, and who During that time the we want to do business with.
Computacenter Group has changed We have always been clear about the need cannot be, and should not be, all things to to put our customers first, which includes all people.
Through our clarity of strategic beyond recognition, being straightforward and transparent in ambition and the operating stability that becoming a public our dealings with them.
Our relationships we have now achieved through the company in 1998, and with our customers have been aided by the implementation of our Group Operating longevity and continued relevance of our Model, we will focus relentlessly on our subsequently continuing client director management model, which execution across all of our operating to grow its revenues, allows our empowered and accountable geographies, which will have access to the client directors to respond flexibly, quickly Groups best people, processes and tools.
operational locations and decisively to the needs and wants of and the services that it our customers.
When I look back over the last 20 years, provides to its customers.
I am pleased with the progress that the Group Computacenters ideology has always has made, and in dealing with our future Whilst the Group has been to grow with our customers, and challenges we should be confident and continued to evolve and whilst we are looking to build value for recognise that there is much to build on.
our stakeholders across all time horizons, Whilst I am pleased, I am not satisfied.
mature over that period, we continue to consider the long term in There remains much to do and improve, there are two of our all aspects and at all levels of our decisionmany opportunities to exploit and our passion stakeholders who making.
This allows us to recognise, take to deliver for our customers remains as responsibility for and improve levels of strong as ever.
have been, and continue service where we fall short of the high to be, fundamental to standards that our customers expect from I would like to thank you, our shareholders us, and that we expect from ourselves.
for your consistent and unwavering support our success: our people Our customers put their faith in us to during the period.
I look forward to seeing and our customers.
deliver for them, and we understand the you, and hope to receive your support at our importance of keeping our promises to them.
Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2015.
Computacenter has always recognised that people matter.
I have been privileged Moving forward as a Group to witness the talent and dedication of our However, we realise that in some areas the employees at close proximity over a long Company cannot remain the same, and that period of time, and without their support the there is an inherent need to keep developing.
Group would not be where it is now.
I would The competition in our markets remains like to offer my thanks to all for their ongoing fierce and unrelenting, technology is Mike Norris efforts.
We also recognise that the growth continuously developing and the end-users Chief Executive Officer and development of the business over recent of our customers are becoming increasingly 11 March 2015 5
