6 Strategic report Delivering our strategic plan Chief Executives review Introduction FY2014 was another busy year for everyone at 3i.
We met or exceeded all of our strategic priorities and targets forthe year, and I am pleased to report astrong set of results.
We are now almost two years into the three-year strategic plan that I set out in June 2012.
This years strong performance Simon Borrows benefited from the considerable Chief Executive progress made during our restructuring phase in FY2013.
We have met or exceeded all ofour strategic priorities and 3i generated atotalshareholder return of 30% compared to 9% for the FTSE All-Share index.
Like many UK-based targets for the year.
3i is now companies, we faced currency headwinds this year and the performance is all the more credible in view of that.
a more streamlined, decisive During the year, we delivered a good flow of realisations organisation focused on high andatotal return of 16.3%.
This included a good progression in NAV per share to348pence at 31 March 2014, from performance and delivering 311pence at31 March 2013. attractive shareholder returns.
As announced in November 2013, given the strong level of realisations, the emphasis on selective investment in these high-priced market conditions and our healthy balance sheet position, we have initiated additional shareholder distributions.
The total proposed dividend for the financial year to 31 March 2014 is 20 pence per share, a yield of over 6% to the 316 pence share price at the close of 28 March 2013.
We paid one-third of this, 6.7 pence per share, in January 2014 as an interim dividend.
Subject to shareholder approval, we will pay thebalance of 13.3 pence per share as a final dividend inJuly 2014.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 7 For the Private Equity business, a key highlight of the year Performance in the year was the increased momentum in new investment activity with four key investments: Basic-Fit leading European The Private Equity business made excellent progress this discount fitness operator, GIF German-based specialist in year, generating a gross investment return of647 million transmission testing, JMJ global management consultancy 24% on opening value, reflecting the strongrealisation and a substantial further investment in Scandlines leading activity and good earnings growth acrossthe portfolio.
In total, cash investment was We continue to see significant benefits from the asset 372 million including third-party funds, ofwhich 276 million management improvement initiatives launched in FY2013.
We made these investments The majority of our investments generated earnings growth atcareful prices and expect this group of assets to deliver during the year, with larger investments such as Action considerable upside value over themedium term.
continuing to perform very well.
A consequence of this strong While this pick-up in new investment activity is encouraging, performance is an increase in the carry payable we are we remain highly selective given the current high-price accruing on our Proprietary Capital, although we have some environment.
We continue to focus on our core sectors and way to go before this becomes a cash payment.
Overall, the geographies where we have real experience and where our Private Equity investment portfolio is in much better shape international platform and capabilities are a differentiator.
than it was two years ago and I believe it offers significant We focus on mid-market investments which we are able to potential for further value creation.
secure using our local expertise and presence, away from During the year, we delivered a good flow of Private Equity highly competitive auction processes.
A key aspect of our realisations, generating 669 million of total proceeds for 3i differentiated business model is that we lead investments and realised profits over opening valuation of 201 million, withour own balance sheet.
We aim to fund a majority an overall uplift of 43%.
Including third-party funds managed ofeachinvestment with proprietary capital as well by 3i, total Private Equity realisation proceeds in the period asmanagingthe balance of third-party funds forour were 1.1 billion.
These were achieved at a total money co-investors.
This enables us to retain a material share multiple of 1.8x, generating good returns on both proprietary of the alpha-generating economics.
and third-party capital for the benefit of our shareholders and fund investors.
We realised a mix of investments over the year, including a good number of our smaller, more challenged investments.
We have not sold any of our longerterm hold investments which make up the largest part of our portfolio value.
Their strong performance has led to material improvement in Eurofund V and the Growth Capital Fund, which have now recovered to 1.13x and 1.32x respectively ofinvested capital at 31 March 2014.
This compares to 0.91xand 1.04x at 31 March 2013 respectively.
As at 31 March 2014, our Private Equity portfolio comprised 81 different investments, many of which have relatively low value.
Over the next few years, as we continue to realise olderand smaller value investments and pursue a focused investment strategy, we expect the number of investments held in our Private Equity portfolio to more than halve.
This will create a much more manageable portfolio and generate further operating efficiencies.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 8 Strategic report Chief Executives review In Infrastructure, the European portfolio continued to In Debt Management, third-party management fee income perform well and generated a good level of cash income remained steady at 32 million 2013: 31 million, representing forthe Group, through both dividends and advisory fees 44% of the Groups total third-party management fee income from3iInfrastructure plc.
However, the value of the 3i India in the period.
At 31 March 2014, the business managed Infrastructure Fund declined during the year, driven by the 6.5 billion of assets through 28funds, 17 in Europe and combination of a material depreciation in the Indian rupee 11in the US.
and political and macroeconomic challenges in India.
Market activity was buoyant during the year, following the 3i Infrastructure plcs core European portfolio is expected re-opening of the European CLO market early in 2013. to be the key driver of future performance and accounted Levels of new CLO issuance in the US were dampened in for 78% of 3is underlying Infrastructure portfolio value early 2014 by anticipated regulatory changes but have at31 March 2014, compared with 68% at 31 March 2013. subsequently recovered.
We capitalised on this with the In November 2013, 3i completed the acquisition from Barclays launch of two new European CLOs Harvest VII and Harvest of their European infrastructure fund management business, VIII and two new USCLOs Jamestown III andCOA Summit.
adding over 700 million of assets under management and Together, these new CLO funds added 1.2 billion of AUM experienced investment teams in both London and Paris.
including 40 million of proprietary capital.
Thisbusiness was a pioneer in the PPP market and currently During the year, Debt Management generated a gross manages two unlisted funds focused on UK and European investment return of 16 million, equating to 20% of its PPP and low-risk energy projects.
This strategic acquisition opening portfolio value.
isa key milestone in the development of our Infrastructure business and I believe it will broaden and enhance our access Since the period end, we have made good progress towards to new investment opportunities, aswellas providing launching further CLO funds and we have warehousing aplatform for future fundraising.
vehicles in place in both Europe and the US to seed these future launches.
In February 2014, following the announcement of Cressida Hoggs departure, we appointed Ben Loomes and Phil White asManaging Partners and Co-heads of the Infrastructure business.
This important leadership change brings fresh impetus and further underlines 3is commitment to the next stage of development of its Infrastructure platform.
Furthermore, in May 2014, 3i Infrastructure plc announced that it had agreed, subject to shareholder approval, and approval from the Jersey Financial Services Commission, a number of amendments to the existing advisory agreement with 3i.
These included extending the term of the advisory agreement for a minimum of a further five years.
There continues to be a strong demand for infrastructure assets as investors seek yield.
While the market remains competitive, we are seeing a number of interesting investment opportunities in our target markets.
For example, in June last year, 3i Infrastructure plc invested 62 million inCross London Trains, which will own a key element ofLondons commuter rail infrastructure.
In addition, itannounced investments inthe National Military Museum Netherlands and Mersey Gateway Bridge UK primary PPPprojects, sourced through our new PPP platform, andsee astrong pipeline for further PPP investments.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 9 In FY2014, the Groups cash income was consistent with the Strategic objectives prior year at 132 million.
This was driven by the acquisition of the European PPP platform in our Infrastructure business and progress and the launch of new CLO funds and increased portfolio income from proprietary capital deployed in our Debt Last year, I set out a number of key strategic objectives: Management business.
This offset the reduction in fee Cover operating costs with annual cash income income from Private Equity as a result of net divestment activity, as well as the Growth Capital Fund coming to the Grow third-party income and generate endof its investment period in the previous year.
asustainable annual operating profit from To help you track our progress, last year we introduced ourfundmanagement activities anewkey performance indicator called Annual operating Improve capital allocation, focusing on enhanced cash profit.
This measures the difference between our shareholder distributions and re-investment in annual cash income cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash income from our proprietary capital portfolio ourcore investment businesses andourannual operating expenses, excluding restructuring Our progress against each of these objectives is costs.
As noted above, in the past, 3i has operated at described below.
amaterial deficit on this measure.
In FY2014, we achieved anannual operating cash profit of 5 million.
Cover operating costs with annual Grow third-party income and generate cash income Prior to the launch of 3is restructuring in 2012, the Groups asustainable annual operating profit operating costs materially exceeded its annual cash income fromourfund management activities from management fees and portfolio income.
An important Our Fund Management platforms in Private Equity, target in FY2014 was to cover the Groups operating costs Infrastructure and Debt Management source and manage with annual cash income.
The major cost reduction investments on behalf of both 3i and third-party funds.
programme announced in June 2012 was a key part These platforms underpin our ability to make alphaofachieving this objective.
generating investments on behalf of our shareholders, In FY2013, we significantly outperformed our original target co-investors and fund investors.
A key objective for us is of40 million of annualised run-rate operating cost savings, toensure that fees from these fund management activities, achieving 51 million of cost savings at 31 March 2013.
In this taken together, more than cover the costs of operating our context, we announced last year a new target of 60 million of platforms and that over time we are able to generate a cumulative run-rate cost savings to be achieved by 31 March sustainable annual operating profit.
I am pleased to report that we exceeded this target our investment platforms include paying for our investment aswell, delivering 70 million of run-rate cost savings at teams and the network of international offices, as well as 31 March 2014.
These savings represent over a third of the the costs to the Group of providing support functions such Groups total opening run-rate cost base of 185 million as finance, information technology, compliance and at31 March 2012, before we announced the restructuring.
As aresult, actual operating costs in the year were Our objective is to ensure that we maintain a profitable Fund 136 million, 20% lower than last year 2013: 170 million, Management platform overall, growing our AUM profitably.
including restructuring costs of 9 million 2013: 30 million.
We have made strong progress in this regard.
Since 31 March Restructuring costs were higher than the 7 million 2012, total AUM has grown from 10.5 billion to 12.9 billion estimated, in order to secure the higher savings.
Over the same period, through the cost the full benefits of this cost reduction programme to be reduction programme, we reduced our operating costs realised during FY2015.
as a percentage of weighted average AUM from 1.5% at 31 March 2012 to 1.0% at 31 March 2014, excluding restructuring costs.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 10 Strategic report Chief Executives review In order to assess properly the profitability of our fund Improve capital allocation, focusing management activities, we consider the fees that can onenhanced  be generated by our entire Fund Management platform, treating proprietary capital invested on the same basis andre-investment in our core as managed third-party funds.
To do this, we calculate an investmentbusinesses internal fee payable to the Fund Management business for As part of the strategic review, we fundamentally changed managing our proprietary capital and call this a synthetic our capital allocation approach so that, over time, we aim fee.
The standalone profitability of our Fund Management to use less of our capital to pay operating costs, funding platform is then based on measuring the total fund costs and debt repayment, and instead focus our capital management income third-party fees plus synthetic fees onadditional shareholder distributions and investment against the operating costs allocated to the platform, inourcore businesses.
excluding restructuring and amortisation costs.
To help you track this profitability, we have introduced a new key The chart below shows the average allocation of our capital performance indicator called Underlying Fund Management over the three years between FY2010-12.
On average, 68% profit and margin further details on page 46.
In FY2014, of thetotal proceeds from realisations and cash income was ourfund management platform generated an underlying used to pay operating and funding costs and debt repayment, profit and margin of 33 million and 26% respectively, leaving just 32% for shareholder distributions and investment compared to 17 million and 13% in FY2013.
In FY2014, weimproved this picture with 50% going to shareholder distributions and reOver time, we believe that our Fund Management platform is investment.
We expect further improvement in FY2015.
capable of generating sustainable and growing annual profits, which in turn should create additional value for shareholders beyond the growth in value of our proprietary investments.
This is an important building block of the 3i Value Build which Italked about in my last review and which is shown on page 13.
Capital allocation Average over FY10-FY12 FY14 Fees and Fees and portfolio portfolio income income 27% 19% 31% 41% 50% 32% 14% 3% 36% 29% Realisations Operating Debt Shareholder Funds Realisations Operating Debt Shareholder Funds costs, net repayment distributions to invest costs, net repayment distributions to invest carried and carried and interest interest interest interest and tax costs and tax costs 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 11 Business model Outlook 3is business is a mix of proprietary capital investing and We have continued to be successful in implementing our managing third-party capital.
This hybrid asset manager strategic plan against a backdrop of ongoing challenges in business model enables us to combine capital returns from themacroeconomic environment.
Further regulation across our proprietary balance sheet and recurring management thefinancial services industry is also presenting additional feeincome from our fund management activities.
We believe challenges for our business through further costs and that this represents a differentiated and attractive value increased complexity.
Despite this, we see the power of the 3i business model Investing from our own balance sheet is part of our heritage.
Our network of local teams across our Currently, proprietary AUM amounts to 3.4 billion, keygeographies and our proprietary capital are two key accounting for 26% of the Groups total AUM.
3i is the largest competitive advantages.
For example, in our mid-market single investor in its own Private Equity and Infrastructure Private Equity business, wehave had teams on the ground funds.
Putting our own capital to work alongside third-party across Europe for over 30years and our franchise in those investors is a fundamental part of our business model and markets is very strong.
Thisenables us to access attractive strategy, and gives 3i a true competitive advantage.
We view investment opportunities and using our own capital affords our role as both an active owner as well as manager of us flexibility in our approach and timescale that few third-party funds.
This further reinforces the alignment of our competitors have.
between the interests of our shareholders, ourco-investors The current environment is a tricky one for new investments.
There is an excess of capital looking for investment So, in addition to generating capital returns from proprietary opportunities and this has driven up sellers price expectations.
capital investing our Proprietary Capital activities, we also We have benefited from this in our realisation programme, consider the profitability of our Fund Management platform.
however as we review new investment we will need to Both parts need to generate value for the Group.
Our overall continue to be patient and disciplined.
Our proposition can objectives are to maximise investment returns from our deliver healthy alpha-generating returns if we invest, manage Proprietary Capital activities and grow our Fund Management and exit well.
Careful investment in mid-market Private Equity activities profitably.
using 3is competitive advantages will generate significant value for the Group, its shareholders and third-party investors We are already managing the Group with this much clearer as well astake 3i back to sector-leading performance.
delineation between Proprietary Capital and Fund Management.
Going forward, you will be able to track our Everyone at 3i is committed and working hard to continue progress through new disclosures and a combination of KPIs to deliver against our strategic plan.
I would like to thank the measuring our performance as an investor of Proprietary entire 3i team for their efforts this year.
They are key to our Capital and separately as a Fund Management business, success.
We are all looking forward to making further good in addition to overall Group performance.
These KPIs are progress in FY2015.
The performance of these activities is discussed in the Financial Review, starting on page 40 and further disclosure on the breakdown between Proprietary Capital and Fund Management is shown in Note 1 to the Audited accounts on page 114.
Simon Borrows Chief Executive 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
