CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT A hot and cold year Admiral Groups 2014 was the year of the Baked Alaska hot and cold in a single bite.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE Chief Executive Officer Admiral Groups 2014 was the year of the Let me start by reiterating our strategy: In summary Baked Alaska hot and cold in a single bite.
continue prosperous growth in the UK Car Insurance market while developing growing, @ Were investing in many different The cold?
For the first time since we went public profitable, sustainable businesses outside the and the first time this century, Admiral Group markets, all with great potential, UK and in the UK beyond car insurance.
did not post a record profit.
We still made a all with different competitive lot of money and had an enviable 52% return So with that strategy in mind, what do I worry landscapes and timetables on equity, but, alas, the 2014 result is being about?
Here we go then, in David Letterman tosuccess dragged down by cyclicality and everything style, my Top Ten Worries for 2015 as written else, in sum, still required investment.
inJanuary from least worrying worry to most @ UK profits in the future are worrying worry: The hot?
Profits emerging from some of those likelyto be far more cyclically businesses outside the UK, including profit from 10.
We dont get our mobile phone access influenced than before ConTe, our Italian insurance business inits strategy right in ConTe Italy.
sixth full year of operation and record profits @ Longer term there will be greater 9.
That we won t be able to stretch far enough at Rastreator and LeLynx, our price comparison to take advantage of new opportunities balance as reliance on the UK businesses in Spain and France, respectively.
Car Insurance portfolio reduces My impression is that CEO statements are 8.
An upwar d move in Baremo, which governs supposed to present a veneer of progress the costs of bodily injury claims in Spain, against a backdrop of challenging conditions: fails to materialise so price hikes in the the mountain was a tricky climb, the climate market also fail to materialise and therefore inhospitable, but we a did it, b are doing it 2014 goes down as the year there is a lot less shopping for car insurance.
French consumers refuse to believe they This statement is not going to follow that can now easily leave their insurer, which, common pattern.
due to the new law, Loi Hamon, is now the What I will do is try to put you in my chair.
Confuseds Get a Free Brian Toy campaign Iwill not be going over each business one at does not resonate with consumers and my atime as Alastair has already provided a quick house ends up decorated in Brian Toys.
review of the businesses and further on in this report is a commentary from each of the business 5.
My wife telling me shes pregnant.
CEOs and plenty ofnumbers that will give you 4.
Solvency II brings higher capital r equirements a lot of detail about those operations.
than were currently expecting and reduces the efficiency of our business model.
com cant reduce its cost per quote or cost per sale to a profitable level.
Guidewire, our new computer system currently being built and tested, doesnt work efficiently in the UK or in France it is currently running successfully in the US.
08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Customers million All of the above worries, cumulatively, So heres my Top Ten Things Im Looking justabout total my number one worry.
Forward To in 2015: 4.1m Thenumber one worry in this hit parade 10.
Successful use of mobile phones for ofworries is always number one on my 9% consumers, particularly in ConTe Italy.
Continued, efficient growth in Elephant Auto These are competitors who either dont mind US, particularly in Texas.
if they lose lots of money perhaps its even intheir plans or fool themselves in believing 8.
Continued sector dominance for they wont lose lots of money but eventually Rastreator and growth, particularly they do or dont realise they are actually losing intelephony comparison.
lots of money and, again, eventually they do.
Big quote volumes for LeLynx France So they act irrationally and buy business and dueto the introduction of the Loi Hamon.
inthe world of car insurance irrational they 10 11 12 13 14 may be, but theyre unlikely to pay the price 6.
Watching the Cubs win the World Series.
for that irrationality for several years.
Seeing Group revenue climb back above Return on equity % 2 billion.
So things can look jolly nice for them for quitea period of time growth is good, right?.
We cant get Brian Toys made fast enough 52% And the rest of the world is left with a choice: to meet demand.
be rational in response, which means you -10% 3.
Success of the new compare.
com TV losea lot of business, or join the ranks of campaign coupled with lots of word theirrational and sacrifice profits.
position we found ourselves in, in the UK during 2014 as we tried to slalom our way through 2.
Break-even in Admiral Seguros Spain.
thepoorest part of the UK cycle.
Our growth And the number one thing Im looking in vehicles insured, achieved in the first half of forwardto: David taking the odd afternoon the year, was a modest 4%.
Our rates went up offbecause he has nothing to worry about during the year across all customer segments.
because results from the UK are so good.
As our rates went up, our competitiveness 10 11 12 13 14 declined.
However, due to these rate increases, Let me conclude by saying that were investing we feel we are in a better place starting 2015, in many different markets, all with great potential, and there are signs that the market is now 1 all with different competitive landscapes and Profit before tax million raising rates which, given our superior expense timetables to success.
I could spin a bit of veneer ratio in particular, would give us the choice about the value were creating even without 356.5m ofcontinuing to raise rates or growing our profits, but the truth of the matter is that in the customer count.
-4% past these investments were overshadowed by But I must admit, I dont lose a lot of sleep over ever-growing profitability in the UK: in the past the UK in particular because the CEO ofour the UK business seemed immune to market UK business is David Stevens, one ofthe founders cyclicality.
But now we are just too big to be of Admiral.
As one of our Non-Executive immune.
And I think its very fair to say too that Directors recently put it: there is no one more the competition is improving, which, besides qualified to run the UK business.
The no one being very annoying, demands that we improve did not mean no one in Admiral, or no one too and I can assure you that we are working in the UK or even no one in Europe, it was flat out to do so.
The upshot is that UK profits avery clear: no one.
in the future are likely to be far more cyclically 10 11 12 13 14 To find out if Davids sleeping well or not youll influenced than before and so for the next 1 Repr esents Groups share of have to turn a few pages to read his report.
fewyears the Group result is likely to follow profitbefore tax after excluding this cyclical pattern.
Longer term, in our view, Minority Interests As David takes responsibility for the UK, I spend there will be less UK cyclicality in the result a lot of time with our businesses outside the UK.
asour reliance on the UK Car Insurance In particular, I spent a couple of weeks towards portfolio reduces.
Full year dividend per share the end of 2014 with our insurance business in pence Im sad to see the consecutive profit record Seville, Admiral Seguros brands: Qualitas Auto go, it was a source of great pride.
But, like the and Balumba, and the desire for success from 98.4p hot versus cold of Baked Alaska, Im also glad every person I met, in every part of the business, -1% to see it go, because it means were investing was contagious.
I always leave Seville more in our future and not afraid to sacrifice some energised than when I arrive.
I dont usually of the present to do so.
talk about specific goals for the year ahead in this report, but Ill share this one with you: the goal for Admiral Seguros in 2015 is break-even on a written premium basis.
Im going to go out on a limb now and say that I am very confident the team will succeed in reaching this goal.
10 11 12 13 14 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 4 March 2015 Read more about our financial performance onpages18 to 21 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 09 68.1 265.8 59 2.7 75.6 299.0 59 3.4 90.6 344.5 60 3.6 99.5 370.7 58 3.7 98.4 356.5 52 4.1 10 YEAR HIGHLIGHTS Celebrating 10 years sinceflotation Since Admiral listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2004, it has transformed from a company based solely in the UK, to a company that today has insurance and price comparison businesses in five countries in Europe and the US.
Allitsgrowth has been based on an approach of  Admirals expertise .
com, a price comparison website, launches in Madrid, Spain.
2005 Admiral launches Multicar, 2007 enabling UK customers to Elephant Auto Insurance insure two or more cars on launches in Richmond, AdmiralDirekt.
fide launches the same policy, with all in Cologne, selling car Virginia selling car cars eligible for a discount.
2004 2006 2008 On 23 September, Admiral floats on the London Balumba.
it launches Stock Exchange with a share price of 2.75 and Seville, selling car inRome, selling car market capitalisation of 711million.
3 OFFICES IN THE UK 1,500 STAFF EMPLOYED DIRECTLY BY ADMIRAL 1 MILLION CUSTOMERS IN THE UK 341% High shareholderreturns 75% Over the past ten years, Admirals Total Shareholder 17% Returns are in excess of 750% 2004 2005 2006 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2014 As of 31 December, the closing share price is 13.23and Admiral has a market capitalisation of3.6 billion.
Admiral has distributed over 1.6 billion toshareholders since float.
2010 18 OFFICES IN 9 COUNTRIES LeLynx, a price comparison website, launches in Paris, France.
2012 OVER 7,000 STAFF EMPLOYED DIRECTLY BY ADMIRAL Chiarezza.
it, a car insurance price Admiral launches UK comparison website, launches in household insurance.
it, the Groups CUSTOMERS Lolivier Assurances launches in Paris Italian price comparison selling carinsurance in France.
ACROSS 5 COUNTRIES 1 Compar e. com formerly comparenow.
com simplified its name in February 2015 to better 2013 2011 align with its services 1 AdmiralDirekt.
com, a price comparison website, launches in the US.
Qualitas Auto launches in Seville, selling car insurance in Spain.
