STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 07 STRATEGIC REPORT A MESSAGE FROM OUR NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our priority in 2015 will beto focus on delivering the plan we set out for our operations, in a safe and efficient manner.
HELGE LUND | CHIEF EXECUTIVE I am delighted to have joined BG Group at this While delivery on our existing commitments will be important time for the business.
Throughout my ourfocus, I also intend to begin taking steps towards careerin this industry I have always had a high building a stronger BG Group for the longer-term.
respectfor this Company and its people and I am a firm believer that a companys culture and Iwaspleased to see the operational progress made values are a key driver of its future performance, during2014in delivering some of the Groups andshould be at the core of its operating model.
majorprojects, particularly in Australia and Brazil.
Wewill invest time in strengthening the values of I started as Chief Executive on 9 February 2015, theorganisation around which we will take decisions, following the Companys 2014 year-end results engage with partners and develop the culture we announcement.
The recent decline in oil price has aspire to have as a company.
changed the dynamics for all operators in our industry.
We will also undertake a review of the longer-term Thefuture operating environment is challenging, strategy for our business during 2015.
My intention volatile and hard to predict.
Our priority in these istoupdate all shareholders on this later this year.
circumstances will be to focus on delivering the planwe set out for our operations in 2015, in a safe BG Group has achieved impressive growth since it andefficient manner.
wasdemerged from British Gas in 1997.
However, in the past two years, we have sustained some operational In our Upstream business, we will increase our setbacks.
We must take account of the lessons production as we ramp up operations in our growth learntfrom these experiences as we develop our businesses in Australia and Brazil.
In our LNG business, long-term plans.
wewill integrate our new supply from QCLNG in Australia, and continue to develop and optimise In the short time I have been with the business, ourLNG supply portfolio, despite the weaker price I have visited several of our operations and met environment.
We have committed to improving our withmany of our colleagues around the world.
efficiency, tightening both our operating costs I have been impressed with the commitment and andcapital expenditure, including our exploration enthusiasm forBG Group to succeed.
These efforts will have my full attention.
with ourstrong asset base, and a commitment to deliver, wehave a strong basis for taking the The delivery of these priorities will not, however, Company forward.
leadto any compromise on safety.
The integrity ofourassets and safety of our people, and of the HELGE LUND communities we operate in, will always be integral CHIEF EXECUTIVE toour business.
In terms of personal commitment, Iconsider that my first responsibility as Chief Executiveisto be Chief Safety Officer.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
