Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 55 Business objectives Business objectives are set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of each performance year and will change annually to reflect business priorities.
From these objectives we set out below some of the key measures.
They are specific to the role of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Chief Executive Officer The business objectives for the Chief Executive Officer, included driving fund performance across the Group, increasing brand awareness and developing a positive and risk controlled culture within the business.
The Committee acknowledged a solid one year fund performance with an outstanding three year fund performance, a strong performance in developing the brand and an equally strong delivery of embedding an appropriate risk culture and shared sense of values within the business.
50% Key business objectives Below threshold Above threshold Metrics 47% of funds on a one year basis and 80% Strong and consistent investment on a three year basis performed at median performance.
or above against a target of 75%.
Successful brand campaigns Programme delivered an average increase and attracting new generations in brand recognition of 18%.
Assessment of culture and values, Risk culture and shared values.
independently assessed by external Alignment with FCA Principles.
consultancy, was significantly ahead of the financial services sector.
Financial objectives 46.5% 50% Business objectives 38.5% 50% Total annual bonus 85% 100% Chief Financial Officer The business objectives of the Chief Financial Officer CFO included the creation of a robust operating platform and maintaining a tight regulatory control structure for the business.
The Committee commended the CFO on delivering strong fiscal governance and driving down costs within the Trust and on delivering the outsourcing project.
50% Key business objectives Below threshold Above threshold Metrics Programme delivered to reduce costs Overall control of budgetary objectives of within the Trust.
Outsourcing project delivered which Creating a robust operating platform creates a scalable platform for for the business.
Assessment of culture and values, independently assessed by external Risk culture and shared values.
consultancy, was significantly ahead of Alignment with FCA Principles.
Financial objectives 46.5% 50% Business objectives 41% 50% Total annual bonus 87.5% 100%
