6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Chief Executive Today, Alliance Trust is in more robust health than it has been at any time in the last six years.
This has not happened overnight, but is the result of the series of improvements that we have made over that time, not least the actions that we have taken in the last twelve months.
At the half year, we commented that the results for the first six months had been disappointing and this was always going to have a bearing on the results for the full year.
However, I am pleased to report that the second half performance represents a complete contrast to the first: we reported an NAV Total Return of 0.3% in the first half, 7.8% in the second, making 8.1% for the full year.
Our total shareholder return ranks median or above, relative to our peers, over six months, one, three, five and seven years.
Moreover, we have delivered top quartile annualised total dividend growth over the same periods.
We know that this combination of capital growth and a consistently rising dividend is an important differentiator for the Trust.
The portfolio is well positioned, and is being managed with a greater sense of purpose and focus.
In September, we announced that we were merging the two equity teams employed by Alliance Trust and Alliance Trust Investments.
We did this in order to unify the investment process and in so doing, we have improved the focus of the team and have been able to reduce costs.
We appointed Peter Michaelis as Head of Equities and Simon Clements to be the lead manager of the equity portfolio of the Trust.
They have worked together for 11 years and have been managing the Sustainable Future fund range for over four years.
They joined us over two years ago and during that time, we have been able to fully assess their investment philosophy and process and to monitor the performance of their funds.
I am confident that we have put the portfolio of the Trust into the hands of a team that has a proven process and a successful track record.
At the same time, we have continued to put the platform in place to ensure that all parts of the business can achieve the targets set for them as part of Vision 2020.
In the case of the Trust, we have secured some of the most cost-effective, long-term, fixed-rate borrowings of any investment trust, which gives us certainty for a large part of our borrowing requirements out to 2029.
During 2014 we developed Investing for Generations, our plan for achieving our 2020 Vision.
This sets out how we will grow our business in a way that is responsible and ensures a sustainable future for our shareholders, customers and communities.
The chart below shows how we have delivered both capital and income returns to our shareholders over the last 48 years.
We have strong foundations in place upon which we are building businesses that will consistently compete with the best in their sector.
We remain committed to improving the processes we use across the business to drive enhancements to the shareholder, both by increasing revenue and reducing costs.
Over the next three pages I answer some of the questions we have been asked about the Trust and what we have done over the last financial year.
Katherine Garrett-Cox 48 year shareholder returns Return rebased to 100 at 31 January 1968 Dividend per Share p 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 20 2,000 10 0 0 69 71 73 75 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 12 14 Total Return left hand side Capital Return left hand side Dividend per Share p right hand side To 31 January 1968-2011 To 31 December 2011-2014 Source: Alliance Trust Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 7 companies each equate to over 0.5% of the portfolio.
The vast How did our equity portfolio perform majority of the companies in which we invest are held because in 2014?
we expect them to deliver a combination of capital growth and a sustainably rising dividend.
We are reasonably pleased with the performance in the latter part of the year, particularly given the back drop of the volatility in global equity markets and the relatively poor start to the Why do we see sustainability as period.
We always strive to do more, but we are not prepared important for the Trust?
to compromise the preservation of our shareholders capital or the delivery of income required to fund the consistently rising We believe that Alliance Trust should be managed in a dividend.
We are long-term investors and our total shareholder sustainable way as this is the best way to deliver returns for our return is in line with our peers building upon our steady shareholders over the long term.
We provide detail of how we performance over the last few years.
We recognise that we are do this on pages 31 to 35.
Our belief is that companies that competing against other trusts and funds and want to deliver fail to recognise their responsibilities to the wider community returns that meet the expectations of our shareholders.
In this are more likely to experience a negative event, which will respect, the expectations of employees and shareholders are impact upon their share price.
closely aligned as 80% of our employees are also shareholders We see sustainability as an important starting point for in Alliance Trust.
However, we would guard against fixating on identifying companies that will deliver returns to shareholders the returns between two specific dates.
We look to invest for over the long term.
The vast majority of the Trusts shares are the long-term and sometimes the stocks in which we invest are temporarily out of favour with the market.
We will continue to held by private individuals and many of them have held their hold such stocks so long as we remain confident that they will shares for decades.
This makes it consistent for us to invest generate superior returns for our shareholders over the lifetime with a long-term view in order to match our investors time of our investment.
We look for companies that we expect to have staying power, such that they will be a suitable investment for us for years to come.
Typically, such companies will manage their How did we achieve this return?
resources carefully and will be led by a management team that understand their responsibilities, not just to their investors, but The return has been achieved by being consistent in our also to their other stakeholders, be they suppliers, employees or approach, even though what drove the market changed the local communities in which they operate.
In the first half of the year, the market favoured apparent value, in place of long-term fundamentals The reliability of the earnings progression of more sustainable which we have always preferred.
At such times, our portfolio companies will help underpin the growth of the portfolio, help us is liable to underperform.
In the early part of the year the reduce trading costs and align the investment horizon of the challenge was whether we should wait for the market to readjust portfolio with those of our shareholders.
or whether we needed to consider that the market dynamics had changed to such an extent that investment rationale for the portfolio was undermined.
We remained confident in the Does this approach restrict our ability quality of the portfolio that we held and we were vindicated in to deliver investment returns?
our approach by the results in the latter months of the year.
We constantly review the investment rationale for each holding and Far from being a restriction, it is an important advantage to were satisfied that in most cases there was no cause for concern.
delivering consistently strong investment returns.
By focusing In October, we undertook a comprehensive review of the whole on companies with better quality management and better portfolio and a number of changes were made, which reduced growth prospects, we will enhance the returns we deliver the number of holdings from 84 to 74.
These changes were to our shareholders.
The criteria we are looking for is high driven by the reassessment of the outlook for those stocks, not quality management, good growth prospects and a supportive by momentum.
This has allowed us to put a larger proportion of regulatory environment.
We are therefore less likely to be the portfolio into each holding and the positions in all but five invested in companies which manufacture products such January to April 2014 Phase 1 of investment back Launch of group-wide Special Dividend declared.
8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 as munitions or tobacco.
The Trust can invest in any listed What about the performance of our company, provided that the team satisfy themselves that other assets in the portfolio?
the potential damage that its products do to society or the environment is more than offset by the approach taken by the We have seen significant positive contributions from our other management to mitigate the worst effects of their products.
The private equity portfolio is maturing as most of our remaining investments were made prior to 2010.
The remaining portfolio is valued at 130m and we are confident that there is Is sustainability important for the significant potential uplift embedded in the remaining portfolio long-term?
which will be delivered as it continues to mature.
Analysis suggests that this is a structural change in the The other area where we have seen strong results is in the investment industry.
We have seen a growing awareness Mineral Rights portfolio.
These rights date back to the early days amongst investors, both institutional and private, that of Alliance Trust, when it was a mortgage bank lending to farmers shareholders should be taking their responsibilities as owners in North America.
We still own the mineral rights on various more seriously.
They are increasingly challenging company plots across southern and central United States and we receive management teams to recognise their responsibilities for their a revenue stream from the oil and gas that is being extracted supply chain and the way in which their products are made.
The development of shale gas technology has We have seen a sharp rise in the number of signatories to the enabled more land to be exploited and this has led to an uplift in United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI, the income received.
The increased revenue underpins the 127% whose first Principle is that we will incorporate Environmental, increase in the valuation of the mineral rights for 2014.
However, Social and Governance ESG issues into investment analysis and we expect that the current lower oil price will feed through into decision making processes.
There are over 1,340 signatories lower valuations for these rights in 2015. with combined assets under management of approximately $45 trillion.
We have been signatories for a number of years and we What progress has been made by welcome the fact that the mind-set embodied in the UNPRI is becoming mainstream.
Alliance Trust Savings has navigated its way through some of the most turbulent waters facing its industry for generations.
What does sustainability mean for During this period our business has also been impacted by our dividend?
the uncertainties surrounding the Scottish independence We are very aware of the Trusts dividend commitment and referendum which led to some customers postponing important are confident that we can continue to deliver on it.
We have investment decisions last year.
We are delighted that platform increased the total dividend payout by 14.3%, making this the charging has finally become transparent as part of the Retail 48th consecutive year of increase.
We have delivered top quartile Distribution Review, and in 2014 we have seen a 19% increase annualised total dividend growth over one, three, five and seven in the assets we administer against a market rise of 13%.
We monitor our dividend projections very carefully and have seen inflows as customers recognise the benefit to them of are confident that we will continue to deliver the dividend and the flat-fee pricing structure.
dividend growth as required, without having to draw on reserves.
There are three sources of income for Alliance Trust Savings: In addition to monitoring our dividend projections, we also transaction charges which were up as a result of a 10% increase consider how the dividend we receive is generated.
For example, in the number of trades executed: account fees, which were we do not hold any tobacco stocks, which have traditionally down, because the number of accounts we administer fell by distributed high levels of income, because they may not be able 5%: net interest income, which is largely flat as interest rates to maintain these high levels of distribution in the future.
remain at very low levels.
One factor in the fall in operating profit was the number of customers, mostly with smaller balances, who elected to close their accounts when we announced that we were increasing the administration fees for ISAs and dealing May to August 2014 Alliance Trust Investments Alliance Trust raises 100m of Alliance Trust Cateran Yomp launch range of Risk unsecured fixed term funding.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 9 accounts by 87% in February 2014.
While we expected that some referendum, this time on EU membership, creating uncertainty.
customers might do so, we were confident that others would Whatever the outcome it will take time for any changes to transfer their accounts to us and overall we would be a beneficiary make a material difference to the profit and loss accounts of the of the greater transparency around platform pricing.
companies in which we invest.
We believe that the reduction in the rate of inflation in December 2014 to 0.5% will mean that We are confident that we are well placed to benefit from the interest rates are going to remain low for longer.
Commentators raft of changes that will alter the retail investment industry in have been predicting that interest rates in the UK will rise next the years ahead.
The changes to pension rules and ISA limits year for at least the last two years, there is a high probability announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in March that they will be using the same words this time next year.
2014 are welcome as incentives to save are very important, particularly as we are increasingly encouraged to take The US economy is regaining momentum while Europe, China responsibility for our own financial futures.
We look forward and Japan are all struggling to return to a more normalised to the implementation of the new pension rules because we level of growth.
Monetary policy will therefore become more believe that they offer greater freedom of choice for pensioners divergent globally over 2015.
The US continues to recover, with and we are confident that our pricing structure will appeal to a the employment and housing markets both contributing to number of the next generation of pensioners.
Current expectations are that the Federal Reserve will begin raising interest rates in the second half of 2015.
The strength in the US dollar looks set to continue, How did Alliance Trust Investments whilst we believe underlying economic momentum will increase perform in 2014?
over the first half of the year.
The European economy is struggling to recover from the Alliance Trust Investments has continued to generate net inflows recession triggered by the sovereign debt crisis of 2011.
The and is now managing 1.9bn of third party funds.
By keeping breakage of the Swiss Francs peg to the Euro caused shock tight control over costs and growing the asset base we have waves across currency markets.
Germanys economy has slowed reduced the losses again this year.
80% of the funds we manage as exports have struggled with a slowdown in China and which have a three year track record are ranked above median sanctions on Russia.
Recovery in Europes periphery has stalled, relative to their peer group over that time.
We have launched the as a tough fiscal stance continues to hamper growth.
Further first ever range of risk-profiled Sustainable and Responsible funds monetary easing from the European Central Bank worth 1.1trn and are seeing inflows into our major fixed income funds the has been announced.
The situation in Greece is of concern Monthly Income Bond Fund and the Dynamic Bond Fund.
to those governments and institutions that have a financial exposure to the fall-out from an exit from the Euro.
We do What will happen in 2015 and what not view this possible outcome as something that would result in destabilisation of global markets or economies.
The bigger will the impact be on our portfolio?
concern to us is the political precedent it may set for other We invest primarily in companies, not in markets.
We focus on members of the Eurozone.
In the event that Greece does leave understanding the business that these companies are in and the Euro, it could lead to a reduced commitment to the European assessing whether the market has not fully valued their unique ideal and possibly to the break up to the European Union.
propositions or position in their industry.
These are subject to long-term trends which may only emerge over a number of In Asia, the Japanese economy is struggling to digest the years.
As long-term investors it is the direction of travel that is of increase in sales tax in April 2014.
Policy initiatives have been interest to us, we do not seek to predict short-term fluctuations.
successful in depreciating the Yen, but the Abe administration Most of the companies in which we invest are international in has not yet implemented the crucial reforms necessary in areas their outlook and political changes at a national level are likely such as the labour market.
The Chinese economy also continues to impact upon only part of their business, which makes them to slow, with a knock-on effect in demand for commodities.
more resilient against challenging domestic backdrops.
The portfolio continues to invest in high quality, sustainable In terms of events which will make headlines in 2015, we have companies that benefit from important structural shifts taking an election in the UK in early May, with the prospect of another place across the global economy.
September to December 2014 Alliance Trust Savings wins Investment team unified Phase 2 of investment back Shares Award for best and portfolio restructured.
