Chief Executive Officers report A singular focus on the large and diverse Emerging Markets universe The structural drivers of Emerging Markets growth are established and sustainable.
Ashmores advantage derives from its long history of investing in this diverse asset class.
The results for the year ending 30 June 2014 reflect the market proved largely unfounded.
The diversity and development of the asset turbulence that persisted for much of the period, together with class, when compared with historical periods of Emerging Markets foreign exchange translation effects as a consequence of the crises, are fundamental strengths that proved resilient through the strength of Sterling against the US dollar.
The Groups long-standing recent market turbulence.
India is a case in point: its current account investment processes sought to take advantage of the market deficit narrowed from 4.8% of GDP in June 2013 to 1.7% a year volatility, and while this can result in short-term underperformance, later: the recent election resulted in a business and market-friendly the recovery in sentiment towards Emerging Markets in recent administration with the potential to pursue significant reforms: and months has benefited positions taken during those more volatile the countrys economic position could be improved further still by periods over the course of the year.
the liberalisation of its local bond markets.
Indias perceived fragility has revealed itself to be a set of cyclical challenges that can be, AuM development and are being, overcome.
Assets under management declined by 3% during the year from US$77.4 billion to US$75.0 billion, and average AuM increased by 4% Third, geo-political risk creates uncertainty and the potential for assets to US$75.2 billion.
Investment performance added US$5.1 billion to to be mis-priced, and particularly so in the still relatively inefficient AuM, but was offset by net outflows of US$7.5 billion for the year of Emerging Markets.
There were several instances during the year which US$5.9 billion was in the lower margin overlay liquidity theme.
of market weakness inspired by rising geo-political tension, which The Groups other investment themes experienced a net outflow of necessitated assessment and detailed analysis by the Groups US$1.6 billion, or 2% of average AuM, which is relatively stable when investment committees.
The implementation of active portfolio set against the backdrop of market volatility during the period.
management delivered good investment performance in the second half of the year.
Gross subscriptions of US$16.8 billion were broadly spread across the Groups investment themes, and at 22% of opening AuM were Ashmores three and five-year investment track records continue encouraging given market conditions.
This performance reflects to be strong with 81% and 92% of AuM outperforming relevant Ashmores broad base of largely institutional clients together with benchmarks, respectively 30 June 2013: 92% and 73%, the Groups recent investment in global distribution resources.
The one-year figures are weaker with 38% of AuM outperforming, typical in periods of market drawdowns given Investment performance Ashmores investment processes, but towards the end of the Positive investment performance of US$5.1 billion was delivered financial year the recovery in asset prices across Emerging across a broad range of equity and fixed income themes.
Ashmores Markets vindicated the investment decisions taken.
value-based investment processes identified three salient opportunities during the period.
First, the indiscriminate selling of assets by non-dedicated investors AUM OUTPERFORMING BENCHMARKS created opportunities for those with a specialist and dedicated OVER THREE YEARS approach to Emerging Markets investing.
In mid-2013 after the initial QE tapering-inspired sell-off, the yield curves in several Emerging 81% Markets implied substantial monetary policy tightening, which was at odds with a fundamental assessment of the probable path of future 2013: 92% interest rates in those countries.
Indeed, several central banks cut policy rates, thereby highlighting further the disconnect between AUM OUTPERFORMING BENCHMARKS periodically inefficient market prices and a rational appraisal of the OVER FIVE YEARS economic and political reality.
Second, throughout 2013, concerns about certain Emerging Markets 92% countries, which focused on current account or fiscal deficits and a belief that historical crises and contagion would repeat themselves, 2013: 73% 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Financial performance Profitability Revenue Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Net revenue for the year of 262.9 million was 26% lower than in the was 174.7 million FY2012 13: 252.2 million.
The EBITDA margin prior year.
The reduction was principally the result of Sterling strength was 66% FY2012 13: 71%, confirming the Groups long-held view against the US dollar and its effect on the translation of US dollarthat it would move into the 60s over time.
denominated revenues and the Groups non-Sterling assets and Net finance income of 2.5 million FY2012 13: 25.7 million includes liabilities, together with a lower contribution from performance fees.
items relating to seed capital investments and the acquisition of the Groups equities business in 2011, both of which are described in Management fee income net of distribution costs declined by 10%, more detail in the Business review.
reflecting a reduction in average net management fee margin of 8bps to 60bps and the effect of Sterling appreciation against the US dollar, Profit before tax for the year declined by 34% to 170.3 million partially offset by higher average AuM.
The movement in the FY2012 13: 257.6 million and basic earnings per share for the management fee margin is described in more detail in the Business year were 19.3p FY2012 13: 30.0p.
Of the 87.3 million reduction in review on page 25, but it is notable that the margin exhibited greater profit before tax, approximately 46 million is attributable to foreign stability through the financial year: the H1 2013 14 margin was 61bps, exchange translation effects and 30 million to lower performance equivalent to the exit run-rate from the prior financial year, and the fees compared with the prior year period, before any variable H2 2013 14 margin was approximately 60bps.
The remaining difference is largely explained by the reduction in net management fees described above, offset Performance fees of 3.1 million were lower than the prior year by lower operating costs, and so, from an operational perspective, 33.4 million as a consequence of the market sell-off in May the Groups financial performance for the year was sound.
and June 2013 and then periodic volatility throughout much of the financial year.
Funds with an August year end realised performance Strategic progress fees of 4.0 million in August 2014 that will be reflected in the Phase 1: establish Emerging Markets asset class FY2014 15 financial year.
Ashmore continues to promote the fundamental strengths of The Group receives the majority of its fees in US dollars, which are Emerging Markets and the asset class is increasingly regarded as sold to satisfy Sterling or other currency payments.
Most of the mainstream by investors.
The experience of the past year suggests Groups cash is therefore held in US dollars, and is marked-to-market there is more to be done in enhancing the understanding of the at the balance sheet date with corresponding changes in value taken diversity of investment opportunities available, and also to counter through the Foreign exchange revenue line together with any gains the long-standing prejudices and misconceptions that prevail in or losses on currency hedges.
As a result of Sterling strengthening some investors minds.
Over time, the success of this phase of the by over 12% during the period, from 1.5213 to 1.7106, there was a Groups strategy will be reflected in higher institutional and, in due foreign exchange translation loss of 30.1 million FY2012 13: course, retail allocations to Emerging Markets, from what could be 5.9 million gain.
Net realised and unrealised hedging gains were considered underweight positions when compared against either 3.5 million FY2012 13: 1.2 million loss.
commonly used equity and fixed income benchmarks, or the balance of economic power and economic growth in the world today.
Operating cost structure Phase 2: diversify developed world capital sources and themes The Groups operating cost base reflects a focus on efficiency and In December 2013, Ashmore became the first investment manager management of fixed cost inflation while enabling appropriate outside of Greater China to be awarded a Renminbi Qualified Foreign investment to support future growth.
The licence gives access to the The majority of costs relate to staff: the Groups distinctive substantial onshore equity and fixed income markets in China and the remuneration philosophy maintains a relatively low cap on fixed salary Group is launching funds to address client demand for investments costs and a strong bias towards variable performance-related in the largest Emerging Market.
An emphasis is placed on long-term equity ownership.
The Group has broadened its SICAV and 40-Act platforms, with a In the year to June 2014, variable compensation as a percentage of total of 32 funds now available in SICAV format 30 June 2013: 22 earnings before variable compensation, interest and tax VC EBVCIT funds and a total of nine US mutual funds 30 June 2013: seven was 20% FY2012 13: 20%.
The investment in distribution has led to good progress with Total operating costs declined 23% to 97.9 million FY2012 13: European and US intermediaries, in addition to institutional demand 127.2 million, through the continual focus on cost efficiency and for such mutual fund structures.
the inherently high flexibility of the cost base that derives from the Groups remuneration structure.
During the year, the Group further developed its global operating platform to enable additional growth and complexity in fund management relationships, and to comply with changing regulatory requirements.
As a consequence, the appropriate operating platform is in place for the next phase of the Groups development.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Chief Executive Officers report continued Further product diversification has also been achieved during the year Phase 3: mobilise Emerging Markets capital through the launch of short duration and private debt products.
The The third phase of the Groups strategy seeks to grow AuM from short duration product seeks to provide income stability and lower Emerging Markets-domiciled investors, to invest on a global basis interest rate sensitivity for investors concerned about the implications or into the investors domestic markets through the establishment of higher interest rates.
The Groups private debt fund will originate of a number of onshore asset management platforms.
bilateral financing for Emerging Markets companies that have For example, Ashmore established a business in Indonesia in July experienced the withdrawal of developed world banks from the 2012 and launched a range of funds in early 2013.
After a period of market, and expands further the broad range of products available strong absolute and relative investment performance, and with the within the corporate debt theme.
support of Ashmores global distribution platform, AuM has grown Ashmores strong and liquid balance sheet provides it with the ability to approximately US$400 million at the year end.
to seed funds, creating a competitive advantage by supporting entry In April 2014, Ashmore was granted a licence to establish a local into new markets and development of new product structures and investment platform in Saudi Arabia, the largest Gulf Cooperation distribution channels.
The Groups seed capital programme is Council economy.
Saudi Arabias real GDP growth is expected to managed actively, seeking to recycle capital back into cash when average approximately 5% over the medium term, supporting GDP appropriate, and is subject to monitoring by the Board within a per capita convergence from a level that is only half that of the United framework of set limits.
Over the past four years, the Group has States today.
The country has favourable demographics and a high invested approximately 370 million US$590 million of seed capital domestic savings rate relative to neighbouring countries, yet its asset into funds that now have over US$4 billion of third party AuM and management industry is fragmented and under-penetrated, reflecting which therefore make a material contribution to management fee the dominance of small family offices.
This backdrop provides the income.
Active management of the seed capital has resulted in potential for Ashmore to build and grow a meaningful independent approximately half of the investment amount being recycled over asset management business over time, to add to its existing network the four years.
During the financial year, the Group made new seed of Emerging Markets-domiciled platforms.
capital commitments of 63.5 million and realised 48.0 million: as at 30 June 2014 there was 185.4 million of capital invested People and culture in funds at invested cost 187.8 million at market value.
Graeme Dell stepped down from the Board and his role as Group Finance Director with effect from 25 November 2013.
Tom Shippey, Ashmore acquired its equities business in May 2011, and with the previously Ashmores head of Corporate Development, was appointed three-year contingent consideration period ending in May 2014, Group Finance Director and joined the Board to succeed Graeme.
no further consideration was paid in the financial year.
Investment On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Graeme for the performance in the equities theme has improved considerably significant contribution he made to Ashmores development over over the three years, with 47% of AuM outperforming relevant the past six years.
benchmarks over a three-year period and 70% over a one-year period as at 30 June 2014, compared with 8% and 3%, respectively, at the The Groups headcount was flat over the period at 291 30 June 2013: time of acquisition.
During the second half of the financial year the 291.
After investing in distribution and operational infrastructure areas equities theme experienced net inflows, and with substantial available in recent years, the Group has established a scalable platform with capacity and a balanced mix of specialist and global funds, there are which to grow substantially.
good prospects for AuM growth in equities.
Indeed, recognition by Ashmores employees have again demonstrated their commitment, institutional investors of Ashmores equity investment capabilities is deep knowledge and expertise in managing the business through evident in the recent demand for balanced funds, combining fixed more volatile market conditions, and seeking to identify opportunities income and equity exposure in a single multi-strategy mandate.
to create value for clients.
I should like to thank everyone for their During the period there was international institutional demand for efforts during the year, and particularly since it was a period when mandates invested by locally-based investment teams that benefit many headwinds combined to have a considerable impact on the from the structure, scale, best practices and resources of a global Groups profitability.
If this continues as expected, it will continue to validate Ashmores strategy to develop a network of local offices in selected Emerging Markets, and combined with its long heritage as a global manager of Emerging Markets risk, positions it well to attract these institutional flows from global investors as well as developing domestic client bases.
6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
