| 06 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Group Chief Executive Officers statement improvements we have made, including repairing the balance sheet, reducing costs and growing the profitable segments of Tangible the business.
We have entered 2015 in a position of strength.
Nevertheless, it would be wrong to assume that our turnaround is nearing completion.
While performance has progress but improved, there is no room for complacency.
Two years of results do not yet create a lasting legacy.
much more Delivering Our Investment Thesis: Cash Flow Plus Growth When I joined Aviva, one of my first to do priorities was to rebuild the Groups financial strength and establish an investment thesis.
This sets out why Our role in business is not to follow the investors should choose us.
It is defined as Cash flow plus Growth.
competition, but to exceed our own Our focus on Cash flow plus Growth expectations.
has resulted in cash remittances increasing 11% to 1,412 million and holding To ensure that our positive impact on company excess cash flow is 65% higher at 692 million.
Our life insurance measure our customers, shareholders and society 2 of growth, value of new business, is 15% higher at a record 1,010 million and we is greater this year than the last.
That is have grown general insurance what we are trying to do at Aviva underwriting profit 54% to 321 million.
In asset management, the turnaround at Aviva Investors is progressing and the AIMS fund range has over 1 billion of Overview assets under management eight months after launch.
I have now served as your Chief Executive for more than two years.
By any measure Friends Life Aviva is now a very different company, which is delivering much more for In December 2014, we announced our customers and investors alike.
intention to acquire Friends Life Group.
2014 was a year in which we were This acquisition accelerates our turnaround Mark Wilson able to show tangible progress, despite and ability to deliver our investment thesis.
Group Chief Executive Officer headwinds from currency, changing Financially, we expect this transaction 4 March 2015 regulation and lower interest rates.
to add about 600 million to cash flow, Results show tangible progress, with eliminate any need to fide-lever, generate all key metrics moving in the right 225 million of expense savings as well as 1 direction.
Cash is up 65%, operating material capital synergies.
earnings per share is up 10%, value of Strategically, this transaction secures 2 new business is up 15% and our book our position in our home market, adds up value is 26% higher.
Operating expenses to 70 billion of funds to Aviva Investors are 571 million lower than our 2011 baseand gives us flexibility to invest in key line, debt ratios are down and our full year existing growth segments and markets.
combined ratio of 95.7% is the best in eight years.
Our Strategy But these results do not by themselves show the progress on fide-risking the We have anchored the company in strong business and the more efficient allocation values and a clear strategy.
These are of capital that has served us well in preconditions for any successful business somewhat volatile markets over the past and are even more fundamental for a 12 months.
To reflect the progress made during The Aviva values create legacy: care the year and our improved financial more: kill complexity: and never rest are position, we announced a 30% increase in the core beliefs at the heart of how we do the final dividend to coincide with the business.
They act as a guide whenever we announcement of our proposed decide on a course of action, and help us to acquisition of Friends Life.
focus on meeting our customers needs.
That we were able to contemplate And in July 2014 we launched our such a transaction shows the strategic anchor to answer some 1 Excess centre cash flow.
Refer to the glossary for a definition and more information.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 07 Aviva has travelled a long way in the past two years.
6 9 2 m But we have 1 Excess centre cash flow, a 65% increase further to travel than the distance we have come.
2, 1 7 3 m Operating profit on an Mark Wilson IFRS basis Group CEO 4 7.
0 p Operating earnings per share 1 Refer to the glossary for a definition and more information.
| 08 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Group Chief Executive Officers statement continued fundamental questions defining our our senior team although they are well business strategy: what we do, how we aware they will be judged by their Proposed do it and where we do it.
performance rather than their CVs.
Firstly, we are a True Customer I also want to pay a personal tribute acquisition of Composite, which means we can provide to John McFarlane, who will step down customers with life, general and health as Chairman at the AGM.
John has Friends Life insurance and asset management in one shown strength and subtlety as Chairman place.
We are in a peer group of one and I am grateful for his guidance and Our proposed acquisition of the FTSE the only true composite of scale in the UK challenge.
John became Chairman during 100 life insurer, Friends Life, is good for and one of only a few in the world.
Our a challenging time for the business and shareholders and customers alike.
They aim is to offer customers one view of has left with the business in a stronger will benefit from being part of a strong, Aviva - one statement, one premium, one position.
Following the AGM, John will more diversified and resilient business phone number and one log-in.
be replaced by Sir Adrian Montague.
with a wide range of products: Secondly, Digital First.
Digital is We have already benefited from working increasingly how our customers want to with Sir Adrian as Senior Independent It is consistent with our investment deal with us and how we will serve Director and look forward to working thesis of cash flow plus growth creating them.
Therefore if it is a choice of where with him as Chairman.
c. 600 million of incremental cash flow we will invest, it will be in digital first We expect annual run rate cost savings across any channel.
Going Forward of 225 million by the end of 2017 Thirdly, Not Everywhere.
We are not It will create the UKs leading insurance, The proposed Friends Life transaction interested in planting flags or being in savings and asset management speeds up our turnaround.
Our focus is on a select 1 business with c. 16 million customers, integration of Friends Life is a major focus number of markets and segments where equivalent to accessing one in four and it is important to demonstrate our we have scale and profitability or a households.
ability to execute on our plans and achieve distinct competitive advantage where We are an iconic British business and this our external objectives.
acquisition will increase our scale in minimum.
attractive segments of our home market While the proposed integration of Our people We are stronger together, with the best Friends Life is a major exercise, there are of both companies giving us a leadership Turnarounds are not delivered by strategies large parts of the business that are not position in the growing corporate or financial engineering.
They are involved and we will continue to focus pensions and protection markets delivered by people.
I want to thank our on better capital allocation and efficiency It will increase our assets under people for their dedication and across the entire group, driving digital management at Aviva Investors by up commitment, which has helped Aviva throughout the organisation and building 2 to 70 billion a 28% increase make such progress.
our true customer composite model.
It will increase our cash flows, reduce Over the past two years, Aviva Aviva has travelled a long way in the our leverage and support continued employees have seen significant change.
But it would be wrong growth in our dividend Despite the sometimes difficult choices to assume that our turnaround is nearing It will allow us to invest in our other that have had to be made, 2014 saw completion.
On the contrary, we have businesses for growth.
employee engagement markedly improve further to travel than the distance we in particular in levels of pride, motivation have come and in 2015 the Friends Life and advocacy.
These now stand above transaction allows us to reset our sector benchmarks.
We have attracted expectations once again.
some of the best talent in the market to Strengthened management team We made a number of senior appointments in 2014 to strengthen our management team and bring new skills into the Group.
Chris Wei Tom Stoddard CEO, Global Life Insurance Chief Financial Officer and Chairman Asia Euan Munro Monique Shivanandan Andrew Brem CEO, Aviva Investors Chief Information Officer Chief Digital Officer 1 Based on customer numbers as at 31 December 2013 and prior to the deduction of overlapping customers.
2 Based on 2014 funds under management.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 09 What we What weve Our plan said wed do done of action Continue to improve cash Cash remittances up 11% Continue to improve cash Cash flow remittances remittances and cost income Cost income ratio has improved ratio of all our businesses Show improvement in cost by 2.6 percentage points income ratio to 51.5% Complete proposed acquisition of Friends Life to improve Continue to improve our Cash remittances from incremental cash flow by 2 turnaround businesses turnaround businesses up 15% c. 0.6 billion and add significant Reduce integration and Integration and restructuring scale and expertise to our back restructuring costs in 2014. costs down 61% to book initiative.
3 Increase VNB in our life VNB up 11% to 1,010 million Allocate capital to those Growth businesses through product mix markets which have attractive Improvement in underwriting and pricing growth opportunities result has driven a Improve COR and underwriting 1.6 percentage point Continue to increase VNB in our in general insurance businesses improvement in COR to 95.7% life business through predictive analytics Launched Aviva Investors Multi Improve COR and underwriting Improve net flows in asset Asset Strategy range in our general insurance management business through automation Launched our joint venture with Strategic partnerships e. g. Astra International in Indonesia Drive positive external fund Indonesia and continued to work closely flows at Aviva Investors with COFCO Ltd in China Improve efficiency and invest in Ensure digital is a key enabler to digital and automation.
Invested in our digital strategy True Customer Composite including the appointment Complete proposed acquisition ofaChief Digital Officer, of Friends Life to: Andrew Brem.
add up to c. 70 billion of funds for Aviva Investors 4 bring c. 5 million Friends Life customers.
Ensure 400 million of expense Intercompany loan reduced Reduce intercompany loan to Financial savings reach the income from 4.1 billion to 2.8 billion 2.2 billion by the end of 2015 1 strength statement as at 28 February 2015 Ensure readiness to start Execute on plans to reduce the 571 million expense savings Solvency II reporting on intercompany loan achieved since 2011 1 January 2016 Deliver on remaining divestments Disposals of River Road, Korea, Continue to improve our Eurovita, Turkey general financial controls Reduce external leverage over insurance and CxG completed the medium term Complete proposed Friends Life External leverage down to 28% transaction to: Prepare for Solvency II.
on a S&P basis reduce leverage deliver 225 million of Preparation continues for expected synergy benefits.
Solvency II Enhanced capital management of Ireland Life and Spain.
1 Based on 2011 baseline expense total of 3,366 million.
2 Our turnaround businesses include Spain, Aviva Investors, Ireland and Italy.
3 Excludes Eurovita, Aseval, CxG and Malaysia.
4 Based on customer numbers as at 31 December 2013 and prior to the deduction of overlapping customers.
