Chief Executive Officers statement Record performance and updated strategy to capture growth opportunities Our response to this changing and challenging environment in 2015 is to stay disciplined, until we get some clarity in terms of Lari stability and economic growth picking up.
1. Credit and liquidity risk management: On the credit risk side, we are applying stricter underwriting standards and will be slightly increasing interest rates on loans.
At the same time, we are proactively re-profiling US Dollar loans to clients with non-US Dollar income.
Re-profiling implies effectively increasing the tenor of the loan so that monthly payment in Lari stays at the same level as it was prior to the recent devaluation of the Lari.
When re-profiling, we do not change the interest rate of the loan.
In Retail Banking, our mortgage loan clients are most likely to apply for re-profiling, as in total we have 7,500 mortgage loans worth of GEL 400 million which are US Dollar loans to Retail Banking clients with non-US Dollar income.
We consider re-profiling applications from our corporate, SME and micro borrowers on a case-by-case basis.
So far 413 loans totalling Irakli Gilauri GEL 35 million have been re-profiled.
Chief Executive E ven though Bank of Georgia enjoys high liquidity and its positive liquidity gap up to six months is GEL 1 billion, we are now working Dear shareholders, with a number of Development Financial Institutions DFI to arrange further long-term loans to improve our Net Loan to Deposits DFI We have posted yet another record year in terms of profit and funding ratio.
Because the Euro influence on Lari is increasing and Earnings Per Share in 2014.
You can read about our strong financial the Lari is effectively becoming a Euro proxy, we will be targeting performance in this Annual Report.
In this letter, rather than focusing to raise Euro funding and try to shift US Dollar loans into Euros.
on the past, in view of our upgraded strategy and recent regional currency tensions, I would like to focus on three key issues:2.
Costs: Being extra cost conscious in a volatile environment is the right thing to do.
At the same time we are accelerating the 1.
Regional macro tensions and our response to it.
integration of the merger with Privatbank in order to start 2.
extracting cost synergies sooner than originally planned.
The way we want to conduct our investment business.
Investments: Even though we believe that the Lari has found We stay disciplined in the light of a weaker 2015 its new equilibrium, we will further observe the Laris stability over macro outlook a period of time, before we step up investment activities.
During With the oil price decrease and the strength of the US Dollar, this period, we will remain vigilant and will continue to actively we are witnessing significant changes in the region.
In particular, analyse and consider different opportunities.
capital flows from remittances to Georgia and revenue from exports to regional countries are decreasing.
Capital expenditure: For our banking operations we are economy is well diversified and resilient to external shocks, we targeting capital expenditure at a lower level than our depreciation believe growth in 2015 will be affected by the weak regional charge.
Our key projects for 2015 are Privatbank integration economies.
Therefore, we have revised our GDP growth targets which is not taking much capital expenditure, our Solo roll out for 2015 to be within the 1.5%3% range.
In our view there are a key driver for our capex budget and further investment in our three key takeaways from the current environment in the region: IT infrastructure, to increase the reliability of our system.
In the Healthcare Business, we will be pursuing a quite aggressive 1.
S ubdued capital flows in the region have had a short-term capex programme, and will concentrate most of it on new negative impact on both the Lari and the Georgian economy.
equipment purchases and developing high-margin businesses.
The Georgian economy is getting rebased in order to stay competitive in the new reality.
However, in the medium to longer We upgraded our strategy from 3x20 to 4x20 term we see lower oil prices as a big positive for Georgia as the In December 2014 we upgraded our strategy from 3x20 to 4x20 country will be saving c. US$450 million from oil imports and on the 4th 20% being the minimum level of IRR we target from the back of lower oil prices we will witness efficiency pick-ups investments in Georgian corporates.
The goal with this upgraded in a number of different sectors within the economy making strategy is to create sustainable high returns and high growth Georgia more competitive.
generating a strong platform for our shareholders.
O ur view is that this rebasing will not be significant in the short we are targeting to generate ordinary dividends from the Banking term, Georgia will weather reduced capital flows better than oil Business and continuous special dividends from the Investment producing countries in the region as due to lower oil prices we Business.
Both businesses are Georgia focused, where average real are experiencing much lower inflation than our neighbours.
Most importantly the Lower inflation is also an outcome of the countrys disciplined current management team knows Georgia extremely well as a result fiscal and monetary policies.
of running the largest bank in the country for the past 10 years and 3.
A s dollar capital has been reduced in the region, it seems that the team has demonstrated a track record of successful growth in Georgia and the Lari are getting more dependent on Eurozone non-banking businesses such as healthcare and real estate.
economies and the Euro respectively.
Two points can be highlighted in this regard: firstly, the European Union EU is our Why we upgraded our strategy to 4x20, when at largest trading partner representing more than 26% of trade: first glance all looked good with a 3x20 strategy?
and secondly, Georgia recently signed a free trade agreement Our key goal is to continue producing high returns in the long with the EU.
Currently, we see that Retail Banking is 8 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information producing over 30% ROAE while Corporate Banking is producing like to integrate the majority of 400,000 Privatbank clients within c. 10% ROAE.
We do not think that in the long run it is possible for the Express Banking franchise.
After the integration we expect Retail Banking to keep producing 30% ROAE.
Therefore, we see the number of Express Banking clients to increase to c. 500,000. the risk of high returns for the Group decreasing over the longer Under the Express Banking franchise we are scaling up our term.
At the same time we do not want to be forced to lend to payments business, which currently is in its nascent stage, Corporates in order to show you growth of 20% in the total loan by increasing our lower-end merchant footprint and thus giving book, while growing a business line with an unattractive risk return more people access to card payments.
This is why we announced the 20% growth target for the will be increasing our footprint from 6,300 merchants to more retail loan book only.
It is noteworthy that penetration of retail loans than 7,500 merchants, increasing our coverage ratio to nearly is half of that of corporate loans when counting in DFI funding 85% of the total number of merchants.
Also, we are scaling up and outstanding Eurobonds at 21% of GDP.
Due to the superior self-service terminals under the Express Banking franchise.
returns in Retail Banking, we expect our Retail Business to continue This way, we plan to introduce a more efficient way to access to drive the banking business ROAE.
The recent acquisition of the mass retail segment and allow easy transactional banking to Privatbank is in line with our updated strategy to further strengthen the countrys under-banked population.
Currently, country-wide our retail franchise by adding c. 400,000 clients, stepping up our we operate more than 2,200 self-service terminals.
payments business as well as capturing synergies by merging Privatbank with our existing Express Banking franchise.
Corporate Banking two pillars of banking business strategy remain unchanged: One critical goal in the Corporate Banking business is to increase ROAE at c. 20% and Tier I Capital c. 20%.
ROAE and we plan to do this by fide-concentrating our loan book and decreasing the cost of risk.
Our experience shows that if, in Due to the limited access to capital and management in a small any given year, one of our top 20 clients has some problems, the frontier economy such as Georgia, we see a much better risk return Corporate Banking business ROAE gets depressed.
Therefore our profile when investing in Georgian companies than when lending key goal is to fide-concentrate the loan book by: to those same corporates.
We also believe that the Group will be adding value for our shareholders by investing in opportunities, a. Syndicating loans out.
which currently are not accessible to our shareholders, changing b.
management and governance, institutionalising and scaling up the c. H elping our large corporate clients to access capital by issuing companies, and most importantly, unlocking value by exiting from debt securities on the local capital market.
Our Plan A in exit is to take the company public.
This way, as far as possible it is our firm intention to create We will focus on further building our fee business through the trade an opportunity for our shareholders to participate in such offerings.
finance franchise, which we believe is the strongest in the region.
Strategy going forward for the Banking Business 3.
Investment Management Banking is the crown jewel in our Group and the key driver We expect to grow our fee income by building our local debt of profitability.
We have three segments in the banking business, capital markets and M&A advisory franchise.
As we would like of which Retail Banking will drive most of our banking business to fide-concentrate the corporate loan book in corporate banking, growth, Corporate Banking and Investment Management will local debt issuance is one way to go in combination with our improve our ROAE, with the latter also contributing an increasing advisory business enhancing ROAE by generating more offshare of our fee and commission income.
On the M&A side we see the need for some sectors to consolidate and Galt & Taggart plans to take 1.
Retail Banking a leading role in this consolidation process.
In our retail business we are covering 1.6 million individual clients and 90,000 SME and Micro clients.
In order to capture different segments As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension system, we believe that our of our retail client base we are pursuing a multi-brand strategy for international wealth management franchise can benefit by focusing mass affluent, mass retail and the emerging bankable population.
on the distribution of local debt.
So far we see that c. 70% of the demand in local paper issuances comes from our international a. U nder the Solo brand, we are targeting the mass affluent wealth management clients.
Further enlargement of the footprint segment.
Currently, we have only 8,000 individual clients under of our international wealth management franchise will be critical for the Solo brand.
In April, we launched a new strategy, where we the success of our strategy to build local capital markets.
Therefore, will be providing clients with a superior customer experience we will be investing more in this area.
by giving them access to newly designed Solo lounges and providing them with new lifestyle opportunities.
Solo personal To summarise our Investment Management strategy, we need to bankers will be offering tailor-made solutions for our Solo clients do the following: and introducing new financial products such as bonds and other capital market products developed by our investment a. E nhance ROAE through our investment in the issuance of more management team.
We estimate that our current market share debt paper in the local market.
in this segment is less than 15% and our goal with the new b. E nlarge our wealth management footprint internationally to strategy is to significantly increase this market share in the further strengthen our distribution channels.
b. U nder the Bank of Georgia brand we target the mass retail The way we invest and manage segment.
This is our flagship brand and most significant profit As our Investment Strategy is new for our shareholders, I would contributor, with 1.1 million individual clients and 90,000 SME like to spend more of your time and provide you with more insight and Micro clients.
This segment is very much product driven into how we plan to conduct investments and manage companies.
and our biggest challenge is to change the business model Let me outline our key principles, which are derived from our to become more client centric and therefore increase the 1.7 experience in running Bank of Georgia: current product to client ratio over time.
c. U nder the Express Banking brand we target the emerging 1.
We are currently estimating the market of 2.
a 1.5 million emerging bankable population, which either do not 3.
have interaction with a bank or use a limited number of banking 4.
Good governance makes good returns.
Privatbank clients are part of the latter and we would 5.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 9 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Let me expand on each of these points to give you more flavour We like to hold and or target large market shares in any given sector.
on how we see our job in investing and managing the companies.
Our sweet spot is 30% market share in any given sector.
This way we will have the scale to be efficient and competitive and at the same 1.
Be opportunistic and disciplined time not be overly dominant to attract the attention of regulators.
We We want to be opportunistic and disciplined when investing, should be mindful not to abuse the power of a large market share and by buying cheaply and in small ticket sizes.
we should be open to share the benefits of scale with our customers.
In a nutshell, we do not mind sharing success with our clients.
For us buying assets cheaply is the first and most important postulate in our investment strategy.
It is difficult to go wrong We like large, but fragmented, sectors to have an opportunity when you buy assets cheaply.
The key questions are: to consolidate it like we are doing in the healthcare sector.
We also like natural monopolies like GGU.
How do we define cheap in a small illiquid market?
where you have one dominant player with 50% market share.
How do we manage to buy cheaply?
We like simple business models.
When considering an acquisition, whether its pre-IPO or otherwise, We had a bad experience of acquiring small companies in we look at multiples of listed peers in the same sector and apply at 2005-2007.
In a small period of time we acquired 10 companies least a 40% discount.
This is our definition of cheap.
The good thing was that capital commitment was limited, but it took too much senior management time and because of the Georgia is a small frontier economy and access to capital is limited.
limited size of company we were unable to hire good management It is difficult to find liquidity for any single asset worth more than teams.
The strategy proved to be wrong due to the limited size of US$10 million.
At the same time, owners of assets are often asset the investee companies.
Georgias GDP has grown on average 12% in nominal terms over the past 10 years and local businesses have To summarise, achieving superior economies of scale in a been reinvesting over that time to stay competitive.
small frontier economy is an essential part of the success.
It actually significantly diminishes the risk of failure.
We like paying dividends to our shareholders as it creates natural self-discipline in buying assets cheaply.
Getting our hands dirty will always ask ourselves the question: is it worth investing this money Before we undertake an investment we like to take time and get in this company or opportunity or better to pay increase dividends?
our hands dirty to understand inside out the sector and business we are targeting.
Diligence and modelling in excel is the key before Another reason for us being disciplined is that we are under no entering any business.
pressure to make any new investment as Bank of Georgia is producing good returns.
If we do not find a good opportunity Getting things done is the single most important task for we may not invest for two to three years.
We are always following our executives.
different sectors of the economy and if a good opportunity arises we No matter how great our strategy is, we strongly believe that execution would want to capture it.
To this end, we would like to sit on at least is the key.
No matter how good the investment opportunity is, we will US$30 million of cash under the current market cap at the holding not pursue it if we do not think that we have a first-class management company level to make sure that cash is available as opportunities team to put in place.
arise in our existing business lines or new ones.
Also cash is very handy in slower business cycles and can help to buy assets cheaply.
At Bank of Georgia we have spent a lot of time building a top-class management team and we have a deep bench of people who have We plan to be disciplined not only in terms of finding new grown and are ready to take bigger responsibilities.
One of the opportunities through investment appraisals and understanding the reasons we are confident in our strategy is that we have human risk return profile, cyclicality of the business and quality of revenue, but capital available both on the top and mid-management levels.
also in terms of the size of the initial investment in any new sector.
We We spend a lot of time coaching and mentoring our talent and believe that our initial investment in any new sector should not exceed our Boards role in this process is invaluable.
When and if we get comfortable with the sector, only after that would we allow ourselves to increase the ticket size of Along with selling the companies, we will be selling the management the investment.
The small size of the investment is important as we team and saying goodbye to our management team, therefore are human beings and we may make a mistake.
By investing in small we fully understand that our machine of producing new executives ticket sizes we will be far away from betting the house.
Furthermore, for our top talent we have introduced small mistake is OK, just learn from it do not bet the house.
a self-development programme by hiring coaches to help them to better understand their strengths and weaknesses.
According to our To summarise, Georgia was born 10 years ago and different policy, no matter how good the performance of our top executive sectors and businesses are in the process of formation, is they may get limited bonuses if we do not see progress in access to capital and management is limited, owners of executives self-development and growing their successor s. businesses are cash poor and therefore good opportunities can be captured cheaply.
At the same time, we are under no You have observed rotations in our top management every two to pressure to make new investments and we will be extremely three years.
In December 2014, we announced another round of selective and opportunistic and will not commit more than rotation.
We would like our top talent to receive experience in different US$25 million in a single investment in a sector where we roles and learn and grow.
Rotations will continue in the future.
Our dividend policy is the natural self-discipline mechanism for our investment business.
In some of the sectors where we have limited operational experience we would put together a complementary team of talent 2.
In scale we trust from our Group and sector specialists from outside the Group.
We strongly believe that any investee company and or sector in We are confident that talent from within our Group can learn the which we invest in should be large and scalable.
In case of pre-IPO sector in a short period of time.
In the early stage of the investment opportunities, EBITDA of the existing business should be at least cycle, the management from the holding company level will spend US$25-50 million depending on the sector.
In the case of greenfield more time on coaching and guiding the management team.
That investment, we need to see an opportunity to scale up and achieve is exactly what we are doing at Georgian Global Utilities now.
US$25-50 million in EBITDA over the next five to six years.
10 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The question we need to ask before entering the new sector is 5.
Liquidity is the king not whether we are the best, but whether our management team According to our investment policy, we target to exit from our is better than that of the next player.
This is a relative play game.
investment through a trade sale full or partial or IPO in up to six years from the initial investment.
Because we are a publicly held At this stage, we do not want to hold more than four investments company our preferred option is to take the Company public to at any given time, as we are limited in terms of oversight as well as give the market the opportunity to participate in the future upside.
management resources to put in place in more than four companies.
No matter how well our companies do in terms of operating results, To summarise, similarly to limited access to capital in this we want to see their exit to unlock the value and with the generated country, the availability of management is limited and by profit pay special dividends and pursue new opportunities in the being a machine of producing top talent in the country we event that we see one.
According to our strategy we will be targeting can add value for our shareholders.
We understand that three special dividends in the next five years.
Our aim for the size of great management teams make great companies, and aggregate special dividends is to be at least 50% of ordinary investing time in growing people continues to be critical dividends paid by the banking business during these five years.
for the success of our strategy.
Because we aim for high returns and not for control, we do not 4.
Good governance makes good returns mind selling below the 50% shareholding level at the IPO.
We fully We have already learned that great institutions are not built without understand that liquidity for both incoming investors and our Group robust governance and ultimately without it one cannot deliver is the key.
We have learned that increased liquidity of shares itself sustainable value creation for its shareholders.
creates value as shares become accessible to a wider investor universe.
This was indeed the case when we converted from our We like to institutionalise companies by putting good governance GDR listing to the London Stock Exchange Premium listing in 2012. in place.
We do not like to bet on one persons judgement and do As shares of Bank of Georgia became more accessible, their value not believe that one person can perform magic.
Therefore, we believe increased while fundamentals did not change.
that first of all the CEO should be surrounded with an outstanding management team from below and a first-class Board from above.
Unlocking the value through IPO is more critical for us than any money we Meritocracy, loyalty to institution rather than to individuals is our leave on the table at the IPO.
At the end of the day and as far as possible approach.
To this end, our approach is to separate the roles of it is our firm intention to create an opportunity for our shareholders Chairman and CEO.
We operate like this at Bank of Georgia and to participate in the newly IPOd company by buying its shares.
we truly believe in healthy checks and balances between the Board of Directors and executives.
Having separate individuals for the As many of you know we are in the process of preparation to IPO our top job on both levels is the key signal we are sending to our healthcare subsidiary Georgia Healthcare Group.
The Board and I have shareholders on governance.
complete confidence that the management will deliver on our stated strategy of doubling 2015 revenue by 2018.
Some would argue that We think that a high-quality, diversified independent Board is we might be better off to take the Company public in two to three years extremely important for the success of the Company.
We see the time, as more profits are expected to be generated by then.
But we Board not only as an institution, which is doing its duty of oversight of want to be disciplined in terms of unlocking value for our shareholders, the management and setting strategy, but also the Board is providing as set out in our 4x20 strategy, and are targeting an IPO in 2015. guidance and coaching of our top and mid-level management team.
I personally am extremely excited about the prospects of the Company.
As far as possible, it is our firm intention to allow our shareholders to In our case, the Boards role of oversight is made relatively participate in the IPO and I, for one, will definitely be placing an order.
straightforward by creating a natural alignment of interest between shareholders and management.
For that we award long-term vesting To summarise, in order for our strategy to work we need shares up to five years to management and make compensation to be disciplined in unlocking the value of companies in in shares a large proportion of total annual compensation which we invest and manage.
Taking companies public is e. g. 85-90%.
This way we create long-term alignment of interest our preferred option for exit, as it is our intention to give between management and shareholders.
If shareholders make our shareholders an opportunity to participate.
money, management makes money and if shareholders lose money, management also loses money.
With this simple approach, on top In the end, I would encourage you to visit Georgia and meet our of being executives, the management team feels and acts more like management team.
You can meet and get to know our Board shareholders because they are.
members at our annual investor day.
We have a saying in Georgia: It is better to see the place once than hear about it 100 times.
Even though this compensation structure has a lot of positives What I promise you is dinner at a restaurant overlooking beautiful as outlined above, it has one main drawback: when share prices old Tbilisi the place where East meets West at the old Silk Road, rise too rapidly the risk of management becoming arrogant and from where you will be able to feel the future.
This is another reason why we think a strong Board is essential to bring management back to reality.
Irakli Gilauri The Nomination Committee is always searching for professionals Chief Executive around the world to make sure that we have all the skill-set available 7 April 2015 on the Board.
For example, currently we are searching for an experienced potential Board member with background in Energy and Utilities to give us more guidance for our GGU investment.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2015.
To summarise, we are big believers that robust governance is the source of value creation for our shareholders.
On behalf of the Board of Directors The natural and simple alignment of interest between shareholders and management by awarding long-term Irakli Gilauri stock works well for value creation and, finally, we want Chief Executive to have good balance by having separate people as the 7 April 2015 Chairman and CEO of the Company.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 11
