22 Beazley Annual report 2014 Q&A with the chief executive Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2015.
Q What do you see as the most promising new insurance products in the Beazley pipeline?
A We have grown our cyber and data breach product considerably over the past few years.
We have a number of other products and all of our teams focus on innovation.
If I had to single out one area it would be healthcare.
Our healthcare team is highly innovative.
Healthcare is the largest industry in the US, representing more than 17% of gross domestic product.
The drivers of demand for healthcare expenditure ageing populations and advances in medicine and medical technology are also commonly found in other developed economies.
We have a global healthcare team that focuses on developing innovative products for the US market that can frequently also be offered to healthcare providers in other countries.
We Andrew Horton have just launched a new policy for nutraceutical companies Chief executive suppliers of dietary supplements and other food products, promoted as offering specific health benefits.
We will also shortly be launching a policy to protect the clinical research organisations that conduct clinical trials and their sponsors.
Q What do you see arresting or reversing the current downward drift in premium Q Given the lack of historical data for new rates for so many classes of insurance and classes of business such as data breach insurance, reinsurance business?
how do you price risks fairly and sustainably?
A Pressure on rates is being driven by many factors.
A Out of these, the three most important are: muted economic Data breach insurance is a rapidly growing area in the insurance industry and it does not have the same type of growth in developed economies meaning demand for complex insurance is not growing, low levels of catastrophe losses historical loss information that is available in some other classes of business.
Nonetheless, there is a great deal of information meaning the industry is profitable, and a low interest rate world which is attracting capital into insurance in search of yield.
available about the frequency and severity of breaches.
Laws requiring public reporting of many types of breaches have been Any of these drivers could change in the near term in which case markets will correct: equally all could remain with us in place for up to ten years, providing detailed information about the frequency and severity of breaches over time.
we have written insurance covering data breaches for many years, and have handled more than 2,000 breaches for our clients.
We therefore have substantial internal data to validate the assumptions we have made on breach frequency and size with which to price our products.
Historical data is only a subset of the data we typically look at when assessing a risk.
Its really part of the definition of being a specialist insurer that we look beyond actuarial data, because the past may not always be a good guide to the future.
We also rely on technical research, assistance from computer security experts and modelling to analyse and predict potential systemic events, and apply the same methods of mitigating exposure as we do in more established classes of business.
com 22 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 23 Q Q Given the market conditions that you foresee Lloyds vision 2025 and the recent London for 2015, what is a reasonable return on equity to matters report highlight the importance of being expect from a specialist insurer such as Beazley?
What is Beazley doing to grow in these markets?
A I can tell you that we achieved post tax return on equity of 19% in 2012, 21% in 2013 and 17% last year.
Looking A We are excited about growth opportunities in Asia forward, I dont think there are many insurance company CEOs and particularly opportunities that we can access through who would predict that their companies will perform better in Singapore, which is fast developing as a major insurance hub.
I actually believe that Lloyds our market collectively is very alive to the opportunities that Asia presents.
However, we are In years with very low catastrophe losses, we may underperform equally realistic in recognising that it will take a long time for insurers and reinsurers with large catastrophe exposed insurance penetration for our specialty products in Asia to rival portfolios.
However, given the massive influx of capital into insurance penetration for our products in the United States.
these lines of business, I feel confident that the balance People tend to focus too much on raw GDP figures without of our portfolio should help us perform well over time.
looking at GDP per head figures, which lag far behind, or insurance penetration figures, which lag even further behind Q GDP growth.
Do you expect to see your business in the US continuing to grow relative to your Lloyds Will we be writing a lot of employment practices liability insurance or lawyers professional indemnity insurance market business?
in China in the near future?
On the other hand, can we write more construction business?
All the analysis we have done has indicated that can and Im delighted that we exported the concept of the there is considerable headroom for us to continue to grow in the Construction Consortium at Lloyds to Singapore last year.
Our US underwriters focus predominantly on smaller risks where premium rates are currently relatively favourable.
Q The Lloyds market has a strong focus on business where rates Beazley has a growing workforce.
For the next couple of years we How important to you is diversity at all levels expect the US to offer more profitable growth opportunities.
We have invested in our US operations consistently over the ten years during which we have had a local presence in the A For me it is clear that smart people from different country.
Those investments are paying off as we speak: backgrounds and with different life experiences will make premiums from our US business accounted for a quarter smarter decisions than less diverse teams.
Our roots are in a of our total premiums in 2014, with 19% growth in premiums market that has not historically been very diverse: women are in 2014 over 2013, and we see growth continuing to be strong still in a small minority in underwriting roles at Lloyds and, into 2015. despite the cosmopolitanism of London, ethnic diversity at The purpose of our recent investments has been two-fold.
We Lloyds has been quite low too.
have sought to broaden our geographic footprint in the US, so So were working to change this and were making progress, we can be closer to the brokers who have attractive business.
but it will take time and a concerted effort from everyone We have also made investments in people and processes which in the market.
will speed the commercialisation of promising new products.
We expect to see immediate returns from these investments.
