18 Beazley Annual report 2014 Chief executives statement The steady diversification of Beazleys portfolio that we have been pursuing over a number of years showed its value in 2014.
Beazley performed very strongly in 2014, delivering a profit before income tax of $261.9m 2013: $313.3m on gross premiums of $2,021.8m 2013: $1,970.2m.
Our combined ratio of 89% 2013: 84% was in line with our five year average.
This reflected a benign claims environment, particularly for catastrophe exposed business, but at a time of falling premium rates across many lines of business, specialist expertise and disciplined underwriting also played key roles.
In July we celebrated the tenth anniversary of our local presence in the United States, Beazleys largest market since the companys earliest days.
It was fitting that these celebrations occurred at a time of strong growth in our locally Andrew Horton Chief executive underwritten US business, which accounted for more than a quarter of our premiums last year $537.0m, up 19% on $451.8m in 2013.
We now have a well developed underwriting and claims platform in the US that offers an alternative and increasingly valuable source of profitable growth opportunities to complement our London business.
Broadly speaking, we saw the most attractive growth opportunities in 2014 in the small and mid sized professional indemnity, management liability and property business that has been a key focus for our underwriters in the US since we established our operation there a decade ago.
Competition for large risks, most of which we underwrite in London, was more intense, particularly for catastrophe exposed lines of business such as treaty reinsurance, commercial property and energy.
Given this split, it is not surprising that specialty lines, our largest division, which focuses on professional indemnity and management liability risks, grew 8% to $895.7m in 2014.
We secured significant rate rises for our life, accident & health division in Australia following losses in 2013, helping to boost that divisions premiums overall by 32%.
Two of our divisions, reinsurance and political risk & contingency, saw gross premiums shrink by 9% and 6% respectively under the pressure of falling rates.
The silver lining for the group as a whole was that the cost of our own reinsurance protections also fell.
com 18 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 19 The steady diversification of Beazleys portfolio that we have Beazley is a major insurer of professional indemnity and been pursuing over a number of years showed its value in 2014 management liability business through our specialty lines with the contrasting fortunes of different segments of our division.
Claims activity was generally subdued for these business.
Divisions that have historically focused heavily on a portfolios, particularly for the small and mid sized risk business single line of business are now far more diversified and therefore that we access through retail brokers in the United States.
have more scope to manoeuvre in challenging markets.
This is Large risk business underwritten in London for clients such true of our property division, which as recently as 2011 was as major US law firms and hospital systems saw a higher level dominated by large risk, or open market, property business of claims.
Evidence of the strengthening US economy was underwritten in London.
Our open market property account apparent in our claims experience for employment practices has since shrunk in relative terms from 67% of the property liability EPL business, which continued to fall after spiking divisions premiums in 2010 to 54% today.
We have seen during the recession.
EPL claims tend to increase when similar diversification within our marine division, which now employers are under severe economic strain and abate underwrites satellite and aviation business as well as a far when economic conditions improve.
larger book of marine liability business than was the case a few years ago.
Data breaches remained a major focus of attention in corporate America during 2014 as a string of large retailers and one bank Prior year reserve releases contributed $158.1m to our 2014 announced breaches affecting, in many cases, tens of millions underwriting result 2013: $218.0m.
We maintain a consistent of individuals.
Beazley is well known as a pioneer of data breach and conservative approach to reserving which enables us insurance but our principal focus has been on assisting small to make prior year reserve releases as we get more certainty and mid sized organisations manage the consequences of on our view of how ultimate claims will develop across breaches and defend themselves against third party lawsuits underwriting years.
We had modest exposure to the large scale breaches that took place during the year.
Investment performance The investment world entered 2014 expecting government Claims activity bond yields in developed markets to rise as monetary stimulus The year was distinguished by a low incidence of catastrophe was removed and as rate rises in the US and the UK became claims, particularly from meteorological or seismic causes.
In fact yields fell across almost all An exception was Hurricane Odile, which hit the Baja California jurisdictions where we have significant bond positions peninsula of Mexico in September, causing severe damage particularly in Europe, where monetary stimulus was increased, to hotel properties in Cabo San Luca.
The cost to Beazley, but also in the US and the UK where it was reduced or removed.
net of reinsurance, is estimated at $12.5m.
The fall in yields was beneficial to our investment portfolio and contributed to an increase in overall investment return from The aviation war risks market had a turbulent year, paying out 1.0% in 2013 to 1.9% in 2014.
All main components of our claims equivalent to nearly a decades worth of premiums investment portfolio generated positive returns in 2014, following the destruction of aircraft at Tripoli airport in July and notably the hedge fund portfolio which had an excellent year.
the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 over Ukraine in the same month.
Beazley has been underwriting aviation war risks During 2014 we took the management of our core rates for a number of years and accordingly had some exposure portfolio and oversight of our external managers in house.
We also incurred a share of claims from the We continue to work with Falcon Money Management failure of two satellite launches in the course of the year.
on our hedge fund and illiquid credit portfolios.
com 20 Beazley Annual report 2014 Chief executives statement continued Growth of locally underwritten US premiums 19% 2013: 17% Find out more on page 14 This approach was exemplified in 2014 in our property division.
Risk management In July, we announced that Simon Jackson and John Brown, We monitor the risks that could affect the group very closely.
two of the most respected underwriters of large scale The biggest risks to our financial performance relate to our commercial property risks at Lloyds, would be joining Beazley insurance business: at a time of declining premium rates and at the beginning of 2015.
Under the direction of Jonathan Gray, increasing competition, the margin for error for insurers in who founded our property division in 1992, open market pricing risk naturally diminishes.
That said, we are very familiar property has been an area in which Beazley has carved a strong with the pricing dynamics of our lines of business and have leadership position.
Simon will be succeeding Jonathan as head always been willing to let business go if it does not meet of the open market property team in June this year: we are our criteria.
In accordance with this principle, we scaled back deeply grateful to Jonathan for all his contributions to Beazley our reinsurance treaty business by 9% in 2014 following over the years.
a large influx of capital from pension funds that drove down premium rates.
Market conditions for large property risks are unquestionably challenging at present, but we are confident that we have in Detailed information on our approach to risk management and place an open market property team that is well equipped to the measures we take to address the spectrum of risks that navigate this environment.
could affect our financial performance can be found in the risk management section on page 53.
Other segments of our property portfolio enjoyed more favourable rates in 2014.
These included our small business Growth opportunities book, comprising both small scale commercial property risks We practice a consistent and rigorous approach to evaluating written through Lloyds coverholders, principally in the US, and growth opportunities at Beazley, critical in a market that homeowners accounts in the US and UK.
This book grew 7% in is growing increasingly competitive.
On the whole we have the course of 2014 to $69.7m.
A potential future growth area is preferred organic growth to growth by acquisition: we have also our excess & surplus E&S lines commercial property business preferred to branch into new lines of business that are related in the US, comprising mid sized commercial property risks that to our existing lines.
With our broad range of products and have proved better insulated from competitive pressures than geographies there are frequently opportunities to offer products our large risk book.
developed in one location to brokers in another.
This was something our construction & engineering team did in 2014 The US was also the focus of growth opportunities for specialty when, in alliance with three other Lloyds insurers, they lines, our largest division, led by the continuing success established the Construction Consortium at Lloyds Asia, of our data breach product, Beazley Breach Response BBR.
based in Singapore an initiative that followed the success In 2014, our technology, media & business services TMB team of the consortium established by the same partners outstripped treaty reinsurance as our largest single focus group.
Providing capacity up to a maximum The TMB team has a longstanding leadership position in of $212.5m per risk, the Construction Consortium at Lloyds technology errors and omissions insurance, but its recent Asia will offer an attractive new alternative for the insurance growth has derived principally from BBR, an impressive of the regions largest construction projects.
achievement for a form of cover that was in its infancy only five years ago.
Above all, our growth depends on the recruitment of talented individuals who have a track record of identifying profitable The ability to innovate rapidly to meet changing client needs, underwriting opportunities.
We know that we will not always be exemplified by BBR, is essential to a specialist insurer.
able to hire such individuals at a time when market conditions At a time of falling premium rates, it is also a bulwark against are optimal, but we are confident that, over time, we can offer commoditisation, amply demonstrated in 2014 by our them attractive opportunities to build profitable books healthcare team, which developed new products for the of business.
com 20 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 21 insurance of clinical trials and for manufacturers of In the summer we invited Brunswick Research to interview nutraceutical suppliers of dietary supplements and other 50 brokers with whom we work in London and the US.
The food products promoted as offering specific health benefits brokers, all of whom had extensive experience of Beazleys products.
Our miscellaneous medical book, comprising a wide claims service, were interviewed anonymously.
Four years range of insurance offerings for diverse healthcare providers, previously, we had conducted a similar study, also through grew by 15% in 2014 to $24.5m, rivalling our long established Brunswick, with 30 brokers: then the findings were mixed, hospital professional liability book.
With the US healthcare highlighting a number of areas for improvement.
Last year, the market accounting for almost 18% of the countrys gross feedback was much more positive: 68% of the participating domestic product a larger share than in any other developed brokers said they had a very positive view of Beazley deriving economy we see significant growth opportunities ahead.
from their experience of our claims service and a further 28% said their view was positive.
Brunswick reported that many of To take advantage of these and other opportunities requires the brokers struggled to suggest ways for Beazley to further talented underwriters and claims professionals, as well as improve the service it provides.
strong back office systems and expertise to ensure high quality service and to commercialise promising new products swiftly.
I am certain that there are ways in which we can improve our We continued to invest in these areas in the US in 2014. claims service and, under the leadership of Anthony Hobkinson, our claims teams will certainly not be resting on their laurels.
The third prerequisite for profitable growth is strong broker Nevertheless, it is encouraging to know that our service is relationships.
We decided in 2013 to refocus our US distribution appreciated by the brokers we work with.
on a smaller number of brokers who understood our appetite and had consistently brought us good business.
This approach Outlook paid off last year and we saw bound premium from our top nine Insurance companies exist to pay claims.
Subdued claims brokers in the US climb by $51.4m.
activity of the kind we have seen in many lines of business for the past two years casts an artificially rosy light on the Our business model relies heavily on face to face interaction economics of our business.
Beazleys response has been between our underwriters and brokers to develop tailored consistent throughout our history: we will focus on specialist solutions that meet the needs of the brokers clients.
We are products that command higher margins and walk away from increasing the opportunities for such interaction with new hires underpriced business: we will keep a keen focus on expenses and new offices: in 2014 we opened an office in Dallas and we while continuing to invest prudently for the future: and we will will shortly be opening our second office on the west coast, in return capital that we cannot profitably deploy to our investors.
Six locations New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Dallas, We are doing all these things now.
Los Angeles and San Francisco have been designated for hub offices, offering multiple products to local brokers.
Andrew Horton Claims service Chief executive Underwriting skills are of course only half of the picture for clients who also rely on our claims teams to provide swift and sure 4 February 2015 service in the event of a loss or a lawsuit.
Large sums can ride on the judgement of our claims professionals and the lawyers we work with to defend our clients against third party claims.
Last year we worked closely with two hospital clients in California to defeat class action lawsuits relating to data breaches that could have cost them, in aggregate, more than $4.5bn.
