20 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Mark Cloutier Chief Executive Officer 2014 HAS BEEN A LANDMARK YEAR FOR BRIT, MARKING Financial highlights OUR RETURN AS A PUBLICLY LISTED COMPANY AND In 2014, we delivered against the targets set out at the time DELIVERING ANOTHER STRONG SET OF RESULTS, of the IPO and continue to capitalise on profitable growth A SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT GIVEN THE SHIFTING opportunities.
SINCE OUR DECISION TO REPOSITION THE BUSINESS, WE HAVE RELENTLESSLY We continue to create value for our stakeholders.
In spite FOCUSED ON DEVELOPING A PLATFORM THAT IS of challenging market conditions we have produced ALIGNED WITH OUR KEY OBJECTIVE OF LONGa RoNTA of 20.7% and the total value we created was TERM VALUE CREATION WHILE RETAINING A HIGHLY 139.2m.
Underwriting and investment performance both DISCIPLINED APPROACH TO THE BUSINESS WE CHOOSE contributed to this result: TO UNDERWRITE IN THE SHORT-TERM.
Our underwriting operations generated a profit of 102.0m and produced a combined ratio of 89.5%.
Our model allows us to see the difference and our recent track record is a strong vindication of what we have set out Our premium growth of 9.8% 15.0% at constant rates to achieve.
It also gives us a clear path to deliver our key of exchange, is driven by new business from the new business objective: to maximise long-term value creation for teams and initiatives put in place from 2012 to 2014. shareholders by leveraging our differentiating Lloyds-only We have also seen organic growth in a few selected platform and leading global specialty franchise to deliver the lines where rating conditions remain attractive such as best insurance solutions to complex risks faced by our clients.
US binder business and some other specialty classes: The overall risk-adjusted trend in pricing is a decrease of We closed the year with healthy growth in our business and 2.9%, which is in line with our projection at the time of delivered very strong total value creation of 139.2m with a the IPO and our guidance repeated at half year.
The price 20.7% return on net tangible assets excluding FX and IPO falls in treaty reinsurance were marked and occurred early costs : our third year in a row of sector-leading returns in in the year as the bulk of our reinsurance book renews in excess of 18.5%.
The results discussed in this, our first annual the first six months.
The insurance business pricing was report since our IPO, are a credit to the entire Brit team.
They more resilient with an overall decrease in rates of 1.6%, have worked tirelessly throughout the year, staying focused justifying our strategy to focus on insurance business on the fundamentals that we consider key to generating longwhere our expertise is highly valued.
While we are not term shareholder value and ensuring that our clients always alone in experiencing rating declines, we are happy with see the difference in partnering with Brit.
the rating adequacy of our overall portfolio: We were very pleased to announce on 17 February 2015 Our claims experience has been in line with expectation an offer for the business from Fairfax.
Our business is and, while we have sustained some losses from natural complementary to the Fairfax groups current offering and catastrophes e. g. Hurricane Odile and man-made events the deal represents an exciting opportunity for us to continue e. g. the Tripoli airport attack, the claims environment has our story on an even stronger footing, for the benefit of both been benign.
Our attritional claims experience and the companies, our employees, customers and trading partners.
development of our prior year reserves have been in line It will give Brit access to Fairfaxs existing relationships and with the guidance offered at the time of our IPO.
expertise in the international insurance and reinsurance markets, allowing us to enhance our global product offering.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 21 In spite of the challenging Attritional ratio % market conditions we produced a RoNTA of 20.7% and the total 80 value we created was 139.2m.
70 60 50 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We have generated investment return net of fees ahead Underwriting of our guidance at 2.9% and have benefited from falling Underwriting profitability lies at the heart of our strategy.
yields and the tightening of credit spreads that have driven Evidence of that commitment is seen not only in this years very unrealised gains in our government and corporate credit strong claims ratio but in the reduction in our attritional loss weighted portfolios.
We have shortened the duration of ratio over the last five years, as shown in the graph above.
our portfolio in a defensive move against expected interest rate rises and we therefore believe we are well-positioned Under Matthew Wilsons leadership, in what can best be for 2015: described as a challenging environment, underwriting performance of 1,302.1m premium income and a claims We are well capitalised with resources amounting to ratio of 50.0% again proved the wisdom of writing a 150.4% of the capital we need to meet regulatory diversified portfolio of specialty classes.
As indicated at the time of our IPO, we are top line growth in 2014, predominantly from new teams and will continue to be active managers of our capital and, and initiatives, however we continue to maintain a highly in line with our guidance, will make a special dividend of disciplined approach to organic growth, particularly given 50.1m to bring our surplus position back to the upper end market conditions and outlook.
of the 120% to 140% range: In volatile market conditions, the ability to draw on underwriting In 2014, we successfully completed the commutation experience, sophisticated technical pricing tools and long-term of a portfolio reinsurance transaction relating to the trading relationships to grow or reduce exposures depending restructuring of the Group in 2012.
We are pleased to upon terms and conditions available by business class, is critical have commuted on favourable terms, bringing closure to optimising shareholder returns.
Over the past six years we on a portfolio of long-tail liability reserves including those have consistently enhanced our product set, as well as the skills related to the financial crisis.
This transaction marked the of our underwriting community.
As a result, we were very well final element of the major restructuring of the business positioned to meet the challenges of the market conditions undertaken since 2011 by Brits new management.
we faced in 2014 and will continue to see going forward.
Matthew goes into more detail on performance and outlook in Focus on the fundamentals our underwriting review on page 26.
At Brit we focus on five core fundamentals that drive our overarching business objective: continuing to take The London market should be a centre of innovation: offering advantage of our differentiating Lloyds-only operating products that are responsive to new and emerging forms of platform: delivering sustainable and profitable underwriting risk.
We believe the best response to excess capacity is to performance which includes the claims component of our create demand through the development of new products for business : focused growth: dynamic asset management: and emerging needs, rather than allowing that excess capacity to strong capital management.
While we discuss all of these in cause us to give away our margins.
some detail elsewhere in this Strategic Report, I will provide some additional perspective here.
Brit set an excellent example of such innovation in 2014 with the roll-out of our new cyber-attack cover targeted at first party physical damage and business interruption loss arising 22 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT from a cyber-attack.
We are proud of this development for the discipline and the trading relationships that will enable us to several reasons: continue driving strong returns through shifting market cycles.
For 325 years the London market has been a place of Focused growth innovation in the specialty insurance sector.
As a firm that As a specialty re insurer we look to grow in two principal sells itself as a Lloyds-based specialty insurance business, ways.
First, in the specialty classes in which Lloyds and the this major innovation from Brit makes a clear statement London market have a major and or leading presence.
Secondly, about the continued relevance and importance of the through opportunity-driven geographic growth in specialty London market: classes where we have expertise in both mature and emerging markets including the US, China and Latin America.
The success of this initiative will again prove the need for and importance of a syndicated market for the 2014 saw 15.0% growth in our top line GWP at constant placement of complex and new forms of risk, whereby FX rates.
This was driven by our specialty insurance products can be developed and enhanced through a business which grew by 22.4%, while we chose to shrink our broad distribution of those risks across different forms reinsurance portfolio by 8.1% in response to difficult market of capacity providers: conditions.
The growth we achieved in our book was driven predominantly by new underwriting initiatives implemented The product development work by the Brit team is in 2013 and 2014, which included the addition of property tangible evidence of our talent, collaboration and intent.
and public entity specialty teams in the US, a casualty and Furthermore, the support of the market resulting in excess property treaty team in Bermuda and a number of specialist of US$350m of consortia capacity clearly reinforces Brit as class teams in London high value homeowners, aviation, a leader in the development of specialty products.
political and credit risks, and fine art and specie.
Growth in our existing business was limited as we remained disciplined.
In tandem with our underwriting performance, delivery of This growth was focused on areas where rates have been most a first class accurate claims service to our clients is key to our resilient and specifically our US property binder business and success.
During the year we continued to strengthen our US specialty classes.
claims offering with a number of new hires, deepening our skill set and expanding the experience base in support of the new Our growth has been described as being opportunistic and initiatives we implemented.
We have also led innovation within we agree with that view.
Our approach is first to consider any the claim side of the business through the introduction of a opportunity within the context of our overall strategy and our fast track arbitration clause that will greatly enhance the clients basic understanding of the product offering to ensure it fits experience on complex issues, with a more cost effective and with our longer-term plan.
We then examine historical results robust solution to potential conflict points.
This is unique to very closely and model the business in our own structure.
Brit and has been well received in the market.
This ensures we fully understand the capital implications, aggregation and correlation issues and expense impact.
We Looking ahead, we expect that trading conditions in some only proceed if we fully understand the class and the business classes will continue to be challenging.
However, we believe meets all our criteria including a very high probability of we have the diversity in our portfolio, the cross-class expertise, achieving a profitable run rate within its first 12 months.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 23 The product development work by the Brit team is tangible evidence of our talent, collaboration and intent.
This disciplined approach means we turn away many more periods of market volatility enhanced our performance and, opportunities than we actually take on.
Matthew provides in particular, risk-adjusted returns over the year.
more detail on specific initiatives in the Underwriting Review.
While the macro-economic environment remains challenging, Given our capital structure and highly competitive expense we believe our investment portfolio is appropriately model, it is important to remember that we are under no positioned for a persistently slow global recovery and the pressure to write new or unfamiliar premium exposure : prospect of changing monetary policy in different regions.
this is particularly important given the current challenging With our established and flexible operating platform we market conditions.
remain well placed to actively manage our duration and sector profile as the market backdrop develops, accessing Given current market conditions and the effect of rate attractive investments as risk reward opportunities arise.
movements, we expect the impact of the various initiatives to deliver a low to mid-single digit growth rate for Brit over the Operating platform next few years.
A key element in long-term value creation is to position the Company with an efficient and scalable operating platform.
Investment management Over the past four years we have developed a model that An important part of our strategy is to optimise the riskenables us to operate on a very competitive operating adjusted return on our asset portfolio within the context of the expense ratio.
In 2014 our operating expense ratio was responsibilities of a property and casualty insurance business.
We monitor controllable Under John Strattons leadership our result in 2014 is a good expenses closely and work hard to ensure that discretionary example of the effectiveness of that strategy.
spending is targeted at improving business performance, both for our shareholders and our trading partners.
Invested assets under management amounted to 2.6bn at the end of 2014 2013: 2.6bn, with investment return net While we manage expenses carefully, we recognise that of fees for the year ahead of expectations at 2.9%, or 75.7m both people and systems are critical to maintaining a 2013: 2.1%, or 54.7m.
competitive advantage for a specialty business.
In 2014 we: At 31 December 2014, 88.2% of the Groups investment Rolled-out major upgrades to our core underwriting system portfolio was invested in cash and income generating and financial ledger system: assets.
Over 70.0% of our invested assets corresponded Significantly enhanced our technical pricing tools and to cash, government bonds and investment grade credit.
made major improvements to our data warehouse and A small proportion 11.8% of the portfolio is allocated to management information capabilities: growth assets where investment is targeted at lower volatility alternative and equity strategies.
Committed substantial resources to enhancing the skills of our people.
Nearly 300 members of our team participated During 2014, the duration and credit risk in the portfolio in more than 580 days of educational and training time.
was actively managed through portfolio rebalancing.
This, Our objective is simple: to have the most qualified and together with the ability of our growth strategies to manage skilled people working with the best technical tools available.
24 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Over the past four years we have developed a model that enables us to operate on a very competitive operating expense ratio.
In 2014 our operating expense ratio was stable at 12.0% 2013: 12.0%.
These investments help empower us with a highly flexible 90.1% of 2014 earnings.
Our capital buffer at the end of 2014, business model.
Operating an expense-efficient, scalable adjusted for these recommended dividends, was 36.0% or platform gives us greater ability to manage effectively 251.7m above requirements.
Having slightly reduced both through the challenges of market cycles.
our maximum catastrophe realistic disaster scenario exposure and some of our credit exposures on the investment portfolio Capital management in the second half of 2014, we believe this is a prudent and Our Lloyds-focused business allows us to maintain a appropriate level of capital buffer for our business to carry.
very strong capital position, while still achieving operating I expect to continue this rigorous capital management policy ratios that enable us to produce sector-leading returns for our in the future.
The capital efficiency embedded in the Lloyds model and the operating efficiency we achieve there Brit has operated its governance and capital resources on a also enhances our flexibility when dealing with competitive Solvency II standard internal model for some years and we pricing pressures and the market impact of lower-cost forms therefore believe we are well positioned to comply with full of capital.
requirements when they become effective from 1 January 2016.
We seek to hold actual capital in a range of 120% to 140% Conclusion and outlook of our capital requirement and believe holding capital at The results we have achieved this year and the strength of our this level enhances our ability to manage our approach to business model is a credit to the entire Brit team.
Our people opportunity-driven growth, take advantage of positive market are our core asset and everything we achieve is through their circumstances arising following major industry losses, and talent, experience, hard work and commitment.
At Brit we support our attractive dividend.
Notwithstanding the prudent operate a culture of achievement and involvement where holding of that excess capital, we achieved a 20.7% return we encourage our associates to excel in every aspect of our on net tangible assets for our shareholders this year and business through experience, training, natural talents and were able to recommend a final dividend of 12.5p per share importantly, collaboration across business activities.
50.1m taking the total ordinary dividend for the year to 18.75p per share 75.1m.
In each of the past two years we have performed engagement surveys to help us understand how our team members view As excess capital builds above our expected range we will our Company, the corporate environment and the behaviour look for ways to deploy it through growth in the business.
I am very happy to report extremely high we committed to at the time of the IPO, if market conditions participation levels in both of those surveys with 2014 or a lack of good opportunities suggest growth is not right participation at 89%.
for us, we will return that excess above our prudent range to our shareholders.
This was the case in 2014 where our strong The surveys provide invaluable feedback on what we are results have afforded us additional capital headroom and after doing well and where we have room for improvement.
consideration of the potential capital requirements for 2015 Management takes that feedback very seriously and takes and growth opportunities we have proposed to pay a special every effort to continuously improve our work environment dividend of a further 12.5p per share 50.1m.
This takes the and culture.
I am delighted to report this year we scored very total payout for the full year to 125.2m 31.25p per share or well in some key measures or statements.
For example, 86% STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 25 of employees would recommend Brit as a great place to work and 85% of employees are proud to work here.
We believe having a workforce which is very engaged in the future of the business sets our Group on a course for continued outperformance for many years ahead.
Trading conditions are certainly not getting any easier with a continued flow of capital to our market place, a generally softening rate environment, and a continuing low yield investment environment.
Nonetheless we believe we are well positioned to face the challenging days ahead with the flexibility we have built into our business model through our low cost scalable operating platform, our strong yet efficient capital structure, our dynamic approach to asset management and our opportunity-driven growth strategy.
In addition, and very importantly given current market trends, we have over the past four years shown clear underwriting discipline: it is that which has enabled us to reach this stage and we will continue to focus on this fundamental which is so core to our business.
I would like to thank every member of the Brit team for their commitment and efforts over the past year and congratulate them on a great result.
My thanks also go to our trading partners, brokers, agents, policyholders and cedants for their support and friendship as we have continued to develop the Brit story together.
Finally, I would like to extend my appreciation to our Board of Directors for their encouragement, advice, direction and support through what has been a very exciting and successful year for our Group.
