24 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy BT TECHNOLOGY, SERVICE & OPERATIONS BT TSO annualised savings, from programmes run over the last five years, BT TSO is our internal service unit.
It supports our customer-facing to 131m.
lines of business and has 13,500 people.
This year, to track our carbon emissions, we are reporting two CO2 BT TSO is responsible for the whole lifecycle of our global networks equivalent CO e intensity measures see below : 2 and systems from innovation, design, test and build through to since 2008, we have had an ambitious carbon emissions reduction operational management.
It is structured to simplify the way we target linked to our economic contribution to GDP.
This year we work, help us further transform our cost base and improve delivery reduced our net carbon emissions per unit of value added our to BT customers.
contribution to GDP by 79% compared with 1996 97, making Our goal is to make our processes more efficient with fewer hand-offs good progress towards our target of achieving an 80% reduction between divisions and higher levels of automation.
This will reduce by December 2020: and cost.
It will also eliminate process failure which will give our end-to help benchmark our performance against other organisations, customers a better service.
We lead and deliver BTs long-term we have also reported our intensity as net emissions scopes 1 & 2 technology strategy and research and innovation programmes, per unit of revenue.
This year we achieved 13.8 tonnes CO e per 2 including managing BTs worldwide patent portfolio see page 9. million of revenue, reecting an 84% reduction since 1996 97.
We are responsible for managing the groups energy consumption We report all of the greenhouse gas GHG emission sources required and for putting strategies in place to cut our carbon footprint.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard with UK Government GHG Products and services Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 and International We manage the voice, data and TV networks and IT applications Energy Agency Conversion Factors.
The table below reports our GHG which make up the core infrastructure for BTs products and services.
emissions and defines scopes 1, 2 and 3.
We reduced our total net Our people also design and deliver the large-scale global managed CO e emissions by 26% during the year.
2 network services which are used by our lines of business or sold by them to customers in the UK and internationally.
Carbon emissions from our operations CO2e KTonnes Gross emissions Our teams work to improve the service experience of our customers excludes third-party consumption 1997 base 2014 2013 2012 from consumers through to major corporations and our big UK Scopes 1-3 1,628 1,391 1,435 1,509 wholesale customers.
Net emissions Kt excludes third-party consumption We work end-to-end across the group.
We analyse and improve processes that cut across organisational and operational boundaries, Combustion of fuel and operation of to help BT deliver to customers right first time.
facilities Scope 1 414 182 194 191 Electricity purchased for own use Scope 2 1,097 70 189 512 We make sure that BTs networks and systems run efficiently.
We close down those systems that are no longer needed and move our Other indirect emissions Scope 3 117 136 138 143 customers onto better products and services.
We are working to improve the resilience and reliability of our networks so that our HUMAN RIGHTS customers do not suffer network failure or loss of service.
BTs human rights policy is set out in The Way We Work, our statement of business practices.
It applies to all BT employees, our We work with our lines of business to make sure they make the most suppliers and anyone working on behalf of BT.
of technology advances across all customer segments and products.
To cover the most likely areas where BT could negatively impact on Performance in the year human rights, we have clear global policies which cascade from our We have reduced our costs at the same time as improving the statement of business practices.
These include: Anti-Corruption & reliability of our IT systems.
We have again reduced the groups Bribery: our Data and Privacy policies: the GS18 Sourcing with energy consumption.
Human Dignity standard which applies to all of BTs suppliers : our Conict Minerals Policy: various security policies: and a number of BT TSO has continued to drive the groups innovation programme and our Human Resources policies covering diversity, inclusion, and the development of our networks and platforms.
You can read more health, safety and wellbeing.
We monitor the effectiveness of these policies on a regular basis with This year, we reduced our overall managed costs by focusing on the appropriate Board committee oversight.
During the year, the Continuous Improvement see page 3 and simplication.
We have Compliance Programme Panel, a committee of senior commercial also delivered cost reductions from insourcing, both by driving representatives from across the business, reviewed our compliance productivity gains as we build specialist skills in our global framework for human rights and in March 2014 we reported on our development centres, and by retraining our own people to take on progress to the Operating Committee, Nominating & Governance work previously done by third parties.
Committee and Audit & Risk Committee.
We also conducted an initial For the third consecutive year, our focus on improving service has impact assessment to clarify the areas where our operations are most resulted in an increase in the overall reliability of our IT systems.
likely to impact human rights.
The main ones relate to: workers in our supply chain: how we safeguard data about our customers and In the UK we spent around 296m on energy and fuel this year employees: and the way our products and services are used.
The increase from last year reects higher energy continue with and expand on this work.
Even though business volumes have increased we have reduced energy consumption by 3%, achieving our target for a fifth We have in place, and have used, escalation processes for issues or consecutive year to reduce energy usage across the group.
We also have our condential hotline, for reporting certain types of malpractice or wrongdoing in The energy savings programmes we ran in the year are expected to the work place.
We act upon instances of ethical or compliance generate over 25m in annualised cost savings, taking the total
