2 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Chairmans and Chief Executives report Results We have achieved a strong performance We are delighted to report another successful year for the in a year in which we undertook company, which has witnessed strong growth from the investment portfolio combined with profitable realisations significant activity across our portfolio.
Net asset value per share We continued to take advantage of total return NAVTR was 14.9%, building on last years 18.9%.
Income generation was slightly above the previous year and opportunities to reduce some of our continued to cover the cost of both expenses and dividend.
The board is recommending an increase in the final dividend larger holdings to maintain the right that would result in a 4.0% improvement on the previous year, balance of risk across the portfolio, a rate comfortably ahead of inflation.
This would represent the forty-seventh consecutive year that the dividend paid to and reported a substantial uplift in NAV shareholders has been increased.
on the sale of two unquoted investments.
Caledonia offers investors the chance to invest alongside the Our investment activity included companys largest shareholder, the Cayzer family.
The company achieves its long term outperformance by carefully choosing two significant acquisitions, the investments with strong management and sound financial discipline in both the listed and unlisted sectors.
Caledonias purchase of Choice Care Group and balance sheet and ownership structure allow the company to Park Holidays, both of which fit well take a genuinely long term view in excess of ten years.
As a closed end fund, we are not under pressure, as many other fund with our investment criteria.
managers are, of having to invest new monies raised or having to make disposals within a fixed timescale.
The portfolio has evolved significantly since the incumbent management team took over four years ago.
We have sold many of the smaller investments which, whilst good businesses, were unlikely to make a material impact on Caledonias net asset value.
We have successfully sold several long term investments from our unquoted holdings and have reinvested in typically larger unit sizes or added to other larger shareholdings.
A recent but important emphasis has been on the management of risk such that returns from the risk taken compare favourably with the wider market.
Above all, we recognise that we manage capital that has already been created and our job is one of both preservation and growth within sensible levels of risk.
It is worth reiterating Caledonias overriding strategic aims: to grow capital value over the long term measured in real terms to pay an increasing annual dividend, which grows at or in excess of inflation over the long term to manage risk commensurate with shareholders requirements and our investment horizon.
A review of the detailed strategy adopted in 2011 was carried out by the board during the year.
The result of this saw the strategic allocation to the Unquoted pool marginally increasing and allocation to the Funds pool reducing.
This has reflected both market conditions and available opportunity.
Details are given on page 7.
In addition, we have made changes to overall performance measurement, which reflect the way we manage the business to achieve our strategic aims.
Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 3 Performance measurement The table below shows performance over various time frames: Last year, the board ceased using a one year benchmark to 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years measure performance, which had hitherto been the FTSE % % % % All-Share, preferring to concentrate on the ten year total return NAVTR 14.9 27.4 83.6 146.0 measure.
Over a shorter period of time, it is more relevant to NAVTR annualised 14.9 8.4 12.9 9.4 measure our absolute performance on an inflation adjusted basis.
RPI annualised 2.5 3.1 3.8 3.3 Since our shareholders expect to increase their wealth in real Caledonia RPI outperformance 12.4 5.3 9.1 6.1 terms on an annual basis, we, in turn, should expect, on average, FTSE All-Share TR annualised 8.6 to beat inflation.
Should markets fall substantially, so the value Caledonia FTSE outperformance 0.8 of our portfolio will fall as we will not move substantially into cash.
But over several years, we would expect our portfolio to Income grow somewhat ahead of inflation.
The table below shows the Income received during the year rose slightly to 41.7m, performance of markets over varying periods of time and is compared with 41.4m last year.
Significant growth in income instructive in judgement of inflation adjusted performance.
is unlikely to resume until 2016, when we expect the most recent Annualised unquoted investments to begin to make a full contribution.
FTSE All-Share Outperformance Total Return to RPI Balance sheet Years Periods % % At the year end, we had net debt of 7.1m, compared with net 25 1989-2014 8.8 5.4 assets of 1,445.6m, though one day later, we received initial 20 1994-2014 7.8 4.8 cash of 67.2m from the disposal of Oval, taking the net cash 15 1999-2014 4.7 1.7 to 60.1m.
In addition to the cash balances, the company has 10 2004-2014 8.5 5.2 175m of committed bank facilities available to it.
Our policy 5 2009-2014 16.2 12.4 is to keep gearing at modest levels and this is primarily confined to the unlisted companies that we own rather than on Caledonias With both our longer term investment strategy and our balance sheet.
This is closely monitored by our investment exposure to unlisted investments, a true picture of how the team from their board positions at these companies.
Our bank portfolio is performing is only really apparent after a substantial facilities are primarily in place to provide flexibility for timing amount of time has passed.
The board therefore has settled on differences between investment and divestment, but also in a rolling ten year timeframe as being a relevant period against the case of extreme market movements when we might wish which to compare performance with the FTSE All-Share Total to deploy significant amounts of capital.
In addition, the boards aim is for the company to Overview of portfolio deliver annual average returns over a ten year period of between This years performance has been driven by the Quoted, RPI 3% and RPI 6%.
Historically, this level of performance Unquoted and Funds pools.
Income & Growth had a flat year would be in line with or above most share indices, including the following on from two years of strong outperformance, FTSE All-Share Total Return.
Caledonias own track record since so its overall performance since inception remains healthy.
1987, the year in which Caledonia realised its holding in British & Commonwealth Holdings and embarked on its strategy Value InvestChange Value to build a diversified holding company, was RPI 9% against 2013 ments Disposals in value 2014 Income Return Pool m m m m m m % that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return, which was RPI 6%.
Quoted 517.2 26.9 127.8 81.5 497.8 10.6 20.5 The graph below shows the ten year rolling performance of Unquoted 384.5 166.7 37.1 54.2 568.3 22.4 17.7 the FTSE All-Share and Caledonias NAV total returns marked against inflation.
Funds 166.8 35.1 17.4 19.9 204.4 1.7 11.8 Income & Growth 162.0 103.7 69.3 6.8 189.6 7.0 0.1 Annualised ten year rolling performance Portfolio 1,230.5 332.4 251.6 148.8 1,460.1 41.7 15.4 Caledonia NAVTR RPI 3% % FTSE All-Share TR RPI 6% The portfolio weighting by pool has changed modestly during 15 the year, as the Quoted pool has continued to take profits and the Unquoted pool has made substantial new investments.
The Quoted pool, measured as a percentage of net assets, has decreased from 40% to 35%, whereas the Unquoted pool has 10 increased from 29% to 39%, although this reduced to 34% after the sale of Oval.
The movement reflects partially our view as to comparative valuation metrics between listed and unlisted markets and partly the individual opportunities that presented 5 themselves to us.
The Funds pool continued to build its investments in public and private equity funds, particularly in the US and Asia, which is a long term process and will not 0 influence performance in a significant way for several years.
03 04 03 06 03 08 03 10 03 12 03 14 Caledonias top ten investments accounted for 44% of the portfolio, which is consistent with the previous year.
4 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued long term approach is well matched with this business, which Caledonias portfolio is invested worldwide though, in general, seeks to grow gradually without compromising its provision we restrict our direct unlisted investing activities to the UK.
of care, which is its first and foremost priority.
We have already We invest in funds, both private and public equity, to give provided the company with additional capital to fund its plans shareholders wider geographical exposure, backing managers for expansion.
for whom we have a high regard.
The portfolio has wide In November 2013, we acquired Park Holidays, the UKs fourth exposure to currencies other than sterling, which represented largest caravan park operator, for an equity consideration of 47% of the overall exposure when investee companies are 88.1m.
This is also a business that fits well with our investment analysed by revenue rather than by domicile.
Our policy, as a criteria, being asset backed and highly cash generative.
The long term investor, is to accept currency fluctuation as a part of business has made a good start, with bookings and caravan sales investment risk.
We do not therefore hedge unless a contractual showing good growth on the previous year, as we head into the obligation has been entered into concerning either proceeds of high season.
a disposal or funds for an acquisition.
We sold our holding in Oval to the US family-owned insurance Pool performance company, Arthur J Gallagher, one day after the year end.
Whilst Quoted 498m, 35% of net assets the investment is still shown as part of the portfolio at the year We invest in companies with established business models, strong end, it is included at the disposal value of 70.0m, a 65% uplift balance sheets and good returns on capital and invest in equities to our previous holding value.
The final division of Amber over the long term.
Chemicals was sold for 22.9m, which represented an uplift The Quoted pool produced an impressive 20.5% return for the of over 60% on the holding value prior to sale.
year, despite reducing its capital base by a net 101m.
There The remainder of the portfolio, which consisted of ten principal were notable performances from Polar Capital, returning 69%, investments, exhibited good growth.
At TGE Marine, the and Quintain Estates, returning 62%, both investments that liquefied gas engineering company, profits more than doubled have been part of the portfolio for many years.
The latter had a as its strong order book was translated into sales.
Our 2013 difficult time during the financial crisis, culminating in a rights US acquisition of Latshaw Group, consisting of five engineering issue, which we supported, and we are delighted to see it return businesses, has been successful, with strong profits growth to robust health.
Close Brothers also contributed significantly, across the companies, as the US economy continues to recover.
producing the second largest gain in value in the portfolio over The Sloane Club had a good year, with occupancy rising to new the year.
We continued to lighten our holding in this company, highs.
Cobehold, which is our largest single investment, valued but we still retain a substantial, albeit reduced, shareholding.
at 100.2m, saw its NAV total return grow by 7%.
During the year, We also took profits on our long term shareholding in Bristow we participated in Cobeholds 400m capital raising, committing Group, which has produced a series of excellent results over the 19.8m of which 9.9m 8.4m has been paid to date, enabling past three years.
the company to make several interesting new acquisitions.
New positions have been taken in Rolls-Royce, Diageo and However, we wrote down the value of Easybox, our Italian selfAtlas Copco and we added to a number of existing quoted storage business, and Satellite Information Services, the media businesses that we hold, notably Jardine Matheson.
All pay company, recognising difficult trading conditions.
Funds 204m, 14% of net assets Unquoted 568m, 39% of net assets We invest in both private and public equity funds with an emphasis We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and an investor on providing exposure to areas of the world where we are less with a balance sheet to support a long term perspective.
We invest willing to invest directly.
in both majority and minority positions.
The Funds pool return of 11.8% was particularly creditable, The Unquoted pool produced a healthy return of 17.7% for especially as we are in the process of progressively building its the year, including generating 22.4m of income.
The return exposure to private equity, which means that investment gains included a significant uplift on the disposal of Amber Chemicals will not fully come through for several years.
The most notable and an increase in value of Oval to its sale value, with healthy performance came from our Chinese private equity fund contributions from most of the remainder of the portfolio.
holding, Capital Today China CTC, where the valuation of It has been a year of intense deal making for the Unquoted pool, our stake increased by 53% to 44.8m as at 31 March 2014. with two significant new investments, Park Holidays and Choice We originally committed $20m to this fund and have to date Care Group, and two sales, Amber Chemicals and Oval.
com, a Chinese internet retailer, which has recently completed an We purchased 98% of the equity of Choice Care Group for IPO in the US.
The fund also owns three other investments 49.5m in August 2013.
The business is based near Reading and of note: Youku Tudou, an online video sharing site in which owns and operates 49 homes in the south of England, providing Alibaba recently took an 18% stake, Shanghai Sinoway Herbage personalised residential care and supported living for adults Cosmetics Company, the leading herbal skincare brand in China, with severe learning difficulties.
The company has significant and City, the largest lingerie retail chain in China.
asset backing from its properties and has many other characteristics that fit well with our strategy.
Caledonias Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 5 During the year, we invested in several new funds: $10.0m Board 6.0m in the Ranger fund managed by Arlington Value Capital, After serving on the board for nine years, Richard Goblet a US based value investor which targets listed US equities, dAlviella has decided to step down on 25 June 2014.
He will be and 10.0m in the launch of the Polar Capital Global Financials replaced by Harold Bol, CEO of Sofina, the Belgian investment Trust, which aims to benefit from the re-rating of financial company, which has a 5% stake in Caledonia and shares our assets across the globe.
In addition, we committed $50m to philosophy of close involvement in its investee companies.
FLAG Capital, a US private equity fund of funds, of which $8.5m Richard has been a great advocate and supporter of our 5.7m was drawn in the year.
Soon after the year end, long term outlook and we will miss his wise counsel.
Harold we invested $20.0m 11.9m in the NTAsian Discovery Fund, is a material sciences engineer by training and has been CEO a Bangkok-based small-cap public equity fund, and committed of Sofina for six years, prior to which he held a number of $15m to Vision Knight Capital II, an Asian private equity fund.
operational and managerial roles with Corus, now part of Tata Steel.
We look forward to welcoming him to the board Income & Growth 190m, 13% of net assets as an independent non-executive director.
The portfolio holds interests in 40 international listed businesses, which provide a reliable and growing dividend.
Cash flow returns Charles Allen-Jones has also signalled his wish to step down at to shareholders are prioritised in the invested businesses.
some point during the current year.
Charles has served on the board for over 12 years and has made an immeasurable impact The Income & Growth pools flat performance for the year on the affairs of the company, especially as senior independent contrasted with last years excellent performance, when it non-executive director.
His sage advice and independent produced a 23.7% return.
The pool has completed three thinking will be difficult to replace, but when the time comes full years in existence and performance figures have been he will retire with our deep gratitude and very best wishes.
very pleasing, with a three year return of 28%.
Higher yield investments went out of vogue during the year under review Outlook as investors chased growth in higher risk assets.
The pool It makes a pleasant change to be able to write that economic produced income of 7.0m, a 40% increase on the previous year, growth is finally returning to western economies, albeit at a low representing a gross yield of 4.3%.
This will continue to build level.
Asian and other developing economies continue to grow in the future.
at a much faster rate than those in the west, though not without signs of slowing down.
This has affected their stock markets The top five holdings were SES, Zurich Insurance, Swedbank, and has brought valuations back to levels where we now feel HSBC and General Electric.
The pool not only provides Caledonia comfortable to deploy capital in these regions.
with a sustainable income, but also gives us exposure to some of the worlds best companies, something we believe is essential Elsewhere, stock markets are now mainly being valued on in any portfolio.
We added 20m to the pool during the year a fundamentals basis, with earnings growth to the fore.
and would anticipate doing so again during the current year, We believe that the gains of the past two years will not be whilst we have surplus cash, to bring the pool in line with its repeated to the same extent this or next year and remain wary strategic allocation.
of external events, which often lead to heavy falls in markets.
In the UK, economic growth continues to pick up, but we face Discount and share buy-backs the uncertainty caused by the Scottish vote on independence During the year, we bought back shares for a total of 15.0m, in September this year and a UK general election in 2015. which were subsequently cancelled.
We view buy-backs as a low risk, long term tool for enhancing returns, providing a permanent Our portfolio remains cautiously positioned, but invested in benefit to shareholders when purchased at a discount to net sound businesses with good prospects providing they are assets.
The discount to net asset value has traded in the range allowed to flourish by those entrusted to govern our economy.
of 16% to 26% throughout the year and we were able to take We remain confident in our strategy, which is delivering long advantage of this to buy shares at an average discount of 19.7%.
term outperformance and annual returns in excess of inflation.
We will once again seek the necessary shareholder approvals at the forthcoming annual general meeting to continue with these buy-backs for a further year.
Rod Kent Will Wyatt Chairman Chief Executive Dividend The board is recommending shareholder approval of a final dividend of 35.7p, giving a total for the year of 49.1p, a 4.0% increase on the previous year.
This would represent the forty-seventh consecutive year of increase in our annual dividend.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 August 2014, assuming its payment is approved at the annual general meeting to be held at Cayzer House on 17 July 2014.
