Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 4 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Strone Macpherson, Chairman Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive In 2014 we have continued to execute our well established strategy, strengthening our market leading specialist propositions, and are delighted to be able to report a 20% increase in adjusted operating profit to 200.6 million 2013: 167.2 million with growth across all of our three divisions.
As the UK economic recovery continues, we remain well placed to continue to provide our clients with the highest levels of service while delivering strong returns for shareholders.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 5 Overview of Financial Performance Differentiated Businesses Built for In Securities, Winterflood is a marketThis years results build on the the Long Term maker, committed to providing momentum established in 2013.
In In the midst of the global financial crisis, continuous liquidity while maintaining Banking, adjusted operating profit rose we outlined a strategy to position Close its trading capacity and market leading by 15% to 181.6 million 2013: 158.4 Brothers as a group leveraging its position.
Winterflood tailors its offering million and the loan book increased by specialist knowledge and relationships to its clients specific requirements, by 14% to 5.3 billion 2013: 4.6 billion to generate sustainable returns through combining the expertise of its staff with with good demand in Property and the economic cycle.
We focused on the technological advantages of its motor finance more than offsetting our traditional values of service and proprietary IT systems, to assist them additional competition in some of our integrity, underpinned by our in meeting their best execution markets.
Adjusted operating profit in conservative and prudent approach to requirements.
By focusing principally Securities increased by 30% to 33.5 capital and funding, to ensure that we on market-making, Winterflood has million 2013: 25.7 million as could be there for our clients in all been able to trade continuously and Winterflood benefited from more economic conditions.
Five years on, profitably in all market conditions.
favourable trading conditions and Close Brothers is a Modern Merchant improved retail investor risk appetite.
Banking group of three core divisions, In Asset Management, we have Asset Management more than doubled specialised in their niche markets, shaped and positioned the division its adjusted operating profit to 9.9 united by our traditional values and to benefit from regulatory, market and million 2013: 4.0 million reflecting delivering our services in a modern demographic changes.
We remain good inflows into our integrated way.
focused on meeting the needs of our management and advice proposition.
clients through our high quality, In Banking, we are committed to our integrated proposition which offers Adjusted basic earnings per share core proposition of building lasting financial advice, investment increased 25% to 104.1p 2013: 83.5p.
customer relationships while delivering management and an online Overall the groups return on opening strong returns.
This is achieved by investment portal.
This proposition equity improved to 18.5% 2013: 15.8% maintaining a local presence in all our provides our clients with the flexibility and we have maintained our strong markets, recognising that every they need to create and implement a funding and capital positions.
customer has particular needs, with lifetime financial plan according to their specialist teams who are able to devise personal circumstances.
In a highly In recognition of this years excellent flexible solutions and make fast competitive but fragmented market financial performance and the decisions.
Our proposition is supported place, our multi-channel distribution continued confidence in the groups by a consistent approach to lending and diverse sources of revenue are longer-term prospects, the board is through the cycle: we write compelling differentiators and, as a recommending a 10% increase to our predominantly secured, short-term and result, the division is well positioned for final dividend to 32.5p per share small ticket loans to SMEs and future growth.
These differentiated lending attributes have allowed us to price and Successfully executing this group manage risk appropriately, and strategy during an unprecedented together with our conservative period of volatility and market approach to funding and liquidity, have dislocation has demonstrated our enabled our consistent and profitable ability to navigate challenging periods loan book growth over the last 30 while generating strong growth and years.
excellent net returns as well as mitigating downside risk.
As the economy recovers and competition returns, it is this emphasis on service and integrity which will allow us to strengthen our competitive positioning and continue to grow.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 6 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued Investing in Building our The group has made good progress in Technology investment to Competitive Advantage a number of areas this year.
As each of complement our service proposition Our traditional principles of service, our divisions operate in niche markets, Technology both supports the expertise and building long-term we need to identify and train effectiveness of our people and relationships underpin our financial tomorrows revenue generators enables us to adapt to changes in performance and market leading internally.
For example, we are client behaviour and the wider market specialist propositions.
Evolving developing the concept of the financial environment.
We have invested consumer behaviour, regulatory reform planner as a true professional who significant resources in strengthening and technological advances are all provides the highest quality financial our IT infrastructure and enhancing our impacting what constitutes excellent advice to their clients.
The group is committing year programme for school leavers, on protecting our systems, clients and resources to ensure that our products provides participants with an assets from cyber threats and data and services meet with client needs apprenticeship in a number of front loss as well as ongoing programmes to and increasing regulatory focus.
replace legacy systems and develop investment is significant but technologies to enhance our front-end appropriate to ensure we have the Additionally, to engage with and proposition.
capacity to support our high touch develop our next set of leaders, we model, manage risks and deliver have created an Emerging Leaders Making the Most of our long-term growth for shareholders.
Programme that enables us to improve Opportunities We have the resources to support large our succession pipeline into senior Pursuing existing opportunities in our scale investment programmes while roles and build a culture of career three divisions will underpin the future being small enough to implement them development across the group.
Our focus on effectively and, by investing as we traditional merchant banking values grow, can maintain and build our Keeping pace with regulatory reform delivered in a modern way has created competitive advantage.
Our three divisions share the same a proposition that is well regarded by commitment to provide straightforward clients.
When applied to specialist Importance of our people and transparent products tailored to niches, we can develop leading Across the group, our people are their clients needs.
This ethos, market positions with high levels of characterised by their focus on serving alongside our simple corporate sustainable profitability.
However, as our clients and communities with structure, means that we are well markets and behaviours continually dedication.
The way we do business placed to respond to regulatory reform.
evolve, we always look to expand resonates with our client base and our into complementary sectors or trusted, reliable service is rewarded by However the evolution of regulatory geographical segments to maintain long-term relationships.
In order to policy is an increasing burden.
ensure we can continue to provide our Identifying, reviewing and implementing clients with the service they have come regulatory policy changes is resource to expect, we are committed to intensive and requires investment in enabling our people to perform at the both our people and our operations.
We have expanded our risk and compliance functions as well as enhancing our systems and processes to ensure we continue to operate in the best interests of our clients.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 7 In Banking, we are confident that In Asset Management, we have built a Outlook attractive opportunities are available flexible and diverse proposition that We are confident that our strategy, within our core risk return boundaries.
provides clients with the services and combined with our Modern Merchant Competition remains fragmented, albeit tools to meet their investment Banking values of service and integrity, increasing, and our long-term loan objectives.
The division is well will continue to deliver the right book performance demonstrates our positioned to build further scale propositions for our clients and provide ability to grow in all market conditions.
through organic growth, infill ongoing returns and long-term value However, we are not complacent and acquisitions and selective portfolio for our shareholders.
always look for opportunities to expand manager and adviser hires.
In 2014 into adjacent niche sectors or we recruited a number of portfolio In Banking, we continue to see ongoing geographies while maintaining our managers in our high net worth growth opportunities in our core strict underwriting discipline.
As an business and will seek to recruit markets.
Winterflood remains well example, in 2014 we successfully selectively over the next few years placed to benefit from a sustained recruited a renewable energy team to enhance our proposition and cyclical recovery but remains within our asset finance business to benefit from the structural market susceptible to market conditions.
As it fund a range of technologies including opportunities created by the Retail continues to build scale, we expect land based wind, hydro and solar Distribution Review.
Asset Management to continue to renewables.
deliver growth at attractive margins.
Board Changes Diversified income streams in our There has been considerable change We are well positioned to benefit from Securities division provide us with in the non-executive composition of the the growth opportunities we see in all income protection through volatile board this year, as explained on page of our core divisions and have the market conditions.
Winterflood has 49 of the Corporate Governance resources available to pursue them.
demonstrated the flexibility to adapt its report.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown has We enter the 2015 financial year with products based on client requirements decided to stand down as a director of confidence.
by offering a wider range of equities to the company and consequently will not its clients.
Winterfloods specialism in seek re-election at the Annual General providing liquidity in all market Meeting on 20 November 2014.
He conditions and client led solutions to was appointed to the board in June retail, institutional and international 2006 and has served as chairman of investors will allow it to adapt as client the Remuneration Committee and as needs evolve.
We thank him for his valued contribution to the group.
Bridget Macaskill has been appointed to succeed Bruce Carnegie-Brown as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Geoffrey Howe to succeed him as senior independent director with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 November 2014.
