Chief Executive Officers review Investing in the future of our business W e have built solid foundations for our business and are continuing to invest in our future.
As we head into the next phase of our journey, I am excited by the focus and energy of our people to deliver even further success.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer driven by our partnership business, reflecting changing Overview of financial performance distribution trends.
That said, the benefits from recent pricing I am pleased with our performance in 2014 and proud and claims initiatives allowed us to increase our competitiveness of our peoples focus and dedication.
Through our efforts, while keeping the retention of renewing policies at good levels.
we achieved our financial targets and progressed strongly towards our strategic priorities.
Against the backdrop of a We have also met or beaten all of the published targets highly competitive marketplace, we maintained underwriting 2 set since the IPO.
We achieved a combined operating ratio discipline, helping us to deliver a stable operating profit COR of 95.0% 2013: 95.2%, which was within our 1 from ongoing operations of 506.0 million compared target range of 95% to 97% for ongoing operations.
However, a reduction in 3 contributed to a return on tangible equity of 16.8%, ahead restructuring costs helped deliver an increase in profit of our long-term target of 15.0%.
Our Commercial business before tax to 456.8 million 2013: 407.3 million.
achieved a COR of 98.8%, beating its sub-100% COR target.
Our continued focus on improving operational efficiency The motor insurance market remained highly competitive enabled us to deliver further cost reductions across the with further premium deflation at the start of the year.
Gross 4 business, beating our cost target of 1,000 million in 2014. written premium trends improved during the year, increasing 0.4% in the fourth quarter compared with 2013.
We During the first half of 2014 we initiated a strategic review continued to make choices to optimise value and prioritise of our International division.
Although the review did confirm underwriting profit over volume growth, which meant gross the divisions strong market positions, we decided to explore written premium for the Motor division of 1,342.0 million a potential disposal of these operations.
In September, reduced by 5.6% and in-force policies reduced by 2.4%, we announced a binding agreement for the sale of our compared with 2013. International division to Mapfre, S. A. for total cash sale 5 proceeds of 550.0 million 430.1 million.
We believe The home insurance market also experienced further new this is a good result for all our stakeholders, as it provides business premium deflation during 2014, with gross written excellent value for shareholders, while offering our customers premium of 898.6 million, 4.7% lower, as in-force policies and colleagues stability and opportunity.
This was mainly Investing in our future We have a growing expectation that technology will profoundly Notes: change many aspects of our customers needs, and we are 1.
See note 3 on page 4 determined to be a leader in meeting these new demands.
See note 1 on page 4 have continued to invest in our infrastructure, including work on 4.
See note 4 on page 4 the next generation of customer systems and progressing with the 5.
See note 2 on page 5 12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report migration of our IT systems from RBS Group.
While this project Regulatory environment is not complete and has been challenging, I am pleased to say The regulatory landscape continues to be dynamic, especially we have made considerable headway while ensuring the new in the UK motor insurance market.
This year, the Financial systems can achieve high levels of operational performance.
Conduct Authority FCA, the Competition and Markets We are on track to complete the migration in 2015.
Authority CMA and the Ministry of Justice MoJ have issued further reviews and remedies.
Recognising that customers are transacting on the go, we have optimised our motor websites for smartphone and tablet Overall, the Group continues to support good conduct and devices.
This has made it easier for customers to buy policies proportionate reforms which will deliver better consumer from us by significantly improving the quote and buy customer outcomes and a level playing field across the industry.
We have seen an 81% increase in Motor insurance Strategic priorities for 2015 purchased on a smartphone this year.
The new systems have We know that our environment is ever-changing, we must also enhanced analytics, which gives us further insight into therefore ensure that our strategy is aligned to this evolution.
customer browsing and purchasing behaviour, enabling us We know our strategy supports our aspiration to be the to tailor our websites to their needs.
leading personal and small business general insurer in the UK Additionally, we have rolled out a number of initiatives that and this means making insurance much easier and better value make it easier for customers to claim.
In Home, we have for our customers.
We have a set of core objectives that we enabled customers to upload photos and videos to help believe will help us to deliver this ambition, read more on assess their claim.
We have also invested in our pricing abilities to ensure we Outlook continue providing value to customers.
Through a series of The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive pricing projects on Motor, we have enhanced and fine-tuned with recent market conditions characterised by periods of our trading capabilities, especially through the PCW channel.
market price deflation and of stability.
Early 2015 has seen In telematics, we launched a new self-install product, which some additional, potentially seasonal, market pressure in provides a robust, cheaper alternative to black-box technology.
motor and broad stability in the home market.
We are already using the data collected from the new products to improve our pricing sophistication when renewing Against this backdrop we will continue to adopt a flexible, telematics policies.
but disciplined, approach to managing the trade-off between margin and volumes.
Meanwhile we are investing in building We have also refreshed the product offering of our Direct Line future capability and continue to identify opportunities to brand, which incorporates a new advertising campaign.
want customers to trust us to deliver on service and take the hassle out of claiming, while still offering great value for For 2015, we expect to achieve a combined operating money.
The new advertising is proving popular with customers ratio in the range of 94% to 96% for ongoing operations after and we have already seen a positive impact on desired key normalising for claims from major weather events.
The TV advertising in particular is performing reflects uncertainty surrounding claims inflation versus market significantly ahead of all insurance sector benchmarks, across pricing in motor.
measures such as involvement and persuasion.
This year, we have built solid foundations for our business and Alongside these improvements, we have continued working hard are continuing to invest in our future.
As we head into the next to improve our customer service across the Group.
We have phase of our journey, I am excited by the focus and energy of also introduced new measures to monitor customer satisfaction, our people to deliver even further success.
I would like to thank which will help us improve our customers experience, as well as our people for always helping and supporting our customers, recognise and reward great service.
We know we are heading while embracing continuous change.
This drive will make our in the right direction, but there is more we can do to meet our business the best it can be.
This will be a key focus for us in 2015 as I am also thankful for our investors ongoing support as we we embed additional customer initiatives.
continue improving our business and delivering further benefits Investing in our people for customers, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
We have continued to make improvements throughout our organisation.
Our people are driving these changes, simplifying processes and working as a community to deliver the products and services our customers expect.
Our people sit behind our success, therefore we put great effort in recognising Paul Geddes outstanding performance.
The Chief Executive Awards are Chief Executive Officer among the key initiatives.
These awards identify and recognise the best examples of our values across the business as well as diversity and community involvement.
Over 2,000 of our people were nominated for the special contributions they have made to the business.
In recognition of the progress we have made, we plan to give our UK employees 400 of free shares, in addition to the shares that were awarded at the time of the IPO.
This gives everyone a chance to share in Read more about our strategy on page 16 the success of our business.
com 13 DrivePlus gives drivers instant access to their driving data via an app Telematics encourages better driving DrivePlus enables our customers to install the device themselves 14 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 As telematics continues to Expanding our gather pace, our expertise and extensive data means customer offering we are well positioned to take advantage of this growing market.
The launch of our telematics self-install product, DrivePlus Plug-in, offers customers a convenient and easy way to be rewarded for safer driving.
Drivers can review their driving straight after each journey 56% of under 21s now taking 1 up telematics 125 million miles of telematics data collected Note: 1.
Direct Line new policies taken out by under 21s over the phone in 2014 www.
