Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Since November 2005 Booker Group has been seeking to Focus, Drive and Broaden the business Since November 2005 Booker Group Guy Farrant and the team continue to Prices Down has been seeking to Focus, Drive and Drive choice, price and service for our We operate in a very price Broaden the business.
Each year we survey 40,000 competitive market.
Every week we make good progress.
customers to identify where improvements monitor prices versus competitors can be made.
Customer satisfaction and during the year our price Focus improved again this year and our index remained competitive.
In the customer count has increased again, by commenced November 2005 year we locked down prices for 17,000 customers.
Customer satisfaction Booker seeks to become the most caterers which has proved very is a key measure within the business and effective in helping caterers plan efficient operator in our sector.
Bryn we have made significant progress since Satherley and his team continue to their menu with confidence.
2006, achieving our highest ever levels of improve business efficiency.
We stop, Better Service satisfaction this year.
simplify and standardise work and Our people are doing an excellent invest most of the savings in customer job.
Our customers rate Booker Choice Up service.
Much of the year has been people highly.
Business Centre In 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
spent integrating Makro into the Group.
teams at Makro have been trained in Sales in the year to 28 March 2014 Through tight cash management we PRIDE to help improve the Parking, were 65m.
The quality and freshness have now increased net cash from Reception, Internal, Delivery and Exit of the produce is second to none and 77.2m last year to 149.6m this year.
can be delivered to our customers Makro business centres are now within 48 hours of being harvested.
operating on the Booker systems.
We have continued to expand and We have also generated synergies of improve our delivery service.
During the year we rebranded Booker approximately 26m through improving Basics as Chefs Essentials to appeal We have more specialist butchers systems, processes and buying across to a wider audience.
Chefs Essential and greengrocers within the business the enlarged Group.
This Catering Drive range of 73 professional cleaning Catering like for like sales grew by commenced March 2006 products has been well received 7.1%, as our choice, price and service Booker Wholesale, our cash and carry by customers.
Our catering business, served 503,000 customers development sales force continues to this year up from 486,000 last year.
serve our existing customers and to introduce new customers to Booker.
Booker Wholesale Customer Satisfaction % recommend 85.4% 78.2% FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 CleanPro 04 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Premier Makro Improving the Cash and Carry Business Centre Experience Premier, Bookers symbol group, The most important change we have grew to 2,982 stores 2,802 stores made to Broaden the Group is the We have now converted 150 of our last year.
Sales to these customers acquisition of Makro.
Makro serves 172 business centres to the Extra grew by 12%.
The retail development around one million small business format.
This features a lighter, team has put a lot of work into both customers, has great people, good brighter business centre environment compliance and building the sales locations and excellent products.
and an improved choice, price and and profits of existing Premier stores.
Through Booker and Makro coming service.
The conversion pays back in together we seek to become the around a year and we plan to convert Family Shopper UKs leading wholesaler to caterers, a further three business centres to During the year we launched Family retailers and small businesses.
This is a local discount We will offer our customers better from Extra will be rolled to the rest of store.
We now have six stores and, choice, prices and service via the the business and to Makro.
although it is early days, the response internet, delivery and cash and carry.
Harnessing the Internet The transaction was cleared by the Sales at booker.
co. uk were 777m, Competition Commission on 19 April Broaden up from 704m last year and 15m 2013.
Makro has tted nicely into commenced April 2007 in 2005.
All these sales are delivered the Group.
We have embarked on In the UK, Booker seeks to offer the to our customers premises.
As a result cash best choice, price and service to 334,000 customers registered on management has been tightened and caterers, retailers and small business.
the website compared to 255,000 we have improved profits from a loss We also seek to become the suppliers last year.
Customers can view their of 18m in 2012, to a profit of 11m this preferred route to market.
We also want account details, use an iPhone app year.
Having exited some unprofitable to sell new products and services and and order products.
We have also product categories, sales were down reach new customers.
In India we seek doubled the number of stock keeping 9% but customer satisfaction has to become the best supplier to Kirana units available to a typical customer improved signicantly.
To achieve these objectives, on the website through our special that Makro will continue to experience we are Broadening the business.
This has generated a sales loss in the year ahead, as we Broaden includes: incremental sales of 4m.
continue to focus on professional customers.
In Shefeld, Belfast and Booker Direct Ritter-Courivaud Preston we have developed a new Classic Drinks Chef Direct Makro Booker format.
The format has Mark Aylwin and his team are building been tailored to the local market and our delivered wholesale business.
we expect to complete five more of Booker Direct has great customers these conversions in the year ahead.
including the prison service in England Critically, Makro is increasing our and Wales, Marks & Spencer and capacity to grow delivered sales.
This most of the cinema chains in the UK.
should help the Group grow to an In 2010 we acquired Classic Drinks, estimated 6bn of sales in the next an on-trade wholesaler supplying few years.
I am pleased the team at pubs and licensed customers mainly Makro have settled into the Group.
We are in the is a credit to the teams at Booker and process of rolling this expertise out Makro that the integration has gone on a national basis.
I am very grateful to all the teams for the hard work this year.
Chefs Essentials 05 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED For the seventh year running, Booker Direct Ritter-Courivaud Sustainability the performance of the business Classic Drinks Chef Direct Booker was the first UK wholesaler to means our people have shared in achieve a third consecutive Carbon continued our success through our bonus Trust Standard and the first in the In 2010 we acquired Ritter-Courivaud, system.
With this great team of UK to achieve the new Carbon Trust a leading speciality food supplier to people, Booker will continue to make Waste Standard.
Booker are also The restaurants.
Through combining the progress in the year ahead.
Grocer Gold Green Wholesaler of logistics expertise we have in Booker the Year 2013.
Direct, with the catering knowledge During the storms and flooding, from Ritter-Courivaud and the our people did a fantastic job of 16,000 customers are now recycling Groups buying scale, we launched maintaining service to our customers.
with Booker through our packaging Chef Direct in 2012.
Chef Direct is and used cooking oil recycling Our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden based in Didcot and has won some services.
This helps our customers the business remains on track.
important clients such as Aramark.
save money, increase recycling Customer satisfaction continued to Aramark serves 250,000 meals a day levels and support more sustainable improve and we grew the Group to and through working with Booker communities throughout the UK.
Most importantly we Direct, the road miles have been teamed up with Makro to become the Customer recycling volumes are up halved and service improved.
UKs leading wholesaler to caterers, 40% against last year.
In the last year the Group delivered retailers and small businesses.
We will We donated surplus food equivalent 1.3bn of product to retailers and provide our customers with improved of 200,000 meals to local charities in caterers in the UK.
Through using choice, prices and service via the the last year some of the space in the Makro internet, delivery and cash and carry.
business centres we will be able to We also helped many customers and We have a great team at Booker and increase our delivered business.
communities who were impacted Makro and together we will help our by the flooding.
In the sixteen most customers prosper in the year ahead.
Booker India impacted locations we supported In September 2009 we opened our customers with a fund of 350,000 first business centre in Mumbai.
of free stock and support.
We now have four branches in Charles Wilson People Mumbai, one in Surat and one joint Chief Executive venture branch in Pune.
We serve The progress made by the business over 21,000 customers and have this year is a credit to our great team also launched 200 Happy Shopper of people.
We are committed to symbol retailers, which harness the continuing to make Booker better lessons learned from Premier in the and safer for colleagues.
We are UK for the Kirana stores of Mumbai.
For example, We are reviewing growth options in there is a shortage of butchers in the India and look forward to developing trade, so we have partnered with the the Booker offer to become the best University of West London to develop choice, price and service supplier to a formal butchery apprenticeship.
28 new butchers graduated this year.
We developed a similar scheme for greengrocers with 50 colleagues graduating this year.
We intend to run both schemes again in 2014 15.
