14 Chief Executive Officers statement Gocompare and I strongly believe that there are opportunities to enhance Continuing to evolve the the business over time.
It will remain entirely separate in its partnership and comparison service functions, while customer proposition benefiting from operating under the umbrella of the wider Group.
Many exciting opportunities will be explored as we look to grow the business over the medium to long term, while taking steps to further diversify the Groups 2014 Overview The UK motor rating environment was income streams.
2014 has been a year of discipline and mixed in 2014, with rate declines in the developments for the Group as we first half of the year appearing to stabilise Motor enhanced our customer propositions in the second half.
We have not been We remained focused and disciplined in through operational and underwriting afraid to increase rates above the our approach to underwriting throughout improvements.
market, slowing down new business the year and this resulted in a 3.9% volumes in the second half of 2014, reduction in Motor gross written The Group has delivered a solid set of as we aimed to protect the medium to premiums to 429.3 million.
In 2014, the results against a backdrop of competitive long term profitability of the portfolio.
continued competitive rating environment market conditions.
The Groups combined in Motor was not conducive to profitable operating ratio of 91.9% is a good I am delighted that we have agreed growth: however, the Group did manage performance and testament to our focused to acquire the outstanding 50% of to implement targeted rate increases in and disciplined approach to underwriting Gocompare for 95.0 million and expect Motor as it looked to mitigate the impact in combination with our efficient expense to complete the acquisition on 31 March of claims inflation.
The Group continues to adopt a 2015, with the acquisition funded challenging market conditions in 2014, prudent approach to reserving and the through the issuance of the Notes.
the Group achieved a combined operating Groups reserves remain comfortably in Through full ownership, we will be able ratio in Motor of 92.4%.
excess of our actuarial best estimate.
to drive the strategic direction of However, the inherent competitiveness of our market where many participants are looking to grow or maintain market share meant our rate increases resulted in a lower level of new business in the second half of the year.
As a consequence, in-force policies were broadly flat at the year end compared to 2013, which is a position I am comfortable with, as we get nearer to a potential upturn in the rating cycle.
The Groups segment re-entry programme, where the Group has re-entered segments of the market that it had previously exited, continues to perform well and has provided great insight into further opportunities available to the Group across the wider motor market.
A number of additional underwriting initiatives were rolled out on a test and learn basis in 2014, as the Group looks to expand its quote footprint over the medium to long term.
The performance of these new segments has been encouraging and further initiatives will be rolled out in 2015, as we look to grow outside our core segments.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Home delighted to have them both in my Outlook In Home, we have continued to grow management team and we are already We have made a positive start to 2015 our portfolio, albeit at a slower rate than seeing the benefits of their expertise, and expect to achieve modest growth in previous years.
The rating environment enthusiasm, drive and fresh ideas, as we in in-force policies and gross written has been challenging, as in Motor, but look to push the Business forward.
I premiums in the first quarter.
We expect we have remained disciplined in our would also like to take this opportunity to the combined operating ratio trend approach to underwriting and only thank Gordon Hannah, who has retired, in 2014 to continue into 2015 largely reduced rates to a level where we believe and Carole Timms, who has left us, for reflecting ongoing claims inflation.
we can make an acceptable contribution their hard work and dedication during The Group continues to enhance its to the Group.
their time with the Group: and I wish underwriting and customer platforms them both all the best for the future.
and remains well positioned for further We have delivered a combined operating growth when market conditions permit.
ratio of 89.9% and this is testament to In 2014, 95% of my colleagues in the our good risk selection and efficient Business completed a customer focused We have received Competition and expense base.
This is Markets Authority clearance to proceed a key stage in our mission to keep our with the acquisition of Gocompare and The Group remains well-placed to customers firmly at the heart of all we do.
expect to complete the acquisition on benefit from any shift in consumer 31 March 2015.
We will invest in buying behaviour towards price Our commitment to our people enables Gocompare to take advantage of the comparison websites as consumers us to deliver a quality of service that I significant opportunities available in look to obtain a more competitive rate believe sets us apart from the the medium term.
The drive from my colleagues to Summary People understand our In summary, 2014 The Group continues to benefit from our Our people really customers needs has been a year of nimble, focused and adaptable approach.
and their desire to are what make challenges from a All my colleagues throughout the help those customers market perspective, Business use their skill and expertise to us different as a really does give us an but also a year of service our customers, as we all work to edge in a competitive Business... developments.
While deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
market and there is competition never more to come here too!
ceases in our market, During the year, we have welcomed to there is much we can do to help the Group two new executive members, Customers ourselves to serve our customers and with David Pitt and Helen Taylor taking During 2014, a number of customer colleagues even better.
We are delivering on the roles of Chief Operating Officer initiatives were rolled out across the on this.
I am Group, including The Voice of the Customer.
This is a system of feedback I would like to end by thanking all our loops which will allow us to identify better customers for their continued support what our customers like about our and all our colleagues in the Business A solid performance Business and what they dont like, for their dedication and hard work helping us to improve continuously.
The Group achieved a customer retention Thank you!
rate of 78% in 2014, which is testament 517.8m to our commitment to provide Gross premiums written competitively priced products and excellent customer service.
In August 2014, the Group launched an 1.946m Stuart Vann Alternative Business Structure ABS, Chief Executive Officer in partnership with one of the UKs In-force policies leading law firms, Irwin Mitchell, enhancing the customer experience for those unfortunate enough to be involved 19.8p in an accident.
Earnings per share 16.8p Full year dividend per share esure Group Annual Report 2014
