Group chief executives letter Our efforts over the past three years have helped prepare us to face the new oil price challenge with resilience.
Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder, The year 2014 was pivotal for BP.
Despite the increasingly challenging business environment, we completed the 10-point plan we had set out in 2011 to make BP a safer, stronger, better performing business.
Compared with three years ago, we have reduced safety-related incidents, delivered strong operating efficiencies and met our target to increase operating cash ow by more than 50%.
Our performance is important, not only because we achieved our targets, but because we did what we said we would do.
I know how important it is to shareholders that we continue delivering on our commitments.
2014 was a turbulent year for BP and the industry.
Oil prices fell dramatically and returned to their familiar pattern of volatility, after several exceptional years in which they remained above $100 per barrel.
I expect these lower and more volatile prices to continue through 2015 and likely longer.
We are now resetting the business to deliver value in this new context, scaling back capital spending and reducing costs, while always maintaining our primary focus on safety.
Our efforts over the past three years have helped prepare us to face the new oil price challenge with resilience.
We have reshaped and strengthened our portfolio through a divestment programme, reduced our costs to reect a smaller footprint and articulated a strategy based on clear priorities, a quality portfolio and distinctive capabilities.
Clear priorities Safe and reliable operations will always be our first priority.
While we have made real progress in the past three years, sadly there were three workforce fatalities in 2014, in accidents at a German renery, a UK North Sea platform and an Indonesian petrochemicals plant.
Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who died and we will implement the lessons from these tragic events.
Since 2011 we have reduced the number of tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events the most serious incidents, leaks, spills and other releases.
After making very good progress in 2013, we saw a higher number of such incidents in 2014.
We are renewing our efforts to ensure conformance with our operating management system, allied to the right personal behaviours, taking great care in everything we do.
We clearly demonstrated capital discipline through 2014, restricting spending to around $23 billion, relative to guidance of $24-25 billion.
We also saw good project execution as we met our plans to bring onstream seven start-up projects.
We continue to actively manage our portfolio, focusing on assets which play to our strengths and divesting assets that no longer t our strategy.
In both our Upstream and Downstream businesses, we are taking a rigorous approach to capital allocation and concentrating on efficiency and competitiveness in our activities.
Making the right investment choices is of the highest priority.
8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report We grew our exploration position during the year, with new access in five areas and Delivery of our 10-point plan hydrocarbon discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil, the North Sea, Egypt and Angola.
For details of our performance against the We began operating our onshore oil and gas operations in the Lower 48 states of the US plan see page 21. as a separate business in January 2015.
In the Downstream, we improved performance Our strategy from fuels marketing, increased our capacity to rene heavy crude and shale oil in the US, For more on our strategic priorities and maintained the focus on premium brands and growth markets in lubricants and reviewed longer-term objectives see page 13. the petrochemicals business to increase its earnings potential.
Our key performance indicators Having completed our $38-billion divestment programme ahead of schedule, we Find out how we measure our committed to make a further $10 billion of divestments by the end of 2015.
By the end of performance on page 18.
2014 we had agreed transactions amounting to $4.7 billion.
Distinctive capabilities BPs distinctive capabilities of advanced technology, proven expertise and strong relationships underpin our progress.
We have invested over the years to be a specialist in several key areas of technology.
For example, in 2014 we started using robots to test enhanced oil recovery options, helping us reduce time to production.
The expertise of our people is central to our progress so developing our employees in critical areas is an ongoing activity.
For example, we run specialist academies dedicated to global wells expertise and safety and operational risk, as well as other areas.
Strong relationships remain vital with communities, governments, partners, suppliers, staff and shareholders.
The rapid progress made on the Southern Corridor project, which will pipe natural gas from the Caspian Sea to markets as far away as Italy, is just one example.
With our partners, we have already awarded more than $9 billion of contracts to make, transport and install facilities.
A challenging environment In 2015 we entered a very different landscape from that in which we began last year.
The lower oil price presents formidable challenges for the industry.
In these volatile times, BP continues to drive capital discipline by constraining the total level of capital spend in any one year, taking account of the opportunities available and the exibility of our balance sheet.
Top: Bob Dudley at the World Petroleum Meanwhile, we continue to manage issues specic to BP.
The legal proceedings in the US Congress in Moscow.
associated with the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill continue.
In the first trial phase the judge issued a nding of gross negligence and wilful misconduct.
We strongly Bottom: Bob Dudley congratulates winners at the disagree with these findings and have appealed.
In the second phase the court found no Helios awards where teams from across the gross negligence in our source control efforts and ruled that 3.19 million barrels of oil were world are recognized for their contributions to discharged into the Gulf of Mexico.
We have also appealed this ruling.
The penalty phase building a safer, stronger BP in line with our values.
trial nished in February, with the ruling to come at a later date.
In all of the proceedings, we are seeking fair and just outcomes while protecting the best interests of our shareholders.
Our investment in Rosneft, funded from the proceeds of our sale of TNK-BP in 2013, continues to attract attention.
Our approach is to comply with all relevant sanctions and otherwise to maintain our distinctive, long-term investment and relationship with Rosneft in a country that holds some of the worlds largest oil and gas resources.
There is strong interdependence between Russia and its trading partners, and I believe that over time such commercial links tend to ease tensions rather than exacerbate them.
The BP of 2015 is a robust and resilient business, a global team that has been through some of the most difficult times an organization can face and emerged stronger, safer and better than before.
Bob Dudley Group chief executive 3 March 2015 Dened on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 9
