Chief Executives review We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 30 June 2014, once again reporting record new clients, net new business and operating profits.
The year to 30 June 2014 was characterised by continued substantial new asset and client flows into Hargreaves Lansdowns services and successful adoption of extensive regulatory change.
The standout result was our record growth in net new business and clients.
Net new business was 6.4 billion 25% and we welcomed 144,000 net new clients 89% compared to last year.
Hargreaves Lansdown is the largest business of its type in the UK, with should increase when rates recover.
However, in the short term we are an estimated 32% of the direct investment market Source: The Direct experiencing reduced margins on cash balances which is the primary Platform Guide Issue 4, February 2014, up from 28% last year.
reason why asset and client growth exceeded expansion in profit.
High service levels were rewarded not only through record new clients A busy year of stock market activity has been beneficial to Hargreaves and assets, but also through a number of awards.
We were delighted Lansdown in terms of adding new clients and new business.
Of particular to be voted by Which?
as the U. K. s best and recommended investment note was the Royal Mail flotation, where around 118,000 people, platform.
Hargreaves Lansdown also won numerous other awards, approximately 18.5% of the UK public who invested in Royal Mail shares, including the Platforums best user experience and Management Todays did so through Hargreaves Lansdown.
We saw days when up to 60,000 Britains Most Admired Company for Speciality and Other finance.
people tried to call Hargreaves Lansdown, and during the two key weeks of the Royal Mail flotation our website received 3.5 million hits.
During the year the Company had to cope with major regulatory change, For a short period of time this put pressure on service levels.
We have the most significant of which being the FCAs Retail Distribution Review implemented changes as a result of this experience and service levels RDR.
We are pleased we have been able to deliver this change were improved as we dealt with the combined peak impact of the TSB successfully and delivered lower costs of investing for the majority of our flotation and Woodford fund launch in June 2014. clients at the same time.
We now look forward to seeking to maintain our success in our growing marketplace.
Our Corporate Vantage service continues to expand, with 211 schemes live or in implementation 2013: 167.
This increase in schemes has been accompanied by a 59% increase in Corporate Vantage assets, HARGREAVES LANSDOWNS 2014 RESULTS which now stand at 984 million, and post year-end passed the 1 billion landmark.
Although this project remains long-term in nature we remain satisfied with the success to date.
We are pleased to report a record profit before tax of 209.8 million, up 7% on last years 195.2 million.
Our ability to attract and retain assets and clients by accessing key distribution channels and delivery of service 2014 2015 MARKET OUTLOOK excellence continues to be a primary driver of revenue growth.
Our revenue has also been enhanced by growth in complementary services There are welcome signs of a return to stronger economic trading such as stockbroking, fund management, discretionary management and conditions, and greater capitalisation of banks has served to enhance pension drawdown services.
Whether this will translate into stronger stock markets remains to be seen.
In particular markets are likely to be We also report a 29% increase in client assets under administration from influenced by the performance of Asian economies, particularly China, and 36.4 billion to 46.9 billion.
Net new business for the year was 6.4 billion markets generally remain subject to the influence of geopolitical events.
2013: 5.1 billion with market movement and other factors adding a further 4.1 billion.
An additional net new 144,000 investors 2013: 76,000 became clients during the year, of which 42,000 related to IPOs, taking total COMPANY OUTLOOK active clients for Vantage and advised services combined to 652,000.
The delivery of the changes required by the Retail Distribution Review Positive sentiment, allied to continued low interest rates, served to engaged company resources and time for the best part of 18 months.
improve stock markets during the year, with the FTSE All-Share index Whilst regulatory intervention across the financial services industry advancing 9.4% in the year to 30 June 2014. shows no sign of reducing, with the retail distribution review having been delivered successfully we are now able to re-deploy staff and resources The interest rate environment remains depressed, and therefore income on improving the business.
from cash balances has reduced over the period.
Interest income 8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
