Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement Group Chief Executives Review Review being conducted by the Bank of year as Deputy Chairman.
He has been a services and reforming the EU to make it England, Her Majestys Treasury and the considerable support to me and to Stuart more competitive are far less risky than Financial Conduct Authority is an extremely Gulliver, in addition to his role leading the going it alone, given the importance of timely and important exercise to re-establish non-executives, and we are all delighted EU markets to British trade.
the integrity of wholesale financial markets.
that we shall continue to benefit from his There are also many underlying positive wisdom and experience.
In terms of our own governance of these trends that shape our thinking about the areas, the Conduct & Values Committee of coming year.
We are very encouraged 150th anniversary the Board that we created at the beginning by the trends in outward investment from 2015 marks the 150th anniversary of our of 2014 to focus on behavioural issues China, the potential for further liberalisation founding back in Hong Kong and Shanghai has established itself firmly as the central and internationalisation of the renminbi as a small regional bank focused on trade support to the Board in these important and the reshaping of the Chinese economy and investment.
All of us within HSBC owe areas.
from export dependence to domestic a huge debt of gratitude and respect to our consumption.
We are positive on the forebears who charted the course that has Board changes opportunities that will arise from Capital taken HSBC to one of the most important Since we reported at the interim stage we Markets Union within Europe and the institutions serving the financial needs of have taken further steps to augment the declared focus of the incoming Commission this inter-dependent world.
skills and experience within the Board on growth and jobs.
The strength of the and to address succession to key roles.
US economy and the benefits of lower oil Outlook prices should be positive drivers of growth.
On 1 January 2015, Phillip Ameen joined It is impossible not to reflect on the very There is much to be gained from successful the Board and the Group Audit Committee broad range of uncertainties and challenges negotiation of the Transatlantic Trade and as an independent non-executive Director.
to be addressed in 2015 and beyond, Investment Partnership and the TransPhil was formerly Vice President, most of which are outside our control, Pacific Partnership.
Current attention on Comptroller and Principal Accounting particularly against a backdrop of patchy funding infrastructure investment globally Officer of General Electric Corp.
He brings economic recovery and limited policy is potentially of huge significance.
with him extensive financial and accounting ammunition.
Unexpected outcomes experience gained in one of the worlds arising from current geopolitical tensions, Finally, on behalf of the Board, I want again leading international companies as well as eurozone membership uncertainties, to express our thanks and gratitude to our a depth of technical knowledge from his political changes, currency and commodity 266,000 colleagues around the world who long service in the accounting standard price realignments, interest rate moves worked determinedly in 2014 to build an setting world.
As a serving Director on and the effectiveness of central banks HSBC fit for the next 150 years.
HSBCs US businesses he also brings further unconventional policies, to name but a detailed insight to Group Board discussions few, all could materially affect economic and enhances the strong links that already conditions and confidence around exist between the Group Board and its investment and consumption decisions.
One economic uncertainty stands out for a major financial institution headquartered in Sir Simon Robertson had previously the UK, that of continuing UK membership indicated his intention to retire from D J Flint of the EU.
Today, we publish a major the Board at the upcoming AGM.
I am Group Chairman research study which concludes that delighted to report that Simon has working to complete the Single Market in 23 February 2015 agreed to stay on for at least a further HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 6 grown the parts of the business that fit our Group Chief Executives Review new model, attracting US$14bn of net new money in 2014, mostly through clients of Global Banking & Markets and Commercial Banking.
Loan impairment charges were lower, reflecting the current economic environment and the changes we have made to our portfolio since 2011.
Operating expenses were higher due to increased regulatory and compliance costs, inflationary pressures and investment in strategic initiatives to support growth, primarily in Commercial Banking in Asia and Europe.
Significant items, which include restructuring costs, were also higher than last year.
We agreed settlements in respect of inquiries by the UK Financial Conduct 2014 was a challenging year in which we continued to work hard Authority and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission into the foreign to improve business performance while managing the impact of a exchange market in 2014.
HSBC was badly higher operating cost environment.
let down by a few individuals whose actions do not reflect the vast majority Profits disappointed, although a tough notably in our two home markets of Hong of employees who uphold the values and fourth quarter masked some of the Kong and the UK.
standards expected of the bank.
This progress made over the preceding three matter is now rightly in the hands of the Global Banking and Markets performed quarters.
Many of the challenging aspects Serious Fraud Office.
relatively well for the first three quarters of of the fourth quarter results were common the year, but, like much of the rest of the Our balance sheet remained strong, with to the industry as a whole.
In spite of this, industry, suffered a poor fourth quarter.
a ratio of customer advances to customer there were a number of encouraging signs, Revenue was lower in 2014, particularly in accounts of 72%.
Excluding the effects of particularly in Commercial Banking, our Markets businesses, but all other clientcurrency translation, customer loans Payments & Cash Management and facing businesses delivered year-on-year and advances grew by US$28bn during renminbi products and services.
2014. also able to continue to grow the dividend.
Revenue was also lower in Retail Banking The common equity tier 1 ratio on a Reported profit before tax in 2014 was and Wealth Management, due primarily to transitional basis was 10.9% and on a CRD US$18.7bn, US$3.9bn lower than in the the continuing repositioning of the IV end point basis was 11.1% at previous year.
This reflected lower gains business.
However, in our Global Asset 31 December 2014. from disposals and reclassifications, and Management business we continued our the negative effect of other significant Connecting customers to strategy of strengthening collaboration items, including fines, settlements, UK across our global businesses, which helped opportunities customer redress and associated to attract net new money of US$29bn.
Global Private Banking continues to undergo in Hong Kong in 1865 to finance local and Adjusted profit before tax, which excludes a comprehensive overhaul which was international trade, the bank expanded the year-on-year effects of currency accelerated from 2011.
As part of this rapidly to capture the increasing flow of translation differences and significant overhaul, we are implementing tough commerce between Asia, Europe and North items, was US$22.8bn, broadly unchanged financial crime, regulatory compliance and America.
Our ability to connect customers on 2013. tax transparency measures.
In order to across the world remains central to the Asia continued to provide a strong achieve our desired business model and banks strategy today and in 2014 we contribution to Group profits.
Middle East informed by our six filters process, we have continued to develop and grow the product and North Africa reported a record profit also sold a number of businesses and areas that rely on international before tax in 2014.
Together, Asia and customer portfolios, including assets in connectivity.
MENA generated more than 70% of Japan, Panama and Luxembourg.
The Our market-leading Global Trade and adjusted Group profit before tax.
number of customer accounts in our Swiss Receivables Finance business remains Private Bank is now nearly 70% lower than at Commercial Banking also delivered a record strong and we were voted best global trade its peak.
We continued to remodel the reported profit, which is evidence of the finance bank and best trade finance bank in Private Bank in 2014, which included the sale successful execution of our strategy.
MENA in the Global Trade Review Leaders of a customer portfolio in Switzerland to LGT Revenue in CMB continued to grow, In Trade Awards.
One consequence of this remodelling was a reduction in revenue.
We have also HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Overview continued Group Chief Executives Review Strategic objectives In Payments and Cash Management, requirements from the UK Prudential settlement agreements with the US we increased customer mandates and Regulation Authority.
authorities and the UK Financial Conduct improved client coverage.
We have now received the Whilst we expected an increase in the recognised as the best global cash second annual report from the Monitor.
amount of capital we were required to management bank for the third successive Whilst it confirmed that we continue to hold when setting targets for the Group in year in the 2014 Euromoney Cash comply with the obligations we undertook 2011, we could not have foreseen the full Management Survey.
in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement extent of the additional costs and capital with the US Department of Justice, as we Our share of the capital financing market commitment that would subsequently be expected we still have substantial work to continued to improve and we were ranked asked of us.
The pace of change has been do.
number one for debt capital markets in our exceptional.
As a consequence, some of the home markets of the UK and Hong Kong, targets that we set for the Group in 2011 Summary and outlook and number one for Equity Capital Markets are no longer realistic.
The business remains in a good position in Hong Kong by Dealogic.
HSBC was also In recognition of that fact, we have set new structurally to capitalise on broader market named global bond house of the year, medium-term targets that better reflect trends and the macroeconomic backdrop global derivatives house of the year and the ongoing operating environment.
remains favourable, notwithstanding the Asian bond house of the year in the continuing low interest rate environment.
We are setting a revised return on equity International Financing Review Awards There are still a number of historical issues target of more than 10%.
This target is 2014. left to resolve and we will make further modelled using a common equity tier 1 We consolidated our leadership of the progress on these in 2015.
We will also capital ratio on a CRD IV end point basis rapidly growing renminbi market in 2014. continue the work we started in 2011 to in the range of 12% to 13%.
According to SWIFT, the renminbi is now simplify the Group to make it easier to Our cost target will be to grow our revenue the fifth most widely used payment manage and control.
faster than costs positive jaws on an currency in the world, up from 13th just Our 2014 results show a business powered adjusted basis.
We increased revenue from by our continued strength in Hong Kong, renminbi products and retained our ranking We are also restating our commitment with significant additional contributions as number one issuer of offshore renminbi to grow the dividend.
To be clear, the from the rest of Asia and the Middle East bonds worldwide over the last twelve progression of dividends should be and North Africa.
The continuing success of months.
HSBC was also recognised as the consistent with the growth of the overall Commercial Banking and the resilience of best overall provider for products and profitability of the Group and is predicated our differentiated Global Banking & services in Asiamoneys Offshore Renminbi on our ability to meet regulatory capital Markets business illustrate the Services Survey in 2014, and renminbi house requirements in a timely manner.
effectiveness of our strategy to bridge of the year in the 2014 Asia Risk Awards.
These targets offer a realistic reflection of global trade and capital flows.
Retail the capabilities of HSBC in the prevailing Banking & Wealth Management remains a Operating a global business operating environment.
work in progress, but we took considerable It is already clear that the regulatory costs further steps to fide-risk the business in of operating a global business model have Our employees 2014.
Global Private Banking continues to increased since we announced our strategy I am grateful for the hard work, dedication attract net new money from clients in our for HSBC in 2011. and professionalism of all of our employees other global businesses.
We maintain a As the Group Chairmans Statement in 2014. sharp focus on generating net savings to explains, the regulatory environment offset increased costs arising from inflation, Extensive work was required to prepare continues to evolve.
and the cost of implementing global HSBC for stress tests in a number of standards.
Our commitment to be the worlds leading jurisdictions throughout the year, the international bank means that improving results of which confirmed the capital Our early 2015 performance has been our regulatory and compliance abilities strength of the Group.
and implementing Global Standards must additional stress testing in 2015.
We continue to focus on the execution of remain priorities for HSBC.
Our Compliance We all have to work continuously to make our strategy and on delivering value to staff headcount has more than doubled sure that the Group remains compliant shareholders.
since 2011 and there is more work still to with anti-money laundering and sanctions do to strengthen the Groups compliance legislation and this effort continued in capability.
At the same time, the level of capital that Management and staff across the Group we hold has increased by over 60% since S T Gulliver continued to work very closely with the before the financial crisis.
Specifically, we Group Chief Executive Monitor to deliver our commitments under have further strengthened our capital 23 February 2015 the terms of our December 2012 levels in response to increasing capital HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 8
