Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OVERVIEW Chief Executives review A winning strategy for today and tomorrow I am delighted with the excellent progress Our strategy continued to deliver We delivered another strong wehave made in the four years since I became in2014, says Nicandro Durante in performance in 2014 Chief Executive, during which we have his Chief Executives review.
In a Although currency movements significantly enhanced our strategy with a sharpened focus impacted our reported results for last year, tough trading environment we on the consumer.
atconstant rates we continued to grow revenue achieved strong results while We have increased our share of the global 2.8%, adjusted profit from operations continuing to invest in our future.
cigarette market in this period by 70 basis 4.4% and adjusted diluted earnings points and grown our Global Drive Brands pershare 7.9%.
Excluding the transactional GDBs and share of key segments at an even effect of foreign exchange, adjusted profit faster rate, improving the underlying quality from operations would have increased by of our portfolio.
We are meeting consumer needs with Exchange rates continue to be volatile and in differentiated products, including innovations the current year, if rates were to stay where which now make up nearly 50% of they are today, we would face a substantially GDB volume.
This would impact our constant currency Our focus on resource allocation is driving performance and would be in addition to any major investments in high-growth markets, translational impact on reported numbers.
particularly in EEMEA and Asia-Pacific regions, resulting in share growth in these markets.
In 2014 we again increased our market share in our key markets driven by our GDBs By supporting pricing with strong brands and excellent performance.
As a result, our cigarette innovations, substantially reducing costs and volume decline of 1.4% was less than the improving productivity, we have increased overall industry decline, estimated at 2.5%.
our operating margin by more than 520 basis points over four years.
These results were achieved despite a challenging external environment, with We are also making excellent progress continued pressure on consumers disposable towards our goal to lead across the various income, fragile economic conditions in Europe next-generation product categories.
This performance shows that we have the We maintained good pricing, despite an right strategy for our business it has served increase in competitive pricing activity in some us well in a changing and challenging market key markets.
We also achieved another good environment and it continued to deliver for improvement in operating margin over 50 our shareholders in 2014. basis points an excellent result given that we absorbed significant transactional costs caused by currency movements.
06 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements This also demonstrates that we are Plain packaging and other measures such becominga more efficient and effective as excessive excise increases can create business as we address our cost base ideal conditions for illicit trade.
for example, the black market in tobacco products has increased since plain packaging We are investing in a was introduced.
sustainable future We will continue to lead the industry in We delivered value for our shareholders proactively and openly engaging with and our other stakeholders in 2014 while regulators and wider society on regulatory continuing to invest significantly in the issues and seek to collaborate with futureof our business.
governments and other organisations Nicandro Durante tocombat illicit trade.
The Group invested in growth opportunities Chief Executive in key markets and in building a pipeline of We continue to deliver next-generation products.
We developed our value to shareholders e-cigarette brand, Vype, in the UK with new product launches.
We also made significant Despite tough market conditions, the progress towards launching Voke, a nicotine strengths of our business and our people We delivered value for inhalation product licensed as a medicine ensured we achieved another competitive inthe UK.
set of results and again delivered high our shareholders and our single-figure earnings growth at constant We plan to begin consumer trials of a tobacco other stakeholders in 2014 exchange rates.
heating product by the end of 2015 and have while continuing to invest our first product in a test market in 2016.
The Group recently announced that it is significantly in the future evaluating a possible public tender offer to As well as representing new commercial acquire the remaining 24.7% of Souza Cruz of our business.
opportunities for the Group, these shares that it does not currently own.
developments demonstrate our long-standing This investment would further strengthen commitment to tobacco harm reduction by our presence in Brazil, a key strategic market offering consumers a choice of high-quality, where we are already market leader.
It would less risky products.
also provide opportunities to leverage Within our business, we are making good SouzaCruzs capabilities in areas such as leaf progress in implementing standardised and for closer cooperation in research and global systems.
These will support consistent development, while further integrating the ways ofoperating that will make us a more business into our Americas region.
efficient, effective and agile business.
We expect the trading environment to We also continue to invest in attracting, remaindifficult in 2015 and that foreign retaining and developing people who will exchange headwinds will continue to have leadthe successful delivery of our strategy asignificant impact on both a transactional today and in the future.
However, I am confident that with our proven We support balanced, strategy, strong global presence, powerful evidence-based regulation brands, talented people and continued focus Tobacco regulation remains an ongoing on efficiency we will deliver value to our challenge for our industry.
We support shareholders in the short and long term.
effective, evidence-based regulation that meets public health objectives, does not Nicandro Durante impede our ability to compete and respects Chief Executive our legal rights.
That is why we oppose plain packaging.
We believe the UK Governments decision to introduce this policy is a serious error of judgement due to the legal implications and given the evidence from Australia that plain packaging does not appear to be achieving itspublic health objectives.
07 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Our Global Drive Brands in 2014 Our five Global Drive Brands GDBs had another successful year in 2014, growing volume and share in key markets.
Share and volume Dunhill 2014 GDB overall market Volume Market share sharegrowth 55bn 10bpts 90bpts 2.9% bpts basis points 2013: 54bn Kent 2014 GDB cigarette Volume Market share volume growth 64bn Flat 5.8% -2.8% 2013: 65bn Lucky Strike Volume Market share 31bn 10bpts 0.8% 2013: 31bn Pall Mall Volume Market share 92bn 30bpts 5.6% 2013: 87bn Rothmans Volume Market share 36bn 40bpts 39.8% 2013: 26bn 08 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
