04 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Group CEOs review Group Chief Executive Officers review of the year The past year has presented ICAP with many challenges.
Trading ICAP is profitable and cash generative.
Over many years, we have conditions have been and are likely to remain extremely difficult.
demonstrated our ability to reposition our business to respond to the We operate in an industry which is undergoing an enormous amount changing market landscape.
We will continue to pursue our long-term of structural change with the emergence of a new post-financial crisis strategy to grow our Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and regulatory landscape.
The trading operations of our bank customers, Information businesses and reshape Global Broking in response to the particularly their FICC franchises, continue to be scaled back as balance structural changes in the market place.
sheets are deleveraged in response to increased capital requirements.
Maximise the value of ICAPs unique In addition to these structural developments, cyclical factors such as the combination of businesses low interest rate environment, muted FX rate volatility and continued uncertainty over the long overdue economic recovery have inevitably ICAP is an integral part of the financial system.
Our businesses have global impacted revenue.
We have a breadth and a depth to our offering that gives us a substantial footprint in the global financial marketplace and the ability This was also an extremely difficult year because of the yen Libor to leverage our scale.
In September 2013, one of our Global Broking subsidiaries reached settlement agreements with the CFTC and the FCA and paid BrokerTec and EBS operate electronic platforms for the trading of fixed penalties totalling 55 million relating to the involvement of certain income and FX products.
These businesses offer efficient and effective brokers assisting bank traders seeking to manipulate yen Libor.
exchange-like trading solutions to more than 2,800 customers in over 50 countries.
They are built on ICAPs bespoke networks, connecting We have learnt lessons from this experience and have taken steps to participants in the wholesale financial markets, benefiting from years of strengthen the business.
Since 2010, we have significantly enhanced the infrastructure and technology investment and client service that would compliance, risk and control framework across the entire ICAP Group.
We have also embarked on an ambitious programme of staff training and development that strongly reinforces our core principles and values.
During the year, BrokerTec delivered an outstanding trading performance.
We now have a robust and comprehensive regulatory risk management Its market share in on-the-runs US Treasury increased, reecting the framework, employing a considerable number of compliance staff and return on the investment from the significant upgrade of the platform dedicating significant financial resources to it.
Overall volumes on the platform increased by 33%, in part driven by speculation over the possible timing and eventual Despite the ongoing structural challenges facing the industry, I believe tapering of the quantitative easing programme in the US.
that there are reasons to be optimistic.
ICAP, with its diverse portfolio of businesses, is uniquely positioned to provide the full range of pre trade, Trading conditions in the spot FX market remained difficult for much execution and post trade services.
I am convinced that the move towards of the year, subdued foreign exchange rate volatility had a detrimental increased electronic trading of derivatives, central clearing and risk impact on the trading activity of our major currency pairs on EBS mitigation are positive drivers for future growth.
In anticipation of the Market.
In contrast, we saw growth in our market share in emerging new marketplace, we are investing heavily in delivering both new and markets currencies, particularly the ruble, Indian rupee and renminbi, enhanced product and technological solutions including the ICAP SEF, and we see this trend continuing.
The EBS Market platform represents EBS Direct, TriOptimas triResolve and Traianas CreditLink services.
an extremely important asset and a key component of the FX industry market infrastructure.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 05 Financial performance For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group reported revenue of 1,397 million, 5% below the prior year.
Trading conditions throughout 2013 14 were difficult reecting a combination of structural and cyclical factors including bank deleveraging, regulatory change and muted interest rate and FX rate volatility.
Group net trading operating expenses of 1,102 million were 5% lower than the previous year, reecting lower variable compensation costs and the achievement of further savings from the ongoing cost reduction programme partially offset by incremental investment of 15 million in new product initiatives.
A range of multi-year structural projects to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the organisation continued throughout the year.
Michael Spencer These delivered 13 million of cost savings in 2013 14 net of one-off Group Chief Executive Officer costs which on a gross annualised basis will equate to at least 25 million in the year ending 31 March 2015.
A further 20 million of incremental annualised savings attributable to prior year cost reduction initiatives were also achieved.
The exibility of the cost base continued to be enhanced through the restructuring of broker compensation as contracts fell due for renewal.
Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, significant investment Our Post Trade, Risk and Information business benefited from increased was made during the year in the Electronic Markets and Post Trade demand for its variety of pre trade, post trade and information products Risk and Information divisions.
The total headcount of these businesses and services.
The performances of TriOptima and Traiana were expanded by approximately 10% during the year to 1,107 employees.
particularly notable, reecting their integral position as providers of This compares to the overall decline in total Group headcount by 36 to product and technological solutions that address customer needs in the 4,940 employees.
The cash investment made during the year in new new regulatory environment.
products and services, principally the development of EBS Direct, the expansion of Traianas product portfolio and ongoing product innovation Our traditional Global Broking business is a leader in facilitating the within TriOptima, amounted to 42 million.
ow of capital and investment through the financial system and The Group reported a trading operating profit of 295 million, 4% down is vital in supporting global government and corporate borrowing.
on the prior year 3% down on a constant currency basis.
The Groups Market conditions over the past few years have been particularly trading operating profit margin was maintained at 21%, reecting a three challenging for Global Broking.
Bank deleveraging, regulatory uncertainty percentage point increase to 69% in the proportion of Group operating and an increasing focus on cost among our customers, together with profit generated from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and the unfavourable macroeconomic environment, represent significant Information businesses and the achievement of further cost savings.
We have proactively restructured and Group trading profit before tax of 272 million was 4% down on the are continuing to restructure the business to enhance its operational prior year.
Trading EPS basic of 33.2p was 1% ahead of the prior year, efficiency and improve the exibility of the cost base.
reecting a four percentage point decrease in the trading effective tax We have recognised the need to align Global Broking to best reect our rate.
Profit before tax was 122 million, an increase of 85%, reecting customers needs, an example of which is ICAP Fusion, which aims to goodwill impairment charges incurred in the prior year.
Basic EPS rose improve our customer experience by offering a unified view of ICAPs 134% to 15.7p.
products and services via a branded portal.
The ultimate objective is to increase our revenue and margins by enabling ICAP to establish a global Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March community of users, connecting its entire global audience across all 2014 2013 Change asset classes.
m m % Expand and diversify our customer base Revenue 1,397 1,472 5 Over the past year, we have accelerated our efforts to expand and Trading operating profit 295 308 4 diversify both our bank and non-bank customer base.
EBS Direct has Trading profit before tax 272 284 4 facilitated an expansion of the EBS customer base with a particular focus Profit before tax 122 66 85 on smaller and regional banks and non-bank institutions.
Since its launch in November 2013, adoption of this new relationship-based liquidity Change service has exceeded expectations with almost 500 customers now pence pence % contracted to the platform including 30 non-bank institutions of which Trading EPS basic 33.2 33.0 1 180 have already traded.
Our customers face regulatory, capital and cost pressures in the post trade universe where TriOptima and Traiana EPS 15.7 6.7 134 have built several industry standard market infrastructure solutions that Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 simplify operational workow for both buy and sell side infrastructures.
We also anticipate that as banks continue to commit less capital to fewer Read more on our financial performance on page 32 markets, new entrants will emerge.
06 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Group CEOs review continued There has been a strong increase in demand for TriOptimas subscriptionDrive product and technological innovation based portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
The marketplace Technology is at the heart of ICAPs business.
We are at the forefront recognises that OTC derivative counterparty exposure management of innovation and change and have made significant investments in and margin call management are essential once transaction reporting technology over many years.
Our experience as a markets operator becomes mandatory.
This will increase the frequency and scope of has shown there is a multi-year development life cycle for technology reconciliation activities.
More than 1,000 firms are now regularly in some cases what we are doing today will take four or five years to using triResolve.
Once this investment has been completed, however, the revenue tends to be sustainable.
Seize opportunities from regulatory change The launch of our SEF in October 2013 was an important milestone and We have the intellectual capital to develop world-class systems in-house, we worked closely with its market participants to help them through the with exible types of delivery as needed.
A significant proportion of transition to this new regulatory environment.
I am very pleased with the our expenditure is focused on the innovation of new products and positive feedback we have received from customers.
There was less of services which will drive the future growth of the business.
We have a an immediate impact from the implementation of the new SEF regime global technology research and development capability which has been than previously expected as, in February 2014, the CFTCs No Action instrumental in developing our new EBS Direct and Traianas CreditLink Relief for package transactions delayed some elements of mandatory products.
In addition, a new centralised service for the calculation of trading on SEFs until May 2014.
ICAP has served OTC and exchangecounterparty credit risk metrics, triCalculate, is being developed and will traded derivatives customers for many years by offering fair, liquid and be used as a benchmarking and validation tool for banks.
We expect to robust markets and will continue to work with them and to help them launch this during the latter part of 2014. meet their regulatory obligations.
i-Swap, ICAPs global electronic trading Reinforce cultural values and uphold platform for IRS, forms part of the ICAP SEF and operates under the rules of the Dodd-Frank Act.
In April 2014 we launched i-Swap in Australian best practices dollars, building on the success of our product offering in euro, dollar ICAPs success is driven by its employees, its culture and its values.
Our experience of the yen Libor investigation has reinforced our commitment to our corporate values, leadership, entrepreneurship, Traiana and TriOptima offer best-in-class services addressing the integrity and respect for control, and underscored the importance requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and EMIR and both have seen an of promoting the right culture.
We have made and will continue to acceleration in demand.
In Europe, EMIR created a single framework for make a significant investment to develop our staff and to ensure that CCPs and Trade Repositories.
It also imposed risk mitigation requirements, every employee is aware of their responsibilities.
We have rolled out including portfolio reconciliation, compression and dispute resolution development training globally for our Global Broking desk heads and on market users which are positive drivers of growth for triResolve infrastructure teams.
Further training is planned to cover other areas so and triReduce.
that we have the right capabilities in our business and are able to work Traiana also continues to expand the breadth of its offering, with an together to build a future that is profitable for ICAP, while remaining firmly increased focus on the opportunities created by financial regulatory in keeping with our values.
reform in the US and Europe.
In November 2013, CreditLink, a pre trade credit screening service for trades conducted on SEFs, was launched with the support of the majority of SEFs, Futures Commission Merchants FCMs and clearing houses.
CreditLink is now the established central infrastructure for managing limits on cleared swaps across asset classes.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 07 An important date in the year for ICAP was on 3 December 2013, Outlook when we held our annual Charity Day.
Over 21 years, ICAP Charity Market conditions remain very challenging.
Regulatory change continues Day has made a greater impact than we could ever have imagined.
to create uncertainty within the marketplace.
In the first two weeks of By donating all our revenue and commission on one day each year, we May 2014, a number of our major bank customers have again reported have positively changed the lives of thousands of people around the significantly reduced activity levels across their FICC franchises and do world.
This year ICAP supported 200 charities globally and has supported not foresee any material near term recovery.
Cyclical factors such as low more than 1,600 charities since the first Charity Day in 1993.
Thanks to interest rates and exchange rate volatility represent further drags on the tremendous efforts of our customers, suppliers and employees, trading activity.
We expect this challenging environment to endure.
9.5 million was raised this year.
This is equivalent to approximately 3% of ICAPs full-year pre-tax trading profit and it brings the total amount As a consequence of the above market factors, the trend seen in the raised and donated over 21 years to 110 million.
second half of 2013 14 in the relative performances of our businesses has been largely replicated in the new financial year.
Trading activity To support the growth of our key businesses we have made some across Global Broking and on the EBS Market platform continues to be significant appointments this year.
Ivan Ritossa, who has a long and subdued.
In contrast, volumes traded on the BrokerTec platform remain distinguished career primarily in electronic trading, joined the Group board strong and TriOptimas triReduce and triResolve services together in July 2013 as a non-executive director.
Ken Pigaga became Group Chief with EBS Direct have maintained their growth momentum.
The Group Operating Officer, having previously been COO for the Americas, where remains committed to its strategy of growing the Electronic Markets and he championed an agenda focused on the use of technology to drive Post Trade Risk and Information business while reshaping Global Broking efficiency and control.
Most recently, Laurent Paulhac joined us in April in response to the new market structure.
2014 from the CME Group to be Chief Executive Officer of ICAPs Swap Execution Facility SEF.
ICAP today is a very different organisation from that of just a few years ago as we have successfully diversified into high-margin, high-growth Dividend electronic and post trade businesses.
We have re-engineered and The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share in line with restructured our business to ensure a global alignment of management 2012 13, reecting the solid financial performance for the year, strong resources and infrastructure so that we can more effectively meet our balance sheet and the ongoing cash generative nature of the business.
existing and future customers needs, and we are more collaborative This results in a full-year dividend of 22.0p per share 2012 13 22.0p.
across the business than we have ever been.
But what has not changed is ICAPs desire to be and to behave as a market leader, and to continue to provide outstanding service to our customers across all our businesses.
The past year has been a very demanding one.
I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and commitment to the business.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer
