CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES WHAT WE DO CONTINUED SPREAD BETTING STOCKBROKING NORTH AMERICAN DERIVATIVES 1 Financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland is a tax-free way to deal by betting on the price In July we began pilot-testing our execution-only EXCHANGE NADEX movement of an asset.
The size of a clients win or loss depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement.
stockbroking service in the UK on both web and mobile Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US platforms, representing our first significant diversification investors to trade options on global financial markets in 2 We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread betting provider out of leveraged products.
Once fully operational, our retail-sized contracts.
3 We hold 41% of the UK financial spread betting market stockbroking service is expected to offer market-leading Nadex is the first and largest US-based retailadvantages for clients, including: The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a spread bet can be used to buy a market when you expect it to rise.
oriented exchange This is known as going long.
In this scenario, a subsequent rise in the market price results in a profit for the client while a Improved underlying and live pricing sourced from We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with fall results in a loss.
The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a spread bet on multiple trading venues limited risk page 156.
Transparent access to a broad range of international The main product on Nadex is the binary option equities, with cost-effective currency conversions to facilitate trading within an ISA NISA HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE Superior trading tools across multiple platforms AND PROFIT THE DEAL and devices, powered by our existing awardYou open a position for 10.00 per point Our principal revenue sources are the dealing spreads winning technology MARKET at the offer price of 1001 or commission charges we apply to each transaction, RISE Direct market access available as a standard feature, BUY OFFER PRICE SIZE PER POINT according to the asset and product type being traded.
free of additional charge As clients are trading on margin, we also levy a financing 1002 1001 10.00 BINARIES charge for positions held overnight.
If you expect the market to rise, you buy at the IG BUY OFFER Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single OFFER PRICE 1001 PRICE MARKET PRICE RISES We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients question: Will the underlying market behave in a specific GOING LONG dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level PROFIT SELL BID PRICE way before the contract expires?.
Clients use their THE UNDERLYING of activity in the underlying financial markets.
Since our 1000 MARKET VALUE SPREAD knowledge of the financial markets to predict whether the 60.00 1007 clients can choose to buy or sell, dealing volumes can be answer will be yes or no.
IG SELL BID maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the The market moves by eight points 0999 PRICE Our binaries enable clients to trade with limited risk direction in which markets are moving.
LOSS SELL BID PRICE Binaries are unrestricted by low volatility, remaining 0998 Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate 100.00 0991 attractive to clients when markets are relatively stable the market risk associated with client trades from around MARKET MARKET PRICE FALLS This year we have added sprint markets high-speed, the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge due to FALL limited-risk trades which offer clients the opportunity to the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, trade in even the flattest markets and so reduces risk and cost.
This model also enables us to maintain low-cost and capital-efficient processes, while robust risk-management procedures help us monitor and control the impact of market and credit risk.
1 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances.
1 spread betting provider: number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013.
3 By number of active primary accounts.
All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited please refer to the Investor Resources section on page 165 for further details.
14 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 15 Strategic Report | What We Do CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES HIGH-CALIBRE STAFF OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGIC We have developed a business model that harnesses the demand PROGRESS IN 2014 PRIORITIES FOR 2015 OBJECTIVES from active traders for fast, flexible and secure online trading.
Completed the technical development for our Launch and grow our execution-only stockbroking service in the UK stockbroking service in the UK Extended trading hours on over 20 key US equities, Roll out our stockbroking service enabling clients to trade outside the core US stock to at least one country outside market hours the UK Successfully offered a number of pre-IPO Increase the number of extendedgrey markets hours US stocks offered ADDRESS THE KPIs Introduced sprint markets to allow clients to quickly NEEDS OF ACTIVE take advantage of opportunities, even in relatively SEE PAGE 24 flat markets TRADERS OUR CLIENTS REVENUE We attract clients globally via a number of Our multi-channel brand and targeted Maintained our UK market leadership position in Increase our growth rate in the channels, including: advertising campaigns spread betting and increased our lead in CFDs, with UK through the introduction of REVENUE PER over 59,000 active clients trading during the year our stockbroking service CLIENT Our optimised online and Our international network of offices, Increased our Australian CFD market leadership Increase growth in Europe against app-store presence through local seminars and publicACTIVE CLIENTS to 20 percentage points, with around 18,000 active improving market backdrop relations exercises Our worldwide network of clients trading with us during the year Manage the impact of the ACHIEVE, high-quality partners Retained our number one position in forex in proposed forex leverage PROFIT BEFORE TAX MAINTAIN OR Singapore and became the number two provider reductions in Singapore of CFDs EXTEND MARKET Grow the business across APAC, DILUTED EARNINGS AUTHORITY AND EXPERTISE using Australia as the hub PER SHARE LEADERSHIP CASH GENERATION Prepared IG Switzerland office for launch Launch our CFD offering in Switzerland DIVIDEND PER Continued to grow our European business, where OUR TECHNOLOGY revenues increased by 15.6% over the prior year Open our office in Dubai SHARE Introduced two additional market makers to Continue exploring opportunities PLATFORM UPTIME the Nadex exchange, one of which has been to serve additional countries consistently providing additional liquidity since in APAC NET PROMOTER joining, and increased revenue by 54.6% Develop the introduced-business SCORE STRENGTHEN Completed the consolidation of our global model for the Nadex exchange GLOBAL OUR PRODUCTS brand under IG.
com, helping us to optimise our search rankings and create a recognisable single KEY RISKS PRESENCE identity worldwide SEE PAGE 42 Radically improved payments process, leading to Continue to focus on delivering faster payments to from clients industry-leading customer service STRENGTH AND STABILITY CREDIT Implemented further improvements to online selfDevelop more multi-channel service functionality to enhance client experience support for our clients, eg social MARKET media, live chat, mobile, self-service Achieved joint-first ranking in IPSOS mysteryFINANCIAL MARKETS shopper exercise Improve access to our global LIQUIDITY support teams around the clock Our clients can trade across a wide variety of markets, geographies and asset classes.
Received rating of good or very good from 89% DELIVER QUALITY of spread bettors and 88% of CFD traders who Optimise our support tools SERVICE TO responded to independently conducted in order to improve efficiency OPERATIONAL 1 Indices Shares Forex Commodities satisfaction surveys and provide a more joined-up FX CLIENTS customer service experience REGULATORY Other markets: Interest rates, bonds, ETFs and industry sectors Built a version of IG.
com for mobile devices Extend availability of full version of IG.
com to all mobile platforms Launched iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7 CONDUCT Continue to support new Increased the suite of mobile apps for Nadex products, eg stockbroking Increased mobile engagement through push TECHNOLOGY Invest in mobile app notifications of key market movements, technical development to increase rate of analysis and macro-economic events client sign-ups Maintained consistently high levels of SUSTAIN Continue to maintain consistent platform uptime TECHNOLOGY platform uptime LEADERSHIP 1 Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013.
16 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 17 Strategic Report | Our Strategic Objectives CLIENT FOCUS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS In this section The most valuable clients are those who trade most frequently or in the largest deal size.
It is therefore imperative that our platforms, services and we explain products address the needs of these clients.
Our investment in technology and commitment to client service focuses on active traders, while we are our strategic conscious of the need to deliver an excellent trading experience for all.
objectives in more See page 19 depth, and focus on some examples ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND ADDRESS THE NEEDS MARKET LEADERSHIP of our progress OF ACTIVE TRADERS We are a global leader in online trading and aim to be the default choice in each.
1 global provider of CFDs and 1 financial spread betting and a recognised authority on financial trading, with our expert opinion often sought by the media and regulatory bodies.
The trading life of a cash equity client is generally longer We have achieved our position at the forefront of the industry by recruiting than that of IGs existing client base.
Many of them are talented people, developing superior technology and providing clients with wealthy, and there is a constituency that trades very actively.
the tools and products they require.
We continue to leverage these key We will have the potential to retain clients that lapse from advantages to maintain or establish leadership in our major markets.
CFD trading by offering them access to execution-only See page 20 stockbroking on the same trading platform.
IG seeks to attract active traders, and the structure of our STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE execution-only stockbroking offer is designed with that goal We have offices in 15 countries, serving clients in over 140 countries, in mind: and we continue to seek opportunities to grow our client base in both established and new regions.
In the last 18 months we have opened three We offer price transparency, with the underlying real-time NEW STOCKBROKING SERVICE new offices, in Dublin, Oslo and Geneva, and our Swiss licence application is price being displayed throughout the trade, including In July we commenced pilot-testing of our execution-only in progress.
Our single global identity IG is designed to help us develop when trading in overseas shares stockbroking service in the UK across web and mobile our brand reach, increase our market penetration and target regional markets Where most platforms provide a passive trading platforms, representing our first significant diversification from the countries where we already operate.
experience, we enable clients to interact with the market See page 21 from leveraged trading.
order books to judge precisely the level at which they Our clients are active traders, and we strive to ensure want to trade that we offer the right products on the right platforms By adapting our existing state-of-the-art mobile-trading DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS to address their needs.
The launch of stockbroking in technology, we have been able to give our stockbroking the UK enables clients to trade cash equities on IGs We strive to maintain absolute integrity in our relationship with clients, clients the opportunity to trade wherever they like, on award-winning platforms.
and we invest in training our team to ensure that we are delivering their device of choice excellent client service.
Prior to developing the service we conducted a survey of IG The pricing of the offering has also been designed with By combining this service with fast and reliable execution, transparent clients which suggested there is a complementary audience the active trader in mind, with high volume driving lower pricing and full segregation of retail client funds, we help our clients for cash equities: 60% of respondents told us that they also commissions and low exchange-rate conversion fees feel secure and confident in trading with us.
We also support our clients trade cash equities, and 65% of those said that they would when trading on overseas shares with education, market insight resources and 24-hour technical help.
consider moving their business to IG if we offered this service.
See page 22 This offering is clearly at a very early stage, with our first UK marketing campaign in September.
We are launching the Over the last 40 years, retail trading product in the UK initially before deciding on the precise SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP in equities has become a mainstream order and extent of any international rollout.
Our financial strength has enabled us to continually invest in IT activity in the UK.
This is a significant In adding stockbroking to our platforms we have development and infrastructure, and to build the superior platform opportunity for IG.
demonstrated our focus on understanding the needs of technology, tools and resources our clients demand.
We will continue to ensure this understanding 1 No.
1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, position is underpinned by our platforms award-winning performance and informs both improvements to our existing products and based on revenue excluding FX, published financial proven resilience factors that are essential in maintaining high levels of statements, July 2014: for spread betting, number our new product development.
of active UK financial spread betting accounts client satisfaction and retention and keep us at the forefront of the industry.
We have concluded that this is a market where we can add Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, substantial value to these clients trading and create a new, December 2013.
See page 23 profitable business stream for IG.
18 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 19 Strategic Report | Our Strategy in Action
