ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 CHAiRmAnS And CHiefexeCutiveS StAtement The 25th year of iCgs existence marks an important  of the group.
The 25th year of ICGs existence marks an important step in the transformation of the Group.
From a niche European mezzanine investment firm, we have evolved into a specialist asset manager providing mezzanine finance, private debt, leveraged credit and minority equity to mid market corporates in Europe, Asia and the US and to real estate in the UK.
This has been achieved through significant, yet disciplined, investment in people, systems and infrastructure.
More importantly, this was only made possible by leveraging our enviable investment track record based on selective and active portfolio management, as well as anaccess to capital resources that few of our competitors enjoy.
In many respects, this past year has given us confidence in the success of our strategy.
Justin doWley Wave oF liquidity leads to a record breaking year Chairman We have had a record fundraising year and realised a record amount of cash for our fund investors and balance sheet, aided by the increased availability of capital in the economy.
As aresult we are managing 13.0bn of assets in third party funds and proprietary capital, up0.4% on March 2013.
As historically low levels of interest rates induced investors to search for higher yielding assets, we were able to raise 3.8bn of third party money, up 69% compared to our previous highest fundraising effort.
First time funds and new strategies represent 45% of the total raised, spearheaded by Senior Debt Partners, our European direct lending strategy, and our first US CLO.
Another key measure of success is the ability to close funds at their hard cap the maximum permitted size.
Both our ICG Longbow III mezzanine fund at 700m and our Senior Debt Partners strategy at 1.7bn, closed at that hard cap level.
The Group was also a leading issuer of European CLOs during the year, raising 1.3bn from three fundraisings, two christophe evain of which were upsized during the fundraising process.
This momentum has continued into Chief Executive Officer the new financial year as our US Private Debt Fund had a $450m first close, including $200m from ICG.
The strong year of realisations, which follows a period of low realisations, has provided further evidence of our ability to generate good cash returns from our portfolio and continue to enhance our track record.
We have realised over 1.1bn of cash for our balance sheet and 2.7bn to our fund investors during the year.
This includes through the full, or partial, repayment of 12 of the Groups opening top 20 assets and the corresponding positions in our mezzanine funds, achieving an average money multiple on those assets of 2.1x.
We have retained a minority equity position in many of these assets which we expect to realise in the next few years.
As many of these investments were made when the balance sheet invested more than the third party mezzanine funds in any given deal, the impact of these realisations strateGic report Governance Financial statements has been felt most strongly on the size of our balance sheet portfolio.
Whilst the short term impact of these successful realisations reduces our volume of assets under management, the returns generated further enhance our track record and help to lay the ground for ongoing future fundraising success, as evidenced by our momentum in growing third party AUM during the year.
The more benign environment in debt markets makes the investment market more competitive for our teams and generating attractive opportunities, whilst maintaining our 13.0 historic credit discipline, has become more challenging.
During the year we nevertheless invested a record 630.8m on behalf of our mezzanine funds, 524.3m on behalf of our Senior Debt Partners strategy and 330.0m on behalf of our real estate funds.
In addition, ICG co-invested 212.4m alongside our mezzanine funds and committed 181.1m of capital to bn our credit and real estate funds.
All these funds have been deploying capital at, or ahead of, investors expectations without compromising our rigorous investment discipline and process.
This is testament to our teams ability to originate local transactions and their propensity to offer innovative financing solutions.
Assets under management A small number of weaker assets within our investment portfolio continue to underperform and we took specific provisions against a number of these assets during the year.
The level of provisions against our weaker assets, borne out of the financial crisis, should gradually reduce as we actively manage these remaining weaker investments.
Elsewhere the portfolio is performing solidly, and the assets we have restructured during the year are showing signs ofimproving performance.
dividends and capital management We are committed to financial discipline, both in terms of the quality of investment and strategic allocation of resources, as well as ensuring that an appropriate capital structure is maintained, all targeted to generate strong returns for shareholders.
We allocate capital to strategies which are expected to create long term value, whilst having consideration to 158.7 maintaining broad access to financing sources and debt markets, and ensuring sufficient robustness for the Group to withstand periods of market stress.
We seek to maximise the value of the business by applying balance sheet capital in three main m ways, namely: 1.
Continuing to invest in well established strategies such as European mezzanine and CLOs 2.
Investing in strategies that have been established but continue to mature such as Longbow and Senior Debt Partners Profit before tax 3.
Providing capital to incubate selective new strategies that expand ICGs geographical and product offering such as the Nomura partnership and US Private Debt funds The investment of balance sheet capital in a broader range of fund management products will create sustainable earning streams as these strategies mature.
As this occurs, the Fund Management Company will be generating a greater level of reliable earnings which the Board strongly believes will translate into strong shareholder returns.
This will enable the Group to improve its return on equity over the medium term.
We consider it important that the Group maintains a strong balance sheet position with a consistent access to the debt markets.
Accordingly, considerations such as maintaining a strong and stable credit rating and the financial covenants to lenders are factored into the Boards assessment of the Groups capital structure.
02 03 ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 CHAiRmAnS And CHief exeCutiveS StAtement continued We also understand the value that shareholders place on regular and sustainable dividend payments and we remain committed to a dividend policy linked to cash core income.
In addition to this, we perform an ongoing assessment of the Groups capital requirements with reference to the above factors over a three year horizon and should there be any capital surplus to requirements, we will look to return capital to shareholders at the appropriate time.
Our business model Following a review of cash core income over a three year period, the Board recommend a final dividend of 14.4p per share, making a total of 21.0p per share for the year, up 5% on last and25 year track year.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 28 July recordleave us well 2014 to shareholders on the register on 13 June 2014.
The Board has decided to maintain the dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
Whilst the Group currently is investing significant capital positioned for growth.
into the development of the strength and breadth of the Fund Management business, after a record year of realisations we believe that there is scope to reduce the capital base at this time.
We therefore announce our intention to launch a share buyback programme of up to 100m which will be conducted via market purchases over the coming 12 months.
our employees Our people are critical to the business developing as a third party asset manager and achieving our strategic priorities.
On behalf of the Board, we thank them wholeheartedly forthe enormous efforts they have made during the last year.
Without their commitment wewould not have been able to raise and invest our funds, manage our assets successfully and open up attractive new markets to facilitate the continued growth of our business.
looking ahead Our strong balance sheet, scalable infrastructure and dedicated global distribution team meanwe are well positioned to continue to develop as a third party asset manager.
Our product pipeline is stronger than ever before which is underpinning the momentum in ourfundraising.
In addition to raising money for well established products, like European CLOs, during the year ahead we aim to continue to expand our geographical and product offering.
We are currently in the market with a US private mezzanine debt fund, an Australian senior loans fund and our third Asia Pacific fund.
Preparations are also ongoing for a domestic Japanese mezzanine fund in partnership with Nomura, an alternative credit product, following a recent team hire, and US CLOs.
We are focused on managing our portfolio, with a particular focus on the small number ofweaker assets, to maximise value for our investors.
The continued availability of debt meansour investment teams will need to maintain their investment discipline in the competitive environment and we will continue to see a steady stream of realisations.
For the last 25 years we have built upon the vision of our four founders.
Whilst we are proud ofour accomplishments, the achievements of the last year mean that we are confident that we are building for another 25 years of success.
Justin doWley Chairman christophe evain Chief Executive Officer
