10 International Personal Finance plc OVERVIEW Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Record profit and strategy progress with our move into Spain and we It is our intention Our Strategy for Growth 2014 was a busy year for us at IPF.
A expect to commence trading during in coming years is as relevant today as it year in which we delivered record the second quarter of 2015.
Our drive that we will profit, achieved a major debt to improve customer engagement is have an was when we launched refinancing, launched new products evident in the number of new agent-led it almost three years ago and our first digital loans business.
products we launched during the offering and a and in the last twelve We dealt with multiple regulatory year: small business loans: new digital offering changes and made significant insurance products: and prepaid in most of our months we have made progress in building a new cards.
Our investment in new markets.
significant progress in technology platform to enable us to technology, funded by reducing provide the services our customers other costs so that we can maintain each of the core require in the years ahead.
We momentum on profitability, is now elements of the strategy.
established a team to open our beginning to be felt.
Our customer home credit business in Spain and websites are more user friendly and completed our acquisition of MCB internet-driven loans are up year-onFinance.
All of this was achieved year by 8%.
We have provided tablet within the context of increasing technology to 1,800 Development competition in our European markets Managers and the feedback is that and regulatory changes in Slovakia there is a significant increase in which resulted in  and job satisfaction.
expected growth, particularly as we A key pillar of the strategy is ensuring progress through the fourth quarter.
that we offer our customers more choice, in terms of the products they Our strategic direction unchanged want and the distribution channels Our Strategy for Growth is as relevant today as when we launched it almost three years ago and in the last twelve months we made significant progress in each of the Our profit in 2014 was a core elements of the strategy.
Our new record and we will geographic expansion continues continue to work the balance sheet harder for the benefit of our shareholders.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer Progress for growth Strategic Report 11 OUR STRATEGY through which they acquire them.
1 2 Our focus is to enable growth by changing our business from a largely EXPANDING OUR FOOTPRINT IMPROVING CUSTOMER single product, single distributionchannel organisation to a provider of ENGAGEMENT We intend to grow in our consumer finance via multiple products, brands and distribution existing markets and new We will provide new products channels.
To satisfy the requirements countries, both organically and more digital channels.
of customers who prefer to deal and through acquisitions.
online for their financial requirements, we launched our new digital business, hapiloans, in December.
The acquisition of MCB Finance 3 4 provides us with an experienced management team, a proven digital channel and two new brands.
We DEVELOPING A SALES CULTURE EFFECTIVE EXECUTION intend to develop our plans for the rollout of this business in the first half We will use marketing skills to We will invest in technology to of 2015. gain a better understanding provide a better service and Growth and competition of our customers.
We delivered a record full year profit of 123.5 million before tax and exceptional items with strong underlying profit growth of 25.4 million 21.5%.
We continued to increase customer numbers and credit issued but an increasingly competitive environment in our business, we introduced a prepaid exciting development which fits European markets resulted in card so that our loans were no well with our ambitions to appeal lower-than-expected growth, longer delivered in cash and we to broader segments of our target particularly as we progressed changed our customer services markets.
We will also continue to through the fourth quarter.
We have processes to comply with changes to work the balance sheet harder for put in place a number of actions to arrears collections.
This is just one the benefit of our shareholders.
reverse this recent slowdown and example of how our business needs expect to deliver higher levels of I would like to end my report by to adapt to ensure that we satisfy customer and credit issued growth in thanking Christopher for his regulators.
2015 by continuing to execute on the guidance, insights and support strategic initiatives launched in 2014.
Regulators are trying to minimise the during the three years that we have risk of consumer over-indebtedness worked together.
Under his Changing face of regulation and ensure that the customer has stewardship, IPF has developed into In financial services, effective sufficient information that can be a significantly larger and more regulation is an absolute necessity.
easily understood about the contract profitable, robust and diversified Regulators in our European markets into which they are agreeing to enter.
business, and for that he must take have become increasingly active, Our view is that this is a good thing a good deal of the credit.
conducting more reviews and See page 20 and we will continue to work closely for more on introducing new regulations to with regulators in each of our Regulation govern the provision of consumer markets to ensure that our customers finance.
This more interventionist can make informed choices that stance can, in many cases, be work for them.
attributed to the significant growth of Gerard Ryan payday lending and the negative Looking ahead Chief Executive Officer publicity this has generated.
The changes required to deliver our strategy continue to be implemented Sometimes it is the speed with which and we are committed to reversing the new rules are implemented that the recent slowdown in growth in the can cause an issue and at other final weeks of 2014.
The introduction times it is the new rule itself.
In the of new products, distribution space of five weeks, three new rules channels and brands will create new were introduced in Slovakia.
Despite opportunities and MCB Finance is an the upheaval this caused our
