Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Our strategy As we mark our 25th anniversary, Sky is performing strongly and our potential for future growth is as exciting as it has ever been.
We had a very good year in 2014 with more people choosing Sky and taking more of our products.
The business is delivering strong financial results and we enter the new year with good momentum.
Our growth opportunities Skys willingness to embrace that change and innovate is opening up exciting new opportunities and giving us more ways to grow.
We see an expanding opportunity to serve the market broadly through multiple channels and, for the first time, to provide Sky for Everyone, based on multiple platforms and services.
This opportunity for growth lies in three areas.
First and foremost, we see an opportunity to sell more products to more customers by meeting the significant demand that exists for our core TV and home communications products.
Notwithstanding the excellent progress that we have made over the last 25 years, 13 million households in Britain and Ireland have yet to pay for TV, and over 5 million of our customers have yet to switch their home communications service to Sky.
Our successful transition to a multi-product strategy has enabled us to sell more products to Jeremy Darroch more customers and with an average of three paid-for products Chief Executive per customer at the end of June 2014, there remains plenty more growth to go for.
Our performance in the last year demonstrates that consumers appetite to take more from Sky remains as strong We operate in an attractive and dynamic marketplace that is opening up as ever and this gives us an important platform from which to build.
a bigger and broader opportunity, one that we are uniquely positioned Second, we see significant additional potential for growth in new to take advantage of.
In todays connected world, home entertainment segments of the market that we are only just starting to address.
and communications are central to peoples lives and they are willing NOW TV, our over-the-top streaming service, gives us the chance to to commit an increasing proportion of their household spend on these unlock new pockets of demand in an emerging pay light sector and services.
In this environment, our strategy is to deliver market-leading extend our reach in Freeview homes many of whom are looking for content, innovation and customer service, while operating as a an easy and flexible way to enjoy a better TV experience.
Our NOW TV responsible business and making a positive impact on society.
Box offers a low-cost, low-commitment way for these households to We believe this approach will allow us to continue to grow and enjoy Skys content with a choice of movies, sport and entertainment create value for shareholders.
In addition, we continue to roll out NOW TV to more connected devices, taking advantage of the growth in video consumption over smartphones, tablets and games consoles.
Alongside this, we also have an opportunity to extend the Sky brand into the transactional market by accelerating the move from physical DVDs to digital.
This is a market worth an estimated 1.6 billion a year in the UK and while we have been growing our share of the rental part of this market well with Sky Store, the launch this spring of our Buy & Keep service lets us tap into the much larger purchase segment of the market.
We see strong potential for growth given our long-standing relationships with the major Studios and the strength of the Sky brand in home entertainment.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 07 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Our strategy continued Our strengths in content and innovation are only relevant because they matter to customers.
And it is because we combine them with a deep understanding of customer needs that we are able to bring together home entertainment and communications better than anyone else.
We have established direct, long-term relationships with 11.5 million households across Britain and Ireland.
These relationships mean we know what our customers want and enable us to stay focused on providing the services that best meet their needs.
The strength of our brand and the capability that we have developed means we can bring products to market swiftly and at scale.
And everything we do is supported by best-in-class customer service.
As the connected home becomes more established and consumers are faced with an increasing array of choices, service delivery has become a more important differentiator than ever before.
Skys expertise is a source of competitive advantage.
Sky Arts Portrait Artist of the Year, presented by Joan Bakewell and Frank Skinner.
The acquisition of Sky Italia and a 57.4% stake in Sky Deutschland will give us a platform to take the strengths we have developed in the Third, we are opening up new growth opportunities in our portfolio of UK and Ireland and apply them across a broader field of opportunity.
These are businesses where Sky often The enlarged business will have significantly expanded headroom for has a small share today in what are large and valuable addressable growth, bringing together best-in-class capabilities and experience markets.
This includes Sky Bet, our betting and gaming business, which from all three businesses to serve customers better, accelerate has delivered sustained double-digit growth in revenue and profit and innovation and grow faster.
yet still only has 6% of a 3 billion market.
We see another significant opportunity in targeted advertising with the launch this year of Sky How we do business AdSmart.
Combining the power, scale and immediacy of TV advertising Underpinning our strengths in content, innovation and customers with the segmentation and targeting of direct mail and regional is our desire to build a business that is durable for the long term.
advertising, Sky AdSmart opens up a 6 billion market that we have To achieve sustainable success, we know that how we do business been unable to reach until now.
is as important as what we do.
This is at the heart of our Believe in Taken together these represent a broad opportunity for growth Better ethos, a commitment to constant renewal and improvement through multiple services and routes to market.
Each of these areas in everything we do.
is additive and highly complementary: together, they offer a route Investment in our people is fundamental to the creation of a durable to building a bigger and more profitable business.
At Sky, we support training and development for all of our people and strive to create a culture where they can do their best Our strengths work and fulfil their potential.
Skys success in exploiting the growth opportunity that lies ahead We also understand that we need to be willing to look beyond the rests on our unique combination of strengths in three areas: content, delivery of short-term results to consider the impact that we have on innovation and customers.
These are areas in which Sky has developed the wider communities in which we live and work.
We call this seeing significant capabilities which are hard to replicate.
In content, we have made huge strides in recent years to increase As a successful company, we make a significant and growing economic the range and quality of the programmes we put on screen, right and social contribution to Britain and Ireland, supporting thousands across our channel portfolio.
We have developed our suite of of jobs and investing billions in the creative industries and sport.
entertainment channels, strengthened our relationships with the We are committed to behaving responsibly in all that we do and major movie studios and signed new rights deals in sport to expand our high ethical, social and environmental standards underpin the our offering.
In particular, this year we have increased our investment decisions that we take every day.
in original British programming with a focus on comedy and drama.
This is because we know that our ability to offer the best and broadest But we also know that we have the opportunity to use our position range of content for the whole household is a fundamental advantage as a leading media and communications company to reach beyond our in an environment where customers have more choices than ever before.
business to make a positive impact on society.
This is why we launched Sky Academy in November 2013, a unique set of initiatives that uses Skys ability to innovate across multiple technologies allows us to build the power of TV, creativity and sport to inspire young people and help on the strength of our content and take our business into new areas.
Bringing together established programmes Our focus in the last year has been accelerating the take-up and usage with a series of initiatives where were just getting going, we feel very of new connected TV services.
Connecting customers Sky HD boxes excited about how Sky Academy will be able to make a difference to to broadband opens up a whole range of new on demand services young peoples lives.
which allow customers to choose how, when and where they watch that content.
Services like NOW TV and Sky Store delivered over the internet enable us to extend our business into new areas, reaching customers that may not otherwise have taken Sky and opening up new revenue opportunities.
We have also grown our home communications business to become Britains second-biggest broadband provider.
08 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Our performance The success of our strategy is reflected in the strong performance of Revenue the business over the past year.
Against a challenging economic and competitive backdrop, we added 23% more products than the prior 7.6bn year and achieved the highest rate of customer growth for three years excluding the acquired O2 customers and product base.
Products Strong demand across the board translated to a 7% increase in 34.8m revenue excluding ESPN.
Combined with a continued focus on operating efficiency, this meant we ended a year of investment Customers with earnings per share flat year on year.
This is an excellent result in a period where we absorbed a one-off step up in Premier League 11.5m costs and invested to accelerate take-up of new connected services, and it reflects the strength of the underlying business.
In light of this performance, the Board has proposed a dividend of 32.0 pence, an increase of 7% on the prior year and the tenth consecutive year of growth.
Meanwhile, our investment to accelerate take-up and usage of our connected TV service delivered excellent results, increasing the value We continued to reap the benefits of our broadly-based approach we offer to customers and opening up new sources of revenue.
to growth as more people chose to come to Sky and take more of our Over the year, the total number of connected Sky HD boxes more products.
We added a total of 3.1 million new paid-for subscription than doubled to 5.7 million, equivalent to 57,000 new households products over the 12 months to take our total base of subscription being connected every week.
This means that more than 50% of TV products past 34 million.
At the same time, we added 342,000 new customers were connected at the end of June, making Sky Britains customers to reach 11.5 million, reflecting a continuing appetite to most popular connected TV platform.
switch services from other providers to Sky.
At the end of the year, 37% of our customers took all three of TV, broadband and telephony This explosive growth has transformed the viewing experience.
from Sky, extending our lead as Britains favourite triple-play provider.
On Demand downloads grew threefold over the year as customers responded to greater flexibility and choice.
Our expanded Box Sets service proved particularly popular with viewing to top titles like 24 and Game of Thrones up fourfold in Q4.
At the same time, the number of households registered for Sky Go, our mobile TV service, grew 19% to 5.5 million, helping push viewing figures to new highs.
We saw particularly strong growth in entertainment, with entertainment and movies accounting for two-thirds of all viewing to Sky Go at the end of the year.
Through all this, we continued to extend our lead in customer service.
Initiatives like bringing our entire engineer workforce in-house and the roll-out of our One Service operating model, where we join up different elements of the service experience more effectively, has helped deliver record levels of customer satisfaction.
As a result, Sky again earned the top ranking from Ofcom for quality of service by a provider of TV, Game of Thrones became the highest-rating show ever on Sky Atlantic.
broadband and home phone services.
We saw a particularly good performance in TV, adding twice as many Underpinning everything we achieved operationally was our continued new customers as last year.
This growth was underpinned by the work to reach beyond our business and make a positive impact on the quality and range of content we offer the whole family.
This is our wider community.
We launched Sky Academy in November and were biggest year in entertainment yet as we target a spend of 600 million delighted that over 105,000 young people took part in a Sky Academy by the end of 2014 on original British programmes.
Highlights from initiative during the year.
the past 12 months included Anglo-French crime drama The Tunnel, Of course, none of what we do would be possible without the dedication a co-production with Canal Plus, and Penny Dreadful, a psychological and hard work of our people.
They are vital to our success and I would thriller produced by Oscar winner Sam Mendes.
like to thank each and every one of them for their contribution in the We also strengthened our relationship with some of the worlds last 12 months.
leading content producers, signing major new partnerships with With their continued support, the outlook for the business is very ITV and HBO and renewing a multi-year movies agreement with positive.
Our strategy is delivering and there is a broad and growing Paramount, thereby increasing our range of exclusive content.
market opportunity that Sky, with our unique combination of Meanwhile, Sky Sports enjoyed its highest share of viewing for seven strengths, is best placed to take advantage of.
Our track record years with the best-ever Premier League season in terms of audiences, of success in Britain and Ireland is the starting point as we expand while at the same time strengthening its offering for the future with into Europe.
The opportunity is substantial and this is good news 30 new sports rights agreements.
for our people, good for customers and good for our shareholders.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 09
