12 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review As planned we have closed two factories in GB, a depot and a call centre in Ireland, and consolidated back office functions in GB and Ireland.
Where possible we have found new roles for those employees willing to relocate and supported those leaving the business in finding alternative employment.
I would like to personally thank all affected employees for their commitment and support during this time of change.
During the year we also set up an international business unit to support our ambitious growth plans in the kids, family and adult categories.
It now operates as a fully resourced, standalone business unit, with over one hundred employees, and is focused on providing the necessary support to our in-market partners to develop our brands locally, as well as market specific innovation and the creation of relevant marketing campaigns.
We have come a long way in the last twelve months and have successfully managed our way through a period of organisational change.
We have made strong progress this year despite challenging trading conditions in each of our markets.
Revenue and margins have increased and profits are well ahead of last year.
We are on-track to deliver the 30m cost saving programme by 2016.
The overwhelming majority will have been delivered in the 2014 15 financial year.
Our We have reported another strong focus on generating cash has allowed us to reduce net debt and increase the full year dividend by 13.6%.
set of results for our financial year ended 28 September 2014 Leverage our portfolio in GB & and have made excellent progress Ireland and innovate to meet in delivering our strategic changing consumer needs initiatives.
I am incredibly proud In GB our carbonates portfolio has continued to outperform the market.
We successfully grew volumes whilst the category was in of our company and its portfolio decline and increased market share.
Pepsi has been the key driver of of leading brands and it is a this growth, led by Pepsi Max and its no sugar, maximum taste proposition.
Throughout the year we have executed a number of privilege to lead an organisation exciting and impactful marketing campaigns, including the Unbelievable campaign, which saw extensive, ground-breaking advertising for the with such a passionate and brand across the country and on-line.
The Pepsi Max YouTube talented team.
channel was a focal point for our digital marketing and we achieved over 50 million views across all platforms.
Throughout the summer Our aspirational vision is to be the most dynamic, creative and Pepsi leveraged its connection with key football personalities with admired soft drinks company in the world and we have made great limited edition packs on-shelf and the chance to win some great progress in the last twelve months, in what were challenging market prizes.
We also launched an exciting new dispense proposition for conditions.
the leisure channel, allowing consumers to personalise their soft drink experience, with added flavours.
Embed a winning culture and The GB stills category has been challenged with only minor volume growth, driven by plain water, which is not a scale category for us.
improve operating margin Growth in our stills portfolio is crucial to our future success and is a This has been a year of exceptional change as we continued to priority for us.
Whilst our overall performance has been below what implement our new strategy.
We completed the re-design of our we wanted to achieve this year, there have been positive highlights.
organisation, matching our resource to the growth opportunities and Robinsons continued to lead the squash category, and although we created a business that is simple, focused and accountable.
We have have seen increased competition from private-label which impacted a new Executive Team in place, which includes all our business unit our volume, our focus has been to protect price and maintain our Managing Directors for the first time.
As an Executive Team we have brand equity.
We have continued to invest in the brand, as created and shared an exciting new vision for our business and set demonstrated by the launch of Robinsons Squashd, which has some ambitious targets for ourselves.
We have also created a new led the growth of the new water enhancer sub-category.
The launch set of values to guide our behaviours and facilitate effective was supported by an extensive marketing campaign, including TV engagement and ways of working across the business.
advertising, and we have been delighted with its performance to date.
Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued 13 Fruit Shoot performed well, gaining value and volume share in the Build trust and respect in our market.
During the year, we stopped selling the full sugar version of Fruit Shoot, as part of our commitment to address public health communities issues, and we continued to encourage children to get active with The past year has seen a surge of interest in health and sugar levels our skills campaign.
Lipton Ice Tea drove growth in the emerging in soft drinks.
We strongly believe that all our drinks can be enjoyed cold hot drinks category, which grew its market value by over 40%, as part of a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle.
We offer a wide range over the year.
As consumers continued to focus on value, both when of low calorie drinks and lead our marketing with these drinks.
We shopping for home and on nights out, the premium juice drinks have continued to play an active role to help address the challenge category has been challenged.
J 0, which is a premium priced 2 and in the last year we have launched a new health strategy across all brand, has seen some share decline, as a result of this trend.
business units, which will build on our achievements to date and In Ireland, we have a branded soft drinks business and a licensed continue to provide great tasting drinks, while further reducing the wholesale operation, called Counterpoint.
The soft drinks market was average calorie content of our portfolio.
down, both in volume and value and we did lose some market share.
Read more about our health strategy and our approach to sustainability on page 22.
The carbonates category in particular was very competitive and saw a significant amount of price-led promotions.
A highlight of our Our future prospects are very exciting.
We have transformed our innovation programme in Ireland this year was the introduction of a business and created the conditions for success with a new culture.
new Club Zero range with no added sugar, which is proving popular We have a clear purpose and aspirational vision.
In November, we launched Counterpoint as a challenging market place everyone in the business is focused on the standalone licensed wholesaler to supply the pub and club trade delivery of our strategy.
We continue to invest and have the plans in across both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Since its place to ensure we can continue to grow the business and create launch it has added new categories, such as snacks and wine to value for all of our stakeholders.
its range, allowing it to compete far more effectively.
Exploit global opportunities in kids, family and adult categies Simon Litherland The international business has continued to grow and we are seeing Chief Executive Officer the benefits of our investment in the establishment of a standalone business unit.
In the USA we have made great progress with Fruit Shoot achieving national distribution in the convenience and leisure channels.
We signed a 15 year franchise for Fruit Shoot with PepsiCo who started to manufacture Fruit Shoot in the USA.
Having signed an agreement with the Narang Group in May 2013, we launched Fruit Shoot in India in the summer.
Narang is a well-established sales and marketing business who distribute a range of leading brands across India.
With a dedicated production line in market we launched four flavours that were developed specifically for the Indian consumer.
Distribution was achieved in the ten major cities that we targeted and a consumer awareness campaign was launched in time for the Diwali festival, including TV advertising.
In France, Fruit Shoot continued to grow, with the brand establishing itself as the number one in the childrens juice drinks category.
We also transferred a production line from GB to France to supply Fruit Shoot both to the French market and into Spain.
We continued to invest in Teisseire, the number one syrups brand in France.
This year we extended the pack range with the introduction of the PET pump pack to drive greater usage of syrups.
The early signs are very good as it brings new households into the brand.
14 14 Strategic report making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable a night out with friends
