Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2014 will come to be seen as a pivotal year for JLT in terms of the actions and decisions taken to shape our long term growth prospects.
Dominic Burke JLT Specialty also delivered strong organic Our Employee Benefits businesses in Latin KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS revenue growth of 6% in challenging market America also saw strong growth in revenues In 2014, the Group achieved total revenues and competitive conditions.
of 12% following the acquisition of SCK early of 1,104.1 million, an increase of 13% over in 2014.
This expanded our offering into Our new US Specialty business produced a the previous year, or 18% at constant rates broader risk management and wellness trading loss of 5.2 million in the period, as of exchange CRE.
This included organic consulting services in Brazil.
the acceleration of our hiring plans led us to revenue growth of 6% and demonstrates the bring forward some expenditure into 2014, In Australia and New Zealand our Employee continued organic growth momentum of the partially offset by revenues.
Benefits business delivered growth in business.
This is all the more noteworthy revenues of 1%, or 13% at CRE, as its when set against the marked decline in both Our global Employee Benefits operations strategy of offering an integrated people the insurance and reinsurance rating delivered an 11% increase in revenues to risk service secured a high level of new environment during the year.
increase at CRE, or 7% on an organic basis.
Our global Risk & Insurance businesses Trading profit rose by 17%, or 19% at CRE, Earlier this month we announced the achieved revenue growth of 13% to 820.5 to 65.0 million.
It is worth noting that our acquisition of Recovre, one of the leading million.
This represented 19% growth at CRE Employee Benefits businesses comprise providers of workplace rehabilitation services or 5% on an organic basis.
Trading profit some 26% of Group revenues and 33% of in the Australian market.
This acquisition rose by 3%, or 10% at CRE, with the trading Group trading profit.
greatly enhances our scale and ability to margin reducing to 19%, from 21%.
This is deliver workplace rehabilitation services on largely due to the investments we continue Our UK & Ireland Employee Benefits behalf of corporate clients and insurers.
It to make in the business, in particular operation delivered a 6% increase in total positions JLT as one of the clear market establishing a new Specialty operation in the revenues to 183.2 million.
Our market leaders in this rapidly expanding sector in US, and the adverse impact of foreign position was further strengthened by the Australia.
exchange movements during the year.
acquisition of Ensign Pensions Administration Excluding these factors, our underlying in April 2014 and JLT is now the largest Details of the performance of each individual trading profit rose by 13%.
administrator of private sector pensions in business area are set out in the Review of the UK.
This result included particularly strong performances from our Latin American and Our Asia Employee Benefits operations had A PIVOTAL YEAR Asian businesses which grew revenues a very strong year, growing revenues by 25% organically by 22% and 9% respectively as to 69.3 million, or 28% on an organic basis.
I believe that in many ways, 2014 will come the benefits from our Specialty focus and the This growth was driven by our market to be seen as a pivotal year for JLT in terms investments made in people in previous leading life insurance broking business which of the actions and decisions taken to shape years continued to come through.
JLT Re provides solutions to high-net-worth clients, our long term growth prospects.
also performed strongly in our first full year of as well as by growing demand for healthcare ownership of Towers Watson Re, delivering related products and services.
Our 2015 organic revenue growth of 7% and showing acquisition of Essential Health provides an how well positioned it is to continue to win attractive platform to take advantage of market share.
15 Read more on page 32 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We have been equally encouraged by the Creating a dynamic new force in the Establishing a Specialty insurance early indications of traction with clients.
They global reinsurance market brokerage in the US also see the benefit of greater choice and Firstly, it marked strong progress in the Thirdly, our decision to enter the US as a the competitive advantage that our people integration of JLT Re and Towers Watson Specialty insurance broker in late August can bring to their businesses through our Re.
While our integration efforts will continue 2014 reflected the strength of JLTs brand, Specialty-led approach.
This bodes well for during 2015, particularly in the US, the early reputation, scale, geographic reach and our long term growth potential.
signs are very encouraging as the strategic Specialty capabilities.
This gave us a unique The scale of the opportunity and my vision we had for this business continues to opportunity to create a dynamic platform for confidence in the teams ability to deliver it take shape.
long term growth in the world's largest grows every day.
We are committed to insurance market.
JLT Re is now firmly established as a true investing over the next few years to build out alternative to the existing global reinsurance It also reflected the significant and growing our US operations and deliver on our plans.
brokers in a market that has been demand from clients and leading industry demanding greater choice.
Cedants are talent for JLT to challenge the position of the supportive, as illustrated by the good other global brokers in the US and to deliver performance of the business through the our unique proposition on a global scale.
The DELIVERING CONTINUED Importantly, what we are doing in the US will new business pipeline is strong and growing.
GROWTH MOMENTUM help create a platform for growth for all of Staff and client retention is excellent and our our businesses around the world, given the A number of other factors will also help to analytics capability is now one of the best in importance of the US to many of their drive our growth momentum.
Furthermore, the business is clients.
This move is also having a positive investing in improving its operating model, We are seeking to make further bolt-on impact on our brand and reputation with systems and processes.
acquisitions where we see an opportunity to clients, markets and prospective hires strengthen and deepen our areas of I am therefore confident that JLT Re is well around the world.
Specialisation, particularly in the faster positioned for growth and believe that it is As disclosed in August 2014, our US growing economies of the world.
capable of moving from a 15% trading profit expansion plan is expected to result in a net margin to 20% by the end of 2016.
We are also strengthening our teams in our investment of approximately $80 million core and growing areas of Specialty around during the period 2015 to 2017, before Read more on page 30 the world.
We have, for example, assembled moving into profit in 2018 and then in the US and London what we believe is generating an accelerated return thereafter.
Creating a Specialty powerhouse one of the strongest Cyber teams in the In 2015, we anticipate that the business will through the merger of JLT Specialty market, an area of increasing importance to generate revenues in the region of $50 our clients and one with significant growth and Lloyd & Partners million and a trading loss of $35 million potential.
Secondly, we took the decision to merge including revenues and profits transferred JLT Specialty and Lloyd & Partners.
This has We continue to see a lot of opportunity in from other parts of the Group.
This will created an enlarged business of far greater Asia and Latin America, including India and reduce the Groups trading margin by 200 capability, depth and geographic reach, with Argentina where we invested in 2014.
Our basis points in 2015. a greatly enhanced potential for growth.
Specialties are deliberately aligned to Clearly, it is still early days, but I am very industries that are exposed to long term The Specialty teams of each business have encouraged by the momentum we have trends such as urbanisation and population been brought into a single, dynamic established over the last six months.
operation staffed by many of the best people We now employ over 100 people in 7 in the industry.
Together they have greater We are investing in our Employee Benefits offices, including 24 people who transferred scale and international reach, an increasingly operations, which now have real scale and from other parts of JLT.
This is materially important factor for both clients and momentum and are making a substantial ahead of our plans.
contribution to the Groups revenues and We have been enormously impressed by the With the full strategic and operational profits.
We see significant further opportunity quality of the people who have joined us in benefits of the merger yet to come here as demand for our services continues terms of their deep expertise, determination through and a strong underlying new to grow in response to fundamental to succeed and cultural fit.
We have also business pipeline, I believe that the merged demographic and macro-economic trends been very pleased by the response from business is now better positioned for future and as we build out further value-added insurers and reinsurers who have gone out growth in both its Retail and Wholesale services to complement our core offerings.
of their way to support us.
They see the long operations.
term benefits of greater choice and an offering based on specialisation and not Read more on page 29 commoditisation.
16 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 We are further strengthening our service OUTLOOK platform, which we see as an increasingly The headwind created by the rating important differentiator.
In a recent environment provides a challenging trading independent client survey by Strategic Risk outlook.
However, I believe that our longer Magazine of service delivery across all of our term prospects are driven more by main competitors, for example, we came top fundamental macro-economic and overall, showing the benefits of the demographic factors, which overall appear investments we have made in people, relatively positive for 2015 versus last year, systems and processes over recent years.
as well as by the growth strategies we are We continue to strengthen our unique pursuing and the inherent strength of the culture, because it is through our culture that business.
we have been able to retain and attract some Factors such as the falling oil price and the of the best people in the market to join us political situation in Europe are contributing to and therefore ultimately win clients, seize a degree of uncertainty and volatility.
However, despite a challenging insurance RATING ENVIRONMENT rating environment, we are confident in JLTs revenue growth momentum and in our Since the beginning of the second quarter of strategy of continuing to invest to deliver 2014 we have experienced a marked sustainable long term earnings growth.
acceleration in price reductions in both the reinsurance and insurance markets.
This has been driven by an extremely benign loss environment, changes in reinsurance buying habits, with more centralised buying and greater levels of risk retention and the rapid influx of convergence capital from nontraditional providers, such as Private Equity and Pension Funds, as a cheaper alternative to traditional reinsurance providers.
Dominic Burke Our performance in 2014 is all the more Chief Executive pleasing when set against this backdrop.
10th March 2015 It demonstrates how well our differentiated proposition continues to resonate with both clients and markets alike and is allowing us to win market share.
Looking forward to 2015, absent a major catastrophe event or events, it is hard to see insurance or reinsurance rates firming in the immediate future.
Indeed, the recent January 2015 reinsurance renewal season saw further price reductions in the Property Catastrophe market of between 10% and 15%, coupled with significant declines on practically all other lines of business.
This said, it is worth noting that the pricing of Specialty lines, where we have a greater focus, is holding up significantly better.
It is also the case that our own reinsurance book of business is not as heavily weighted towards Property Catastrophe lines as some of our larger competitors.
