A leader in Interventional Medicine Chief Executives review Through the growth of our Bead products, the acquisitions of TheraSphere and The acquisitions of TheraSphere EKOS Corporation and the US approval of Varithena, BTG has become a leader and EKOS Corporation and the US in Interventional Medicine.
We have built our portfolio with innovative approval of Varithena give us products that target under-served patient populations and that are valued by a leading position in the growing clinicians and payers based on their clinical profiles.
We believe that this interventional medicine space.
focus on unmet medical need, innovation and investment to demonstrate clinical Together with the financial benefit is the right strategy in a changing healthcare environment and will underpin from our Specialty enable us to build a sustainable competitive advantage.
Pharmaceuticals and Licensing Our goal is to increase our Interventional Medicine revenues from approximately businesses and strong internal $150m on an annualised basis at present to $1bn by our 2020 21 financial year.
capabilities, we have the This is based on increasing sales of our oncology products from approximately platform and resources to $110m annualised last year to $300m to $400m: growing revenues from the EKOS deliver sustained growth.
family of blood clot treatment products from approximately $40m annualised to $100m to $200m: and building Varithena into a $500m franchise.
These growth targets are underpinned by activities that are already underway relating to product innovation, which has created a pipeline of new products in development, commercial activities to expand their geographical availability and development activities intended to expand the approved uses of the products.
We are building a strong reputation among leading specialist physicians for both the quality of our products and our commitment to innovation and clinical development.
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer 08 Organic growth and acquisitions Use of the EkoSonic blood clot treatment Responding to challenges The US approval of Varithena in late products is continuing to grow in the Our Brachytherapy plant in the US received November 2013 was a significant US driven by greater awareness of an FDA warning letter relating to certain achievement for the Company and the potential benefits of interventional deficiencies in production.
As a precaution, represents an opportunity for significant treatment over standard anticoagulation we voluntarily suspended manufacture value creation.
Our US sales force now calls on and shipment of the Brachytherapy seed 600 US hospitals, and we are expanding products while planning and conducting It is a patient-centred treatment and our sales efforts in selected other remedial measures.
As a non-core the first product to be approved based geographies including the EU.
business, we had already been reviewing on randomised data showing clinically strategic options and, prior to seeking meaningful improvements in both Based on positive clinical data from to resume manufacture and shipments, the symptoms and appearance of studies exploring the use of EkoSonic we sold the business.
in treating patients with pulmonary embolism, we have now received 510k We have had several other regulatory To realise its full potential we are following clearance to expand use into this patient manufacturing inspections during the a controlled launch strategy in the US.
We are also studying year, some of which resulted in This is designed to ensure optimum the use of our product for treating patients observations that required remedial clinician and patient experience from the with chronic deep vein thrombosis the actions.
There were no other interruptions start.
As a comprehensive treatment that ACCESS clinical study.
Post-audit remedial may be used in place of two or more actions are a common requirement in existing procedures, Varithena Within interventional oncology, we have our industry, and we continually strive represents a versatile and minimally combined and expanded the US sales forces to improve our operations through ongoing invasive experience for physicians and for TheraSphere and the Bead products, investment in improving our facilities, patients.
We aim to equip vein clinicians significantly increasing the number of processes and quality systems.
with the clinical training and market hospitals detailed with TheraSphere and access support to fully integrate expanding coverage for the Bead products Our values and our people Varithena into their practices.
We are also Our Company values, which are described expanding our commercial presence in other on page 22 are designed to foster a culture Our first market is the US reimbursed geographies.
In Europe we are building small that embraces innovation, teamwork sector for great saphenous vein GSV direct sales forces in the five major markets, and always doing the right thing for the incompetence.
Here, approximately initially to focus on TheraSphere and to a business and its stakeholders.
They are 750,000 procedures are conducted more limited extent EkoSonic.
In Asia, we at the core of how we operate and are annually by approximately 1,000 vein are creating a regional hub in Hong Kong to embedded into our recruitment and specialists.
We completed recruitment of a serve as a local centre of excellence for performance management processes.
US sales force of 24 representatives in regulatory and medical affairs, supporting This approach has served us well during February 2014 and commenced physician direct sales operations we are finalising our the Companys transition from a business outreach in March, focusing initially on plan of direct sales in Taiwan or distributors.
of around 50 people to one with over well-established vein clinicians.
Clinicians 860 employees and has also helped us to are required to complete online training and DC Bead is already approved in a number integrate the businesses we have acquired.
will be supported by a BTG medic during the of Asian markets including Japan, South first patient procedures.
We expect that Korea and Taiwan and is under review in By living our values, we are able to recruit commercial patient treatments will China, although it is likely that we will need and retain the right people and ensure commence in the US in Q3 2014. to supplement the data package to gain that we operate to consistently high marketing approval.
We are developing a standards internally and in all interactions Our second market in the US is a self-pay regulatory strategy for TheraSphere in with our stakeholders.
market for patients whose varicose veins Asian markets including China.
Although are moderate to severe but who are Outlook already approved under a Humanitarian ineligible for reimbursed treatment.
After another year of significant progress Device Exemption HDE, we are also We believe that these patients may be we are in a strong position to continue accelerating the three Phase 3 trials of more motivated to pay for treatment to implement our growth plans.
These TheraSphere, two of which are intended to themselves with the introduction of a include continuing the commercial gain full pre-market approvals PMAs in the more patient-centred option.
roll-out of Varithena and accelerating US for treating patients with unresectable the Phase 3 trials intended to expand hepatocellular carcinoma HCC and as a We are also finalising plans to seek the uses and geographic availability of second-line treatment for patients with approval to extend use of Varithena the Bead products, TheraSphere and metastatic tumours in the liver resulting into treatment of aesthetic leg veins.
In parallel we will from colorectal cancer mCRC.
Treatment of these smaller veins may continue to seek opportunities to expand not be reimbursed in the US therefore Our Innovation team is working on a our portfolio.
We are confident that this this is likely to be predominantly a number of pipeline projects including an strategy will enable us to continue to build self-pay market.
imageable Bead product for identifying a significant business and long-term value potential areas of under-treatment and for our customers, patients, shareholders In addition, we intend to seek approval for a bioresorbable Bead product for use and employees.
Varithena in other geographic markets.
in non-malignant tumours such as Multiple growth opportunities exist for uterine fibroids.
Louise Makin our other interventional products.
Chief Executive Officer Key events and achievements 2013 14 1 Acquisition of TheraSphere, July 2013 Acquisition of EKOS Corporation, July 2013 2 US approval of Varithena, November 2013 3 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Strategic report
