CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Focused mutual fund provider with attractive growth prospects In 2014, we made substantial progress in executing our strategy of growing our core mutual fund franchise.
This was achieved through deliberate diversification by product, client type and geography.
Following the successful sale of our private client contracts to Rathbones, Jupiter is a more focused mutual fund manager, with a range of attractive growth prospects.
By diversifying our capabilities in terms of product, client type and geography, we are building an increasingly resilient business which will offer growth opportunities across a broader range of market conditions.
Our business model is focused on organic growth on a scalable platform.
During the year, as a part of our continued commitment to investing in the platform, we completed a multi-year IT virtualisation project, identified and signed terms on a new London office, continued our international build-out by adding Austria, Spain and the Nordic region to our distribution coverage, launched new global brand images and shaped our London organisation to match our growth ambitions.
We maintained EBITDA margins above 50 per cent.
and delivered five per cent.
growth in underlying EPS to 26.4p.
We have a high rate of operating profit to cash conversion, and completing our deleverage process has allowed us to demonstrate how all our stakeholders will share in the prospective rewards of Jupiters success.
In 2014, this has resulted in total dividends doubling to 24.7p.
Review of the year Delivering investment outperformance after fees is central to our strategy.
The crucial time period over which we and our clients measure performance is three We have made years.
of mutual fund AUM and 97 per cent.
of encouraging progress segregated mandate and investment trust AUM was above median over a three-year period.
headline figure masks very strong in diversifying and performance across our single strategy mutual fund range, where over two-thirds growing our core of the relevant AUM was above median.
In addition, following a difficult 2013, the Merlin fund of fund range of products showed a return to form in the latter half of mutual fund franchise.
Positive investment Jupiter has a strong product range.
We continually seek ways to improve our performance, healthy existing investment strategies and to add new opportunities.
Our product development is focused on areas we believe have the most attractive long-term organic inflows and an growth prospects, and especially those in which our managers have the ability to efficient operating deliver meaningful outperformance and meet our clients desired outcomes.
To that end, we made a number of significant hires during the year, extending our platform have ensured investment capabilities in both global emerging markets equities and global equities.
These investments in talent will enable us to deliver enhanced propositions for the continued creation institutional and retail investors in both the UK and international markets.
We are of value for our clients equally pleased to report that the internal fund management appointments made in 2013 have proved successful, with the relevant funds delivering good and shareholders.
Maarten Slendebroek Over the past three years, we have carefully and deliberately extended our Chief Executive Officer distribution reach across continental Europe and Asia.
We have chosen to expand into markets where our existing global clients have a material presence.
This strategy has seen us increase the number of staff outside the UK from seven to 20 since the start of 2013.
We have reorganised our sales and marketing structure to support this expansion, and introduced local language materials, new brand images and a client service proposition differentiated by client type and size.
This growing distribution network has delivered another healthy year of organic flow growth for Jupiter, with net inflows of 1.4bn across our mutual fund range.
This was a very good outcome, given conditions in Jupiters chosen markets during 2014. International flows were particularly pleasing, lifting SICAV AUM by more than 40 per cent.
Net new business flows were increasingly diversified in terms of product, with strong contributions from our fast-growing fixed income strategies and the top-performing UK and European equity funds.
Behind the scenes, we also made considerable progress enhancing our operational and support capabilities.
This process was helped by the simplification of our 5 business following the sale of the private client contracts.
Highlights include the Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued transfer of our SICAV administration to JP Morgan, the closure of a number of unprofitable funds, completing the virtualisation of our IT infrastructure, and the introduction of a new communication system.
These investments increase Jupiters operational abilities and future scalability, support our increasingly international business and facilitate the move to our new London office at the end of the current year.
My thanks to our people Jupiter is a business based on people and, as a part of our high performance culture, we are continually looking to broaden and develop our talent base across our investment, distribution and support functions.
In 2014, the sheer volume of the change projects and growth initiatives demanded an enormous effort from my colleagues across Jupiter.
In particular, the sale of the private client contracts triggered a period of relentless work outside of the normal business hours both for those who left the firm and for those who stayed at Jupiter.
Our people are critical to our success.
Their efforts, willingness to change and the results achieved have far exceeded my expectations.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their contribution to the successful execution of our plans in 2014.
Looking forward Over the past two years, we have restructured and broadened our distribution efforts, strengthened our investment teams, simplified our operating model and diversified our growth prospects.
These are significant steps along the road of delivering our strategy.
We have achieved healthy profit growth and operating cash flows across this period which, combined with our sustainable balance sheet, have enabled us to nearly treble shareholder dividends since 2012.
We believe that investment performance after fees will never go out of fashion, and that our chosen savings markets offer the prospect of significant long-term growth.
As we extend our relationships with key distributors on a global basis and deliver the performance our clients are looking for, we are confident that we can continue to deliver profitable growth at attractive margins.
This, together with our sustainable balance sheet structure, should enable us to share the rewards of this growth with our stakeholders.
Maarten Slendebroek Chief Executive Officer 25 February 2015 6 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OUR AIM AND BUSINESS DRIVERS Benefiting from powerful long-term trends Our aim Our strategic objectives Jupiters aim is to create value through long-term outperformance.
Deliver investment outperformance after fees to our clients We create value for clients by achieving above-market returns through investment outperformance after fees.
This helps us to 1 grow our assets under management, by ensuring we keep existing clients and attract new clients.
The growth in the assets we manage leads to increased revenues and profits.
This in turn Sell this expertise through products allows us to reward our employees and add value for suited to our distribution strengths shareholders, through dividends and capital appreciation.
2 Our business drivers We help our clients achieve their long-term savings objectives.
These objectives differ by client, but there is an ongoing need for Maintain efficient operations individuals in all parts of the world to provide for their own retirement and, particularly in emerging economies, to find a through a scalable platform home for growing wealth.
These are powerful trends which have 3 grown over recent years.
Populations around the world are both increasing and ageing.
In Deliver attractive returns to the UK, for example, the population is expected to reach 77m by 2050, up 12m from 2014.
Over the same period, the dependency shareholders ratio will increase from 55 to 72.
Similar trends are apparent in Asia.
In China, for example, more than one quarter of the 4 population will be over 65 by 2050, slightly ahead of the UK.
In the past, many individuals have relied on governments or employers to provide their pensions.
However, both are increasingly stepping back from pension provision, deterred by escalating costs and the impact on their balance sheets.
This is putting the onus on people to save for retirement themselves, increasing the use of defined contribution pension schemes controlled by the individual.
Governments still have an important role to play, through regulation and by encouraging people to invest for the long-term through supportive tax regimes.
In addition to ageing populations, emerging economies are seeing rising wealth.
The wealth of high net worth individuals in Asia has already overtaken that of Europe and is close to US levels.
This is increasing the demand for savings products.
There are also shifts in the types of products people are demanding.
At a general level, there is a move from traditional insurance products towards transparent products such as mutual funds.
Within the mutual fund category, there have been sizeable outflows from traditional long-only single geography equity and fixed income funds, and significant inflows into high performance outcome-orientated active strategies of the type Jupiter offers, as well as exchange traded and index funds.
The chart below shows these shifts in the UK market using data from 2012 through to the latest 2014 data.
Similar trends are apparent in other markets, such as the US.
Industry net ows in UK mutual funds from 2012 to 2014 Outcome-orientated 69.27bn active strategies Traditional style box 32.65bn mutual funds ETF index funds 17.33bn 7 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
