CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OPERATING PERFORMANCE Sustainable business practice is emphasised through our ongoing 2014 has proved to be another successful year for the Group due to a Corporate Responsibility CR programmes.
During the year we combination of good organic growth and the impact from acquisitions undertook a detailed employee survey and were pleased that over made in 2013 as well as those businesses purchased during the year.
70% of our employees responded and that 93% of respondents enjoy working for Bunzl.
Our continued focus on operational excellence The overall negative translation effect of currency movements has allows us to reduce our environmental impact by consolidating our significantly decreased the reported Group growth rates of both warehouse footprint and, where necessary, introducing more revenue and profit.
As in previous years, the operations, including sustainable practices to the businesses we acquire.
the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the distorting impact of these currency movements.
ACQUISITIONS Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange Acquisitions are a key component of the Groups growth strategy.
rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2013 at the Our committed spend in 2014 was 211 million as we made 17 average rates used for 2014.
Unless otherwise stated, all references transactions in total, including Tillman which we agreed to acquire in this review to operating profit are to adjusted operating profit in December 2014 and completed at the beginning of January 2015. being operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
At the end of January 2014 we acquired Bumer and its related company Protemo in Germany.
The businesses had aggregated Revenue increased 7% 1% at actual exchange rates to 6,156.5 revenue of 10 million in 2014 and represent our first step into the million and operating profit was 429.8 million, an increase of 10% cleaning and hygiene and healthcare sectors in Germany.
Oskar 4% at actual exchange rates.
The percentage growth in operating Plast, which sells a variety of disposable packaging products to profit was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in customers throughout the Czech Republic, including retail food Group operating margin by 20 basis points to 7.0% as a result of chains, food processors and other distributors, was acquired in increases in the operating margin in Continental Europe, UK & February and has expanded our operations in the Czech Republic.
Ireland and Rest of the World.
In North America revenue rose 5% down 1% at actual exchange In March we completed four acquisitions.
Lamedid, a business rates due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of principally engaged in the supply and distribution throughout Brazil acquisitions completed in both 2013 and 2014, while operating profit of own label medical and healthcare consumable products to also increased 5% down 1% at actual exchange rates.
Revenue in hospitals, clinics and laboratories as well as to distributors, had Continental Europe rose 5% unchanged at actual exchange rates revenue in 2014 of 13 million.
It has significantly increased the size as a result of improved organic revenue growth and the impact of of our healthcare business in Brazil, the Group having entered the acquisitions, with operating profit up 12% 6% at actual exchange healthcare sector there with the acquisition of Labor Import in 2013. rates as margins improved by 60 basis points to 9.0%.
In UK & Although relatively small, the purchase of Nelson Packaging, a Ireland revenue was up 6% 6% at actual exchange rates due to the business principally engaged in the distribution of packaging and impact of strong organic growth and acquisitions, but operating profit cleaning and hygiene supplies to end users in the commercial and rose 12% at both constant and actual exchange rates as margins industrial market sectors, has provided additional scale to our improved by a further 40 basis points during the year to 7.4%.
In Rest business in New Zealand.
Plast of the World revenue increased 21% 6% at actual exchange rates Techs, which is engaged in the sale of a variety of foodservice and and operating profit was up 24% 8% at actual exchange rates, cleaning and hygiene supplies to distributors throughout Southern principally due to strong organic revenue growth and the substantial California and had revenue of 14 million in 2014, complements our impact of acquisitions in Latin America.
existing business in the region and has provided access to additional product lines.
The purchase of Tecno Boga represents a significant Basic earnings per share were 8% higher 2% at actual exchange expansion of our operations in Chile, being a country that we entered rates at 64.5p.
Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the with the acquisition of Vicsa Safety at the end of 2012.
The business effect of intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs, were is a leading supplier of own label protective footwear, principally to 86.2p, an increase of 11% 5% at actual exchange rates.
The return distributors, and had revenue of 23 million in 2014. on average operating capital increased from 56.9% to 57.7% and return on invested capital was 17.6%, a slight decrease from 2013 Allshoes, a distributor of both branded and own brand safety and as improved returns in the underlying business were offset by work shoes to a variety of wholesalers as well as to retailers, the adverse impact of recent acquisitions and exchange rates.
principally in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, was acquired in May.
It represents an important development for our safety business Our operating cash flow continued to be strong with the ratio of in the Netherlands as it extends our product range in the safety operating cash flow before acquisition related costs to operating shoes sector and provides cross-selling opportunities with Majestic, profit at 95%.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio increased marginally our existing personal protection equipment business in the Benelux to 1.9 times compared to 1.8 times as at the previous year end.
region which specialises in the supply of gloves and workwear.
18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Revenue in 2014 was 18 million.
Also in May we acquired JPLUS, from acquisitions made in 2014.
Although Rest of the World is likely a Brazilian business with revenue of 12 million in 2014 principally to experience more difficult trading conditions due to exchange rate engaged in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene supplies and volatility and the slowdown in the resource sectors, it should disposable products to a variety of end user customers, particularly continue to grow.
in the contract cleaning and healthcare sectors.
This acquisition expands the geographical coverage of our cleaning and hygiene The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains promising.
Discussions supplies business in Brazil.
are ongoing with various targets and we expect to complete further transactions as the year progresses.
365 Healthcare, which had revenue of 12 million in 2014, was acquired at the end of June.
The business is engaged in the The Board is confident that Bunzls well positioned businesses will distribution of own brand healthcare products to a variety of develop further and that the prospects for the Group are positive.
customers in the UK and Ireland and has expanded our product offering of medical consumables to the healthcare sector.
At the Michael Roney end of July we purchased Premiere Products, a cleaning and hygiene Chief Executive supplies distributor in the UK principally servicing customers in 23 February 2015 the facilities management and education sectors.
The business has extended the breadth of our own brand product offering and has further strengthened our cleaning and hygiene supplies business in the UK.
We acquired two safety businesses in the UK also at the end of July.
Lee Brothers, which had revenue of 11 million in 2014, supplies a variety of personal protection equipment and workplace consumables to customers largely in the construction and engineering sectors.
Guardsman, which had revenue of 9 million in 2014, is engaged in the sale of safety equipment and workwear to customers in various Management team manufacturing industries as well as the construction and engineering sectors.
Together these businesses have further Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review extended our safety business in the UK.
performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
At the end of September we completed the acquisition of fide Ridder, a specialist distribution business based in the Netherlands and engaged in the supply of a wide range of products principally to prisons, police stations and other detention centres.
We acquired the business of Victoria Healthcare Products in November.
Based near Melbourne, Australia, the business had revenue of 2 million in 2014 and supplies a variety of healthcare consumable products for people in the community and to residential care facilities.
In North America our operations in Canada were further expanded with the purchase of Acme Supplies, a cleaning and hygiene supplies Brian May Patrick Larmon Celia Baxter business based in Vancouver Island, at the beginning of December.
Finance Director President and CEO Director of Group Revenue in 2014 was 9 million.
Our marketing services business in North America Human Resources the UK was expanded in December with the purchase of POS Direct.
Based in Leicester and with revenue of 4 million in 2014, the business manages and supplies a variety of point of sale and marketing materials.
At the end of December we entered into an agreement to acquire Tillman, which supplies a variety of personal protection equipment, principally gloves, to distributors throughout the US who supply customers operating in the welding and industrial sectors.
The acquisition was completed at the beginning of January 2015.
With revenue of 61 million in 2014, the purchase of Tillman represents another important development for the Groups safety business in the US.
Paul Hussey Paul Budge Andrew Mooney General Counsel & Managing Director Director of Corporate Today we are announcing two more acquisitions.
Quirumed, which Company Secretary UK & Ireland Development had revenue of 15 million in 2014, represents our first move into the healthcare sector in Spain while Jan-Mar, based in Toronto with revenue of 6 million in 2014, has further extended our cleaning and hygiene supplies business in Canada.
PROSPECTS Bunzls strong market position and the ongoing benefit from acquisitions is expected to lead to further growth at constant exchange rates in each of our business areas in 2015 despite variable macroeconomic conditions across the countries in which we operate.
In North America the impact of organic growth and recent Frank van Zanten Rodrigo Mascarenhas Kim Hetherington acquisitions should result in a good performance.
Even though Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director the economic outlook remains challenging in Continental Europe, Continental Europe Latin America Australasia we expect to see continued growth this year.
UK & Ireland should progress as a result of further organic growth and the contribution BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 3 ACQUISITIONS NORTH 5% increase in adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates AMERICA DRIVING INNOVATIONS Our redistribution business, which serves distributors in the OVERVIEW foodservice, cleaning and hygiene and safety sectors, was also Growth % affected by the unfavourable weather conditions early in the year.
Constant In a competitive and challenging market, the business experienced m 2014 2013 Reported exchange a slight increase in revenue as a result of the impact of recent Revenue 3,372.1 3,401.7 1 5 acquisitions.
We are working to stimulate sales growth by increasing Adjusted operating our marketing activities, expanding our category management profit 211.1 213.6 1 5 initiatives and adding complementary businesses to extend our Operating margin 6.3% 6.3% product range and market reach.
With our R3 Factor branding campaign, we engaged with our foodservice and cleaning and Return on operating capital 59.6% 61.2% hygiene distribution customers about the advantages of using our coast-to-coast branch network as their virtual warehouse.
This Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
provides our customers with access to an unmatched range of products and supply chain services they can leverage to increase In North America revenue increased by 5% to 3,372.1 million due their sales and profitability while managing their working capital more efficiently.
In addition, our expanded category management to organic revenue growth with new and existing customers and additional sales provided by acquisitions made in both 2013 and 2014. practice positions us well to use our distribution expertise to help Each of these acquisitions has allowed us to expand our product and customers rationalise their inventories, manage their warehouse service offerings through their unique capabilities and strong market space more effectively and gain a competitive advantage.
With the operating margin stable, the operating profit also acquisition in March of Plast Techs, a supplier of foodservice and increased 5% to 211.1 million.
cleaning and hygiene products to distributors in Southern California, has augmented our redistribution business in the region while Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, was impacted providing access to additional product lines.
by the severe winter weather which affected much of the US in the first quarter of the year but continued to experience sales growth in SAS Safety, which we acquired in December 2013, and Tillman, which an environment of mergers and acquisitions, expansion and channel was purchased at the beginning of 2015, have significantly broadened diversification amongst our customer base.
During 2014 we renewed our range of own brand personal protection equipment solutions and several supply agreements with national and regional grocery allowed us to expand into the industrial, automotive and welding wholesalers and retailers.
At the same time we maintained strong distribution markets.
FoodHandler expanded its food safety product business relationships with many long term customers, including line with several exclusive innovative products and has become a some of the largest supermarket chains and discount supercentres one-stop-shop for foodservice operators.
Additionally, our expertise in the US and Canada, although margins came under pressure.
To in creating and distributing imported and domestic own brand promote our capabilities within the grocery sector, we launched our products allows us to provide our customers across all sectors with Think Big branding campaign targeting executive leadership.
The a range of value solutions that meet their particular specifications campaigns message emphasises our ability to help our customers and budgets.
decision makers decrease costs and reduce the levels of inventories while increasing revenues through better merchandising and Our business supplying the food processor sector experienced category management.
revenue growth by increasing sales to existing customers and acquiring new customers.
Our national accounts team provided Our business serving the retail sector continued to drive strong greater focus on selling our value to key customers while offering organic growth.
We secured a substantial new agreement with a centralised management for our customers extensive operations.
leading North American home improvement retailer and expanded We also introduced a range of technical packaging that helps food business with existing customers.
Our unique ability to deliver a processors preserve product freshness and taste.
We continue to combination of custom store supply programmes, branded serve all sectors of the food processing industry, including meat packaging, display solutions and fixture consolidation services has and home meal processors, bakeries, fresh produce providers allowed us to solidify our position as a preferred business partner and speciality food purveyors.
for retailers seeking a one-stop-shop to serve all of their locations.
Both our grocery and retail sector customers value the advantages we provide through our customised distribution platform, including our product and sourcing expertise, high fill rates and bespoke reporting capabilities as well as the reliable delivery service provided by our own large transport fleet which together give us a real competitive advantage.
20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 3 ACQUISITIONS 5% increase in adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates DRIVING INNOVATIONS In the agriculture sector, our business grew as a result of our ability to provide a wider range of products to produce growers, packers and shippers across North America.
With our expertise in customised flexible and rigid packaging design and distribution, we are able to help our agriculture customers meet the rising demand from health-conscious consumers who are increasing their consumption of fresh produce.
In the convenience store sector, we experienced strong organic growth, primarily due to new programmes distributing consumable products through our largest convenience store wholesale customer.
In Canada the acquisition of Wesclean in 2013 has helped us to increase our sales in the cleaning and hygiene sector during the year and our acquisition of Acme Supplies in December 2014 has further increased our presence in this sector.
In Mexico, ProEpta, which we also acquired in 2013, has expanded our reach in the hospitality sector and has increased revenue by providing products for prominent national and international customers.
Our extensive experience in making successful acquisitions has once again brought additional innovation and expertise which have helped to develop and expand our business further.
Patrick Larmon President and CEO North America BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 4 ACQUISITIONS CONTINENTAL 12% increase in adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates EUROPE REDUCING COSTS In Belgium, sales grew well in the cleaning and hygiene sector due OVERVIEW to growth with both existing and new customers, and also increased Growth % in the grocery sector despite our customers facing continued Constant competition from a number of lower cost grocery chains.
Although m 2014 2013 Reported exchange margins were under pressure, costs were stable and the sales Revenue 1,146.3 1,151.5 0 5 growth therefore led to an improved level of overall profits.
Adjusted operating profit 103.2 97.0 6 12 In Germany, sales in our main business have grown significantly Operating margin 9.0% 8.4% in the hotel sector and with smaller regional accounts leading to a healthy increase in operating profit and our workwear business, Return on operating capital 52.3% 47.5% pka Klcker, which was acquired in 2013, has traded well.
A number of significant synergies have been realised in Bumer, the cleaning Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
and hygiene business that was purchased in January 2014.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose by 5% to 1,146.3 million and In Switzerland, sales have increased with a good performance in particular in the retail sector.
Gross margins were stable and costs operating profit improved 12% to 103.2 million with the operating margin increasing from 8.4% to 9.0%.
Organic revenue growth for were well controlled which resulted in operating profit being ahead of the previous year.
the year was relatively low as macroeconomic conditions continued to be difficult throughout the region, but further improvements to In Denmark, sales declined slightly as disappointing performances gross margins and careful operating cost management contributed to a strong increase in underlying profitability.
This has been in the retail and redistribution sectors could not be completely offset by good sales growth of horeca products, personal protection supplemented by the full year impact of the acquisition in November 2013 of pka Klcker and by the acquisitions in 2014 of Bumer, equipment and packaging.
Sales to the public sector were stable.
However, gross margins improved and costs were further reduced Oskar Plast, Allshoes and fide Ridder.
such that operating profit increased.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business saw a slight decline in sales as good performances in the healthcare, food processor and In Spain, trading conditions continued to improve and we recorded good growth in our cleaning and hygiene business.
Gross margins industrial sectors were offset by lower sales to contract cleaners who continue to struggle in the difficult economic environment.
were stable and operating profit progressed well.
We also generated excellent growth in our personal protection equipment businesses However, a combination of an improvement in gross margins and a reduction in operating costs resulted in a significant improvement due to exports and better domestic sales.
Gross margins were also in operating profit.
Our personal protection equipment business both slightly better and operating profit improved significantly.
increased sales and reduced costs such that it also delivered strong In Central Europe, sales grew strongly, particularly in Hungary operating profit growth.
where both our retail and cleaning and hygiene personal protection In the Netherlands, sales improved in the food processor, retail, equipment businesses performed well.
Gross margins were stable healthcare and cleaning and hygiene sectors but sales declined in despite ongoing margin pressure and cost increases were kept to the grocery sector, due to customer consolidation, and in the hotel, a minimum such that operating profit rose.
Oskar Plast, which we restaurant and catering horeca sector, which continues to be acquired in February 2014, and our existing Czech retail business under pressure in the local market.
Gross margins improved, are in the process of being fully integrated which will lead to a operating costs were tightly managed and a further two businesses number of synergies.
successfully migrated to our IT system.
Sales continued to grow strongly at our safety products business as it gained new customers In Israel, both of our businesses saw lower sales and profits due to and market share and also benefited from growth with new products.
difficult market conditions, particularly in our business supplying the Together with improved margins due to an increasing share of own bakery sector.
Our business supplying the horeca sector successfully brand products, this led to substantially higher operating profits.
relocated to a new purpose-built facility.
Both Allshoes and fide Ridder, which were acquired during the year, have traded as expected and are integrating well into the Group.
22 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The efficiency and profitability of the businesses we acquire are improved by retaining the key management and by Bunzl providing the necessary financial discipline, support and investment.
Frank van Zanten Managing Director Continental Europe BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 5 ACQUISITIONS UK & 12% increase in adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates IRELAND DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS demand for such carrier bags but we are anticipating that this OVERVIEW will be largely offset by increased use of reusable bags for life Growth % which we also supply.
Our specialist retail packaging business has Constant performed well through winning business with a number of new m 2014 2013 Reported exchange customers and continuing to develop our offering to enhance the Revenue 1,078.5 1,018.5 6 6 presentation of customers brands.
Our sales offices in Hong Kong Adjusted operating and Shenzhen, China have proved to be very attractive to global profit 80.1 71.6 12 12 branded customers and have helped to strengthen existing Operating margin 7.4% 7.0% relationships and bring good opportunities for the future development of our business.
Return on operating capital 111.7% 98.8% In our marketing services businesses, point of sale activity was Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
strong, particularly in the consumer goods and grocery retail sectors, and also due to the FIFA World Cup.
During the year we In UK & Ireland revenue increased 6% to 1,078.5 million and consolidated the number of facilities from six down to three with new warehouses in Blackburn and Rugby.
These new facilities are operating profit rose 12% to 80.1 million.
While our markets are highly competitive and customers are discerning and looking at all of good quality and, in addition to being more efficient to service our customers, also provide a much improved working environment for items of spend in great detail seeking to reduce cost, underlying demand has grown which has helped us to deliver strong growth.
In December 2014 we extended our offering in this The detailed work that has been undertaken since the economic area with the acquisition of POS Direct.
downturn to reduce our overhead cost base and also to manage There has been strong growth in our hospitality supplies business.
margins closely has helped to increase the operating margin over recent years and the margin improved further in 2014 rising from As markets have recovered, a number of customers have 7.0% to 7.4%.
commenced investment and refurbishment programmes.
We also achieved good sales of catering equipment supplied in response to In a number of our businesses we have continued to build actively the government initiative of Universal Infant Free School Meals on our private label programme as we seek to reduce costs and a broader range of foodservice products provided during the for customers, enhance our own margins and maintain a quality Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
We continued to focus on the offering.
As a consequence we have seen the sales of our private high street coffee and quick service restaurant market and have label products grow well.
During the year we launched a complete experienced good growth with existing customers and also added range of glassware and crockery as well as new ranges of medical a number of new customers to our portfolio.
Part of our strategy consumables, cleaning chemical dispensers and compostable and in this high volume and low margin market is to reduce the size of recyclable paper cups.
In 2014 we have consolidated our national distribution centre and two branches into a single 165,000 square In safety supplies, we have seen a pick-up in construction activity foot facility in the West Midlands.
during the year and have been successful in winning new business with a number of major companies.
The acquisition of both Lee Our healthcare supplies businesses have continued to operate in Brothers and Guardsman has given us access to a number of new key a market with ongoing hospital spending constraints and reduced customers and both businesses have integrated into the Group well.
Despite this, we have enjoyed good growth In cleaning and hygiene supplies, the market has continued to be through securing increased supply to private hospitals and gaining resilient although there has been further consolidation amongst our business with four additional hospital trusts.
The acquisition in June customer base.
The acquisition of Premiere Products in July has of 365 Healthcare, which specialises in drapes and gowns used in proved to be a very good fit with our existing operations in this sector.
operating theatres, has proved to be a strong addition to our private label medical consumables offering.
In our existing private label As has been widely reported, there has been a fair degree of market business, there have been good results from resourcing and turmoil in the grocery sector.
In this environment we are pleased to subsequently launching new products in response to customers have maintained our levels of sales and profitability by continuing to needs to reduce costs.
We have continued to raise our profile in the assist our customers as their models evolve.
This means that we are care home sector with increased marketing activity and product now offering more flexible supply solutions to help our customers range development, while also actively seeking to assist customers move to omni-channel retailing in the form of direct deliveries to in complying with care quality regulations.
smaller retail outlets and also to support their online offerings.
As our customers constantly seek to reduce their costs, we have In Ireland the economy has continued to improve and we have focused on our procurement competence and successfully reduced benefited particularly from growth in the Dublin hotel market and our input costs during the year.
Scotland introduced a minimum the investment and refurbishment programmes that have started 5p tax on single use carrier bags in 2014 and England will follow once again.
Having taken the measures to reduce our cost base in in October 2015.
This has to date, and will in future, reduce the previous years, we now have a much stronger foundation to operate from in Ireland which has produced substantially improved results in a well managed and controlled business.
24 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Through further development of customer relationships and by meeting and exceeding our customers needs, our organic revenue growth has returned to its highest level since 2007.
Paul Budge Managing Director UK & Ireland BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 5 ACQUISITIONS REST OF 24% increase in adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates THE WORLD BUILDING ON SUCCESS In the rest of Latin America, Vicsa Safety, our safety business with OVERVIEW operations in Chile, Argentina, Colombia, Peru and Mexico, had an Growth % excellent year despite a very soft trading environment in its main Constant market in Chile which put margins under pressure.
New customers m 2014 2013 Reported exchange and continuous product development were key to the overall strong Revenue 559.6 526.0 6 21 performance.
Adjusted operating profit 55.5 51.2 8 24 Our ability to service the safety sector in Chile was enhanced with the Operating margin 9.9% 9.7% acquisition of Tecno Boga in March.
The business is a market leader in the supply of safety shoes.
Although faced with difficult market Return on operating capital 41.8% 47.1% conditions as a result of a decline in the mining sector, the business performed well and has been successfully integrated into the Group.
Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In Mexico, our glove safety business Espomega, which we acquired In Rest of the World revenue increased 21% to 559.6 million and in 2013, has also been able to maintain its margins despite much volatility in the local market and very soft demand in the short term operating profit rose 24% to 55.5 million with the results being impacted significantly by the effect of recent acquisitions, caused by a slowdown in the construction sector.
The business is however well placed for when the economy starts to recover.
In Australia, the economy continues to be adversely affected by Our operations in Latin America have performed well despite weaker macroeconomic conditions and considerable volatility in the foreign the slowdown following the mining investment boom and the fall in global commodity prices.
This resources slowdown has had a exchange markets in several countries which has caused some margin pressure within our businesses.
All of our businesses have direct impact on a number of our major customers supplying into these sectors which in turn has reduced demand for the products strong market positions focused on creating value-added solutions for our customers and we continue to be well positioned to expand we supply.
our operations further, both organically and through acquisition.
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies the healthcare, cleaning, catering and retail sectors, while impacted by In Brazil our safety businesses had another successful year.
Our new state-of-the-art distribution centre for Protcap in the metropolitan market conditions, performed well with an improvement in revenue and operating profit as it continued to develop its position as a area of So Paulo has started operating and will be a critical platform for our future growth for many years to come.
Protcap experienced consolidator and supplier of disposable consumables throughout weaker demand from the end user sector during the last quarter Australia and New Zealand.
Whilst facing challenging trading of the year as many customers postponed investment decisions in conditions, the business has been able to offset some of the effects anticipation of economic adjustments to be implemented following of the downturn across its customer base with a number of large the recent Presidential elections in Brazil.
Protcaps new Manaus customer wins.
The business has continued to develop a good branch has opened as scheduled in an important location.
Based position in the healthcare sector, in particular to the aged care and in a free trade zone, the new branch is strategically placed for a private hospital markets, where we supply a wide range of disposable number of local manufacturing customers in the region.
Danny and and medical consumables.
In November we acquired a small Vicsa Brasil both had a very strong year with significant synergies business, Victoria Healthcare Products, which is a niche supplier of achieved as a result of streamlining our portfolio of brands across medical consumables and wound care products into the community both businesses.
This has created an opportunity for our business in a section of our existing market where we previously did In our cleaning and hygiene supplies business there was pressure not have a strong presence.
on margins due to the highly competitive environment in this sector.
However the acquisition of JPLUS in May has increased our market Our food processor business, which is a major national supplier into presence and enabled us to realise a number of synergies.
The the Australian and New Zealand food industry, delivered another new business has integrated well and is performing above our improved performance with higher revenue and operating profit.
made good progress expanding the business into non-meat and other food processors and have invested in additional specialist resources The businesses serving the healthcare sector in Brazil produced to help drive these opportunities.
This has benefited the business good results despite the uncertainty caused by the Presidential which has won a number of major customers in this market.
Our elections and new legislation which affected the import of certain ongoing focus will be to continue to develop this strategy and further product lines.
Labor Import performed strongly and Lamedid, consolidate our position as a leading national supplier into this which we acquired in March, also had a very good year.
In March, we acquired Nelson Packaging, a packaging and is integrating as planned and is starting to develop synergies cleaning and hygiene supplies company based in the South Island of with Labor Import.
This business has a strong presence in the processor 26 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our well established business model, which allows the companies we acquire to 5 ACQUISITIONS operate on a decentralised 24% increase in adjusted operating basis, provides an attractive profit at constant exchange rates option for owners looking to BUILDING ON SUCCESS sell their businesses.
Rodrigo Mascarenhas Managing Director Latin America and industrial markets in this region and has been a good addition to our business, providing further scale, expertise and distribution capabilities as we develop in the New Zealand market.
Our industrial and safety supplies business has been impacted the most by the slowdown in the mining and other resource sectors with its performance adversely affected as a result, leading to a lower level of operating profit at a reduced profit margin.
To help offset this, we have taken a proactive approach to consolidate a number of facilities and made a number of structural changes to support the business performance in the current environment and reposition it for growth.
We have also benefited from having access to and working with the wider Bunzl businesses.
We have adopted a number of better purchasing, operational and technology initiatives, which are helping to improve our competitive position and efficiency.
Although the market conditions have impacted volumes, the business has been successful in winning a number of major new customers.
This has created potential to build on our strong product range offering and our market position as we continue to develop opportunities in the more resilient market sectors and regions.
We are able to obtain an enhanced competitive advantage by optimising a variety of different synergies through sharing best practice across the Group and utilising our global purchasing scale.
Kim Hetherington Managing Director Australasia BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27 BUILDING AND DEVELOPING LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS 28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and distribution of BUILDING AND everyday items, our customers are able to focus on their core DEVELOPING businesses, saving them time and money.
LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS REDUCING WASTE CONSOLIDATING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29
