Strategic Report Introduction Chief Executive Officers Letters Stepping down from my position as Burberrys Chief Executive Officer brings a host of reflections on my near nine years in the position.
Rather than the specific initiatives, I am more reminded ofthe principles and values through which we wrote Burberrys latest chapter.
Ourinternal ethos of collaboration, intuition and trust.
Theaspiration to be not only a great brand, but a great company, with all that implies in a larger societal context.
Serving in this role for almost nine years has been a privilege, an honour, a remarkable experience.
I thank the entire Burberry community Board, team, franchise and licensing partners, customers and suppliers for the inspiration and partnership during these years.
Now, Christopher Bailey, Burberrys Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, adds the CEO responsibilities to his mandate.
Working alongside him and the rest of the senior Angela Ahrendts team has been among the greatest aspects of the position.
Angela Ahrendts stepped down as Chief Executive Together, they will explore exciting opportunities Beauty Officer on 30 April 2014. has just begun to operate, the Japan transformation is well underway, the digital world offers boundless possibilities all within the scope of a brand momentum that has never been stronger.
I look forward to watching as the extended team, under Christophers exceptional vision and leadership, writes Burberrys next chapter.
12 Strategic Report Introduction It has been an honour to work alongside Angela in shaping Burberrys recent history over the past nine years, and I am privileged today to lead this magnificent old, young company into its next chapter.
in this most recent financial year.
Looking ahead, we will leverage this momentum through an online and offline celebration of our heritage that will amplify consumer engagement with our most iconic products and further clarify our unique brand identity, both in established markets and the emerging economies that remain a consistent strategic focus.
Similarly Japan an old market for Burberry, but a new and under-penetrated opportunity for the modern brand.
The coming year will see us start to shape Burberrys future in what remains the second-largest luxury market in the world.
Beauty, now firmly established as our fifth product division, reached its first anniversary ofdirect operation in April 2014.
With the repositioning of the fragrance portfolio and the broadening of our nascent make-up business, we are still early in the cycle of this Christopher Bailey under-represented category for the brand and see Christopher Bailey was appointed Chief Creative significant potential ahead.
And then there is digital, andChief Executive Officer on 1 May 2014. whereinnovative partnerships and a creative mindset willcontinue to unlock significant commercial opportunities As my role evolves in this, my thirteenth year at Burberry, and engaging experiences in what remains a very new, Ibelieve there have never been greater opportunities for andincreasingly mobile, world.
ourbrand globally, or more compelling ways to engage, entertain and inspire consumers with our rich and This is not to say we underestimate what it will take to inimitablestory.
realise these possibilities in the months and years ahead.
Luxury sector growth has moderated from the highs of the In Burberry we have something truly unique: a company recent past and consumer behaviour is evolving quickly.
Yet whose story threads through British history and culture, I am confident that we have the skills, expertise and focus from the wardrobes of the Royal Family, through the to enable continued outperformance: a closely connected factories of Yorkshire and mills of Scotland, to some culture that allows us to retain our entrepreneurial spirit oftheworlds great acts of exploration and many of aswe grow: the brightest and best talent at all levels of the theicons of our popular culture.
organisation: and an outstanding group of senior executives leading the business across ourthree organisational pillars Deeply rooted in expert craftsmanship and innovative of Design, Product and Communication: the Regions: design, and brought to life both physically and digitally, andOperations and Finance.
There is no more powerful thisstory defines both who we are today and what we foundation for our future success than the united global canbecome.
In an increasingly competitive marketplace, teams established in recent years.
and as luxury consumers globally place ever-greater emphasis on provenance, it gives Burberry that most Looking ahead, I believe that a consistent and focused precious of things: an authentic and clear identity.
approach to our strategic goals, values and authentic Assuch, remaining true to this identity will be critical brandidentity will enable us to live up to the high tobuilding and maintaining competitive advantage, standardswe set ourselves and which people have for us, andtocapitalising on the many opportunities that while never losing sight of our human and environmental lieaheadof us.
As our customers, shareholders and global teams, you sit at the heart of this next stage of our journey, True to the character of this great British brand, these and I thank you all for your continued support.
opportunities are both old and young.
Outerwear, our oldest product, continued to underpin our revenue growth 13
