| 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A Group chief executive & Nigel Wilson became group chief executive in 2012, having joined Legal & General in 2009 as chief financial officer.
His full biography is on page 58.
Q Q Group chief executive Nigel, what kind of recovering from the financial performance has Legal & crisis.
Real incomes are around Nigel Wilson joined General delivered to your 10% lower than in 2008.
The Legal & General at the shareholders since 2009?
annual deficit between state A Im really excited and proud spending and tax revenue is just height of the financial about what weve achieved.
We need to cut crisis in 2009, taking built market leading positions in the deficit and invest in real jobs life protection, workplace savings, that pay real wages.
I admire over the group chief digital fund platforms, bulk annuities William Beveridge for his 1946 executive role in 2012. and pension fund management.
But we need a Weve consistently grown cash, renewed framework, sharing the Under his stewardship, giving our shareholders a 300% costs between the state and the the company has return over this time, making us the insurance industry to deliver top performer from all major life affordable solutions for as many achieved consistent insurers across the globe.
In the last people as possible.
growth in assets five years weve nearly trebled our Q dividend payments, with 2014s full Theres been a lot in the and earnings.
year dividend 21% higher than 2013. media about you putting money into rebuilding Britain.
Q You must be pleased Why are you doing this?
A that the UKs economy is We need to invest our picking up.
But are there any shareholder and customer funds economic reforms that still for long periods of time, getting need to happen?
a return on our slow money over A Theres now been seven 30, 40 or even 50 years.
Investing successive quarters of GDP in Britains infrastructure can give growth.
But the global economy us long-term growth and make is still fragile and we need to be us economically and socially ready for new shocks.
Were still useful to society.
We intend to LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A 7 put 15 billion into direct bulk deal.
Were also well placed to Were building a investments, including UK help people with personal business that is infrastructure and housing, pensions invest their pension pots.
growing organically Q We aim to be a catalyst for What worries do you have based upon a other investors.
A There are some signs that the simple strategy Q You said last year that global economy is picking up.
But that taps into five pensions auto-enrolment at the same time significant risks was a great success.
Is the still exist, with considerable key macro trends.
worries over the fragility of the We engage our A Weve made a really good Eurozone.
We now have 1.2 million uncertainty.
Future elections in the employees by people in workplace pension UK, Europe and the US could all placing customers schemes and over 11 billion in make the unstable background assets under administration.
However, our business at the heart of our contribution levels need to rise model has proved to be resilient business.
My role and there is a strong case for in the past.
The changing political reforming the current system of background could create further is to provide energy pensions tax relief, as over two regulatory issues for us, so we and direction and thirds of relief goes to the wealthy.
need to work closely with future governments.
create a powerful Q Can your investment leadership team.
Q management business adapt We hear a lot about the with the move away from digital revolution.
Are your defined benefit DB pensions customers benefiting?
A and do you need to diversify?
We want to help our 10 million A Were already developing protection, savings and a strategy to respond to global investments customers manage macro trends.
The move away their accounts digitally.
For from DB pensions is inevitable.
example: we already own the Our investment management UKs biggest digital investment business is seeing outflows from platform with around 72 billion DB schemes.
So were expanding of assets: our retail protection internationally, having around business, with over 1bn of 450% growth in overseas assets premiums in 2014, now benefits since 2009.
We help companies from over 80% straight through with DB pension schemes fide-risk processing: our increasingly their investments by more closely digital general insurance direct matching assets and liabilities.
sales grew by 29% and we have Ultimately we can also take over introduced a new online digital responsibility for paying pensions workplace pensions proposition through our bulk annuity plans.
John Pollock, CEO of LGAS, who is retiring at the AGM Q How have you coped after 35 years, has been a keen with the unexpected changes and effective driver of our which the Chancellor made digital programme.
Id like to to the way people can take thank him for these and all retirement income?
his other contributions as A We needed to be resilient and he passes the digital baton seek ways to replace the loss in to the next generation of revenue from individual annuities.
Bulk annuities now comprise over 90% of all annuity sales and annuity sales increased by 61% FURTHER READING in 2014.
com A with ICI was the UKs largest ever media-centre nigels-blog LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 8 STRATEGIC REPORT MACRO TRENDS Macro trends AGEING POPULATION Five big themes driving strategy The world is getting greyer Baby boomers born just after the war are now in their late 60s.
Looking forward to 2030, 20 million people, or 27% of the UK population will be over 60.
On average, 72% of UK men currently aged 60 and 80% of women, could reach their 80th birthday.
Most corporate DB pension schemes are currently in a deficit position.
Our response is to help derisk corporate pension schemes through our innovative product solutions.
Were also developing new ways to help people manage their retirement income.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MACRO TRENDS 9 WELFARE REFORMS GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS.
Political background There are significant potential political risks, with the next five The state Global years being a time of likely change.
Elections are due in the of welfare markets UK, Europe and the US in the next two years.
A referendum on the Angela Merkel, the German According to PwCs Asset UKs withdrawal from the EU Chancellor, pointed out that Management 2020 report, remains a distinct possibility.
Europe today accounts for global assets under Further devolution of powers just over 7% of the worlds management AUM could away from Westminster is likely.
Were also aware of the risk of population but has to finance increase by 2020, from deterioration of geo-political 50% of global social spending.
$64 trillion now to around stability, especially in the Middle The UK government still has an $102 trillion.
We have the East and eastern Europe.
annual deficit between income opportunity of building scale and expenditure of just under in the estimated $33 trillion Economic overview 100 billion, despite five years North American markets.
Our two main markets are the of austerity.
In the 2013-2014 tax Important growth areas UK and the US.
Over the last year, year the UK spent 47 billion on internationally are likely to global economic data has been mixed.
The UK economy saw sickness and disability benefits be passive funds and emerging steady growth, driven by the and 5 billion on unemployment markets such as Asia and the services sector.
Real wages have fallen Middle East.
rebounded strongly during 2014 by around 10% since 2008, and economic indicators continue generating less tax revenue Our response is to diversify to signal a broad based upturn to fund welfare payments.
our business using our homein activity.
Looking forward, the grown skills to expand in the fundamentals for the world economy have improved, which Our aim is to help people US, Europe, Asia and other increases the chance of a period supplement state provision emerging markets.
Inflation is with affordable insurance and expected to remain low through DIGITAL LIFESTYLE pension benefits.
We want 2015, but central banks in the US to encourage people to take and UK are signalling an eventual Connecting responsibility for their own shift towards a tightening of provision with pensions monetary policy, the full effects the world auto-enrolment and greater of which are difficult to predict.
Continued weakness in the take-up of insurance.
The UK is a global leader in Eurozone and political risks, RETRENCHING BANKS present a degree of uncertainty embracing digital technology.
73% of UK adults are online on a daily basis and 57% use Fast money, Regulatory pressures tablets or smartphones to The regulatory landscape is still Slow money access the internet.
93% of challenging for financial services.
adults in the UK personally use In the UK the FCA and PRA are Before the financial crisis a mobile phone and mobiles still evolving distinct approaches to regulation.
The PRA is banks invested widely in the account for 52% of all traffic committed to implementation UKs infrastructure.
Now thats to UK retail websites, so its no of Solvency II on 1 January 2016, no longer the case and the surprise that 32% of consumers but there is material uncertainty nation is suffering from under buy via their mobile at least over the practical outcome.
The shortage is once a month.
See page 53 :Risk based capital especially severe in housing, model.
The EU structure of where Shelters CEO, Campbell Our response is to build digital harmonising directives across Robb said: Were building less platforms for investments, Europe threatens to limit UK regulators ability to introduce than half of the 250,000 homes workplace pensions and more proportionate regulation.
needed each year just to keep protection creating the In particular, the Markets in up with demand.
infrastructure for customers to Financial Instruments Directive 2 engage with us throughout life MIFID 2 and Packaged Retail Our response is to use our slow in any digital medium products affect our investment money to invest in long term they choose.
infrastructure, like housing, student homes, care homes and urban regeneration.
FURTHER READING ON OUR RESPONSE TO MARKET TRENDS Starts on page 14 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
