Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Group Chief Executives review Highlights 2014 was a year of continued delivery for the Group, with the achievement of the key objectives set out in our 2011 strategic plan resulting in a significant transformation of the business and improvement in performance.
Strategically, we are now a low risk bank, with a strong balance sheet and funding position and industry cost leadership, all of which provide competitive differentiation.
This delivery has, in turn, enabled the UK government to make further progress in returning the Group to full private ownership.
In 2014 the UK government reduced its shareholding through the second successful sale of part of its stake in March and the launch of a pre-arranged trading plan in December which provides a means for an orderly sell down that will end no later than June 2015.
On 20 February 2015, we were advised that UKFIs interest in the Group had reduced to 23.9 per cent.
In the summer, we sold 38.5 per cent of TSB via a well-received Initial Public Offering, with this and the subsequent sale of a further 11.5 per cent stake in September resulting in us being firmly on track to meet our European Commission State Aid commitments.
The Board recognises the importance of sustainable and growing dividends to our shareholders and is today announcing the resumption of dividend payments, with a recommended dividend payment of 0.75 pence per share in respect of 2014.
This is a symbolic development that bears testament to our successful transformation and improved risk profile of the business.
Given this strong strategic progress and the improvement in our financial performance and position, we have a firm We enter the next foundation to deliver the new strategic priorities that we set out in October and we are well placed to continue to phase of our strategic support and benefit from the strengthening UK economy and to be the best bank for our customers and shareholders.
journey from a position Financial performance in 2014 We delivered a significant improvement in financial of strength, having performance at both an underlying and statutory level.
Underlying profit increased by 26 per cent to 7,756 million, delivered against our with the Groups return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA improving by 88 basis points to 3.02 per cent.
At a divisional key strategic priorities.
level, all of our banking businesses delivered a robust performance with improvements in underlying profit and RoRWA in our Retail, Commercial Banking and Consumer Finance divisions after increased investment made to deliver growth.
Underlying profit was lower in our Insurance division, reflecting the challenging market backdrop and regulatory and legislative changes that have similarly affected the wider industry.
Net interest income increased by 8 per cent, driven by a 33 basis point improvement in the net interest margin to 2.45 per cent and increased lending in our key customer Antnio Horta-Osrio segments.
Other income excluding St. Jamess Place effects was 9 per cent lower, reflecting business disposals and a Group Chief Executive challenging operating environment.
Underlying costs were reduced by 2 per cent, while the effective management of our lending portfolio, coupled with the benign economic and low interest rate environment, resulted in a substantial 60 per cent reduction in the impairment charge to 1,200 million.
On a statutory basis, the Group reported a profit before tax of 1,762 million compared to 415 million in 2013.
This was after 2,200 million of charges in respect of PPI 2013: 3,050 million and other regulatory provisions of 925 million 2013: 405 million.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 9 Strategic report Group Chief Executives review continued The Commercial Banking division continued to take a Helping Britain prosper and delivering growth leading role in supporting the UK economic recovery, in our key customer segments with SME lending growing for the fourth consecutive year As a UK centric retail and commercial bank, our future is against a market that has contracted each year, increasing inextricably linked to the health of the UK economy.
Lending to Mid Market corporates the UK economy continued to recover, with GDP growing also increased by 2 per cent in a market that contracted by robustly, unemployment falling, and both consumer and around 3 per cent.
We remain firm supporters of the UK business confidence increasing.
UK house prices have also governments Funding for Lending scheme, committing continued to recover strongly, with an 8.4 per cent increase over 15.5 billion of eligible lending and 1 billion to UK in the year.
Against this, affordability measures remain good, manufacturing during 2014. with the recent calming of house price appreciation in London and the South East a welcome development.
In Consumer Finance, we achieved UK lending growth of 17 per cent to 16.0 billion, driven by 43 per cent growth in Asset Finance and a return to growth in our cards business following eight years of decline.
New business growth was also strong, with a 48 per cent increase in Black Horse new Our strong performance in business partly reflecting the launch of the Jaguar Land Rover partnership, and Cards benefiting from a 15 per cent increase in balance transfer volumes from new and existing 2014 marks the culmination of customers as well as a 4 per cent increase in new consumer credit card accounts opened.
three years of strategic delivery In Insurance, we have seen good momentum in our corporate pensions business where we are a market leader, that has transformed the serving over 11,500 employers and 1.4 million employees who have invested a total of 27 billion of assets with us.
In 2014, the number of employees covered by these schemes business for the benefit of our increased by 40 per cent, principally reflecting our ongoing support for employers through the auto-enrolment process.
Our support for our customers and communities does not just extend to the lending commitments we have made to our key customer groups.
It also covers a number of other initiatives through the Helping Britain Prosper We are committed to helping Britain and its communities Plan.
In 2014, we delivered against the majority of these and in March we launched our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
major commitments, donating 16.5 million to the Banks This initiative comprises a number of public commitments in Foundations to help tackle disadvantage and now having areas where we can make the biggest difference and create trained over 1,300 colleagues as mentors to SMEs and social value for our customers across households, businesses and entrepreneurs and provided over 940,000 of paid volunteer our communities, in turn supporting our goal of being the hours to support community projects.
Since its launch, all of our divisions have made good progress in implementing this Plan, with the Group exceeding each of its lending commitments in 2014 while also delivering lending growth in our key customer segments.
In our Retail division, we provided 11.9 billion of lending to over 89,000 first-time buyers as well as 1 in 5 of all mortgage loans to customers buying their home in the UK in 2014, with total gross mortgage lending of 40 billion, 13 per cent higher than the prior year.
We remain the largest participant in the UK governments Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme, lending 1.9 billion through this scheme in the year.
In Retail Business Banking, we also supported over 100,000 new business start-ups.
Read more about our Helping Britain Prosper Plan on page 24 or visit 24 www.
com 10 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 is now the lowest amongst our major UK banking peers, Delivering the best bank to our key stakeholders in turn delivering a cost leadership position as a strategic Our strong performance in 2014 marks the culmination of differentiator and source of competitive advantage.
three years of delivery against our strategic plan that has transformed the business for the benefit of our stakeholders.
Being a low risk bank is also central to our strategy and business model, while supporting our aim of being best For our shareholders, we have delivered a significant improvement in financial performance, while improving the bank for our shareholders by reducing earnings volatility.
This is illustrated by our credit default swap CDS spread risk profile of the bank and strengthening the balance sheet.
reducing from over 300 basis points bps at the end of 2011 We have strengthened underlying performance from a loss of to less than 50 bps at the end of 2014, which is one of the 0.9 billion in 2010 to a profit of 7.8 billion in 2014, driven by best in the banking sector worldwide.
We have significantly a combination of lower impairment charges and a reduction reduced risk in our lending business through careful in the Groups cost base.
While our statutory result has also portfolio management, the centralisation of the risk division increased significantly over this period, our pre-tax profit and the implementation of tighter underwriting standards of 1.8 billion in 2014 continued to be affected by PPI and and controls.
As a consequence, non-performing loans other regulatory provisions as well as costs associated with have reduced from over 10 per cent of lending balances TSB, the Simplification programme and the ECN exchange.
in 2010 to less than 3 per cent in 2014.
Over the same Looking ahead, while regulatory and conduct risks remain, we period, we have successfully reshaped the Group, reducing believe that the Groups statutory performance will become our non-core portfolio from 194 billion, or 25 per cent of significantly less impacted by such issues, resulting in a far customer loans, by 148 billion in a capital accretive way.
greater proportion of our underlying financial performance As of December 2014, we now have a remaining Run-off flowing through to shareholder returns over time.
portfolio of 16.9 billion, with lending assets of 14.4 billion within this total representing 3 per cent of customer loans.
In 2014 we achieved our enhanced target of delivering 2 billion of annual run-rate savings through the first phase Our balance sheet and funding position have also been of our Simplification programme, resulting in a reduction transformed, with our post dividend Common Equity Tier 1 in our cost base from over 11 billion in 2010 to 9.0 billion CET1 ratio strengthening to 12.8 per cent through excluding TSB.
Our cost:income ratio of 51.2 per cent STRATEGY 2011-2014 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Non-cor e assets reduced by more than 140 billion to 17 billion RESHAPE International pr esence reduced from more than 30 countries to six our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities Asset quality ratio of 24 basis points, significantly ahead and risk appetite of original guidance of 50-60 basis points Capital position impr oved with a fully loaded common STRENGTHEN equity tier 1 ratio of 12.8 per cent the Groups balance sheet Reliance on wholesale funding r educed by more than 180 billion and liquidity position Loan to deposit ratio improved from 154 per cent to 107 per cent Simplification pr ogramme delivered 2 billion per annum of cost savings, SIMPLIFY 300 million ahead of original target the Group to improve Cost leadership position created agility and efficiency Over 1 billion of strategic investment in the last three years INVEST to be the best bank for customers BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 11 Strategic report Group Chief Executives review continued a combination of earnings generation, a reduction in Our success in improving the customer experience has risk-weighted assets as we fide-risk the business, and other been reflected in net promoter scores NPS, which management actions.
Our CET1 ratio is now amongst the have increased by 50 per cent since 2010, and Group strongest within the banking sector worldwide, positioning reportable banking complaints excluding PPI, which have us well against the backdrop of evolving regulatory reduced significantly over the same period and are now requirements for capital and leverage.
approximately 50 per cent lower than the average of our major banking peers.
Most recently this has been demonstrated by the Group Rebuilding customer trust remains a key imperative for the exceeding the minimum thresholds set in the recent stress business.
In support of this, we have continued to transform tests conducted by the EBA and the PRA, despite the heavy the corporate culture and have completely overhauled the weighting of the stress parameters against a UK retail and performance and reward framework for our customer-facing commercial banking business model such as ours.
colleagues, with performance now predominantly assessed on the basis of customer feedback.
We have also strengthened the control environment through changes to our organisational design and the introduction Our business has been of standardised templates across the Group to assess and monitor our risk appetite.
While these improvements have been essential in helping us to rebuild customer trust, we transformed, with a reshaped, recognise there is more to do and that we still have legacy issues to work through.
low risk portfolio, a strengthened Strategic update In October 2014 we set out the next phase of our strategy, capital and funding position highlighting our key priorities for the next three years and how we intend to deliver value and high quality experiences and a more efficient cost base.
for customers, alongside strong and sustainable financial performance for our shareholders within a prudent risk and conduct framework.
The first of our three strategic priorities is creating the At the same time, we have significantly reduced our reliance best customer experience.
We will achieve this through on wholesale funding through the careful management of our multi-brand, multi-channel approach by combining our lending portfolio and the growth in our relationship comprehensive online and mobile capabilities with deposit base, with our loan to deposit ratio strengthening face-to-face services delivered through our branch and from 154 per cent in 2010 to 107 per cent.
Our wholesale relationship manager network.
funding requirement at the end of 2014 of 116 billion compares to 298 billion at the end of 2010 and is broadly We will invest 1 billion over the next three years in digital matched by our primary liquid asset portfolio of 109 billion.
capability across all business divisions, delivering better service with greater efficiency.
This transformation will reflect Being the best bank for customers is at the heart of our our customers changing preferences in how they choose to strategy.
In support of this, we have continued to invest in interact with us, providing seamless access through a secure our product propositions as well as our branches, digital and resilient digital infrastructure.
and telephony channels, with key customer benefits from this investment ranging from reduced processing Secondly, we will create operational capability by becoming simpler and more efficient, enabling us to times, improved ease of access and convenience, and greater efficiency.
Digital remains a key area of growth and be more responsive to changing customer expectations and to maintain our cost leadership position amongst UK investment for the business and has now been expanded as a Group-wide division spanning across all business areas, high street banks as a source of competitive advantage.
Through the simplification and increased automation of key reflecting our customers evolving preferences in how they interact with us.
At the end of 2014, our active online user processes, the reduction in third party spend and changes to our organisational design, we expect to deliver a further base was over 10.4 million customers, within which our active mobile users were over 5 million: a 29 per cent increase 1 billion of annual run-rate savings by the end of 2017, creating value for customers and improving our long-term compared to the end of 2013. competitiveness.
12 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Finally, we expect to deliver sustainable growth by seeking The successful delivery of our strategic priorities over the Group-wide growth opportunities while maintaining our next three years will ensure that we are well placed to prudent risk appetite.
We intend to maintain market anticipate and react to these changes, in turn enabling us to leadership in our main retail business lines of mortgages and retain our leading position in the UK market while delivering current accounts by growing in line with the market, making value to our customers and shareholders.
the most of our multi-brand, multi-channel strategy to meet customer needs.
Outlook Thanks to the hard work and commitment of our colleagues, We have also identified a number of growth opportunities we are entering the next three year phase of our strategy in segments and areas where we are currently from a position of strength.
Together, we have delivered the underrepresented and will look to grow above the market, strategic objectives we set out in 2011 resulting in a business including business banking, financial planning and that has been transformed, with a reshaped and low risk retirement, and unsecured consumer lending.
Consequently, portfolio focused on our core UK markets, a strengthened over the next three years we expect to grow net lending in capital and funding position, and a more efficient cost base.
our key customer segments by over 30 billion, comprising growth in line with the market in retail mortgages, coupled In the shorter term, we expect the Group to continue to with increases in net lending of 3 billion in both our SME perform strongly in 2015, with our net interest margin and Mid Markets segments, 4 billion growth in customer expected to strengthen to around 2.55 per cent, other assets in Asset Finance and 2 billion in credit cards.
income to remain broadly stable, and our low risk business model expected to be reflected in an asset quality ratio We also expect to grow customer assets by over 10 billion of around 30 basis points.
We also expect our capital in our Insurance division over this timeframe through generation to remain solid, with our CET1 ratio expected to supporting our retail and corporate customers in making increase by between 150 and 200 basis points per annum long-term preparations for retirement.
While we recognise we still have a lot more to do, these strong foundations give us confidence in our prospects and We will invest 1 billion our ability to achieve our strategic objectives over the next three years, despite uncertainties with regard to the political, regulatory, economic and competitive environment.
We are over the next three years therefore well positioned to continue to progress towards being the best bank for our customers while delivering in our digital capability strong and sustainable returns for our shareholders and supporting the UK economic recovery.
across all divisions, delivering better service with greater efficiency.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive Over the next three years, we expect the UK financial services industry to undergo an unprecedented rate of change, driven by technology, changing customer behaviour and increasing regulatory requirements at a time when traditional competitors strategies converge and new entrants compete for customers.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 13
