16 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Chief Executives statement Overview London Stock Exchange Group has enjoyed another successful year.
The completion of the acquisition of Frank Russell Company significantly enhances our international presence, particularly in North America, the worlds largest financial services market.
The combination of FTSE with Russell Indexes creates a truly global index provider, and presents exciting new opportunities for our organisation.
We have also made good progress on the integration of LCH.
Clearnet into the Group, while continuing to grow organically through our existing businesses around the world.
One of the Groups principal objectives is to provide access to capital for UK and international companies, giving them access to one of the worlds largest Xavier Rolet and deepest pools of liquidity.
In 2014, we were delighted to welcome 219 Group Chief Executive new firms, both large and small, to our markets in London and Italy making it our busiest year for IPOs since 2007.
The Group has also expanded its pioneering ELITE programme, designed to support SMEs.
Already home to over 200 Italian and UK companies, it is helping to fast-track the development THE GROUPS and capital-raising process for some of the best and brightest of Europes high-growth private companies and the programme is now being rolled out TRANSFORMATION across Europe.
All the right ingredients in Europes economy exist to generate notable and sustainable economic growth, including a strong entrepreneurial HAS CONTINUED culture, and our innovative programme offers these companies access to advisors, investment and education, ingredients vital for their continued THROUGHOUT development.
WE ARE AN Our unwavering commitment to operating an open-access model remains a key differentiator on the global stage and leaves LSEG well positioned to INTERNATIONAL capitalise on future opportunities, promoting safer and more efficient markets.
BUSINESS WITH Building best in class capabilities Innovation and partnership are core values for the Group and we have A BROAD SUITE continued to develop our offering across equities, fixed income and derivatives.
IDEM, our Italian derivatives market, saw a 20 per cent increase OF MARKETS, in volumes and extended the range of products to include weekly single stock options.
The derivatives market in London received regulatory approval PRODUCTS AND to offer stock, depositary receipt and index options to US investors, while in equities London Stock Exchange confirmed plans to introduce a new SERVICES FOCUSED intra-day auction.
The move, which is in direct response to demand from customers, will encourage larger, institutional and smaller retail size trading ON GLOBAL to take place in a lit, price-forming venue.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European trading platform saw its average daily value traded rise by 42 per cent.
Its new Turquoise Block Discovery tool was designed to enhance opportunities for block trading and went live with the support of several major brokers for block trading in October.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Chief Executives statement 17 In xed income, MTS saw the value traded on its cash markets increase Developing opportunities by 32 per cent while the exchange traded product team welcomed the Our customers remain at the centre of all that we do.
We continue to seek 150th xed income ETF to Londons markets and it continued to consolidate ways in which to work together and develop strategic partnerships to help its market-leading position in European ETF daily trading volumes.
them respond efficiently to the implementation of regulatory change and the evolving industry landscape.
A good example of this is through UnaVista, In our post trade businesses, both LCH.
Clearnet and CC&G received approval which signed an innovative partnership with Wipro.
The agreement combines for reauthorisation under EMIR.
Risk management is a key contributor to Wipros expertise in consultancy and operations with UnaVistas exible and stable financial markets and the Groups central counterparties CCPs helped scalable software providing solutions that will help financial rms access their members and customers efficiently manage their risk positions across a hosted environment for end-to-end reconciliation services.
a range of assets, many of which are now required to be centrally cleared.
Regulation and policy debate has put a renewed focus on CCPs and under Monte Titoli also remains on track to become the largest CSD operator in Suneel Bakhshis leadership LCH.
Clearnet has remained at the forefront of the first wave of T2S, which will be introduced across Europe in 2015, enabling the debate on risk management recovery and resolution.
Clearnet and us to deliver pan-European settlement services for an increasingly global CC&G continue to contribute to the work underway at a national, EU and customer base.
international level to improve the transparency of CCPs risk management policies and procedures in order to further strengthen their resilience.
To ensure that we continue to capitalise on the number of opportunities across the Group, we have strengthened the senior management team with key Creating a global business appointments to the Executive Committee.
Nikhil Rathi has joined as Head of Diversication remains a cornerstone of our Group strategy and we have International Development and Chief of Staff, and Serge Harry was appointed again made good progress this year in this respect.
Clearnets position LSEG Country Head for France, Benelux and Germany, as well as Chairman of as a leading global multi-asset clearing provider was reinforced during the globeSettle.
Finally, we were also pleased to welcome Len Brennan, CEO of year.
Record volumes were processed through SwapClear, with $642 trillion Russell Investments, to the Executive Committee in December 2014, following of notional cleared in 2014.
More signicantly, the expansion of its innovative the completion of the acquisition of Frank Russell Company.
compression services contributed to a reduced level of notional outstanding at SwapClear, from $426 trillion at the start of 2014 to $362 trillion at the end Outlook of the year, a milestone in the efficient management of risk.
In FX, ForexClear The Groups transformation has continued throughout 2014.
We are an expanded the number of currencies cleared and signed new members to international business with a broad suite of markets, products and services the service.
focused on meeting the needs and aspirations of our global customers.
Our revenues and our profitability reect this ongoing diversication.
globeSettle, the Groups CSD based in Luxembourg, signed agreements with Following the acquisition of Frank Russell Company, approximately a third three CCPs to offer collateral location services in addition to the provision of of the Groups revenues, for example, will now come from the US, a key settlement, custody and asset servicing for J. P. Morgans international growth market for us in the coming years.
Colleagues across the Group collateral management business.
continue to impress with their enthusiasm and commitment to deliver on our stated strategic objectives around capital formation, risk management The trend towards increased passive investing has been a key contributor to and intellectual property.
Our focus in the year ahead is to further develop FTSEs global growth over the past few years.
FTSE continued to respond to the opportunities across the Group.
I am confident that we will build on investor demand for innovative, tailored solutions, launching a range of new the strong foundations achieved throughout the past year.
products throughout the year including factor-based indices, a new frontier index and taking further steps to allow investors to prepare for Chinas eventual inclusion in global indices.
FTSE also expanded its xed income offering, winning contracts in Australia and Latin America.
MillenniumIT remained at the forefront of LSEGs commitment to building global partnerships and saw with a number of notable contract wins, Xavier Rolet including an agreement with Casablanca Stock Exchange and Aequitas, Group Chief Executive a new Canadian exchange platform.
London Stock Exchange signed capital markets agreements with The Nigerian Stock Exchange to facilitate companies dual listings in London and Lagos and, in October, the Moroccan Central Securities Depository signed a number of cooperation agreements with LSEG.
GATElab, our multi-asset electronic trading systems provider, was named as an accredited software vendor by Moscow Exchange.
