16 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Chief Executives statement Overview This has been another year of achievement as we continued to grow and diversify the Group on an increasingly global basis, most notably through the successful completion of our transaction with LCH.
The environment in which we operate has also evolved.
We have been encouraged by regulation emerging out of Europe, which will promote competition, empowering investors through enhanced choice, lower costs and greater capital efficiency.
The provisions for open access in clearing and access to benchmarks will help reduce the fragmentation of risk in closed silos and promote lower cost, more efficient and robust competitive markets.
As the economic recovery continues, we have also seen a return of investors to our equity markets.
The Group helped companies raise over 34 billion in Xavier Rolet new and further equity issues across our markets.
Providing companies with Group Chief Executive the ability to access capital to grow their businesses is a fundamental part of what we do and we continue to develop products and services across asset classes, as well as initiatives such as ELITE, to support small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs across Europe to grow and attract investors THE GROUPS along the funding ladder.
This is also a core underpinning of our approach to corporate responsibility.
Clearnet STRATEGY IS One of the key landmarks for the Group during the past year was the completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in the global clearing DELIVERING house, LCH.
Risk management is a vital component of stable financial markets and LCH.
Clearnet has a strong record of TANGIBLE SUCCESS, helping its members and customers manage their risk.
The business embraces an open access model, which also makes it well positioned REFLECTED IN to benefit from regulatory change being implemented across the world.
By operating a multi-asset global platform, across multiple geographies, CONSISTENTLY LCH.
Clearnet provides customers with enhanced collateral efficiency opportunities through services such as portfolio netting and compression.
Clearnet is also particularly well positioned to meet the needs of OTC clearing across a range of asset classes.
PERFORMANCE AND Suneel Bakhshi joined as CEO of LCH.
Clearnet Group in February 2014, bringing RETURNS TO OUR a wealth of risk and change management experience in financial services.
Together with his team, he is aiming to further develop opportunities through SHAREHOLDERS product innovation and geographic expansion designed to support its global customer base in an evolving regulatory landscape.
He is also focused on realising the benefits of the relationship with LSEG and we are very pleased that our work on the integration now means that we are able to extend the expected cost synergies.
These are now expected to reach 60 million 49 million per annum by the end of 2015.
In addition, further changes to the operation of the OTC clearing businesses, particularly SwapClear, have resulted in additional revenues for the Group, as well as changes to the share of costs.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Chief Executives statement 17 Building best in class capabilities In the UK, we welcomed the Governments decision to abolish stamp duty Our portfolio of products and brands enables us to offer our customers for AIM-listed stocks, which followed an earlier move to allow AIM securities innovative solutions across the trading cycle from technology to post trade.
Initiatives aimed at encouraging greater investment In February, UnaVista Trade Repository went live helping customers to in SMEs among retail investors are vital and we remain firmly committed to meet their obligations under EMIR, receiving approximately ten million supporting high growth, entrepreneurial companies, which are the lifeblood reports on behalf of over 2,500 counterparties on day one.
In fixed income, of our economy.
In November 2013, we published our inaugural report titled we completed the acquisition of a 70 per cent stake in EuroTLX, a retail 1000 Companies to Inspire Britain, a landmark study that identified some bond platform, which will enable Borsa Italiana to extend the range of of the UKs most exciting and dynamic SMEs and, last month, the Group trading services for retail investors.
MTS, the European fixed income market, launched ELITE in the UK, based on the success of a similar programme announced plans to launch a new platform, which will give buy-side in Italy, which helps small and medium-sized enterprises access finance institutions the ability to trade interest rate swaps electronically.
to enable their future growth and development.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European trading platform, expanded its stock The landscape for global capital markets infrastructure continues to evolve universe to include a number of the mid-tier securities, previously only and consolidation remains a key theme.
We will continue to seek to expand available to trade via domestic exchanges.
Turquoise has seen its overall share the Groups global offering, as value-enhancing opportunities arise.
of trading improve significantly throughout the year with the platform now regularly accounting for more than eight per cent of all volume traded across Outlook Europe.
The Group also continued to enhance its technology offering with I joined the Group five years ago.
During this period, the business has a series of product upgrades to allow improved functionality for users.
transformed through control of the cost base, investment in high performance technology, organic development, innovation and strategic Creating a global business acquisitions.
The Groups expansion in capital markets infrastructure is The Groups global reach was further increased during the year with FTSE delivering tangible success, reflected in consistently good financial reinforcing its position as a leading international index provider.
FTSE performance and returns to our shareholders.
I am particularly pleased continued to consolidate its leading position in China with $18 billion of how colleagues across the business have embraced the opportunities assets under management linked to ETFs tracking the FTSE China Index brought through diversification, working together to identify opportunities series, as of the end of March 2014.
FTSE also made good progress in and realise the benefits of being part of a global group.
We have accelerated expanding its operations in North America and further enhanced its fixed our cost savings targets at LCH.
Clearnet Group and we see opportunity for income offering with the launch of a new offshore RMB Bond Index Series, growth as the regulatory landscape evolves.
I am more optimistic than in partnership with Bank of China, as well as the recent acquisition of the ever that our truly unique position as the only global, open access market MTS indices business through its joint venture with TMX.
infrastructure player which works in close partnership with its customers across all of our businesses will position us well for the future.
MTS began trading in the US following the launch of MTS Markets International and took further steps to grow its customer base in the region through the acquisition of Bonds.
com, an electronic platform for the trading of US corporate and emerging market bonds.
MillenniumIT recorded a number of wins throughout the year, such as the signing of an agreement to provide post trade technology to SGX, as well Xavier Rolet as extending existing contracts with London Metal Exchange and TMX.
Group Chief Executive Developing opportunities The Group has taken further positive steps to diversify its business.
In July 2013, the Group confirmed plans to launch a new central securities depository CSD business, based in Luxembourg.
The new CSD, globeSettle, has received regulatory approval from CSSF and is on track to commence operations in Summer 2014.
It has previously been announced the CSD will provide settlement, custody and asset servicing for J. P. Morgans international collateral management business.
The Group launched a number of new derivative products, including the introduction of Single Stock Options both in Italy and the UK as well as FTSE UK Large Cap Super Liquid index futures.
As noted above, we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from a number of the MiFID II regulations, which promote an open access, competitive model for customers across many of our businesses, including indices and post trade services.
