STRATEGIC REPORT 08 CEOs performance review Pacific more towards institutional clients, whilst retaining optionality in retail channels.
We are making progress in these markets, but meaningful results will take a number of years.
That said, through organic growth and acquisitions, our North American business is now a significant part of the Group, with $18.5 billion of assets 25% run from teams based in North America, and $12.1 billion of assets 17% run on behalf of clients basedthere.
From an efficiency perspective, we continued our progress with respect to our cost base and balance sheet.
We completed our $270 million cost saving programme, with original targets set for 2015 achieved ahead of schedule in the course of 2014.
We also further enhanced the efficiency of our balance sheet, returning $115 million of capital through a share repurchase and expanding our seed capital programme financed by anew issue of $150 million of lower Tier 2 capital.
Emmanuel Roman, Chief Executive Officer Market overview 2014 was characterised by volatile market conditions and a breakdown incorrelations between asset classes.
As a result, returns across markets were varied with the S&P 500 up 11.4%, bringing US equities close to 2014 was a year in which AHL delivered alltime highs, the TOPIX up 10.3% and at a seven year high, and world strong performance, we completed our bonds and corporate bonds up 8.4% and 17.3% respectively.
By contrast European, emerging markets and energy markets suffered with the FTSE restructuring programme and created 100 down 2.7%, the MSCI emerging markets index down 2.2% and oil a more diversified business through prices starting a downward trend in the second half of the year reaching five year lows at the end of the year.
Overview The hedge fund industry overall had a negative 2014 with the HFRX During the year we made significant progress in respect of our key Global Hedge Fund Index ending the year down 58bps.
There were a strategic objectives: i generating superior risk adjusted returns for range of returns across strategies and the top performing strategy was our clients: ii developing options for growth across our investment Managed Futures, due to strong trends across asset classes in the businesses: iii ensuring distribution effectiveness: and, iv operating as second half of the year.
Credit long short managers started the year well, efficiently as possible, both from a cost and a balance sheet perspective.
but the second half of the year was more challenging.
Concerns over the eventual timing of rate hikes in the US weighed on sentiment, and alpha Performance was very strong on both an absolute and relative basis in generation dried up with few single name credit moves working well.
our quantitative strategies at AHL and Numeric, whilst being more mixed Equity managers had a challenging year.
In Europe, frequent midmonth in our discretionary businesses.
Investment performance continues to be risk reversals meant managers risk management policies contributed the single most important determinant of success in our business and to underperformance, while in the US there were at least two bouts achieving superior risk adjusted returns for our clients remains our most ofsector rotation that weighed on returns.
2014 results We have made good progress in creating a more diversified business In this context performance in 2014 was mixed amongst Man Groups and developing options for growth across our investment businesses.
AHLs momentumbased strategies benefited from With the acquisition of Numeric, we have created a leading global trends in fixed income markets and delivered very strong returns, whilst quantitative investment management business with over $30 billion by contrast GLGs equity long short strategies had a difficult second of assets managed across a full range of alternative and long only quarter impacted by the move from growth to value in technology stocks, strategies.
At GLG, we hired a number of new teams for our discretionary ending the year with negative performance.
Flows were positive in the alternative and long only business, including Rory Powe in European year, with particularly robust sales in the first and second quarters, long only equities, Pierre Henri Flamand in the Eventdriven space and linked primarily to the strong performance at GLG in 2013.
The solid several new hires into our Equity Long Short strategy.
Furthermore, flows during the year and the acquisitions of Numeric and Pine Grove through the acquisition of Silvermine we added a significant leveraged drove a 35% increase in funds under management to $72.9 billion at 31 loan capability to GLG.
At FRM, we have made strides in building our December 2014.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 62% with strong Managed Accounts business with a substantial new mandate from a performance fees from AHL, cost savings and lower interest costs being large institution which will fund in the course of 2015.
In addition, we partially offset by a decline in net management fee revenues largely as have enhanced FRMs business with credit fund of fund capabilities a result of the rolloff of our legacy guaranteed products and a mix shift through the acquisition of Pine Grove and an important new distribution from retail to institutional FUM in our quantitative alternatives business.
relationship with Bank of America Merrill Lynch BAML through the acquisition of its fund of hedge fund business.
Progress against strategic priorities Performance and growth From a distribution perspective there were $3.3 billion of net inflows in the During 2014 we have made significant progress in creating a more course of the year.
Gross sales increased 36% year on year, with strong diversified group with multiple options for growth as set out in the performance in particular in the EMEA region.
We continue to develop following pages which describe each of our investment management our capability in North America, and reorientate our businesses in Asia businesses and their investment performance and growth in 2014.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 0909 OvERvIEw Established in 1987, AHL is a leading quantitative investment not traditionally accessed by CTAs, such as Interest Rate Swaps, Credit manager with assets under management of $14.4 billion Default Swaps, power and options.
In total, the flagship momentum employing over 100 investment professionals at its base strategies account for 74% of FUM.
inLondon and additional offices in Oxford, Hong Kong andPfffikon.
Of the nonmomentum programmes, AHL Dimension $1.8 billion isamultistrategy quantitative programme which allocates to a blend AHL offers a range of alternative and long only investment strategies oftechnical, systematic, fundamental and momentum strategies.
ranging from multiasset momentum and multistrategy programmes Withassets totalling $2.0 billion, AHLs specialist strategies include tospecialist sector based strategies.
AHL Alpha $3.1 billion and Equity index plus, a systematic alpha capture strategy that analyses AHLDiversified $4.7 billion are AHLs most diversified trend following brokers based trade ideas, and Tail Protect, a systematic long only programmes trading a broad range of liquid instruments.
AHL Evolution tailrisk strategy that trades volatility instruments.
$2.8 billion applies AHLs established momentum strategies to markets 2014 PERFORMANCE & GROwTH 2014 has been an exciting year at AHL yielding excellent performance, Once again, AHL Evolution had a strong year returning 20.3% and, which drove a 21% increase in FUM, interesting research and new following another year of significant inflows, it was soft closed in fundlaunches.
September 2014, with assets standing at $2.8 billion.
AHLs multi strategy programme, AHL Dimension, generated 16.7% in 2014 taking Whilst AHLs traditional momentum programmes AHL Alpha and AHL advantage of both trending markets, but also the diversification brought Diversified have suffered in recent years at the hands of unprecedented from the programmes fundamental and technical strategies.
Assets levels of central bank intervention and increased correlation across doubled over the year with a mix of inflows from new and existing markets, 2014 saw this change.
The reemergence of trends across investors.
Performance of the specialist strategies was mixed over the AHLs core markets and correlation lower than it has been at any time year.
Despite the Alpha Capture funds generally performing well, they post the Global Financial Crisis created a near perfect environment for were below benchmark for the year.
However, the Tail Protect strategy trendfollowers.
As a result, the AHL Alpha strategy returned 22.8% and outperformed its benchmark and the AHL Currency strategy was up the higher volatility AHL Diversified strategy was up 33.8%.
income exposure led the way as yields continued to fall, with further gains coming as a strengthening US economy benefited the strategies The AHL business continues to win institutional mandates and there has long USD exposure.
News in the final months of 2014 was dominated been a significant shift from retail to institutional investors over the last few bythe continued decline in oil prices, a trend that paid off well for the years.
We broadened our UCITS range in 2014, adding directional equity, funds short position.
volatility, multistrategy and risk parity funds to our existing multiasset momentum offering.
2014 was also an exciting year for partnerships with the launch of two new funds in two very different jurisdictions.
First off wasa 40Act product a retail alternatives product sold to US investors AHL US$bn 61 launched in partnership with American Beacon in the US, providing 1.
Alpha 3.1 access to the multibillion dollar mutual fund market.
Evolution 2.8 came a dedicated product for the onshore China market which trades 4.
Dimension 1.8 momentum on a number of Chinese futures markets.
Other specialist styles 0.1 2 Total 14.4 3 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 10 10 CEOs performance review continued OvERvIEw Established in 1991 and with research and investment staff FRM manages $5.5 billion in commingled funds where we offer a range based in London, New York, Tokyo, Guernsey and Pfffikon, FRM of portfolios to cater for different risk return profiles including multi is a fund of hedge fund manager with assets under management strategy portfolios and a range of thematic solutions across relative value, of $11.3 billion.
equity long short, Global macro and alternative beta strategies.
We have a long history of developing client bespoke mandates and manage $3.3 FRM has 58 research and investment staff who provide a full range of billion in these segregated accounts.
FRMs direct access capabilities hedge fund investment services and capabilities to help clients invest enable clients to invest directly in single managers or build customised inand maximise the benefits they receive from hedge funds.
FRMs portfolios from a selection of managers and we have $0.7 billion of assets managed account platform, refined over 16 years and with $7.7 billion in in this category.
Finally we have $1.8 billion of infrastructure mandates assets under management is a core component of the product offering, where clients have access to FRMs risk, operational and administrative providing access, transparency and risk control in 63 hedge services for custom managed accountsolutions.
PERFORMANCE & GROwTH FRMs assets decreased by 6% during the year with net outflows being 2014 has seen a number of positive developments at FRM.
Firstly in early partially offset by the inclusion of Pine Groves assets.
June we announced the acquisition of Pine Grove, a USbased fund of hedge fund manager specialising in the management of creditfocused From a performance perspective FRMs quantitative strategies hedge fund portfolios with approximately $1.0 billion of assets under outperformed their discretionary strategies in 2014, with both managed management.
Pine Grove will further enhance our presence in the US futures and statistical arbitrage managers ending the year with strong and add to FRMs fund of hedge funds business, reinforcing our efforts returns.
The performance in FRMs diversified portfolios was positive, to offer clients a wide variety of investment opportunities including butmarginally below target with the FRM diversified II strategy up 2.7%.
SECregistered US 40 Act funds and complementary fund of hedge fund Portfolios investing via managed accounts with higher concentration products.
Secondly, following on from its launch in late 2013, thesecond performed better and client specific portfolios performed broadly in line phase of our risk and transparency reporting software for managed with commingled portfolios.
Thematic portfolio performance was strong, accounts has continued to extend the service we can offer tomanaged with the managed futures portfolio having its strongest annual account platform investors.
This is now increasingly recognised by performance since 2008 the FRM Sigma strategy was up 22.2% themarket place and new mandates are being won inahighly andthe Statistical Arbitrage portfolio enjoying another midsingle competitive market.
digitpositive year the FRM Equity Alpha strategy was up 6.4%.
Finally, in December 2014 we announced that Merrill Lynch had selected FRM as the steward of its $1.2 billion portfolio of multistrategy and strategyfocused funds, supported by a proven distribution platform.
Welook forward to continuing to deliver high quality products and FRM US$bn 1 services to Merrill Lynchs clients, while expanding the investor base 1.
Direct access managed account 0.7 globally as investors increasingly seek exposure to alternative 2 3.
Segregated 3.3 investments through managers like Man Group.
Thematic FoHFs 1.5 Total 11.3 4 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 1111 OvERvIEw Established in 1995, based in London and with investment teams Credit: GLGs alternative and long only credit strategies span the in New York, Hong Kong and Pfffikon, GLG is a discretionary creditspectrum and capital structure.
Our alternative credit strategy fund manager with assets under management of $30.5 billion incorporates a diverse range of approaches and asset classes including and around 120 investment professionals.
relative value, distressed debt, event driven, capital structure arbitrage and convertible bond arbitrage strategies.
Our long only credit strategies GLG manages a diverse range of alternative and traditional investment include investing in corporate bond, convertible bond and assetbacked strategies that focus on equities and credit as well as multiasset securities with a range of approaches applied to each.
Multiasset: GLGs Multiasset strategies consist of alternative and long Equities: GLGs equities business comprises a range of alternative and only strategies.
Our multiasset strategies comprise a variety of long only strategies with investment expertise covering each of the major investment approaches and styles.
A wide range of investment approaches and styles are pursued by the various investment teams.
PERFORMANCE & GROwTH GLGs assets increased slightly during the year with strong inflows, Throughout the year we continued to look for talent to broaden out particularly in the first half of the year, being offset by currency movements.
thealternatives and long only product offering.
On the alternatives side, PierreHenri Flamand joined at the beginning of June and is focused Performance across GLGs range of strategies was mixed in 2014. ona global catalystdriven strategy across the capital structure and we Inequities, GLGs equity long short strategies had a weak year in 2014 added several new hires into our Equity long short strategy.
In our long with performance ranging from 4.2% to 6.3%.
In particular the largest only business, Rory Powe joined the European equity team managing long short strategy had a difficult second quarter, with the factor rotation afocused European equity long only strategy.
in technology stocks being a key driver in the underperformance.
GLGs equity long only strategies performed well in 2014.
The Japan CoreAlpha In January 2015 we completed the acquisition of Silvermine, a strategy was up 7.7%, slightly below its benchmark, whilst the European Connecticutbased leveraged loan manager with $3.8 billion of funds and UK equity strategies were well ahead of their respective under management across nine active collateralised loan obligation benchmarks.
The Undervalued Asset strategy was up 3.7% compared CLO structures.
The acquisition of Silvermine will further expand our to the FTSE All Share Index which was up 1.2%, whilst the European existing credit business and position us to benefit from strong demand Equity long only strategy was up 7.8% compared to the MSCI Europe for US CLOs and other credit strategies.
As part of Man Group, Index which was up 4.5%.
Silvermine will benefit from our infrastructure, distribution and access tocapital and the acquisition will bring meaningful advantages to our The majority of GLGs credit strategies started the year well but investors by further diversifying our offering.
experienced a difficult third quarter and were not able to regain ground in the remainder of the year resulting in Euro Distressed being down GLG US$bn 4.6% and Market Neutral being down 7.4%.
Equity alternative 7.1 7 strategy CRAVE had a better year ending up 4.7%.
The Strategic Bond 6 2. Credit alternative 6.5 5 strategy was up 4.5% well ahead of its LIBOR benchmark.
Fixed income long only 2.8 3 4 Total 30.5 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 12 12 CEOs performance review continued OvERvIEw In September 2014 we completed the acquisition of Numeric, management platform comprising AHL and Numeric with over $30 billion aBoston-based quantitative equity manager with $16.7 billion of of funds under management with a balance between value, momentum funds under management across a range of long only and long and technical based strategies.
Another of our core strategic objectives is short, fundamentally based strategies.
Numeric has an excellent to expand our presence in the US.
The addition of the Numeric business track record of performance across these strategies and has helps us to establish a credible investment footprint in North America, seen substantial growth over the past two years.
through a recognised brand, a presence in an important investment centreand relationships with over 25 USbased institutionalclients.
Numeric manages four main categories of equity strategies across longonly and alternatives as set out in the chart below.
Numerics In addition, Numerics strong investment track record of relative and fundamentallydriven systematic investment process seeks to absolute performance and the scalability of their wide range of long only outperform the market by buying inexpensive stocks with improving and market neutral strategies provide the opportunity to leverage Man fundamentals and catalysts for growth.
The firm generates alpha by Groups global distribution capability to grow Numerics asset base over outperforming regional and global benchmarks in the US, Europe, time.
The firm has a highly experienced and well regarded team and Japanand Emerging Markets, and by delivering returns from its long there is a strong cultural fit with Man Group.
The Numeric management short market neutral strategies.
Numeric manage assets for institutional team is led by Mike Even who is the Chief Executive Officer, Robert clients globally, including corporate and public pension plans, Furdak who is CoCIO and Director of Portfolio management and Shanta foundations, endowments, and sovereign funds.
Puchtler who is CoCIO and Director of Research.
Together these individuals are responsible for the ongoing management of the Numeric One of Man Groups core strategic objectives is to build a broaderbased business within the enlarged group and Mike and Shanta have been quantitative platform across alternatives and long only, momentum, appointed to Man Groups Executive Committee.
The acquisition advances this objective by creating a diversified, global quantitative investment PERFORMANCE & GROwTH From the point of acquisition in September 2014 to the end of the year No change has been made to Numerics investment committee or Numerics assets grew by 10% driven by strong sales into their long only investment process as a result of the acquisition however work has and alternatives strategies.
already begun to take advantage of various Man Group capabilities.
Current efforts include integration of infrastructure, globalisation of From a performance point of view, Numeric had a very good 2014. compliance efforts, research collaboration with the Groups other SinceNumeric manages a variety of strategies that encompass many investment businesses and leveraging some of its technology markets it is hard to make sweeping generalisations, but Numerics anddistribution capabilities.
average client portfolio outperformed its benchmark by 3% before fees.
The stronger performing strategies for 2014 were the active extension Numeric US$bn 1 4 1.
Global long only 9.1 130 30 strategies that outpaced their respective benchmarks by 2.
Emerging markets long only 1.9 doubledigit percentages, before fees.
US long only 4.3 strong longterm performance track record for Numerics strategies and 4.
Long short 1.4 based on annualised returns, over 90% of Numerics current quantitative Total 16.7 strategies have historically outperformed their selected benchmark over 1 3 one, three and five years.
2 1 Not all current strategies have performance track records for the full three and five year periods, but they have outperformed their selected benchmark for the periods during which they existed.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 13 Progress against strategic objectives continued Efficiency Distribution effectiveness The cost saving programme announced in 2012 and 2013 was The flow picture improved from 2013 with net inflows of $3.3 billion in completed during the year.
2014 total fixed costs were $297 million the year.
Gross sales were $21.9 billion, an increase of 36% compared excluding one quarters costs for Pine Grove and Numeric, versus the to 2013 with the increase coming from flows into GLG alternatives and $305 million like-for-like target set for 2015.
2014 fixed compensation long only strategies linked to strong performance in 2013, as well as costs excluding Numeric and Pine Grove were $151 million, versus the sales of Numeric products post acquisition.
The majority of the demand $161 million target for 2014.
2014 other cash costs excluding Numeric continues to come from institutions with institutional sales constituting and Pine Grove were $146 million, versus the $169 million target for 2014.
As a result our flows are becoming much more Underlying cost saving targets for 2015 remain unchanged, despite being lumpy in nature and one or two mandates can skew the quarterly ahead of schedule versus the targets for 2014.
The inclusion of the fixed numbers significantly.
The large institutional sales during 2014 included costs related to the acquisitions of Numeric, Pine Grove, the BAML fund $1.0 billion into the GLG European Long Short strategy, $1.0 billion of funds and Silvermine and the effect of Sterling weakness against the into a bespoke AHL mandate, $0.8 billion into the GLG Strategic Bond US Dollar, give a pro-forma cost base of $370 million for 2015.
We feel we strategy, $0.7 billion into an FRM managed account and $0.5 billion into are running the business as efficiently as is appropriate given the range of AHL Dimension.
Redemptions were $18.6 billion in the year, down from opportunities we are pursuing and going forward, we do not expect any $19.7 billion in 2013 but reflecting mixed levels of absolute investment further reductions in our fixed cost base unless there is a material change performance across the product range.
in our operating performance or business environment.
At AHL the marketing of the Evolution strategy continued to progress Our balance sheet remains strong and liquid with net tangible assets well with sales of $1.5 billion during the year and we started marketing of $0.8 billion or 48 cents per share at 31 December 2014.
Gross cash the Dimension strategy raising $500 million from an institutional client in was $0.7 billion compared to $1.0 billion at the end of 2013 and the the first half of the year.
Despite the strong performance across the AHL committed revolving credit facility of $1,525 million is available and product range in 2014 we do not expect to see a meaningful pick-up in undrawn.
In September 2014 we issued $150 million of Tier 2 debt retail demand for our traditional momentum products until later in 2015, to fund the expansion of our seeding programme.
We completed providing performance holds.
Currently early stage interest is coming the $115million share repurchase announced in February 2014 at an from institutions and the AHL business has seen a significant shift from average price of 99.7pence, buying back 68.8 million shares.
Surplus retail to institutional investors over the past few years.
capital at 31December 2014 was $419 million with the majority of the decrease from the December 2013 position of $760 million being due to We saw significant growth in GLG assets in the first half of 2014 off the the acquisitions of Numeric and Pine Grove which utilised $345 million back of good performance in 2013 with continued flows into strategies ofsurplus capital.
that sold well in 2013 including European Long Short, Japan CoreAlpha and Euro Distressed.
In addition, following strong performance since I would like to thank the management team and everyone at Man for launch in November 2011 $2.0 billion was raised into the Strategic and thecommitment, expertise and hard work they have contributed this year Flexible Bond strategies during the year, $600 million was raised into the enabling the firm to make substantial progress on each of our strategic Global Long Short strategy which launched in October 2013, $300 million objectives.
Our people are the basis for our success and the foundations into the Undervalued Asset strategy and $200 million into CRAVE which of our future.
In 2014 we delivered a set of business principles which were has reached its target level of asset raising following strong performance designed to distil and define the firms key priorities, focus and culture.
The principles are being formally launched across the firm in thefirst quarter of 2015 and will be displayed in our offices internationally to At FRM we have made progress in the managed accounts business with promote a common understanding of the firms values.
$1.5 billion of sales in 2014 and we have a substantial new mandate from a large institution which will fund in the course of 2015.
In Japan, where Outlook the client interest is for direct co-investment into our existing platform, We continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain environment.
we raised $700 million into FRM Diversified strategies.
Redemptions However after the significant progress made against our strategic from the legacy multi manager business which totalled $1.7 billion in the objectives in 2014, we are better positioned as a group to grow our year continue to be a drag on the business and other redemptions of business profitably over time.
We have a more diversified offering to $2.6billion resulted in a net outflow at FRM in the year.
clients and a range of attractive options for growth.
If we are able to deliver superior risk adjusted returns for our clients, as we were able Asset raising at Numeric continues to progress well and since acquisition toin particular in our quantitative businesses last year, we will be able $2.1 billion of assets have been sold into their various strategies.
We are to grow assets steadily by leveraging our global distribution.
As we developing a number of UCITS strategies for sale to high net worth and continue to manage our business and balance sheet efficiently, we can institutional clients around Europe.
in turn provide attractive returns for our shareholders.
In the meantime, weremain cautious in our outlook, given the ongoing volatility of the The US remains a key focus for us from a distribution perspective markets in which we operate.
and, as outlined earlier, the Numeric, Pine Grove, Silvermine and BAML acquisitions will help us with this effort, with Numeric in particular adding The Strategic report is set out on the inside front cover and on presence in an important investment centre and relationships with pages1 to 29. arange of institutional clients.
By order of the Board We continue to restructure our retail distribution infrastructure and during the year our retail sales offices in Canada and the Netherlands were sold to the management teams in those regions.
We maintain a strong Emmanuel Roman ongoing relationship with these teams enabling us to continue to sell Chief Executive Officer ManGroup products through these channels.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
