22 CEOS REVIEW Transforming our business Having announced our shift to a label-led approach in August 2014, we are now accelerating our transformation.
This programme is already improving our operational effectiveness and customer focus, both of which are key drivers of our long-term financial performance, with particular opportunities flowing from the commercialisation of our technology through our new Studios business unit.
Norbert Teufelberger Chief Executive Officer Grow in nationally Grow mobile regulated and or taxed markets Enhance our Operational customer offer excellence bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 23 Overview As well as regulatory changes, developments Outside of our core gaming activities, we in technology continue to create new have made good progress on growing Betting volumes on sports and casino opportunities, as well as challenges for Kalixa, our digital payments business.
in our core nationally regulated and or our business.
Expanding our mobile Following the acquisition of PXP in May taxed markets were both up year-on-year, footprint is an exciting source of potential 2014, we have secured a number of large however total revenues and Clean EBITDA revenue growth and we remain focused third-party contracts and concluded an were lower than expected.
This was on growing our presence in all products international joint venture with Millicom largely due to further declines in poker and across all platforms, wherever to exploit payment opportunities in Latin that also held back casino and the full year commercially viable.
While differing America and Africa.
impact of ISP blocking in Greece.
regulatory rules and compliance protocols We are making good progress on the sale present additional barriers to us both in Progress towards a European landscape of our other non-core businesses and expanding our international presence of commercially viable and well-regulated assets that we expect will realise between and introducing new and appealing game markets continues, albeit more slowly 30m and 50m in aggregate.
content, we have made good progress in than we would like.
Whilst the industry faces several European countries are at various stages headwinds in 2015 in the form of in developing what should prove to be We are improving our digital marketing additional gaming and indirect taxes, the reasonable regulatory frameworks, and customer relationship management absence of a major football tournament others have yet to do so.
Such attributes CRM capabilities through the and further projected declines in the are critical for long-term success as introduction of powerful new tools that European poker market, the year ahead they ensure that both the regulatory as are opening up a raft of new opportunities also offers some significant opportunities: well as the fiscal objectives of national for e-commerce companies like we remain on-track to deliver 15m of governments are capable of being met by bwin.
As a technology integrator we additional cost savings this year through licensed operators.
are able to use our comprehensive set of several initiatives that have already been data sources to provide a detailed view In the United States, the size of the online implemented: we plan to launch under of customer behaviour.
As we embed this gaming market in New Jersey remains licence in two new territories later this into our operations, we can differentiate some way short of original expectations year, both of which represent material the quality of our offer through better and whilst new bills introducing online markets for our business: we will continue customer experience, personalisation gaming legislation have been published to expand our mobile footprint, led by our and improvedperformance management in California and Pennsylvania, there is bwin label but also through partycasino, in an increasingly competitive little visibility on when or if these may partypoker and Foxy Bingo: we are digital landscape.
be considered for the statute book.
revitalising our digital marketing and At the same time, proponents of a new Our transition to a label-led, rather than CRM through a programme of investment federal initiative to ban all forms of online product-led approach is almost complete in both infrastructure and people: and gaming across the United States are and has already increased transparency we expect to secure additional B2B seeking support to get a bill passed in and accountability throughout the Group, customers that should ensure that our Washington DC.
speeding-up our decision-making and Studios business unit becomes Clean improving the execution of our plans.
SPONSORSHIP partypoker is a sponsor of the New Jersey Devils 24 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED 2014 Operational highlights Casino & games scope for cost savings as we began to Having added 32 new mobile games to decommission technologies that were Operationally in 2014 we focused on our casino & games offer during 2014, we no longer required.
The absence of any continuing to expand our presence saw a marked uptick in the share of casino major issues bodes well for the migration in nationally regulated and or taxed gross gaming revenue coming through of our Italian platforms that will be markets, growing our mobile footprint mobile and touch that more than doubled completed this month and will also as well as improving our operational from 6% in 2013 to 14% in 2014. help to reduce costs as we close down performance through increased legacy systems.
This will complete the Poker productivity and cost efficiencies.
integration of platforms following the We launched single-table and then multiMerger.
Our software release cycle has Nationally regulated and or table tournaments on mobile that both increased significantly during 2014 with taxed markets contributed to a 126% increase in our a marked increase in automated testing The proportion of the Groups total mobile poker gross gaming revenues in and benefits from a much improved revenue coming from nationally regulated 2014 that represented 9% of the total, up systems architecture.
and or taxed markets increased to 56% in from 3% in 2013.
With the advent of mobile 2014 versus 53% in 2013.
Having launched devices with larger screens and increasing Digital and mobile marketing into New Jersey towards the end of 2013, network speeds, mobile is proving to be Having embarked upon a significant we sustained our networks leadership an attractive channel for players.
investment in third party systems and position throughout the year and in infrastructure, we are improving our Bingo December 2014 had a combined market CRM and digital marketing capabilities As we reported at the time of the half year share of 33%.
In Belgium, another recent with the goal of developing a single view results, our Foxy Bingo mobile app has market entry, we also continued to make of the customer irrespective of product been particularly popular and we have good progress growing revenue by 59% or channel.
seen a near trebling of bingo gross gaming versus the prior year.
revenue through mobile and touch in New label-led approach Mobile growth 2014, accounting for approximately 24% of Our shift away from a product-led total bingo gross gaming revenue in 2014, approach has allowed us to remove Sports betting up from 6% in 2013. several layers of middle management The launch of our new mobile sports whilst at the same time increase offer MS2 helped to increase the share Productivity and accountability for and visibility of projects of gross sports betting revenue coming operational performance that now reside within a single label.
through mobile and touch devices to Technology Whilst such a shift is not without risk see 32% 2013: 19%.
However, the breadth of We successfully completed the migration Principal Risks on page 43, we are already our geographic coverage masks the fact of our French technology platforms in seeing a marked increase in the speed that in certain markets the proportion August 2014 resulting in improved poker of decision-making, improved execution coming through mobile and touch is much liquidity for our network as well as the as well as meaningful reduction in higher.
The annual figure also conceals staff costs.
the pace of growth throughout the year and in December 2014, mobile and touch represented approximately 35% of total sports betting gross gaming revenue.
POKER CASINO & GAMES We launched single-table and then Revenue coming through mobile multi-table tournaments on mobile and touch that more than doubled that both contributed to an 126% from 6% in 2013 to 14% in 2014 increase in our mobile poker gross gaming revenues in 2014 SPORTS BETTING Mobile and touch represented approximately 32% of total sports BINGO betting gross gaming revenue in 2014.
We have seen a significant increase of Further growth will be driven by the bingo gross gaming revenue through cross-selling of new products such as mobile and touch that represented slider blackjack and slider roulette 24% of total bingo GGR in 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 25 2014 Other developments Payments Board changes Having acquired PXP in May 2014, our On 9 April 2014, Philip Yea joined the Industry structure Kalixa payments business continued Board as a Non-Executive Director and Increasing complexity, regulatory to make solid progress during 2014. became Chairman at the AGM on 22 May oversight and taxes mean that scale In September 2014 we announced the 2014 when Simon Duffy stepped down.
and technology have never been more establishment of a 50:50 joint venture Manfred Bodner stepped down as a important for long-term success.
At the with Millicom, a leading international Non-Executive Director at the AGM and on time of the half year results we stated our telecommunications and media company 10 June 2014 Daniel Silvers was appointed belief that the online gaming industry dedicated to emerging markets in Latin a Non-Executive Director.
Daniel Silvers was set to enter a period of consolidation America and Africa so that we could appointment was made under the terms and that the Board believed bwin.
party seek to exploit Kalixas capabilities in of a relationship agreement entered into should be prepared to play an active role both of these new and exciting markets.
party, Emerald in any future reshaping of the industry, Since then, Kalixa has also succeeded in Bay Limited Emerald and Stinson Ridge assuming further value can be delivered.
winning new third party business from Limited Stinson that was approved by We announced on 12th November 2014 customers including Abercrombie & Fitch shareholders on 28 January 2011 and to that we had entered into preliminary and expects to secure further contract which SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners B discussions with several third parties wins over the coming weeks.
Limited SpringOwl became a party on regarding possible business combinations 28 February 2014 as a result of acquiring Disposal of non-core assets to see if additional value could be created 6% of bwin.
partys issued share capital for shareholders.
Since then there have Having announced our intention to focus our from Emerald and Stinson together with also been some notable transactions resources on our core real money gaming the director nomination right.
SpringOwl which have occurred in the sector.
business, we have made good progress exercised this nomination right on since the year-end.
Further to the announcement in New Game Capital LP realised its only November, we continue to be in In respect of the Companys remaining investment through a placing discussions with several parties announcement on 16 May 2014 regarding of a 10.4% stake in Gaming Realms plc.
regarding a variety of potential business Director changes and succession New Game Capital LP is now being wound combinations.
Aware that there has been planning, the Board has announced the up and the proceeds distributed to speculation regarding the status of these appointment of Barry Gibson and Liz shareholders.
As the largest shareholder discussions in recent weeks, the Board Catchpole to succeed Rod Perry Deputy in New Game Capital LP, the Group expects can confirm that it has received a number Chairman, Senior Independent Director to receive approximately 4.5m.
Together with its and Chairman of the Remuneration advisers, the Board has entered a further Regulatory developments Committee and Helmut Kern Chairman stage of discussions with each party with The regulatory landscape across Europe of the Audit & Risk Committee, both of a view to assessing the relative attractions and in the United States remains complex whom are retiring in accordance with of these proposals against the Boards and is continuing to evolve.
A brief summary the UK Corporate Governance Code.
objective of creating additional value of some of the key regulatory developments The Boards Nomination Committee is also for shareholders.
Whilst such proposals affecting our business is set out on pages engaged with further candidates with may or may not result in an offer being 41 and 42. extensive knowledge and expertise in made for all or part of the Company, the information technology and in consumerImpairment of intangible and Board confirms that as and when there facing digital businesses and hopes to otherassets are further material developments, it will announce an appointment shortly.
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its intangible assets and investments.
A non-cash impairment charge of 104.4m 2013: 9.4m was taken relating to intangible assets within poker and social gaming, almost all of which was taken in the first half of 2014 and was included in the half year results and impairments of non-core investments including those held as available for sale.
26 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED Dividend and share buy-back Plans for 2015 2016 Technology will remain at the heart of this effort as we transform our Studios The Board is recommending a final We remain focused on maximising both business into a stand-alone provider dividend of 1.89 pence per Ordinary the accessibility and appeal of our gaming of B2B gaming services worldwide.
share 2013: 1.80 pence representing a 5% products and services and on striving to Having built a fully-integrated and increase over the prior year and making achieve operational excellence in each of scaleable technology platform, with a total dividend payment for the 2014 our key business units.
This will continue a proven capability of entering newly financial year of 3.78 pence 2013: 3.60 for the rest of 2015 as we continue to regulated markets with all products, pence.
The final dividend, if approved at improve our operational focus to deliver we are now preparing to leverage this the AGM will be payable to shareholders agreat experience for our customers.
capability by driving incremental third and depositary interest holders on the party volume through the platform with a As from 1 January 2015 the business is now register of shareholders and register of view to moving Studios into profit during organised as follows: depositary interest holders respectively 2016.
In addition to the Groups own B2C on 24 April 2015 the Record Date.
bwin labels including Gamebookers : labels, we are in the process of securing Dividends will be paid on 27 May 2015. new B2B customers that are keen to use Games labels partycasino, partypoker, Shareholders wishing to receive dividends our technology, particularly for sports Foxy Bingo, Gioco Digitale : in Euros rather than Pounds Sterling betting, which we believe represents will need to register a currency election US including B2C, B2B and the World a unique and valuable opportunity for with bwin.
partys registrars on or before Poker Tour : the Group.
Studios The Groups technology Having already exited a number of Using the authorities granted by provided through arms length B2B non-core businesses, we are continuing shareholders at the 2013 and 2014 AGMs agreements with both internal and to review how value can be maximised to repurchase up to 10% of the Companys external customers: and for our Kalixa payments business that issued share capital, during 2014 the is making good progress following the Other Includes Kalixa, social gaming, as Company bought back 1,556,867 shares acquisition of PXP in May 2014.
As a result well as InterTrader, Winners and some for cancellation at a total cost, including and given the increased focus on our smaller, non-core assets.
There have core operations we have rationalised been no further purchases since the Shared and corporate functions such as our strategic framework to the following year end.
As at 6 March 2015 the total finance, legal and HR are performed by three areas: number of bwin.
party shares in issue the corporate centre.
was 824,106,369 and the total number of focus our B2C operations on Establishing these new business units voting rights in issue was 822,749,091 total nationally regulated and or was the first step in transforming our number of shares in issue minus 1,357,278 taxed markets: operational performance and we are now shares held by the employee benefit trust secure long-term strategic partners accelerating this process with an even in respect of which the voting rights have for our B2B business, driven by sports greater focus on core markets, channels been waived.
For further details regarding our business strategy see pages 28 and 29.
New segmental reporting 2014 Year ended 31 December 2014 Total Removal of bwin Games Corporate segmental inter-segmental Total m labels labels US Studios Non-core functions revenue revenue revenue Net revenue 360.6 195.7 6.7 563.0 563.0 Other revenue external 4.7 0.3 13.0 7.9 23.0 48.9 48.9 Other revenue internal 5.3 71.0 16.4 41.6 134.3 134.3 Total revenue 365.3 196.0 25.0 78.9 39.4 41.6 746.2 134.3 611.9 Clean EBITDA 76.4 69.8 6.1 18.0 11.8 9.1 101.2 101.2 Revenue and Clean EBITDA as if the new business units had been in place since 1 January 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 27 Using this new approach, each business Enhance the quality and breadth Current trading and unit has a clear set of objectives and of our customer offer full year outlook operational KPIs for 2015 16 that fall As outlined in the Review of 2014 below, Trading in the first eight weeks of 2015 has under one or more of the following we have already increased the appeal been broadly in-line with our expectations.
four headings: of our products with significant While betting volumes as well as overall improvements to our offer across each Increase B2C revenue from nationally player activity on sports and gaming of our own labels and those of our B2B regulated and or taxed markets excluding poker have been above last customers.
However, this journey is year, lower margins in sports betting and Each of our B2C business units are focused only just beginning and we plan a raft of casino meant that average daily net on achieving this goal.
We plan to launch additional product upgrades and new revenue was down 12% year-on-year.
under licence in two new territories during features during 2015.
A release programme 2015 as well as consolidate our position in New gaming and other indirect taxes, of new games and features on mobile as other nationally regulated and or taxed continued pressures in European poker well as desktop will continue throughout markets.
Whilst a lack of new regulated and the absence of a major football the rest of the year, complemented by markets opening over the past year has tournament this year represent significant improved CRM and digital marketing.
held back the pace at which we can make headwinds in 2015.
However, the steps progress, we did increase the proportion KPI targets: taken during 2014 to reduce costs, the of revenue coming from these markets to Continue to add new content early results from some of our recent 56% of total revenue in 2014 2013: 53%.
through a variety of channels product launches and other initiatives mean that we remain confident about KPI target: Secure additional B2B customers the full year outlook.
Increase gross profit net revenue less for our Studios business unit gaming taxes from existing nationally Norbert Teufelberger regulated and or taxed markets Operational excellence reliability Chief Executive Officer and productivity Grow mobile Each of our objectives above cannot Mobile represents a major growth be achieved without continuing to opportunity for the Group.
The increase improve our operational performance in smartphone penetration around the and allocation of capital.
Our shift to world in conjunction with improving a new label-led structure needs to be connectivity is enabling huge growth accompanied by a shift in working in the amount of data consumed practices that combine to increase our and time spent using these devices focus on the customer.
Through greater mobile is where our customers want to transparency and accountability, this consume services, including gaming.
shift will also help us to realise 15m of Whilst the complexity of our international additional cost savings already identified.
footprint, with its mosaic of regulatory KPI targets: regimes, presents additional hurdles, we Deliver 15m of cost savings are determined that each of our recently as planned upgraded products is available onthe very latestmobile and touch devices, wherever Improve system availability and commercially viable, during 2015. reduce planned downtime KPI target: Maximise the value of non-core 50% of gross gaming revenue business via divestment or coming through mobile touch by strategic partnerships December 2015
