In discussion with Simon Thomson, CEO and James Smith, CFO Operated exploration programme Success in Senegal India James Smith: 2013 2014 saw us embark upon Simon Thomson: Senegal is a great example of Simon Thomson: We have a great relationship with a focused drilling exploration programme with a Cairns business model delivering for shareholders.
This is a country where we have spent many series of operated exploration wells.
Importantly, We had a strong technical belief in the potential of years working, where we have discovered, developed these wells were delivered at appropriate equity the acreage and this belief has been realised with and produced oil, delivering significant value both levels and therefore the right financial exposure success in both wells drilled to date.
for Cairn shareholders and for India.
We are now for this business.
working closely with the authorities in India to seek James Smith: We have made discoveries in two a resolution to the tax issue.
Our approach has Simon Thomson: This exploration programme was separate plays, which have the potential to be been to focus on continued engagement with all about play opening wells, in acreage we believe in, transformational for Cairn and Senegal.
Right now the Government of India and to that end we are and that is exactly what we have achieved in opening we are focused on working on appraisal and further continuing our programme of targeted, regular a new basin offshore Senegal.
exploration programmes to fully establish the value meetings with many stakeholders in India.
Resolving in our large acreage position.
this issue will continue to be a high priority for us.
We are delighted with the success to date offshore Senegal.
As part of our strategy we have been building Simon Thomson: James and I were recently in James Smith: The freezing of our asset in India and shaping a balanced portfolio with our North Sea Senegal and we met with our Joint Venture partners was an unexpected event and we moved quickly development and ultimately production assets on the including Petrosen the national oil company, the to ensure we remained able to deliver our work one side, and exploration on the other side.
As you Minister of Energy and the President Macky Sall, programme and longer-term strategy in the absence would expect exploration activity in new basins is who is also a geologist.
They are incredibly supportive of those funds.
This was principally achieved by higher risk and not every well is going to be successful: and we all recognise that these discoveries, in the accelerating the timetable for bringing in debt however, this delivery of exploration success in longer term, are potentially transformational for financing for our North Sea development activities.
Senegal is evidence of our strategy working.
We are of course hoping for a resolution in India but the important thing is that the business remains funded through to the point of delivering free cash flow from our North Sea projects.
Discover more: Operational review Discover more: Opening a new Atlantic margin basin Discover more: Cairn in India 22 13 29 P22-27 P13 P29 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information R ight now, maximum value for the business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because it has the potential to add substantial value beyond what we have already discovered.
Shaping the organisation Developments Outlook Simon Thomson: We pride ourselves on being Simon Thomson: Our development activities which James Smith: As we have said before, discipline in an established, proficient, safe and fast operator.
form the core of a North Sea portfolio of more than the optimal allocation of capital is critical, even more We have proven ourselves time and time again to be 30 licences are a core element of our long-term so in the current weaker oil price environment.
technically, commercially and financially skilled and we sustainable business model.
They balance our We will continue to focus on this and on ensuring are focused on protecting those core competencies.
portfolio with exploration on the one side and cash that we have the right equity exposure across our and development activity on the other.
We have demonstrated our abilities as At the beginning of this year we recognised that we we anticipate production and free cash flow from prudent managers of our portfolio throughout needed to reorganise the business to ensure that these assets with production estimates of around the year, including our ability to trade and swap Cairn was the right size of company for the work 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to Cairn.
assets particularly within our North Sea portfolio.
We were absolutely clear that As a result we start 2015 in a strong position our priority would be to retain and protect all of James Smith: The cash flows from this production to deliver an exciting programme across the those core competencies which means our technical, will be critical to supporting a self funding business portfolio, especially in Senegal.
commercial and financial skills: skills which are the model over the medium and long-term.
We keep foundation of this business and which have enabled a disciplined focus on projects right across the Simon Thomson: Right now, maximum value for the us to achieve success in previous years.
portfolio which deliver strong returns even in business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because a lower oil price environment and this includes it has the potential to add substantial value beyond James Smith: We have a great technical team, but we making sure our North Sea development what we have already discovered.
So this is where also have a great commercial and financial team.
It is investments are in line with that strategy.
we will be focusing our efforts and we do expect this that combination of high quality competencies and opportunity to keep us busy for a considerable time teams which delivers value by marrying technical to come.
However, we have built a diverse, balanced beliefs with a clear strategy and business model.
and solid portfolio and we will continue to progress In addressing the organisational structure we have our programmes elsewhere, with particular focus retained those core technical skills as well as a strong on our core North Sea developments, and to work leadership team, whilst delivering a reduction in the on our other assets to ensure the entire portfolio central cost base.
Following a staff consultation remains balanced and in good shape.
process the reorganisation was completed at the end of 2014, with staff and contractor headcount reduced by approximately 40%.
Discover more: Working responsibly, People Discover more: North Sea development Discover more: Operational review 46 17 22 P46-47 P17 P22-27 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Kraken FPSO is under construction in the Keppel boat yard, Singapore.
1 16 6 C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information North Sea development Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway, as part of its North West Europe portfolio, by acquiring exploration, appraisal, development and production assets and participating in licence rounds.
Cairn has an experienced team dedicated to the UK Kraken and Catcher, two of the largest new projects in and Norway with offices in London and Stavanger.
the UK North Sea, are the Groups core development More recently Cairn has entered the Barents Sea projects.
They are both under development and will and is in the process of applying for operatorship provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net in Norway, both of which leverage Cairns Arctic production to Cairn of 22,500 boepd.
At the peak of operational experience and Norwegian presence.
production in 2017 2018 it is anticipated that Kraken and Catcher combined could account for around 7% 1 The UK and Norway region represents a critical of UK total daily boe production.
part of the Groups strategy of having a balanced and sustainable portfolio.
Based on Oil and Gas UK Activity Survey 2014. of the North Sea provide balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will deliver the free cash flow to sustain future exploration.
The North Sea is an active market for asset transactions enabling Estimated peak net production Cairn to continually optimise its portfolio within the region as well as its wider capital allocation.
22,500 boepd Catcher Kraken Premier operator, 50% EnQuest operator, 60% Cairn 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10% Cairn 25%, First Oil 15% The Catcher field was discovered in 2010 in block The Kraken field was discovered in 1985 in block 28 9a of the central UK North Sea.
Follow-up 9 2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, North field in 2013.
Combined, these two fields Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields.
There are make up the Kraken development.
The Joint four adjacent licences to the Catcher licence and, Venture is continuing to evaluate additional combined, these make up what is known as the opportunities in the block.
The FDP for the Kraken development was In 2014 a Field Development Plan FDP for approved by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, the development of the Catcher, Varadero and which will be capable of processing 80,000 bopd, Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P is currently under construction in Singapore.
The development will comprise a Floating Production Storage and The Kraken field is located 350km north east of Offloading FPSO facility which is currently Aberdeen and 125km east of the Shetland islands under construction in Singapore and will be in water depths of 115m.
Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 The development will be located 170km south wells expected to be drilled over a period of more east of Aberdeen in water depths of 90m.
Development drilling will start in 2015 with more First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period production to Cairn of 12,500 boepd.
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak production to Cairn of 10,000 boepd.
C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 17 17 2014 key story 2014 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Groups strategy.
The 2014 KPIs, which were set out on The Groups 2014 KPIs were reflective of the early Good progress has been made across the 2014 page 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts stage in the value creation cycle, unlike the more KPIs and a brief update on progress is presented 2013, related to delivering a sustainable business, traditional KPIs for oil and gas exploration and in the table below.
maintaining a balanced portfolio and achieving production companies such as production or operational excellence.
operating cost targets, which the Board currently The final decision on the overall achievement of the considers are not relevant as a measure of the KPIs was made at the Remuneration Committee Groups performance.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio Purpose Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Achieve exploration and appraisal Mature Basin: The Group successfully discovered potentially commercial Achieved success through the discovery of Invest in exploration and appraisal hydrocarbons in Senegal through the drilling of the shelf commercial hydrocarbons activities in the UK and Norway sectors edge well SNE-1 and the North fan well FAN1.
of the North Sea which will add net The SNE-1 well added 120 mmbbls of 2C resources.
2C resources in excess of 10 mmboe Further technical evaluation is required to determine the commerciality of the FAN-1 well.
Frontier Basin: Elsewhere, the Foum Draa and Cap Juby wells in Morocco Invest in exploration and appraisal and the Ensis and Aragon wells in Norway and the UK activities in Morocco, Senegal and were unsuccessful at the primary exploration target.
Republic of Ireland which will add It was predetermined that a significant discovery net 2C resources in excess of in either of the mature or frontier basins would 40 mmboe result in the KPI being achieved.
Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Mature high impact exploration Mature a minimum of six new A number of prospects in Senegal, Morocco and Norway Partially prospects ready for drilling in independent drill-ready prospects in were matured to drill-ready status for 2015 or 2016. achieved 2015 or 2016 each category mature frontier basin Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland which meets the Groups investment continues to be assessed.
The Group participated in the criteria and which could be considered UK 28th licensing round in 2014, when a drill-ready for drilling in 2015 or 2016 prospect was identified and a firm well commitment bid was made.
Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Seeking operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2014 activities and maintain licence to operate KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Successfully complete Deliver all operated and nonCairn, as Operator, acquired 2D seismic offshore Malta and Partially operated and non-operated operated asset projects technical 3D seismic offshore Republic of Ireland and participated achieved 2014 work programmes studies, surveys, seismic and drilling as non-operator in the acquisition of 3D seismic offshore programmes on schedule and budget Western Sahara, all of which was successfully completed on including manpower costs, with full time and budget.
Two exploration wells were executed on data recovery or below budget Foum Draa offshore Morocco and Ensis in the North Sea.
Due to some unscheduled maintenance requirements on the Cajun Express rig, the FAN-1 well offshore Senegal and the Cap Juby well offshore Morocco were over budget and schedule.
The Aragon well in the North sea was also over budget.
Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Progress North Sea development The Catcher and Kraken development projects are Achieved projects, remaining within 10% of progressing well and remain within 10% of capital guidance.
capital guidance and first oil dates The Catcher project remains on track for first oil in 2017 scheduled within six months of project and the Kraken project remains on track for first oil in 2017 sanctioned base case estimates subject to the timely delivery of the FPSO.
Discover more: Operational review 22 P22-27 Deliver our activities with a strong Minimise injuries and environmental The Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR of 3.88 per million Partially focus on not harming people or incidents in 2014 operated activities: hours remains higher than the target of 2.0 per million hours.
achieved damaging the environment This compares well with 5.04 in 2013 and the overall trend Total Recordable Injury Rate of improvement year on year continues.
TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRI million hours There has been no oil spill to the environment in 2014.
No oil spills to the environment Discover more: Working responsibly 42 P42-57 Continue to enhance the Groups HSE Achieve targets for ten HSE leading The 2014 LPIs progressed well.
An extensive engagement Partially culture, behaviours and approach performance indicators LPIs across programme with contractors was completed to raise achieved the areas of: awareness of the Groups HSE procedures and to deliver key HSE messages through senior management briefings.
The Knowledge of HSE procedures HSE risk assessment and management LPI was achieved Engagement with contractors through enhancements to the travel risk assessment and regarding safety standards project risk management processes.
A programme to raise Communication of HSE approach awareness and knowledge of the Groups HSE procedures and performance was completed with the delivery of workshops on topics such as corporate responsibility and human rights.
HSE HSE risk assessment and communications improved with HSE now a standing agenda management item at staff meetings and HSE papers presented at all Board meetings.
Some further work is required in embedding and enhancing the HSE cultural framework.
Discover more: Working responsibly 42 P42-57 Delivering a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self funding business plan KPI Remuneration 2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance Committee decision Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including The Group remains funded to deliver its firm exploration Achieved undrawn committed banking facilities and the development programme through to free cash flow to meet planned funding commitments from 2017. plus a cushion at all times Discover more: Financial review 30 P30-33 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 2015 Key Performance Indicators KPIs The 2015 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in December 2014 and are based on the Groups current portfolio, prospects and objectives set out in the 2015 Business Plan.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio Purpose Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Achieve exploration and appraisal Invest in exploration and appraisal activities which will add net Lack of exploration success success through discovery or addition 2C resources in excess of 20 mmboe Reliance on Joint Venture JV operators of commercial hydrocarbons in 2015 for asset performance Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Mature high impact exploration Mature a minimum of four new independent drill-ready prospects Inability to identify or secure prospective prospects ready for drilling in which meet investment criteria and which could be considered for acreage at prices which can generate 2016 or 2017 drilling in 2016 or 2017 reasonable returns Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Active portfolio optimisation Declaration of Commerciality for Sangomar, Sangomar Deep Failure to maximise Senegal acreage position and acreage protection and Rufisque blocks in acceptable timeframe to maximise Discover more: How we manage risk acreage retention 34 P34-41 On board the Cajun Express drilling rig, offshore Senegal.
20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Seeking operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2015 activities and maintain licence to operate Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Successfully complete operated and Deliver all operated and non-operated asset projects technical Operational and project performance non-operated 2015 work programmes studies, surveys, seismic and drilling programmes on schedule Reliance on JV operators for asset performance and budget including manpower costs, with full data recovery Staff recruitment and retention Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Progress North Sea development projects, remaining within 10% Kraken and Catcher development projects not of capital guidance and first oil dates scheduled within six months executed on schedule and budget of Final Investment Decision FID base case estimates Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Secure a suitable rig for further exploration and appraisal Operational and project performance in Senegal Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Deliver activities with a focus on the Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2015 Health, safety, environmental and security safety of people and the environment operated activities: incidents TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR million hours Discover more: How we manage risk 34 No oil spills to the environment P34-41 Continue to enhance the Groups HSE Achieve targets for HSE LPIs linked to elements of the Health, safety, environmental and security culture, behaviours and approach HSE culture framework incidents Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Delivering a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self funding business plan Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn committed banking Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding facilities to meet planned funding commitments plus a cushion Potential tax liabilities relating to Indian Income at all times Tax Department enquiry Uncertainty in fiscal regimes Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited CIL shares freeze Operational and project performance Kraken and Catcher development projects not executed on schedule and budget Inability to access internal or external funding Discover more: How we manage risk 34 P34-41 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
