CEOs review Simon Thomson Two significant discoveries offshore Senegal The combination of balance sheet strength, development stage assets with a clear path to cash flow generation and a balanced exploration and appraisal portfolio allows the Company to fund future exploration activity and to repeat the cycle of creating, adding and realising shareholder value.
In 2014, we positioned the Group for future growth by: i. Discovering oil offshore Senegal in both wells drilled in the exploration programme.
Participating successfully in the UK 28th Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round.
Selective farm-ins and farm-downs, including the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development in the North Sea.
Accelerating the financing of our development projects.
v. Progressing the Catcher and Kraken developments, which remain on track with free cash flow generation anticipated from 2017.
Cairns strategy is to create and deliver value from vi.
Maturing prospects across our portfolio to drill ready status for 2015 16. the discovery and development of hydrocarbon vii.
Booking 2P Reserves on the Catcher resources.
We achieve this from a balanced development and 2C Resources in Senegal.
portfolio and a sustainable, self-funding 2014 was marked by two significant discoveries business model.
offshore Senegal, successfully opening a new hydrocarbon basin, with the SNE-1 discovery recognised as potentially the largest global oil discovery in 2014.
The discoveries occur in two separate plays and have significant follow on potential within our acreage.
The Cairn team planned and executed a safe and Simon Thomson successful two well exploration campaign in less than Chief Executive 20 months following the initial announcement of 9 March 2015 the farm-in to Senegal in early 2013.
The strong JV partnership comprising Petrosen, ConocoPhillips and FAR Limited with Cairn as the Operator, has a shared vision of the prospectivity and potential of our large acreage position.
08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an exciting programme across the portfolio, especially in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial value beyond the discoveries made to date.
We have established an office in Dakar with a local The freezing of our asset in India was an unexpected The above measures strengthened our financial and international team who are working closely with event and measures were swiftly introduced to position and our ability to create and deliver value the Government, suppliers and local communities.
ensure that the Company remained able to deliver through a sustainable, repeatable and self-funding I was delighted to lead a country visit in November its work programme and long-term strategy in the business model.
2014 along with executive management from absence of access to these funds.
ConocoPhillips to meet with President Macky Sall.
Outlook We were encouraged by the support of the First of all, the timetable for bringing in debt We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an Senegalese authorities, and we all recognise that financing for our North Sea development activities exciting programme across the portfolio, especially these discoveries, in the longer term, are potentially was accelerated.
A Reserve Based Lending bank in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial transformational for Senegal as a country, as well facility of US$575m was put in place in July and value beyond the discoveries made to date.
built a diverse and balanced portfolio and created the financial flexibility to progress our exploration, Cairns exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic Secondly, the business was re-organised to ensure appraisal and development programmes and ensure Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean we had the right size of company for the work ongoing strategic delivery.
are underpinned by Kraken and Catcher, two major programme ahead.
The priority was to retain and North Sea development projects.
The future cash protect the core technical, commercial and financial flows from these projects will support a self-funding, competencies which form the foundation of Cairn sustainable business model over the medium and whilst outsourcing non-core capabilities and long term.
From 2017, we anticipate free cash flow reducing costs.
The resulting new organisational from these assets with a production estimate of structure was completed in early 2015 with a around 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net 40% reduction in the number of employees and to Cairn.
We keep a disciplined focus on projects right contractors in the business.
across our portfolio to ensure they deliver strong returns even in a lower oil price environment and Thirdly, we looked to re-balance our portfolio.
our North Sea development investments are in line In September, we announced a farm out agreement with that strategy.
to Dyas UK Limited for the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development and adjacent acreage in In early 2014, Cairn received notice from the Income the UK North Sea for a carry of Cairns exploration Tax Department of India citing 2012 retrospective and development costs up to a cap of US$182m, legislation and requesting information relating to effective from 1 January 2014.
As a result of this a group reorganisation in 2006.
At the same time, transaction, which was successfully completed the Income Tax Department restricted Cairn in January 2015, Cairn reduced forward capital from accessing the value of its remaining 10% expenditure to the end of 2017 by US$380m shareholding in Cairn India Limited CIL, then and also retained a 20% working interest in the valued at US$1billion.
Catcher licence with first oil expected from 2017.
Simon Thomson, CEO and Macky Sall, President of Senegal.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
