CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This year has seen further progress in the transformation of Old Mutual.
A strong financial performance This has been a good year for Old Mutual with strong underlying financial performance, significant strategic developments and continued operational delivery.
Net client cash flows NCCF for the Group, excluding our non-US affiliate, were 11.2 billion.
Gross sales of 26.3 billion were up 11% in constant currency, with funds under management FUM up 6% to 319.4 billion also in constant currency.
Profits grew strongly in the year up 16% in constant currency to 1.6 billion, flat in reported currency.
Group return on equity RoE at 13.3% was within our target range of 12-15%.
Equity markets performed strongly in South Africa and the United States with the JSE All Share up 18% on average and the Russell 1000 Value up 16% on average in the year.
This has been a good year for Old Mutual Equity market performance was more muted in the UK, with the average level of the FTSE with strong underlying financial performance, 100 up 3%.
We saw a further weakening of the significant strategic developments and rand with the average rate declining by 18% against sterling in the period while the closing continued operational delivery.
year-end rand exchange rate declined only Julian Roberts 3%.
This has had a negative impact on our sterling reported results.
Group Chief Executive In mixed macroeconomic conditions Macro-economic conditions in South Africa remained relatively weak with GDP growing by 1.5%, mainly due to labour disputes in the mining and manufacturing sectors.
Power shortages are expected to continue in 2015 Group highlights 11.2 bn 26.3 bn Net client cash flows NCCF for the Gross sales of 26.3 bn were up Group excluding our non-US affiliate 11% in constant currency 16% 13.3% Profits grew strongly in the year, Group return on equity RoE at 13.3% up 16% in constant currency was within our target range of 12-15% 6 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report with the consequence that GDP is forecasted business for 162 million: we purchased an we are continuing to see the benefits of price to grow moderately by 2.1%.
However, a additional 25% of Old Mutual Finance for remediation and claims savings initiatives prolonged period of low oil prices could 63 million: and Nedbank bought a 20% proving particularly successful.
benefit the South African consumer as a stake in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated The regulatory environment in South Africa significant proportion of disposable income at ETI for 305 million.
Operationally, we are is expected to undergo significant the lower end of the socio-economic scale is investing in new platform technology in the transformation in the medium term as changes spent on transport and food costs, both of UK which will transform our customers such as the proposed Retail Distribution which should reduce.
Sub-Saharan Africa experience, boost product capability and Review RDR, Solvency Assessment and continued to experience strong growth of lower our cost base from 2017 onwards.
Management, Pensions Reform, Treating 4.8%, with growth predicted to increase Our focus now is on integrating the acquisitions, Customers Fairly and Twin Peaks regulatory marginally in the region to 4.9% in 2015. delivering operational improvements and reform are implemented.
We continue to In the UK, the economy grew by 2.6% in 2014, creating value from these investments.
engage constructively with the various the fastest since 2007, and similar levels of Following the completion of the UAP transaction regulatory authorities in this regard.
Inflation fell in 2015, we will have deployed R3.6 billion of Our offering in East Africa, where we are during the year and unemployment continued the R5 billion we identified to fund acquisitions.
looking to buy controlling stakes in financial to fall.
The US experienced GDP growth of We are investing in Africa for the medium-to services businesses with both retail and 2.4% which is forecast to accelerate to 3.6% long-term and, while quality insurance assets wholesale capabilities, was significantly in 2015. in Africa have become increasingly scarce, we strengthened when we agreed to buy a have maintained a disciplined approach to majority stake of 60.7% in UAP Holdings, acquisitions, only deploying capital in line with Strategic overview subject to various regulatory approvals.
Additionally, we ensure Strategic delivery in our has a strong position in East and Central that any business we acquire has a strong chosen markets Africa and a product offering that is highly cultural fit with Old Mutual.
This year has seen further progress in the complementary to our existing businesses.
It is transformation of Old Mutual.
We have We are building an African a sizeable business and one that provides a reshaped the business and in time this should financial services champion platform for us to expand in the fast growing lead to a different earnings profile for the At the heart of our strategy to build an African East African region.
In Kenya, UAP has the Group.
We have a simple, focused strategy financial services champion is our strong third largest property & casualty P&C market based on growing in our chosen markets southern African franchise.
We are making share: the second largest health insurance where we have significant competitive good progress in aligning Old Mutual, business: a substantial property investment advantage: building an African financial Nedbank and Mutual & Federal M&F to portfolio and a fast growing life assurance services champion: building the leading retail become the leading financial services group business, which, when combined with our investment business in the UK, and growing in southern Africa.
We are seeing more existing Kenyan life business, will be the fourth our multi-boutique asset management cross-selling between our businesses, with, largest in the country.
It has well established business in the US.
for example, our South African Retail Affluent and diverse distribution networks.
In Uganda, and Mass Foundation businesses selling more it has the second largest P&C and health The final substantive part of our streamlining, iWYZE products.
We have previously stated insurance businesses, and the third largest life simplification and fide-risking programme, that we were targeting pre-tax AOP revenue, business.
It also has small P&C businesses in embarked on in 2010, was completed with the cost and capital synergies of R1 billion by Rwanda, Tanzania and South Sudan, and an minority Initial Public Offering IPO of OM the end of 2017 and we are making good insurance brokerage in the Democratic Asset Management OMAM on the New York progress having identified more than 50% Republic of Congo.
We are making a significant disposed of a number of non-core European We expect the acquisition to complete in the investment in our technology in South Africa businesses in the year: the Skandia businesses first half of 2015, and following completion we and the rest of Africa to improve the in Austria, Germany, Poland and Liechtenstein, will look to combine our Kenyan businesses to experience for customers and intermediaries, with France and Luxembourg sold on have one integrated financial services to provide simpler and more efficient back 2 February 2015. provider.
Our focus initially will be on revenue office processes, support growth in the rest of generating initiatives.
For example, we see We have invested in the Group via acquisitions Africa and integrate platforms across our life, excellent opportunities to offer P&C products and operational improvements to maintain property & casualty and banking businesses.
utilising UAP expertise to Faulus large retail and enhance our performance.
Significant We have addressed areas which we needed client base, which is broadly similar to our investments include: Quilter Cheviot for up to improving: for example, new product launches Mass Foundation Cluster MFC in South Africa.
585 million in February 2015, including 42 have contributed to an increase in single In West Africa our life and P&C businesses million in new equity, to provide Old Mutual premium sales in our Retail Affluent business have been growing organically and will look Wealth with a high quality discretionary by 29%: Old Mutual Investment Group to grow further via partnerships and distribution investment management capability, which OMIG continues to deliver good investment deals.
We have also rolled out new products was financed via the disposal of non-core performance in our key equity funds, including in Nigeria, leveraging our South African European assets and from the proceeds of Old Mutual Investors Fund and the Old Mutual expertise and tailored to local needs and OMAMs IPO: in Africa, we announced our Active Quant Fund, and is showing improving culture, including a retail risk product and intention to acquire a majority stake in UAP performance in our key multi asset class fund, savings product.
In Ghana, we launched a Holdings UAP, an East African insurance the Old Mutual Balanced Fund: and at M&F Old Mutual plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued funeral policy in June and a credit life product RDR is encouraging financial advisers to This year has seen sold via the Ecobank branches in July.
We have switch from independent to restricted advice, further progress in the also added a further 226 advisers in Ghana, so the need for investment providers to have bringing the total to 327. their own distribution network is becoming transformation of increasingly important.
Additionally, financial Nedbank exercised its right to subscribe for Old Mutual.
We have advisers are focusing on providing financial a 20% stake in ETI for a sum of 305 million.
planning and pensions advice and outsourcing reshaped the business and The transaction strengthens the already strong investment management to discretionary strategic alliance between the two banks, in time this should lead to investment managers.
which was established in 2008, to provide a different earnings profile their respective clients a seamless one bank Customer demands have also forced changes experience across 39 countries and comprising on the sector.
Products need to be designed for the Group.
Nedbank has to meet specific outcomes that customers appointed a Director to the Board of ETI desire in their retirement retirements that and a programme of collaboration has been are becoming increasingly long as longevity put in place to realise synergies and drive increases.
Customers now expect their cross-border collaboration between the financial services provider to be digitally two organisations.
accessible necessitating significant investment in IT overhauls.
Building the UKs best retail investment business These changes to the industry provide a Two years ago, we made the decision to build compelling opportunity for businesses which a modern, capital-light, advice-led verticallyhave the right customer offering, which we integrated business based on our core UK believe must include advice given changing operation.
We wanted leading customer regulations and the complexity of the offerings in each layer of the wealth current landscape.
management value chain: advice and In asset management, we have scaled up distribution: platform wraps: wealth solutions: Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI by hiring and asset management.
We took this decision expertise in certain asset classes, with the due to the fundamental shift in UK retail consequence of FUM reaching 21.0 billion financial services.
at the end of 2014, up from 12.6 billion when Over the past several years, a number of OMGI was created in August 2012.
During the factors have combined to cause a shift from year we added capabilities in Asian Equities, traditional life assurance to a new more Fixed Income Absolute Return and European customer-focused, capital-light model.
We will continue to add capabilities include structural factors such as the introduction selectively.
Additionally, our purchase of of significant new regulatory frameworks, for Quilter Cheviot provides Old Mutual with a example Solvency II, RDR and, more recently, leading position in discretionary investment the liberalisation of the UK pensions regime.
management, with 165 investment managers The introduction of quantitative easing and the directly managing customers money through resulting sustained period of low interest rates a bespoke advisory service.
has been significant as the long-term liability We have introduced a number of wealth for guarantee products has been harder to solutions that can help our customers in the match, leading to these products disappearing accumulation phase of their life, as well as in and investment risk being pushed back on the decumulation phase.
services MPS, which allow financial advisers These factors have had several consequences.
to outsource the investment management New regulatory regimes have led to the function, are proving particularly popular.
development of capital-efficient products as For example, WealthSelect, which provides old style products are proving too capital financial advisers with access to the most intensive.
Pricing transparency has caused comprehensive range of portfolio margin compression, and hence the need for management, solutions in the market, with a businesses to participate in more of the value free to the client MPS, has attracted around chain.
Following the introduction of new rules 700 million of net new money in 2014. on the provision of financial advice, the high We already have one of the leading wrap street banks, historically providers of this platforms with 30.8 billion of FUM and a service have largely taken the decision to exit wide selection of products available.
Last year, and therefore financial adviser networks have we took the decision to transform our platform become more popular particularly given the into one of the most flexible in the market, with significant changes in retirement provisions.
8 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report added functionality and product offering, OMAM has gone through a significant APE sales in MFC were up 11% on the prior through an outsourcing agreement with IFDS.
transformation since that period to ensure it year, with a particularly strong performance in The transformation will take time, cost and effort met our criteria for listing.
We brought in a the second half, due to the very successful but is critical to the success of the business.
new management team to oversee the launch of the 2-IN-ONE savings product and transformation of the business.
We took the improved adviser productivity.
We launched On 1 July 2014 we bought Intrinsic, one of the decision to focus on long-term, institutionally 2-IN-ONE in August 2014 in response to the UKs largest financial adviser networks with driven, active asset management to generate specific need of our customers to access a over 3,000 advisers.
The business is now alpha for our clients, and we disposed of those portion of their savings in a way that would not integrated in the Old Mutual Wealth model affiliates that were loss-making or did not attract surrender charges, as well as being an and we are well placed to capitalise on the generate the returns we expect.
We decided affordable alternative to short term loans.
RDR-driven trend towards restricted advisers to build a global distribution capability and Since launch, sales have totalled R630 million.
The UK Platform, in 2014, this team raised $5.5 billion in total The MFC business has continued to grow, with personal protection products and elements assets funded in OMAM affiliates, and 255,000 net new customers added in 2014 and of OMGIs fund range have been added to non-US based clients now account for 20% now has more than 2.8 million customers, with Intrinsics product panel for its 930 restricted of FUM.
an adviser force of 4,142. advisers, up from 699 at the end of 2013.
Quilter Cheviot also increases our distribution On 9 October 2014, we announced the As a result of health care intervention in reach, through financial advisers, professional IPO of 22,000,000 OMAM shares at $14 South Africa, we have seen a significant service firms and direct sales teams.
The underwriters also exercised an improvement in the life expectancy of people overallotment option on 2,231,375 OMAM living with HIV.
While this is an issue that We believe that the liberalisation of the UK shares.
As a consequence, Old Mutual plc affects the whole of society, we have taken pensions market will result in an increase in now owns 94,555,859 shares, or 78.8%, of the decision to release some of the reserves the demand for advice as those approaching the issued share capital of OMAM.
The gross we had previously set aside due to mortality retirement explore their options.
When the proceeds for the Group from the IPO process, rates, and will be using a proportion of these liberalised pensions regime comes into force including the pre-IPO dividend, totalled provisions to increase the level of cover for from 6 April 2015, Old Mutual Wealth will be 317 million.
Additionally, able to offer a full suite of flexible options.
given the improved mortality experience in Through our Collective Retirement Account The purpose of the IPO was to enhance South Africa, we will now be able to offer CRA we already offer both capped and OMAMs financial and operating flexibility to customers products which are more flexible drawdown as well as investment deploy capital to continue to grow, develop affordable and provide better value.
solutions for decumulation, and from April further its multi-boutique asset management we will offer all CRA customers flexible business and provide the Group with Gross sales in Corporate were up 46% to access to their pensions savings.
We will remain R36.8 billion, with profits up 7% to R1.3 billion.
a supportive shareholder in this process.
Corporate achieved strong recurring We are pleased with the significant progress premium growth in the year up 105%, that Old Mutual Wealth is making in its mainly due to strong Superfund and group Business review transition to a vertically integrated business assurance sales.
Corporate has made The following business commentary refers to and we are seeing evidence that the model excellent progress with transforming the the locally reported currency.
is working: more money is flowing into the administration business following the launch Platform from our adviser network and Old Mutual Emerging Markets of the new Superfund umbrella.
moremoney is flowing from the Platform into Old Mutual Emerging Markets had a very OMGI.
We have set a target for the existing OMIG delivered modest 2% profit growth, strong year with AOP up 23% to R11.0 billion.
Old Mutual Wealth businesses to achieve mainly due to increased completion fees Gross sales were up 12% to R185 billion, 270 million of AOP by the end of 2015, following several successful deployments in although NCCF was down 14% to R21.3 billion not including Quilter Cheviot, and we are the Alternatives Boutiques, although offset due to a number of large institutional outflows.
confident that we will achieve this.
Low-margin FUM was up 8% to R905 billion.
institutional outflows from listed asset Continuing to grow and improve In South Africa, gross sales were up 14% driven management boutiques led to an outflow of OM Asset Management primarily by product innovation.
In our Retail R4.6 billion against R5.7 billion of net inflows In 2010, we said that we were exploring a Affluent business, Annual Premium Equivalent in the prior year.
minority IPO of our US asset management APE sales were 9% up on the previous year, as business, with the timing determined by single premium sales saw growth of 29%, our progress against our goals of growth, bolstered by strong XtraMAX sales.
Regular improved margins and investment premium sales were down 6% as the tough performance, as well as by the conditions economic environment led to lower XtraMAX of the equity markets.
However non-covered sales were up 16% due to higher unit trust sales and strong flows into Wealth.
Old Mutual Wealths growth continued with net inflows of R8.9 billion in the year.
Old Mutual plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Old Mutual Finance OMF grew loans by 20% The combined clusters have developed income from ETI as estimated by Nedbank over the prior year to R9.9 billion.
Its collections competitive client value propositions and on a prudent basis effective from the fourth ratio was 91.2% and together with loan growth strong market positioning as reflected in quarter, as ETI reports later than Nedbank.
led to credit loss ratios reducing to 12.4% from headline earnings growth of 19.3% and an The division also reported stronger 14%.
Sales through the OMF branch footprint increased ROE of 19.7% 2013: 18.7% against performance from all five of its regional now account for more than a quarter of MFC a higher average total capital allocated at subsidiaries.
Old Mutual Wealth P&C in South Africa continued to show Nedbank Capital grew headline earnings by Old Mutual Wealth produced a good progress in its turnaround with an underwriting 23.3%, with this strong performance driven performance with profits up 5% to margin of 0.9%, against 5.6 % last year, by good NII growth and improvements 227 million, from 217 million in 2013, with and an underwriting profit of R81 million in impairments.
Lower NIR growth reflects strong performance from OMGI and the UK compared to an underwriting loss of R469 the high 2013 base in trading income Platform offset by the reduction in AOP from million following price remediation and related to renewable-energy transactions.
the divested European businesses and lower improved claims management.
Gross written Pre-provisioning operating profit growth was profits in our International business.
premium of R10.8 billion, up 2%, reflects the 12.0%.
Headline earnings growth of 15.8% Excluding the divested European businesses, active management of the quality of the book, in Nedbank Corporate was underpinned by profits were up 11%.
Gross sales were up 11% albeit at a cost in terms of market share.
The strong NII and NIR growth.
The increase in NII on the prior year at 16.0 billion, with NCCF of claims ratio of 69.5% is significantly better than was supported by commercial mortgage and 3.7 billion 61% higher than 2013, which led to the prior year of 76.3%.
We are exploring corporate lending activities and endowment an increase in FUM to 82.5 billion.
direct insurance opportunities that the recent benefits.
The growth in NIR was from core In the UK, NCCF at OMGI of 2.5 billion acquisition in Kenya presents.
In this regard transactional income and private-equity was significantly higher than in the prior year we have entered into an agreement with three investments.
Low levels of impairments 2013: 0.7 billion with strong performance industry experts to consider the strategic continue to reflect good risk management across most funds.
The Global Equity Absolute direction, innovation and centres of excellence across the portfolio.
Return fund was our top selling fund with net that would be necessary to facilitate the Nedbank Business Bankings strong increase flows of 1.4 billion, and the UK Alpha fund successful implementation of this initiative.
of 17.8% in headline earnings and improving attracted more than 0.8 billion of net flows.
Profits in Rest of Africa were up 5% as we ROE follow the normalisation of impairments Our adviser network Intrinsic contributed invested in distribution, IT, brand building from a large single-client default in 2013 and 179 million of NCCF from July through to and improved our governance infrastructure.
solid NII growth from increased product December via Cirilium.
OMGIs FUM at the On a like-for-like basis, APE sales were up 17% volumes and higher endowment earnings.
end of the year was 21.0 billion, up 31%, on the previous year as a result of increased Lower NIR reflects the impact of maintaining including 2.0 billion of FUM from Cirilium.
adviser numbers in Kenya and the inclusion of transactional fees at 2013 levels as well as Gross flows into OMGI from the UK Platform Ghana for the first time.
Non-covered sales the proactive reduction of transactional were 1.8 billion in the year 2013: 0.8 billion, were up 16% due to strong unit trust flows in banking fees in alignment with market OMGI now manages 12% of the FUM on the Zimbabwe and large sales to the National practices.
Pre-provisioning operating profit Platform, up from 8.5% in 2013.
OMGIs Social Security Fund in Kenya.
Headline earnings in Nedbank success was recognised at the 2014 Investment Retail grew 15.7% and benefited from an Week Fund Manager of the Year Awards Asia and Latin America profits grew by improvement in impairments in personal loans where it was awarded Global Group of 39% due to a strong performance by and home loans.
NIR was influenced by the the Year.
Colombia, improved results in China, strategic decision to slow down personal loans significant growth in AIVA and favourable The UK Platform saw gross sales of 5.1 billion and maintain transactional fees at 2013 levels.
2013: 4.7 billion although NCCF was lower Consequently, pre-provisioning operating than the prior year at 2.0 billion due to profit decreased by 4.1%.
Nedbank increased re-registrations and one IFA moving Nedbank produced a strong set of results, Nedbank Wealths headline earnings growth 153 million to their own discretionary fund with headline earnings up 14% to R9.9 billion, of 15.8% was off a high 2013 base.
FUM on the Platform driven by good net interest income growth largely due to record earnings growth in now stands at 30.8 billion, up 13% since the and a lower credit loss ratio, despite Wealth Management and continued start of the year, which, along with flat costs strengthening central provisioning and momentum in Asset Management, partially led to an operating profit of 19 million increasing coverage levels.
Net interest offset by relatively slower growth from 2013: 13 million.
income NII grew by 8% due to an increase Insurance.
The performance in Insurance in average interest-earning banking assets.
Platform sales through Intrinsic restricted resulted from lower levels of sales of Non-interest revenue NIR was up 5%, advisers totalled 178 million, with 68 million traditional insurance products, including with an improved second half performance.
Sales are on an upward trend, with homeowners cover and  Impairments were down 19% and the credit 43 million in December against an average insurance products.
The Rest of Africa Division, loss ratio continued to improve with all clusters of 27 million per month in the period since previously included in the Centre, reported now within or below their target levels.
This represented 10% of Platform earnings of R357 million 2013: R173 million, sales in December, with more than 50% going showing strong growth, including associate into the CRA.
10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Internationals profits were disappointing at Non-US affiliate 37 million, down 24% on the previous year, Underperformance in 2013 and some A focus on financial due to foreign exchange movements restricting senior personnel turnover resulted in net wellbeing and profits and other one-off costs.
Gross sales outflows during the year of 6.3 billion.
were 1.8 billion, 4% lower than the prior year, FUM now stands at 32.3 billion.
Investment responsible investment with sales in the UK and South Africa higher performance in 2014 has improved We have committed a strategic priority to than in the previous year but with lower sales meaningfully relative to 2013, with 81% of be recognised as a leader in responsible in all other regions.
All regions, except the UK, portfolios beating their benchmarks on an business in each of the markets in which we contributed to positive NCCF of 0.3 billion asset weighted basis compared to 26% in operate, and we have appointed Gail and FUM of 15.6 billion.
The longer term track records also Klintworth as Group Customer Director to remain strong across the product line for run this process.
We have many excellent The transaction to acquire Quilter Cheviot three year, five year and longer periods.
examples of our progress as a responsible completed on 25 February 2015 and we can The business has now completed a rebusiness, across the five pillars of being now start progressing with the integration of organisation to provide stable management responsible to our customers, communities, the business into Old Mutual Wealth.
Quilter and investment teams going forward and employees, the environment and in our Cheviot performed in line with our expectations, future succession.
It is confident that it now has investments, built on a strong foundation of with NCCF of 1.1 billion leading to FUM of the right platform, products and performance ethics and good governance.
going forward, although a risk remains for seeking to raise our ambition in the two further outflows due to the delayed impact of We also completed the rebrand from Skandia areas where we believe we can have the the legacy issues on certain client mandates.
to Old Mutual Wealth in September 2014. most significant impact: financial wellbeing The initial response to the rebrand has been and responsible investing and we will be For more information on our businesses, see highly promising with consumer awareness working with our partners, including the p36 of Old Mutual Wealth at 30% and at 98% Cambridge Institute for Sustainability amongst the financial adviser network.
Leadership, to drive impactful action through each of our business units.
Institutional Asset Management OMAM OMAM had a very good year with profits up 32% to $211 million 2013: $160 million due to increases in management fees and some performance fees.
AOP margin increased to 40% before affiliate key employee distributions.
NCCF was very strong at $9.5 billion, with gross inflows of $32.0 billion driven by global equities, emerging markets equities, international equities, US dividend focus equities, US mid cap value equities and real estate assets.
Our Global Distribution initiative performed well, raising $5.5 billion in total assets funded in OMAM affiliates, as we continue to expand our non-US client base, which currently account for 20% of FUM.
Old Mutual plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Our focus now is Black economic Board changes We were pleased to welcome Ingrid Johnson on integrating empowerment and Paul Hanratty to the Board as Executive Old Mutual, through Old Mutual South Africa the acquisitions, Directors.
Ingrid Johnson was appointed OMSA and M&F, announced its BroadGroup Finance Director on 1 July 2014, delivering operational Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE succeeding Philip Broadley who stepped transaction in 2005.
This was aligned with and improvements and down from the Board on 31 August 2014. implemented in collaboration with Nedbank Paul Hanratty was appointed Chief Operating creating value from see announcement by Nedbank on 23 Officer and joined the Board on 1 July 2014.
All the resultant schemes had these investments.
We are also pleased to announce that on the objective of creating sustainable value and 1 May 2015 Vassi Naidoo will join our Board mutual benefits for the business and a broad as a non-executive director as well as the base of diverse partners and beneficiaries, boards of our banking subsidiaries, Nedbank including strategic Black Business Partners Group Limited and Nedbank Limited, as their BBPs, clients and community interest groups prospective new Chairman.
He will succeed affiliated with Old Mutual.
The schemes were Dr Reuel Khoza who has now served nearly also expanded to include employees at all nine years on the Old Mutual Board and will levels within Old Mutual.
not be seeking re-election at this years Annual The OMSA BBBEE except for employee General Meeting.
schemes transaction unwinds on 1 May 2015, with the various schemes settling any Outlook remaining debt due to Old Mutual under the In our main market of South Africa, economic BBBEE transaction.
It is envisaged that the conditions are likely to remain challenging in remaining Old Mutual plc shares in the the short term particularly as the continuing employee schemes will continue to be used to power shortages are expected to constrain attract and retain talented Black management growth.
However, a prolonged period of low into Old Mutual, while the dividends received oil prices will keep inflation down which is on the remaining Old Mutual plc shares in the positive for the consumer.
Our businesses in client and community schemes will continue to South Africa are in good shape and we are be distributed to beneficiaries.
The BBPs will confident about their resilience in 2015, despite take delivery of the remaining Old Mutual plc these headwinds.
shares in their schemes after 1 May 2015.
In the UK, we are well positioned to benefit Discussions are ongoing between Old Mutual, from investment from customers looking to Nedbank and the BBPs on areas for take advantage of the new pension future collaboration.
withdrawal rules that come into effect in April.
Further details will be communicated post We expect demand for advice to increase as a expiry of the Old Mutual BBBEE transaction.
In the US, our focus will remain on pursuing Dividend growth initiatives, including further penetration The Board has considered the position in of non-US markets and through partnerships respect of the final dividend for 2014 and is with scale asset management boutiques and recommending the payment of a final building its business following the successful IPO.
dividend for 2014 of 6.25p per Ordinary Share or its equivalent in other applicable We have invested significantly in our chosen currencies.
Based on this recommendation markets to grow profits over the long term the full-year Ordinary dividend would be 8.7p, while maintaining appropriate levels of a 7% increase on the prior year.
No scrip capital and leverage.
Our focus for 2015 is dividend alternative will be available in on integrating the acquisitions, delivering relation to this dividend.
operational improvements and creating value from these investments.
The Board reaffirms its policy of intending to pursue a progressive dividend policy consistent with our strategy, having regard to overall capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, and targeting a dividend cover in the range of 2.0 to 2.25 times AOP earnings in future.
Interim dividends will routinely be set at 30% of the prior years full ordinary dividend.
12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
