2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued Key Performance Objectives The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against key performance indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of investment The Board reviews at each meeting The Companys NAV has, over the year to returns to ordinary the performance of the portfolio and 30 April 2014 underperformed the benchmark.
shareholders measured by the views of the Investment Manager.
The NAV per share rose by 11.2% while the long-term NAV growth and benchmark rose 13.1% over the same period.
relative performance The reasons are explained in the Chairmans against the benchmark.
Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the longer term, as shown by the historic performance data shown on page 29, growth in the NAV has exceeded the benchmark.
Monitoring and reacting The Board receives regular information The discount premium of the ordinary share price to issues created by the on the composition of the share register to NAV per ordinary share diluted when appropriate discount or premium of the including trading patterns and discount over the year has ranged from a maximum discount ordinary share price premium levels of the Companys ordinary of 6.5% to a premium of 2.6%.
to the NAV per ordinary shares.
The Board discusses and The Company has not bought back any shares in share with the aim of authorises the issue or buy back of the year to 30 April 2014 and in the same period it reduced discount volatility shares when appropriate.
has issued a total of 4,104,471ordinary shares in for shareholders.
satisfaction of the exercise of subscription share A daily NAV per share, diluted when appropriate, calculated in accordance conversion rights at 478p per ordinary share and to meet market demand.
with the AIC guidelines, is issued to the London Stock Exchange.
To qualify and continue to The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since launch meet the requirements information which discloses the current in 1996. for Sections 1158 and 1159 and projected financial position of the Application was made to HMRC for investment trust of the Corporation Tax Act Company against each of the tests set status in respect of the financial year ended 30 April 2010. investment trust out in Sections 1158 and 1159.
2013 and subsequent years subject to the Company status continuing to meet the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
Efficient operation of the The Board annually considers the The Board has received and considered Company with appropriate services provided by the Investment satisfactory the internal controls report of the investment management Manager, both investment and Investment Manager and other key suppliers resources and services administration and reviews on a including contingency arrangements to facilitate from third party suppliers cycle the provision of services from the ongoing operations of the Company in the within a stable and risk third parties including the costs of event of withdrawal or failure of services.
The ongoing charges of the Company for the year The annual operating expenses are ended 30 April 2014 was 1.15% 2013: 1.19%.
reviewed and any non-recurring project related expenditure sanctioned.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
