Provident Financial plc 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Chief Executives review What we do and why we are successful Introduction We have had an excellent year in 2014.
Our performance has been very strong and we have made great progress in further developing our businesses to ensure that we always provide our customers with the right products and the right experience throughout Peter Crook Chief Executive the whole customer journey.
93% 84% Home credit customer satisfaction Vanquis Bank customer satisfaction 15.3% 57.0% Increase in dividend per share Total shareholder return in 2014 Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11 What we do and why we are successful Provident Financial has a very long track record 4.
We have a robust funding model: W e provide much needed of serving non-standard consumers.
We are We have developed a funding model whereby we successful because we have a specialist model access to credit for those borrow long but lend short.
Our funding sources which puts customer outcomes at the forefront are diverse, ensuring that we are not overly reliant who might otherwise of everything we do.
I am often asked how we on one funding source and that we will be able differentiate ourselves from other businesses be financially excluded.
to serve our customers through thick and thin.
and other lending models and how we manage to deliver such high levels of customer satisfaction These attributes mean that we lend responsibly We have been doing this yet still deliver good returns for our shareholders.
to our customers, receive high customer for over 130 years and satisfaction levels and have been able to deliver I believe that there are four fundamental attributes strong growth in both earnings and dividends are proud of what we do.
which are the backbone of our success: since the demerger of the international business in 2007.
Our Total Shareholder Return TSR 1.
We focus solely on serving over this period equates to 20.65 per share the non-standard credit market: or annualised TSR growth of 17%.
In short, we We provide much needed access to credit are good at what we do and I am very proud for those who might otherwise be financially of the contribution we make to society and all excluded.
We have been doing this for over our stakeholders.
130 years and are proud of what we do.
Our customers can be sure that when they A year of strong performance borrow from us they are dealing with a business and business development that genuinely understands them and can use its 2014 has been an excellent year both in terms significant knowledge and experience, built over of performance and the development of the decades, to serve them in the best possible way.
We have delivered adjusted EPS growth of 18.4% and increased the full-year dividend by 2.
Compared with a year ago, we now have the specific needs of consumers a broader mix of businesses following the recent in the non-standard market: acquisition of Moneybarn and the development of Satsuma, our online direct repayment loans Lending responsibly is in our DNA.
Both of these businesses should simple and transparent products with no hidden contribute materially to the medium-term growth charges.
Our manageable weekly or monthly prospects of the group.
It is not only our strong payments ensure that our products are affordable.
I am delighted We are able to do this as each of our businesses with the progress each business has made has bespoke underwriting procedures, based in transitioning to the new Financial Conduct on our historical experience, to ensure that Authority FCA regulatory regime and continuing we properly assess affordability and manage to develop our products and service to meet the credit risk.
We have a tailored business model to serve non-standard consumers: We maintain close contact with our customers throughout our relationship with them.
Whether its the weekly home visit by an agent in home credit, the welcome call in Vanquis Bank or through our various contact centres, we make sure that customers always have someone to talk to.
When customers get into difficulty, we have active and personalised approaches to helping them get back on their feet, including a range of forbearance measures.
Customers know that theyll get a sympathetic and appropriate response from us.
Provident Financial plc 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Chief Executives review continued Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division CCD T he home credit product Vanquis Bank has once again performed strongly CCD has made very good progress during 2014 fits low-income customers in 2014, increasing UK profits by 32.8% to in positioning itself as a more broadly-based 151.0m.
Continued investment in the customer lending business whilst delivering stable profits.
like a glove: it is simple acquisition programme has generated record new Last year we set ourselves a number of actions and transparent with account bookings of 430,000, up from 411,000 in to reposition the home credit business as a 2013.
Vanquis Bank now serves 1.3m customers smaller but leaner, better-quality, more modern manageable weekly as more and more non-standard consumers are business focused on returns.
These included: valuing the utility of owning a credit card in todays payments.
i tightening the underwriting and implementing modern, digital age.
Our high level of service standardised collections processes throughout throughout the customer journey ensures that the organisation to improve the quality of the our customer satisfaction level of 84% remains receivables book: ii rightsizing the cost base to significantly higher than mainstream banks.
maintain profitability: and iii deploying technology Vanquis Bank continues to deliver strong growth throughout the field organisation to improve and, against unchanged credit standards, efficiency and effectiveness and deliver high our marketing programmes are successfully levels of compliance.
I am delighted that the whole delivering an increased flow of new customers CCD team has worked tirelessly this year to from the target audience.
This has resulted in us successfully deliver against each of these actions.
reassessing the medium-term potential for the The home credit product fits low-income UK customer base from between 1.3m and 1.5m customers like a glove: it is simple and transparent customers to between 1.5m and 1.8m customers with manageable weekly payments rather than with an expected average customer balance of large one-off bullet payments and customers approximately 1,000. know they get a sympathetic response when We have recently made the decision to withdraw times are tough.
The business has very high from the pilot credit card operation in Poland.
levels of customer satisfaction of 93% and I am This reflects our conclusion that the timeframe very pleased we have stabilised the business required to develop a business of sufficient scale and will continue to serve our customers in the to achieve the groups target returns is too long right way whilst other more short-term business and therefore not the best use of the groups models come and go.
Accordingly, we have commenced the Satsuma is a very exciting opportunity in process of winding down the Polish operation.
the space between Vanquis Bank and home This includes running off the receivables book in credit.
The continued dislocation caused by the an orderly manner which is expected to be largely regulatory changes to the payday loans market completed in 2015.
We do not expect there to provides an excellent opportunity to develop a be a material cost from winding down the pilot sustainable business with a strong market position operation in 2015. capable of delivering the groups target returns.
We have invested heavily in our underwriting, systems, processes, governance and management team during 2014 and we are well placed to further develop an excellent business through 2015 and beyond.
Satsuma has many of the features of home credit adapted for the online world.
With affordable weekly or monthly repayments, no additional charges, close contact with our customers and a range of forbearance measures for those who get into difficulty, I believe it is the most customercentric product in the market and a much better alternative for customers than payday lending.
Read more on Vanquis Bank Read more on Consumer Credit on pages 4047 Division on pages 4859 Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13 Moneybarn Our investment case M oneybarns ethos is We acquired Moneybarn, the UKs largest The investment case for Provident Financial to help its customers non-standard vehicle finance group, in August is very attractive: 2014 and it is our first acquisition since the get to work by lending Winners in the non-standard credit market demerger of the international business in 2007. will be larger, well-funded specialist lenders responsibly and providing We have very exacting criteria for assessing with sustainable business models like us: potential new acquisitions, including the them with the finance sustainability of the product offering, the quality We have an attractive mix of businesses: of the management team, a market-leading to buy a car.
Strong, profitable and capital generative position, growth potential and high returns.
growth in Vanquis Bank: Moneybarn is the first business to meet all of these criteria.
A cash-generative home credit business with a focus on returns: Founded in 1992, Moneybarn provides car finance to non-standard customers in the UK, Potential for strong growth in Moneybarn operating mainly through brokers with additional through developing the under-served distribution sourced through independent car non-standard vehicle finance market: dealers and from its website directly to customers.
Opportunities for growth with Satsuma in The business offers secured car loans through the segment of the market between home conditional sale agreements.
Moneybarns ethos credit and Vanquis Bank: and is to help its customers get to work by lending responsibly and providing them with the finance The potential for growth into other forms to buy a car.
This fits perfectly with the groups of non-standard lending.
own ethos of financial inclusion.
The transition to the FCA and payday regulation The acquisition of Moneybarn broadens the is causing dislocation in the non-standard credit product offering to the groups target customer market which provides new opportunities base and creates a third leg of earnings that for responsible lending businesses such as complements the organic growth opportunities Provident Financial: available to the group.
Moneybarns new Our management teams are highly skilled business volumes had been constrained prior and experienced, particularly in serving the to acquisition due to funding restrictions but non-standard credit market: have picked up significantly following acquisition.
Moneybarn is highly scalable given the strength We have a robust balance sheet and prudent of its relationships with brokers, its market-leading funding: and credit decisioning and the strength of the groups We generate sufficient capital to support balance sheet and I am delighted with the planned growth and business development start made by the business under the groups without compromising our progressive ownership.
We intend to develop the product dividend policy.
offering at Moneybarn and take advantage of the synergies with the groups existing businesses, Our excellent track record, consistent strategy, including enhancements to underwriting and robust business model and strong market collections capabilities, the development of a position mean that we are in a very good position business-to-consumer proposition and leveraging to further develop our businesses in 2015 the Vanquis Bank customer base.
and deliver another year of success for all of our stakeholders.
Peter Crook Chief Executive Read more on Moneybarn Read more on our markets on pages 6067 on pages 2427
