08 Chief Executives review This is my first letter to you since we launched a new strategy for RBS last year.
It is a strategy that sets out to deliver one very simple aim.
To make this a great bank for our customers: a bank that will earn back their trust, and in turn win more of their business.
Its a strategy that provides the fundamental building blocks to make RBS an attractive investment, a great place to work for our people, and a UK focused bank that the country can be proud of.
09 Chief Executives review Last year we identified the areas we needed Our 2014 performance shows a strategy 2.3%.
ROEs of 17.5% and 11.9% respectively to improve in order to deliver our strategy - that is working.
It demonstrates the forensic demonstrate their value to RBS today.
cost, complexity, capital, and trust from our approach we have taken to evaluate our These franchises are also the custodians of customers.
The energy and resolve of our businesses against the returns they provide our core strengths - serving the everyday people has resulted in significant progress on to shareholders.
The strong execution against banking needs of over 18 million personal and these, and we have delivered on the goals we the targets we set now gives us a platform to business customers in the UK and RoI, and set for 2014. go further, faster.
helping these customers meet their ambitions.
We said we would reduce waste and As well as a review of our current performance Were investing in these franchises with a view inefficiency and reorganise ourselves I will set out exactly what this bank will to exceeding customers expectations and around the needs of our customers, moving become, what we will do and what we will not generating sustainable returns.
from seven operating divisions to three do as we seek to improve shareholder value The performance of CIB reflects the big customer businesses.
This reorganisation and secure our market leading positions.
It changes this business is going through, and is complete and we have removed involves an acceleration of our strategy to the tough macro-economic conditions and 1.1 billion of cost from the business.
build on our domestic strengths and a further increasingly high costs of regulation it faces.
We outlined a programme to rationalise, reshaping of our CIB business as we seek to Income decreased alongside lower adjusted simplify and bolster our operating systems address its unacceptable returns.
operating expenses as we reduced CIBs risk and processes to make them less complex, profile in accordance with our strategy, with We have five ambitious new goals for the more resilient and easier to use.
Significant restructuring, litigation and conduct costs second year of our plan and new financial progress has been made in this area with pushing the business to an operating loss.
But targets so that you, our shareholders, can hold our key services available to customers CIB has a strong customer franchise serving us to account for our performance.
99.96% of the time during 2014. our leading UK and Western European clients: We set out a plan to place the bank on a 2014 financial performance increasingly it is these clients we intend to sure capital footing targeting a CET1 ratio The earning power of our key customer focus on.
I will set out later in this letter the of 11% by the end of 2015, and 12% or businesses lies at the heart of the strong steps we will take to do this.
greater by the end of 2016, so as to remove financial progress RBS made during 2014. any doubts about our fundamental strength An overarching part of delivering sustainable What you can see from these results is that and stability.
This capital plan is on track returns is controlling operating costs.
When underneath all the noise of conduct, litigation and we have reached our 2015 target one I announced our cost target last year it was and restructuring charges, we have strong year ahead of schedule.
This improvement described by some as the most ambitious performing customer businesses that are was driven by a 52% reduction in riskcost target in Europe.
Well, through our drive geared towards delivering sustainable returns weighted assets in RCR.
across the bank for greater simplicity we have for investors.
We said we would undertake the biggest over-delivered, and surpassed our target of bank initial public offering in US history.
We made an operating profit of 3.5 billion 1 billion of operating cost savings for the Citizens Financial Group was successfully in 2014, the highest since 2010 and a vast bank.
With a cost:income ratio for the year of floated on the New York Stock Exchange.
Great progress on cost 68% on an adjusted basis, we are still behind At the same time we substantially reduction countered a fall in total income - our peers on cost efficiency: and there is work completed the orderly run-down and which primarily reflected a smaller risk profile to do to fulfil our desire to take it below 50%.
closure of our US asset-backed product and lower income from trading activities in But we have a strong track record on delivery, business, removing 15 billion of riskCIB - and led to an overall improvement in and there is resolve across this bank to get weighted assets from our balance sheet.
We made a commitment to fairness with our customers.
We said that RBS would Our attributable loss of 3.5 billion, includes I am very pleased with the progress we have no longer compete with other banks in a 1.3 billion of restructuring charges, made in 2014 against our stated objectives.
number of areas and we would use less 2.2 billion in litigation and conduct While that progress is evident in the operating technical language that our customers find provisions, a 1.5 billion net deferred tax asset profit line of the results announced, we easier to understand.
We stopped offering write-off, the initial 320 million dividend for are still posting an attributable loss to zero per cent balance transfers on credit the Dividend Access Share and a write-down our shareholders.
This is an accounting cards that trap customers in spirals of ever of 4 billion anticipating the disposal consequence of one of our 2014 achievements increasing debt, we ended teaser rates that of Citizens.
- the successful flotation of Citizens on the penalise existing customers, and we now New York Stock Exchange.
It is increasingly clear what is driving explain all of our fees and charges on one underlying performance at RBS - PBB and Now the deconsolidation of Citizens is finally side of A4 paper for both our personal and CPB.
PBB and CPB are now more important within sight, accounting rules require us to business customers.
to RBSs performance than at any time in write it down to its estimated disposal value.
As well as being a stronger, simpler and the past decade.
This year they generated This write-down substantially represents the fairer bank, I said that we would also be a 61% of our income, compared with c. 37% goodwill previously attached to Citizens.
No longer chasing global for equivalent businesses in 2009.
And they I realise that the headlines this generates are market share, but instead focusing squarely have been at the forefront of progress towards disappointing it is important to emphasise on our core strength, namely our home our goal of increased operating efficiency, that this particular accounting loss does not market places in the UK and the Republic reducing adjusted operating expense by change our regulatory capital or tangible net of Ireland RoI.
2.6% over the year whilst income was up asset value.
10 Safety remains a cornerstone of our strategy We are determined to learn the lessons from We plan to fully exit our Markets businesses A core question for any bank seeking the trust the wrongdoings of the past and ensure that in Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle of its customers is whether its safe and strong those responsible are held to account.
East and Africa, and substantially reduce our and focused and able to support customers presence in Asia Pacific and the US.
We will Building on our strengths and the economy.
The progress we have exit our cash management services outside I said this time last year that the days when made should mean that it is no longer in any the UK and RoI.
These businesses are not global domination mattered more to RBS than doubt.
The CET1 ratio has improved by 260 essential to our go-forward client franchise, great customer service are well and truly over.
basis points to 11.2% over the course of the and their standalone returns are not sufficient Well, we are not just talking about being a year, up from 8.6% as at 31 December 2013. to justify an exception.
UK-centred bank: we are a UK-centred bank.
We reached our full year 2015 CET1 target of In doing so we will be free to grow and 80% of our revenues are generated in the 11% one year ahead of schedule, and we are improve the services our customers value UK.
At the time of the 2008 financial crisis this on track to achieve a revised CET1 target of most.
And by serving customers better this number was 48%.
Seven years after the crisis 13%, which we have set in place for the period franchise can reinforce its competitive position we still have top 3 market positions in of the CIB restructuring.
and deliver sustainable returns above the cost the following UK segments: of equity for our shareholders.
We now have considerably more high quality large corporates and financial institutions capital than we had when the financial crisis FIs : This is a plan for a smaller, more focused, hit and this bank was bailed out by the but ultimately more valuable bank with the Sterling provider in wholesale banking: taxpayer.
But we need to meet and exceed vast majority of its assets in the UK, and for SME banking: the expectations of the Prudential Regulation RBS marks the end of the standalone global Private banking: Authority PRA and of our shareholders and investment bank model.
Stress test results show its Financing for UK infrastructure projects: What I have just outlined will require an not just how much capital you have, but how and enormous amount of effort from our people.
your balance sheet behaves under extreme Personal banking.
And I do not for one second take that for economic scenarios.
We have a proven track record of We are building on this strength to manage delivering change in our business.
value for shareholders and deliver the most This year our team in RBS Capital Resolution resilient future returns.
has managed to accelerate the removal of A better bank for customers some of our most capital intensive assets, Much has been written and discussed about In last years letter, I told you that where and we are on track to complete our 2014- the root causes of the financial crisis.
For me a business cant deliver value to our 2016 RCR run-down targets by the end of it came down to one big problem - a failure to shareholders in a reasonable time period 2015, one year ahead of the original target put the customers interest at the heart of our we will take decisive action.
We have put we set for ourselves.
Our capital strength will 1 business and its culture.
For too long market international private banking activities up for be bolstered further when Citizens Financial share mattered more than customer care.
sale and we are now going further, faster in Group in the USA is deconsolidated from our reshaping parts of our CIB business.
It is why over the last year our people have worked hard to embed this customer first The investment bank was over-stretched both In 2015, we also plan to start a programme of mentality into everything we do as a bank.
in range of product and geography.
There issuing Basel III compliant Additional Tier 1 was too much risk for too little return.
There are some concrete achievements we the increasing regulatory requirements on can call out for 2014 including: faster account this business, it was a strategy that now has Conduct opening times, a simplified product range little hope of delivering acceptable returns It has taken far longer than anyone realised to and a clearer pricing structure.
And we went to shareholders.
root out all the past problems, practices and against the rest of the industry and took a related fines, and we still have challenges on To be a number 1 bank means providing a full calculated risk by ending teaser rates, and we the horizon.
We are changing the culture of service offering to UK and Western European now offer our best rates to new and existing this bank: our aim is that shareholders are not corporate and financial institution clients.
customers across our product range.
We may exposed to this scale of conduct risk again.
It means providing a first class platform to have lost customers and income as a result, process payments in the UK and Europe.
but we still believe that this was the right thing What you will have seen from me over the last And it means having the expertise to help to do and will deliver long term value year is the way I will be open and honest with customers raise finance on the debt capital for shareholders.
you and our customers when dealing with markets and manage the high level risks they these issues: the way we continue to approach face.
Serving customers in these areas is an I want to assure our customers that the FX is a good example of this.
I undisputed area of strength for us - they are positive changes we made in 2014 are will talk openly about the hurt this wrongdoing our core capabilities, and are essential to us not one-off.
We strive to do better for our causes me and the many thousands of people providing a first class service.
In addition, customers every day, and when we spot an within this bank.
I will detail the things we are trading and distribution hubs in Singapore and opportunity to serve customers better, we doing to put things right for our customers, the US will ensure the corridors of commerce will act.
For example, customers shouldnt and the challenge and change we are driving remain open to allow our customers access to be penalised because they lose track of the through the culture and conduct of our staff.
date and are hit with an unexpected overdraft Note: 1 Private banking and wealth management activities where the primary relationship management is conducted outside the British Isles.
11 Chief Executives review charge for the first time.
And if we can do Our strategy envisages a capital benefit net playing a key role in implementing the strategy more to help customers through both the ups of restructuring costs from 2016.
We intend that will take us forward.
There is still work to and downs in their finances, it is absolutely our to return all capital to shareholders above a do, but Philip will leave on a positive note, with responsibility to do so.
This capital return, which RBS firmly focussed on serving its customers, remains subject to regulatory approval at the and shareholders.
But we recognise that these are chipping time, will only be made once the significant What you see today is a bank on track away at the edges, and more radical change legacy conduct hurdles are behind us.
We and delivering on its plan.
A bank that is is needed if we are to establish real upward see this as another important step towards determined to earn the trust of its customers momentum and achieve our targets.
We have repaying the support of our shareholders, every day.
A bank that helps the smallest to be constantly asking ourselves what a really including the UK tax payer.
enterprises through to the largest companies good bank for customers would look like, and grow and prosper.
A bank that is determined to be constantly improving what we do to take 2015 Goals and revised targets to reward its shareholders for their support.
In our financial reporting I have set out in the table below five new And a bank that is able to deliver on our we will include full details of the progress ambitious business goals for the second year ambition to be number one for customer we have made as well as providing clear, of our strategic plan to simplify and restructure service and advocacy in the UK and RoI.
independent measures of the banks customer this bank, achieving them will stand us in trust and advocacy scores.
good stead to reach our goals.
We have also published a revised set of financial and Ross McEwan We may have started from further back than business targets.
These are consistent with Chief Executive some, but we are determined to reach our the other changes set out in this letter, and will aspiration of being number 1 for customer enable you, our shareholders, to continue to service, trust and advocacy.
It wont be easy, track our progress and hold us to account.
but I firmly believe it is doable.
By 2019 RBS intends to be a low cost business A better bank for shareholders focused on effective, efficient delivery for our Critical though it is that we build a bank that is customers.
It will be a bank based in the UK safe, in capital strength, in structure and and RoI, with a presence in Western Europe, on behaviour, it must also be profitable.
It intends to be a bank with leading market positions in each of our There are good businesses within RBS that chosen business areas, and a bank that can are capable of delivering real value to their generate attractive returns for shareholders on customers.
If we do that, our customers will a sustainable basis.
be happy for us to make a fair and sustainable profit.
Conclusion I would like to take this opportunity to thank Without sustainable profitability we cannot our Chairman, Sir Philip Hampton, as he takes ensure our future safety: profit is the best form part in his final Annual Results with the bank.
Philip joined in 2009 amid the global financial We remain acutely conscious of how much crisis and immediately brought a clear sense was invested to ensure our continued survival of purpose and direction for the bank at a time by our private shareholders and, critically, by of incredible uncertainty, both for the UK and the Government.
As we reduce the tail risks RBS.
His dedication to making this a great our bank is exposed to, repair our overall bank for the country served him well through profitability and reshape CIB we are creating the tremendous, but positive, change that the potential to build up excess capital, paving RBS has undergone during his tenure.
I want the way for distributions to the Government to express my personal gratitude to Philip for and other shareholders.
guiding me during my first year as CEO, and Our long-term targets Our 2015 goals Strength and sustainability CET1 ratio 13% during the period of CIB Reduce RWAs to 300bn restructuring Customer experience No.
1 for service, trust and advocacy Improve NPS in every UK franchise 1 Simplifying the bank Cost:income ratio 50% Reduce costs by 800m Supporting growth Leading market positions in every franchise Lending growth in strategic segments nominal UK GDP growth 2 Employee engagement Employee engagement index GFS norm Raise employee engagement index to within 2 8% of GFS norm Note: 1 Excludes restructuring, conduct and litigation costs, intangible write-off charges as well as the operating costs of Citizens Financial Group and Williams & Glyn.
2 Global Financial Services GFS norm currently stands at 83%.
