RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT STEPHEN HESTER Group Chief Executive 2014 2015 2016 2017 Core review portfolio Complete disposal Strategic focus programme First wave of disposals Rights issue, disposals Further disposals and earnings Capital and and earnings Restart dividend balance sheet Balance sheet clean up strengthening Preparation for Solvency II Optimise procurement Improve underwriting capabilities Plan design FTE reductions Management Performance strengthening improvement Implementation starts: Simplify products and processes Cost base Underwriting actions Revenue initiatives Upgrade technology in each of our larger markets there are some competitors reporting falls in, Group Chief or static like-for-like, premium income.
Five-year bond yields are down a across our principal markets, impacting Executives the outlook for investment returns.
Around two-thirds of RSAs premiums month-end spot exchange rates would statement 2014 ACTIONS 2014 was an important year for RSA.
The Company a mandate to lead the Company in made good progress in the face of some tough three urgent tasks.
These were: to thoroughly identify the sources of RSAs realities.
We can look to the coming years with performance weaknesses: to devise and external challenges to realising We have created far reaching and detailed plans RSAs potential: and then to implement for operational improvement.
The third is well in hand, but with much tough and disciplined the underlying potential and performance of work ahead to follow through.
As so often in corporate turnarounds, the cost of remediation has proven greater than we hoped, especially in STRATEGY AND FOCUS INDUSTRY CONDITIONS the form of reserving and non-cash RSA is a leading international insurer.
We operate in relatively mature, stable charges.
But we have been able to Our refocused business has leadership and consolidated markets.
These pay for this through outperformance positions in Scandinavia, Canada, continue to underpin our ambition of in divestment proceeds.
We have UK and Ireland, and parts of Latin good and improving customer service refocused RSA on its most important America.
Where we do business, we are offering vital risk management and businesses, with a well executed determined to do it well and be known value for money.
We see continued divestment programme already for our service and appeal to customers.
evolution as digital and other trends substantially completed.
In volatile and competitive markets, are harnessed to improve the scope our balance of geography, customer, of how we operate.
Despite economic product and distribution channels challenges, industry conditions also shareholder support via a rights issue are valuable and distinctive attributes.
allow us to realistically target a cash generative business, returning greater announced divestments to date of We have three interrelated priorities.
than the cost of capital for shareholders.
Customers are our lifeblood: serving prices well above tangible book value.
We need to RSAs diversity helps protect our p er fo rm a nc e p o te nt ial.
H o wever, like of long-term subordinated debt and transparency: and have the discipline industry competitors and many other saw credit ratings restored.
Our shareholders own businesses, low interest rates, exchange the Company: we are concentrating rate moves and modest growth rates Across our core business, determined intensely on building strong, long-term ac ti on h as se t a c ourse for improved performance to make RSA the best headwinds.
Strong price competition, underwriting results with current year investment proposition we can achieve.
lo ss ra ti os e xvo la til e i te ms improving seeking alternative outlets from stock and bond markets, has led to sharper business units, and expected to do so price volume trade-offs than before in a number of segments.
As a result, across our business to sustain and RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL RESULTS of what we seek to achieve as RSA improves performance in coming years.
Net tangible assets have improved by now lie within our target range from a capital perspective, though still at the lower end.
We are pleased to recommence dividend payments with dividend payouts plus further capital distributions if excess capital arises.
market movements and the actions we have taken.
underlying level at constant exchange disposals, Motability changes and the Group ADC.
Scandinavia did improve the health of our customer franchise and to invest in technology, overhaul.
This has focused on improving product and service initiatives.
These both the quality and the health of its efforts mitigated the customer impact At reported exchange rates premiums d ra g o f co st s b e lo w th e underwriting expected to improve performance line is also being addressed through further in coming years, also returning reducing central overhead, interest and Current year core business underwriting us to moderate top-line growth.
Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs The cost base is being tackled have been written down where no improvement in underlying loss ratios, vigorously and investment plans to longer well supported, with action on and after a relatively normal weather facilitate this and improve customer booked values of discounted liabilities and large loss charge.
The core business capabilities have been set out for the c ur re nt ye ar u nd e rly in g l os s r at io current circumstances, though both are still potentially vulnerable to future and has improved in each quarter economic conditions and business volatile accounting items in the form of unrealised bond gains as well as off-balance sheet pension liabilities which are now reporting a surplus lift productivity measures Premiums: under IFRS for the UK, but with latent risk.
The latter mainly relates to the development items have proven more costly than was estimated at the start of the year.
We expect them to improve sharply 17 the charges outlined above, albeit much changes to our executive management of the latter being non-cash items.
team, and talented people have stepped up internally and have joined us from PLANS FOR THE FUTURE elsewhere.
RSAs new and focused strategy was set We know where we want to take out a year ago.
We believe it is the right RSA and how to do it.
Our medium-term performance challenges and setbacks.
But we believe in this Company, in its place in our underlying return on net tangible industry and its performance potential.
premiums, though the latter is sensitive to Solvency II outcomes as well as market factors and may need to THANKS Managing major transformations STEPHEN HESTER is not easy.
Sincere thanks and Group Chief Executive appreciation are due to all our stakeholders: customers and brokers for their support in the uncertainties through disappointing past news and equity fundraising: and of equally vital importance, my RSA colleagues.
The steadfast and dedicated service How we are delivering against our new of our 19,000 staff towards customers strategic vision continued... and to improving our Company is hugely
