Chief Executives strategic overview This has made a significant Having completed the contribution to our performance rescaling and reshaping in the face of challenging market of our business in 2013, to conditions and helped us to continue winning new work, consistent create a platform from which with our selective approach.
we could take the Group forward following the effects of the economic downturn, at the beginning of 2014 we refreshed our vision, values New orders plus probable orders and strategy for growth.
5.1bn of new orders plus probable orders won in 2014 Richard Howson 2013: 4.9bn Chief Executive Total order book plus probable orders 18.6bn of total orders plus probable orders at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 18.0bn 1 Record revenue visibility 85% revenue visibility for 2015 2013: 81% for 2014 1 B ased on expected revenue and secure and probable orders, which exclude variable work, frameworks and re-bids.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our vision We improve.
To be the trusted partner for providing services, delivering We listen, learn and adapt our ideas and experience into better infrastructure and creating places that bring lasting benefits to solutions and services for our customers.
our customers and the communities in which we live and work.
Our values We set ourselves stretching goals, taking pride in doing a great We care.
job and helping our customers and partners to succeed.
We respect each other and we do things safely and sustainably.
Its good for our people, our business and our local communities.
Our strategy Our strategy is to achieve sustainable profitable growth by We achieve together.
investing in our people and capabilities We value the contribution of each individual and we work together building long-term, trusted partnerships to build strong, open and trusting partnerships.
transferring knowledge and skills to new and existing markets so we can expand our services and infrastructure activities and providing a selective, high-quality construction capability To support the delivery of our strategy we set a number of Key We believe that engaging with our employees to give them the Performance Indicators KPIs for 2014, as set out in our 2013 Annual opportunity to contribute to our performance is fundamental to the Report and Accounts.
Our performance against each of these KPIs success of our business.
To do this we use a wide range of engagement is described below.
tools, including direct employee engagement, which I lead, through personal visits to our contracts, monthly newsletters to all employees, To develop and attract excellent people to create a vibrant, and regular conference calls with up to 2,500 employees in leadership diverse and flexible workforce.
roles to review the performance of our business.
We also engage Progress towards greater diversity through structured People Forums across our businesses, through Within our refreshed strategy, investing in our people and capabilities regular monthly team talks and through our employee survey, The remains our top priority as developing and attracting excellent people Great Debate.
Following our 2014 survey, particular focus has been to create a vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce has the greatest placed on the visibility of our business leaders, employee recognition impact on the success of our business.
and clearer communication of business direction to everyone.
In 2014, we continued our drive towards greater diversity in our business In 2014, we also increased the emphasis we place on the development and at 31 December 2014 the Group had a total of 42,367 employees of leadership capability, with a number of programmes running across the 31 December 2013: 41,304 of whom some 16,947 31 December 2013: Group.
We have also remained focused on improving the development of 15,964 were female and 25,420 were male 31 December 2014: 25,340. our people through our successful Leadership and Futures Programmes, At 31 December 2014, the Group had 469 senior managers 31 December backed by our job-family career framework that encourages people to 2013: 493 of which 58 were female 31 December 2013: 57 and 411 were improve their skills and competencies and develop their careers within male 31 December 2013: 436.
Of the 96 most senior managers in the Carillion.
In terms of culture, we promote an environment where people Group, which comprises the Chief Executives Leadership Team and their feel welcome, included and able to contribute to what we do and how direct reports, 18 were female 31 December 2013: 14 and 78 were male we do it, whoever they are.
We encourage flexible working underpinned 31 December 2013: 69.
The Carillion plc Board comprises five male by family-friendly policies and believe that giving our people the and two female Directors.
opportunity to engage in voluntary work within the communities in which we operate to support charities and other good causes, helps to make Carillion an attractive employer as well as enabling us to deliver more sustainable solutions for our customers.
All our people have the opportunity to do voluntary work for up to six days a year on full pay.
Framework contracts 2.0bn of framework contracts were won in 2014 not included in the order book or probable orders Contract opportunities 39.2bn pipeline of contract opportunities at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 37.5bn Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 Chief Executives strategic overview continued To be the recognised leader in Health & Safety and Sustainability During 2014, we took part in the Global Corporate Challenge, an initiative to encourage teams of employees to increase physical activity Health & Safety by competing against other teams around the world to see who can walk the most steps.
In Carillion, 88 teams 616 people took part and they averaged 13,536 per person steps every day.
Between them they completed 752,074,198 steps, which is equivalent to walking round reduction in Lost Time Incident the world 12 times.
They reported massive health benefits from the Frequency Rate to 0.241 17% exercise with an average weight loss of 9.4lb per person and substantial improvements in health and lifestyle scores.
38 per cent of the participants reported being more productive as a result.
Our objective of reducing accidents to zero remains central to our Health & Safety agenda.
If an accident does occur, we ensure that we learn from it and apply what we learn to reduce the risk of reoccurrence as part of our journey towards zero accidents.
At the same time, we Sustainability continue to invest in a wide range of programmes to engage, educate and train our people, backed by strong leadership, which comes from our Board.
We believe leadership also needs to be visible, which is why contribution from we have Directors safety tours of our work sites as well as Safety Action sustainability to profit in 2014 27.2m Groups and safety audits.
Our hazard reporting programme, Dont Walk By, which empowers everyone in Carillion to identify and report for immediate action anything they believe to be unsafe, continues to be highly effective.
In 2014, some 1.8 million Dont Walk By reports were Carillion continues to be a recognised leader in sustainability, both within raised by our employees and our sub-contractors.
and beyond our market sectors.
We regard our leadership as central to our strategy and a fundamental resource that helps to differentiate Our main Key Performance Indicator is the Lost Time Incident Carillion from its competitors.
One of the key measures we use to assess Frequency Rate LTIFR, which is an internationally recognised measure our sustainability performance is Business in the Communitys BITC of safety performance.
In 2014, our LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked Corporate Index.
We aim to maintain our position among the was 0.241, which represented a 17 per cent reduction on 2013, when companies with the highest ranking in this Index when BITC publishes the our LTIFR was 0.293 per 200,000 hours worked, itself a 44 per cent Index in April 2015.
In 2014, we also improved our ranking among the reduction on our LTIFR in 2012 of 0.529. top companies in tackling climate change through our Carbon Disclosure Project CDP score of 99A 2013: 92A, which put Carillion at the top of It is with deep regret that we report two fatal accidents in 2014 to an both the CDP Disclosure and Performance Leadership Indices.
employee and a sub-contractor while working on our projects.
In Oman an employee died after falling approximately three metres when he Carillion has been a leader in sustainability since it was launched as stood on an unfixed panel that he had just placed into position.
In Qatar, an independent company and listed on the London Stock Exchange in a sub-contractors employee died when he was struck by a vehicle 1999.
We consistently strive to integrate sustainability into everything while crossing a highway as part of a maintenance activity.
In addition, we do and into every service we provide for our customers.
We do this to these work-site related accidents, Carillion suffered a terrible because we believe it makes us a more efficient, effective and attractive tragedy when a vehicle carrying five of our employees collided with a business to our customers.
We estimate that our sustainability strategy broken-down vehicle on the M4 motorway in England, resulting in the has contributed around 27 million of profit to the Group in 2014. deaths of three employees and serious injury to a fourth.
Our thoughts An overview of how we are becoming a more successful business are with the relatives and friends of all the people affected by these by putting sustainability at the heart of everything we do, is set out tragic incidents.
There were no prosecutions by the relevant UK on pages 16 to 19 of this strategic overview.
In addition, we publish an enforcement authorities in 2014. extensive annual sustainability report in April of each year.
In 2014, our Annual Sustainability Report won the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting During 2014, we launched a new health strategy called Health Like category in the PwC Building Public Trust Awards for the second year Safety.
Our vision is to achieve zero ill health caused by, or made running, which is the first time that this has been achieved in the history worse by, work.
Under this strategy we are seeking to manage health of the awards and confirmed Carillion as a recognised leader in like safety with clear arrangements in place on each contract or sustainability.
In addition, Carillion continues to be a member of the project.
In addition, we use the workplace as a venue for promoting FTSE4Good Index, which measures the performance of companies healthy lifestyles, while recognising that this remains a matter of that meet globally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
The key objectives of our Health Like Safety strategy are to develop our culture to improve the status of health within the management of Health & Safety through prioritisation, leadership and the involvement of our workforce clearly define and implement fitness-for-work criteria for safety critical workers act on a range of long-term, high-risk areas to prevent work-related cancers improve management knowledge, competence and actions in relation to occupational health priorities use the workplace as a venue to raise individual awareness of personal health issues and promote healthy behaviour implement a risk-based policy on the provision of Automated External Defibrillators AEDs to improve survival chances from cardiac arrest while at work.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information To improve customer satisfaction To reduce costs and improve efficiency to support margins 1 12% improvement in Net Promoter Score to 37 5.6% Group underlying operation margin Providing a great customer experience is essential to gaining new Through our ongoing cost reduction and efficiency programmes, which customers and retaining existing customers.
To help drive our strategy operate across all our business units and central functions, we have a in this area, in 2014 we joined the national council of the Institute of relentless focus on cost management and on improving efficiency.
This Customer Service ICS, a forum that gives our businesses access is fundamental to our ability to provide customers with offerings that to a wide range of ideas and initiatives to help us improve customer are attractive in terms of price, as well as quality.
This was evident in our experience and also helps us to shape the customer service agenda in ability to continue winning contracts in line with our selective approach, the UK.
For example, we supported the ICS in establishing an all-party despite challenging market conditions.
Parliamentary group on customer service and attended the inaugural meeting of this group in the Houses of Parliament in October 2014.
It also enabled us to deliver a strong underlying Group operating margin of 5.6 per cent, despite the fact that most of the work we delivered in 2014 Since 2013, Carillion has measured customer satisfaction using the was won during the economic downturn.
At business segment level, Net Promoter Score NPS, an international standard that allows us to improved margins in support services and Middle East construction measure customer satisfaction and benchmark ourselves against other services offset the expected reductions in margins in Public Private organisations and the wider business world.
Customers are asked in Partnership projects, which reflected the planned reduction in the sale face-to-face interviews to indicate how likely they are to recommend of equity investments in these projects, and in construction services Carillions services to others.
NPS ranges from -100 to 100 and our excluding the Middle East, as the margin in this segment trends back score in 2014 was 37, up from 33 in 2013 and ahead of target.
Our NPS towards a more normal level, in line with our previous expectations score compares very favourably with those of other companies in our and guidance.
Importantly, the surveys we carry out give us first-hand feedback and information to help us continue improving the services we provide for our customers.
To deliver cash-backed profit 119% profit to cash conversion Strong cash management has always been central to our strategy and a key measure of our performance.
When we announced in 2010 that we planned to rescale our UK construction business, in order to ensure that it remained aligned in size to its chosen market sectors, we said that this rescaling would result in a significant outflow of working capital, but that when rescaling had been completed the Group would return to its normal working capital profile and to positive cash generation.
Having completed the rescaling of UK construction by the end of 2013, cash flow was once again strong in 2014, with full-year underlying cash flow 1 from operations representing 119 per cent of full-year underlying profit 1 from operations 2013: 75 per cent.
1 T he underlying results are defined in the footnotes to the financial highlights on page 1 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
