St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 It was the year that we were elevated to the FTSE100, recognition of the hard work and commitment shown by everyone in the St. Jamess Place community over the 23 years since the Company was launched and, of course, the support of our clients and shareholders.
It was also a year when, despite some uncertainty in world stock markets, we once again achieved record new investments, experienced improved retention and positive investment returns, leading to our client funds under management increasing by 7.7billion to a record 52 billion.
Our success has been and continues to be built on our fundamental belief in the value of a human relationship and the highly personal interaction, putting the client and adviser at the core of everything we do.
That focus will not change and will continue to be the foundation of our future growth.
In many respects, more of the same, but better.
Indeed, at a time when Chief more people are living longer, not saving enough and having to take greater personal responsibility for their long term prosperity, Executives we believe that the vast majority will welcome the encouragement coming from government and recognise the need to seek advice, Report from an experienced adviser that they can trust.
With over 2,500 David Bellamy qualified advisers in the St. Jamess Place Partnership, we are very well positioned to meet this increasing need.
I began my statement last At the same time, we also believe that we can strengthen our relationship with our clients by exploring opportunities to year by commenting that enhance our proposition, through the development of our investment approach and the addition of complementary services, 2013 would be remembered as so that we are able to offer a more complete proposition.
Were going to start with the introduction of a new banking one of the most significant service in April, The St. Jamess Place Money Management Account.
Fully branded St. Jamess Place, but powered by Metro years in our history, the year Bank, the account will offer eligible clients a fully functional banking service, including cheques, debit cards, mobile access and in which we became a wholly other on line services.
In addition, the account will have the added benefit of an integrated secured overdraft facility, providing independent FTSE company immediate access to short term funds, secured against the value of their St. Jamess Place investment portfolio.
We are delighted for the first time.
However, if to be working with Metro Bank and look forward to being able to offer this additional facility for our clients.
anything, 2014 will be remembered as an even more Financial Performance As a consequence of another year of good growth in new business, significant year.
and helped by another positive experience variance, the operating profit for 2014, on a European Embedded Value EEV basis, has grown by 29% to 596.4 million 2013: 462.7 million.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 The profit before shareholder tax, on an International Financial However, we are not complacent.
Every year, we seek feedback Reporting Standards IFRS basis reflects the sustained growth in from our clients both through the services of the independent our business in recent years and was 182.9 million for 2014.
The research specialists, Ledbury Research, and by inviting every 2013 result was 190.7 million having benefited by 8.9 million single client to provide feedback directly in response to their from a reinsurance transaction during the year.
As reported in annual Wealth Account statement.
Whilst there is room for more detail in the Chief Financial Officers Report, growth in improvement, the research carried out in the last three months this measure has also been impacted by certain accounting once again shows a very considerable out-performance on all key implications arising from the changes to the adviser charging measures compared to the wider marketplace and an improving rules in 2013. trend.
Most pleasing is the extremely high advocacy score, where 97% of our clients confirmed that they would recommend St. We have therefore introduced a new measure to aid investors, as Jamess Place to others, with 52% having already done so.
covered in the comprehensive presentation of the financial results for the year in our Chief Financial Officers Report and Financial Such research, together with the direct contact we maintain with Review, on pages 14 to 33. clients, reassures us that our clients value the personal face-toface relationship that we provide.
Dividend 2014 also saw other significant changes for investors, with the We continue to see a growing cash result, a trend that is expected government raising the annual ISA allowance to 15,000 and to continue with the increasing maturity of funds under announcing the most radical changes to pensions in a generation.
Both of these measures represent good news for our clients and also further strengthens the need for advice.
At the time of our interim results, given our ongoing confidence in the emergence of future cash, we announced a 40% increase in the 2014 interim dividend and indicated that the full year Investment Management dividend would be increased by a similar amount.
At the start of last year, the Investment Committee and Stamford Associates were in the process of reviewing the funds managed by The final underlying cash result of 173.8 million, up 24%, was Neil Woodford, following his decision to leave Invesco Perpetual.
higher than expected at that time and given this strong growth, In the event, we decided to retain Neils services and our clients the Board proposes increasing the final dividend by 50% to 14.37 continue to invest with him via their St. Jamess Place funds.
The pence per share, bringing the full year dividend to 23.30 pence seamless transition to his new investment firm is a good example of per share, up 46% on 2013.
This gives a full year payout of 70% the strength and the efficiency of our investment approach, which of the underlying cash the 2013 payout was 60%.
sits at the heart of what it is we do to look after clients wealth.
In future years we expect our dividend payout ratio to be broadly Throughout the year, the UKs economy has continued to improve in line with 75% of the cash result.
with lower unemployment, lower inflation and higher growth than many had forecast.
Yet there remains a sense of fragility, due The final dividend for 2014, subject to approval of shareholders at in part to the much poorer economic performance of the major our AGM, will be paid on 15 May to shareholders on the register at developed economies of the EU and Japan.
There is also the added the close of business on 10 April and as with last year, a Dividend uncertainty of the forthcoming General Election in May and the Reinvestment Plan DRP continues to be available for wider international uncertainty of the impact from lower oil shareholders.
prices and continuing tension both in the Middle East and between Russia and its neighbours.
Clients Nevertheless, although the UK stock markets were largely At the heart of the sustained growth I mentioned earlier is the unchanged in the year, with the FTSE 100 down 2.7% in capital importance we place on maintaining long lasting relationships terms but up 0.7% with dividends reinvested, higher growth was with our Partners and clients and serving them well.
We achieved in other asset classes, most notably the US stock market, passionately believe that this personalised and face-to-face some sectors of the fixed interest markets and property.
approach has a very strong place in UK financial services both today and in the future.
Whilst technology is proving to be a Against a background of mixed performance across the worlds game changer and disruptive in a number of retail services, we economies and more volatility in financial markets, our Growth will embrace the use of technology to enhance the personal and Income portfolios produced solid single digit returns, service we provide to our clients, not to replace it.
performing in line with our expectations.
For individual clients, returns will, of course, reflect the specific funds held.
If we do this well, we will maintain our strong retention record and attract new clients and investments through referrals and introductions.
That was further evidenced last year by the introduction of over 52,000 new clients to St. Jamess Place and new investments of 7.8 billion.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4 Chief Executives continued Report The St. Jamess Place Partnership The St. Jamess Place Foundation & Community In 2014, alongside the impressive financial results, I am pleased to Engagement report that through the continued acquisition of highly established Raising funds for those less fortunate has always been at the heart advisers, the integration of our new Partners in Asia and the of the Groups culture, so I am delighted to report that through graduation of students from our Academy, we attracted 10% more the collective effort of the whole of our community, including advisers to the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
The sustained growth employees, Partners, suppliers and others connected to St. in our adviser capacity bears testimony to the reputation that we Jamess Place, 2014 was another record year of fund raising for have built for both the quality of our client proposition and the level The St. Jamess Place Foundation.
In total we raised over 3 of support and development our Partners receive.
Increasing the million which, when matched by the company, meant over 6 number of Partners and providing them with the tools and support million for the Foundation, taking the cumulative total raised to to deliver high quality outcomes for clients is one of the key drivers date to over 40 million and enabling us to support over 600 to achieving our long term growth objectives.
charitable projects in the year.
We are very encouraged by the success of the Academy, including Our cultural driver of doing the right thing extends to all of our those joining family practices through our next generation community involvement, which is why we are committed to, and initiative.
Last year, 47 students graduated as fully qualified proud of, our continued membership of FTSE4GOOD.
It is also Partners or advisers from the first three cohorts who joined the why we have been actively developing structured programmes for London Academy in 2012 and we expect a similar number to summer interns and a longer term commitment to qualify this year from the 2013 intake.
We also extended the Apprenticeships.
In 2014, we were particularly pleased to get Academy programme through the addition of a regional centre in recognition in the National Apprentices Awards for our work the North West and in 2015 we will extend this initiative further, with over 30 Apprentices in recent years.
We were also pleased to with two intakes in the North West and the establishment of a receive the Living Wage accreditation, one of only 20 FTSE100 regional Academy in the Midlands.
We also plan to open our first companies to have achieved this qualification to date.
regional Academy in Scotland in early 2016.
I would like to thank our entire community and also our clients, Notwithstanding the fact that we remain very focused on our UK not only for their sponsorship but also for their participation in business, we also see further opportunities to expand our services many of the hundreds of fund raising events that took place overseas to the expatriate community.
Building on the successful throughout the year.
integration of our newly acquired team in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore, we are in discussions with the relevant authorities Further details of our CSR activities are set out on pages 40 to 44 in Dubai and Abu Dhabi and expect to make progress in the and an update on the Foundation is provided on pages 46 to 49. provision of financial advice to members of the British expatriate community in these jurisdictions in the near future.
Partners and Employees The strength and continued growth of the business is due in no Back-office Administration small part to the hard work and dedication of our Partners, their In 2013, we embarked on one of the most significant staff and all of our employees and administration support teams.
developments in our back office for some time.
The initial phase, in 2014, saw the unification of our two major back office teams, On behalf of the Board and shareholders I thank everyone connected in Craigforth and Essex, coming together under the management with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to these results and for of IFDS.
The integrated technology platform that will support their continued enthusiasm, dedication and commitment.
them is also well advanced and we expect to begin the migration of our business to the platform during 2015.
Outlook I am confident that the growth we achieved in 2014, in both new We expect to see the benefits of this important investment begin investments and Partner numbers, bodes well for the continued to crystallise in 2016. growth in our business, in line with our medium term objectives.
David Bellamy Chief Executive 24 February 2015 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
