Strategic report Group overview Chairmans statement Group Chief Executives review Taking action to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and improved returns We believe that we have identied strong levers to manage We are therefore confident that we are taking the right actions capital accretion over time and therefore the Board is to restore shareholder value.
recommending a final dividend for 2014 of 57.20 cents, resulting I would like to thank our clients and shareholders fortheir in a total annual dividend of 86.00 cents, which is the same support during 2014 and, above all, our great people for their level of dividend per share as 2013. hard work and ongoing commitment to StandardChartered.
The drivers of economic growth For several years, we have signicantly increased the amount in our markets remain immensely paid out to shareholders by way of dividend, while at the same time consecutively reducing the amount paid out in bonuses, strong, and the demand for despite increasing staff numbers over this period.
In 2014, we are again proposing to pay out more to our shareholders by financial services is rising rapidly way of dividends than we pay out in bonuses.
Sir John Peace This disciplined approach to managing variable compensation Chairman 4 March 2015 has created significant competitive pressures in some of our key markets.
We are, of course, mindful of the external sentiment insome markets on bankers pay, and conscious of our disappointing performance in 2014, but it is essential that we remain able to pay competitively in the markets where we Peter Sands operate and where wage ination, on average, is around Group Chief Executive 5 per cent.
Our people are much sought after by our competition, and 2014 was a tough year, our performance was and thereafter.
Second, we must improve returns, hence we weare acutely conscious of the importance of retaining and disappointing and we are acutely aware of the impact of aresetting a target return on equity of over 10 per cent in the attracting the best talent as we look to execute on our strategy.
this for you, our shareholders.
We faced a perfect storm: medium term, so that we are delivering sustainably above our It also goes without saying that, consistent with past practice, negative sentiment towards emerging markets, a sharp cost of capital.
This will take a bit of time to achieve, not least we will only reward our people for good performance as well as drop in commodity prices, persistently low interest rates because the actions we are taking to strengthen the CET1 for their good behaviours.
and surplus liquidity, low volatility, and a welter of ratiomake this more difficult.
Each of these elements ts into Taking all these factors into account and reecting on our regulatory challenges.
anoverall agenda of action, all of which is captured in the performance in 2014, the bonus pool is down on 2013 by scorecards of the individual client and product groups, As a result, we saw intense pressure on margins and volumes, 9 per cent, and 27 per cent lower than in 2011.
In light of the functions and geographies across the Group.
a significant uptick in impairment and a sharp increase in disappointing performance of the Group, those executive regulatory related cost.
Of course, it was not all about external directors on the PLC Board throughout the year came to the Capital factors.
Some of the decisions we took in the past look less conclusion that they should show leadership by not taking any good now than they did at the time, such as Korea, which in On capital, we start from a strong position.
In terms of our variable compensation for 2014.
2014 made a loss before tax of $145 million.
Not everything we CET1ratio, at 10.7 per cent on an end-point basis, we have I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter Sands on did was as well executed as it should have been, for example, a200 basis points bps buffer relative to known regulatory behalf of the Board for the immense contribution he has made the upgrade of our transaction surveillance systems back in requirements.
We weathered the Bank of England stress to the success of the Group over the past 13 years, both as 2007 shortcomings here ultimately resulted in the civil testscomfortably.
We are strongly placed from a leverage Group Chief Executive and as Group Finance Director.
Since he penaltyof $300 million that we paid in August 2014. andTotal Loss Absorbing Capacity perspective.
became Group Chief Executive in 2006, the Group has more We have taken a range of actions in response to the way our However, we understand market concerns about forward than doubled in size and has been consistently profitable.
We have overhauled our strategy, making trajectory given the uncertainties about how regulatory Peters leadership and insight, over a period of huge change itsharper and more focused.
We have recongured the requirements will evolve.
Although it is impossible to be and challenge for the entire industry, ensure that he leaves the organisation to align it better with our strategic priorities.
denitive, a combination of risk-weighted assets RWA ination Group well placed to achieve its full potential as one of the Wehave attacked our cost base.
and escalating expectations do point to a continuing upward worlds leading financial institutions.
We have disposed of, or are in the process of disposing of, drift in requirements.
That is why we have put such focus on I would also like to thank Jaspal Bindra for his very considerable 15underperforming and non-strategic businesses.
We have capital accretion, so that we can absorb regulatory changes contributions to the business over the past 16 years, and the fide-risked portfolios and segments, such as unsecured lending and fund growth, while also improving the CET1 ratio.
We other long-serving Board members who are stepping down this or correspondent banking, and we have stepped up the pace accreted some 50bps in 2014, 20bps in the first half and 30bps year and who have done so much to help position this great ofour programme to raise the bar on conduct.
While some of in the second half.
To achieve this, we cut some $9 billion of bank for the future.
these changes actually made our 2014 performance worse, low-returning RWA, largely from Corporate & Institutional since we sacrificed income or increased investment, I am Clients, and saved another $2 billion from disposals.
We are extremely fortunate to have Bill Winters, one of the most confident that the way we are reshaping the Group will get us accomplished and respected bankers in the world today, taking We now plan to pull these levers even harder.
Over the next back to a trajectory of sustainable, profitable growth, delivering over as Group Chief Executive from Peter in June to drive the twoyears, we plan to cut a further $25 to 30 billion of RWA returns above our cost of capital and driving the share price.
Groups next chapter of growth.
Bill brings substantial financial fromlow-returning client relationships and underperforming experience from leading a very successful global business, and I should make clear that we are not counting on the world to businesses.
We are making good progress on this already.
By has an exceptional understanding of the global regulatory and dous favours.
While we do expect a gradual return to a more taking these actions we are confident that we can achieve our conduct environment.
He is also a proven leader with a strong normal interest rate environment, and this year we have already target CET1 ratio of 11 to 12 per cent in 2015 and thereafter.
track record in nurturing and developing talent.
I am thrilled that seen more volatility in currency markets, we are not counting on Bill is joining the Group at this strategically important time and headwinds turning to tailwinds to boost our performance.
We Costs we wish him well in his new role.
are focused on the levers we control, the things we can do, to In 2014, we kept a tight grip on costs.
Headline expenses went improve returns and return to growth.
up 5 per cent, but more than half of this increase was due to the Our performance priorities are clear.
First, we must dispel the UK bank levy and restructuring costs attached to the very cost concerns about capital, hence the clear target of achieving a actions we are taking.
Underlying expenses went up less than Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 11 to 12 per cent in 2015 3 per cent, driven largely by increased spend on regulatory and 4 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 5 Strategic report Group overview Group Chief Executives review conduct priorities.
In November, we announced a $400 million over 3.
We are also focusing on non-nancing income, targeting target for cost savings in 2015.
We are more than on track to an increase in the current proportion of 41 per cent to more achieve this target, and the $400 million number relates to our than 43 per cent.
These metrics are the key to driving good underlying business, so it excludes cost saved from business income growth that lifts our return on RWA in this segment.
Combined with the impact of such actions, Step back from the segments and look at our markets, and we are on track for savings to headline costs exceeding thescale of the income opportunity is evident.
Despite all the $600 million in 2015. turbulence and shifts in sentiment, the underlying drivers of The progress we have made in attacking the cost base economic growth demographics, urbanisation and investment underpins our confidence in achieving $1.8 billion in cost in infrastructure remain immensely strong, and the demand savings over the period from 2015 to 2017.
Some of the fornancial services is rising rapidly.
Our challenge is to capture remaining savings will come from the full-year impact of actions these opportunities in a disciplined, return-focused way to we have already taken, for example our decision to exit equities, driveshareholder value.
which will give us $100 million of savings in 2016.
Some will be the result of further peripheral-business exits or withdrawals Conduct that we are currently pursuing, but most will be from achieving We have launched a comprehensive programme called Raising sustainable efficiency improvements in our big markets and the Bar on Conduct, which encompasses every aspect of core business activities.
conduct, and touches every person in the Group.
We recognise The underlying drivers of economic growth in our markets demographics, We have launched a comprehensive programme called Raising the We are stepping up the pace of digitisation, automating and that we cannot claim to be Here for good unless we make every urbanisation and investment in infrastructure remain immensely strong BaronConduct, which touches every person in the Group re-engineering key processes and standardising technology effort to ensure that good conduct informs every interaction and platforms.
For example, the only way we will get the is embedded in every decision we make from strategy to cost-income ratio in the Retail Clients segment down to our Income growth client on-boarding, product design and remuneration.
Among I will leave Standard Chartered proud of what we have achieved target of 55 per cent is through accelerated digitisation of the more critical elements of this programme, I would highlight: and confident about what the future holds for this extraordinary In the Retail Clients segment, the priority has been to get cost products, channels and internal processes.
And the only way institution.
In Bill Winters, I have a successor just right for the O Our Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme, which down, shift the focus to more afuent clients and accelerate we can manage the ever-increasing complexity of regulation task.
I am delighted to be passing the baton on to a banker encompasses over 50 separate projects and initiatives to digitisation, as well as to fide-risk from a conduct and credit efficiently is through technology, so we are not cutting back ofsuch calibre, to a leader of such strengths.
Bill will inherit remediate and reinforce our controls and capabilities in this vital perspective.
It is all about getting the platform in more robust ontechnology investment, but actually increasing this in order abankwith a superb client franchise, a unique network and arena.
This is a massive multi-year investment programme.
shape to support sustainable growth.
Retail Clients income to achieve sustainable improvements in productivity.
Perhaps even more Playing a stronger role in the ght against financial crime was up 2 per cent year-on-year in 2014, but up 5 per cent in the importantly, he will inherit a fantastic team of people isastrategic imperative for Standard Chartered second half of 2014 compared to the second half of 2013, Asset quality professional and collaborative, and truly believing in, and driven by Wealth Management and the shift towards more O To complement stronger controls, we are fide-risking our client committed to being, Here for good.
It should be no surprise that impairment increased in 2014. afuent Priority and Business clients.
These will continue to be portfolios.
For example, we have exited a significant number GDPgrowth in key markets has been slower, commodity prices the key drivers of income growth.
Indeed, we aim to increase I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to of our correspondent banking relationships, mainly in Latin fell sharply, and we faced some specic challenges in particular the percentage ofincome from Priority and Business clients to ourclients, and to all the people of Standard Chartered.
We have also exited around markets, such as the Personal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme 43 per cent in2015 from 38 per cent in 2014.
Thepast couple of years have been pretty tough, but we have 70,000 small and medium-sized enterprise relationships over PDRS in Korea and fraud in China.
Of course, we could have demonstrated resilience and an ability to adapt and reinvent.
In the Private Banking Clients segment, income growth was the past 18 months, and we are putting strict limits on the fared better.
With hindsight, there were clients and situations Iknow that Standard Chartered will once again show the types of new client that we are prepared to take on in certain 4 per cent on a headline basis, or 6 per cent excluding weshould have avoided, but we were never going to be entirely worldwhat a great bank this is.
We see Private Banking Clients as a steady and geographies and sectors immune to the shift in the credit environment.
The actions we sustainable source of growth, although at this stage it is O have taken to fide-risk are having an impact in India, in China, To reinforce our governance, we have established a obviously very small in the overall scheme of the Group.
in our commodities book, and in our unsecured portfolio in the Board-level Financial Crime Risk Committee, with a In2015, we are looking at on-boarding some 2,000 new clients, Retail Clients segment.
There are still many uncertainties in our combination of experienced independent non-executive achieving double-digit assets under management growth.
markets, but I am very comfortable with our provisioning and directors and expert advisors with the shape and quality of the book.
The Commercial Clients segment is also quite small, but Conclusion Peter Sands represents another huge opportunity, and after a year of In the Retail Clients segment, while impairment remains at an restructuring and remediation, with income down 22 per cent, Group Chief Executive The actions we have taken, and are taking, on capital, cost, risk elevated level, the indicators suggest some improvement, most our priority for 2015 is to get back to a growth trajectory, 4 March 2015 notably in Korea.
Looking at the early data for this year, PDRS and conduct are all part of a package.
We are reshaping the strengthening the front line, leveraging the network and growing lings are now less than half of what they were six months ago.
Group to respond to the way our world has changed.
We are aiming for around 3,000 new-to-bank In the Corporate & Institutional Clients and Commercial Clients reshaping the Group to ensure we can full our aspiration to clients in 2015. segments, the signals are more mixed, but most of what we are bank the people and companies driving trade, investment and dealing with now, and provisioning for, are accounts that have the creation of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Given that the Corporate & Institutional Clients segment been troubling for some time.
The inow of new problem contributes around 60 per cent of the Groups income, this is And we are reshaping the Group to get back to sustainable, accounts into early alerts, credit grade 12 or non-performing profitable growth, delivering returns above our cost of capital.
Income fell 2 per cent in 2014, impacted loans has slowed.
While it would certainly be premature to by a combination of fide-risking and RWA actions, as well as This will be my last review for the Annual Report and Accounts, callthe peak, we do not see signs of further deterioration.
pressure on margins and the impact of low commodity prices and it is obviously one of the more challenging sets of numbers and low volatility.
This overall picture disguises some areas The annualised income impact of the exits and disposals in I have had to explain.
In my 13 years at the Group, I have seen ofstrong growth.
Institutional investors, for example, saw 2014 and those planned for 2015 is some $450 million, although lots of ups and downs.
Standard Chartered today is very 18 per cent income growth at attractive returns in 2014.
This this depends on the timing of the completion of certain different from the bank I first joined as Finance Director in 2002. isa big opportunity.
As for Corporates, right now it is all about transactions.
We will strip this out of our reporting of underlying That year we made about $1 billion in profits, and in 2006, improving return rather than income growth per se, and performance for 2015.
On top of this, fide-risking and RWA theyear I became Group Chief Executive, we made about achieving this is all about leveraging the network and deepening savings in 2014, and the $25-30 billion of incremental RWA $3 billion.
Since then, of course, we have navigated the global relationships to drive non-funded income hence our focus on savings we plan for 2015 and 2016, will create a further drag on financial crisis, roughly doubled in size, and confronted all sorts increasing the number of markets and products per client.
In income, offset by our ability to redeploy into more attractively of new challenges.
The world of banking has changed far more 2015, we are looking to take the product-client ratio from 6.3 in returning assets.
dramatically than most people realise, and it is only part way 2014 to over 6.5, and the market-client ratio from 2.8 in 2014 to through a fundamental transformation.
