STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement IN SUMMARY Pro forma Headline EBIT of 151m 2013: 132m Significant progress for Connected World Services, most notably through preferred-partner agreement Like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3%: second with Samsung and the development of our omni-channel consecutive year of growth platform, honeyBee, with Accenture Significant gains in UK postpay market share, Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc buildingon growth in 201213 expected to deliver synergies of 80m in the financial Signed partnership agreements with Media-Markt year 201718 Saturn in the Netherlands, and Harvey Norman in Ireland This has been a good year for Carphone Warehouse.
Financially, CPW we have delivered on the guidance we gave: operationally, we have Our retail operation enjoyed a good year with like-for-like revenue strengthened our business and growth platform: and strategically, growth of 5.3%, despite the continued sharp reduction in the prepay we are proposing a merger of equals with Dixons Retail plc to add market, reflecting the regulatory cuts in mobile termination rates substantially to our growth potential going forward and to capture and the consequent withdrawal by network operators of subsidies the opportunities of a changing marketplace.
While the fall in prepay connections reduced overall total connections, both for us and for the market in general, we held our prepay market share.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS We completed our buy-back of Best Buys 50% share in CPW Europe More important for us has been the strength of our postpay sales, on 26 June 2013.
Consequently, in order to give a more meaningful on which we have again grown our UK market share.
We have been picture of our performance, we have provided the results for CPW particularly encouraged by the uptake of 4G phones, with 4G now a ona pro forma basis, as if CPW Europe had been 100% owned major new dynamic in the mobile marketplace.
The speed of 4G has bytheGroup for the whole of 201314 and the previous year.
a significant impact on data usage, and the sale of 4G devices typically brings with it additional data packages, the result of which is an On a top line basis, total pro forma revenue dropped 2% to 3,282m overall increase in the average revenue per user and therefore compared to 3,348m in 201213.
This primarily reflects decreased therevenues we earn.
activity in our dealer business, which was particularly strong in the prior year.
However, our dealer business operates at low margins 4G is a very clear example of the way that technology is becoming andhas little impact on the overall profitability of the business.
more complicated, with an increasingly wide choice of new devices and 4G tariffs.
Our customers are looking for simple, independent Within this performance, we saw like-for-like revenue growth for and impartial advice to simplify technology for them and to ensure thefull year of 5.3%, building on the 4.6% growth in the prior year, they have the right solution for their needs: providing this is our predominantly driven by postpay growth in the UK and a continued primary purpose.
shift towards high-end smartphones which drive higher revenues.
During the last year we invested significantly in our brand and in our We delivered pro forma Headline EBIT of 151m 2013: 132m, an distribution channels.
We introduced a new tablet-based assisted increase of 14% year-on-year, and in line with the guidance we gave sales tool called Pin Point.
This gives our customers a personalised ayear ago.
Improved pro forma EBIT in CPW, along with the benefits experience, guiding them through the overwhelming variety of devices, of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe from 26 June 2013, resulted in networks, tariffs and services, to find the most suitable package anincrease in Group Headline net earnings from 55m to 102m tomeet their needs.
Pin Point has been rolled out throughout our and an increase in Headline EPS to 18.4p 2013: 11.6p.
stores in the UK and has resulted in our highest levels of customer PERFORMANCE REVIEW satisfaction and customers willingness to recommend us to others.
PAGES 20-24 Pin Point was acknowledged through the BT Retail Week Technology Awards, for the Customer Experience Technology Award of the year for 2014.
IT'S ALL ABOUT POSITIONING OUR BUSINESS IN THIS CHANGING WORLD AND ENSURING THAT WHAT WE DO IS RELEVANT FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer 05 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement continued CPW continued VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE All retailers are affected by the growth of the internet and online In a very tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France delivered shopping.
We have adapted our business accordingly and are a true aresilient performance, substantially maintaining its contract multi-channel retailer.
The number of visitors to our website last customer base and continuing to migrate this base onto its Full year was a record, in particular around Christmas.
Whilst the majority MVNO platform.
This reflects extremely well on the quality and of mobile shoppers conduct their research online, our retail channels commitment ofourFrench management team.
continue to remain the key part of the mobile phone purchase journey.
It was clear to us, however, that Virgin Mobile Frances future would Customers generally want to see and hold the device, ensure they be best served by being part of a larger organisation.
Subsequent to understand its functionality, transfer their contacts and leave the the year end, in May, we and our joint venture partner, Virgin Group, store with their phone working.
together with management shareholders, announced an exclusivity Our growth last year was the result of strong performances agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group.
incountries such as the UK, Ireland and Spain, balanced by challenges in some of our Mainland European markets.
In the Netherlands, PROPOSED MERGER weexperienced aweak consumer market, while in Germany, our On 15 May 2014, we announced our proposal to merge with Dixons performance was affected by challenges in the wholesale market.
The relevant shareholder documents will be made available However, we are encouraged by other business ventures in both of to shareholders for the general meeting to be held on 17 July 2014. these markets, such as partnership opportunities in the Netherlands Subject to shareholder approval, this merger is expected tocomplete and a growing connections services business in Germany.
The exit process from the French retail market is now substantially This is a merger of equals, a merger of complementary organisations complete, and we are delighted to have been able to transfer the and a merger for growth.
It anticipates the ways in which our majority of our employees to third parties as part of this process.
marketplace is converging and changing, and it positions us to be The costs of exit, together with French operating losses, have been able to take advantage of this.
Hardware innovation, mobile broadband recorded as non-Headline items, along with net costs associated developments such as 4G, content evolution and cloud-based storage with the CPW Europe Acquisition and the amortisation of acquisition have advanced at a rapid pace and are converging to create a intangibles which arose on the transaction.
Including these items, phenomenon known as the Internet of Things.
Having access to the statutory earnings for the year are 48m 2013: 4m.
Internet of Things, including all the services needed to get working and EUROPEAN PARTNERSHIPS stay working, creates a powerful and compelling story for our customers.
Our European partnerships are helping us to gain scale and grow Coming together will give us greater scale and reach, enabling us value within our existing markets.
In the Netherlands we concluded toinvest more efficiently in our systems, employees and customer our partnership with Media-Markt Saturn and are on track to complete proposition, and enhancing our combined relevance for our the roll-out of our store-in-store format across their estate bythe suppliers and network operators alike.
We believe that the combined group will be able to achieve integrated In Germany we have made good progress developing our mobile retailing and procurement synergies, together with cost savings, relationship with the Metro Group and continue to work with of at least 80m on a recurring basis, which are expected to be delivered themon a more tailored B2B offering.
in full in the financial year 201718.
In Ireland, we completed the roll-out of stores within all 12 Lastly, this is a story about growth.
We see real opportunities to tap HarveyNorman stores.
into a services market that we feel is ripe with potential.
Both of our Discussions continue with Media-Markt Saturn and with other businesses have growing services platforms and the proposed merger partners across targeted territories and we believe that these will enhance opportunities to develop this further for consumers partnerships offer amutually beneficial way of expanding the andbusinesses.
We are the leading independent European provider salesof connected products and services.
of connectivity, and Dixons Retail plc is a leading European retailer of electrical products.
Both of us share a commitment to customer CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES service and impartial advice.
Put us together and we create a new Connected World Services is our growing B2B business, which digital retailer for a new digital age.
aimsto leverage our core expertise and systems to provide a range of services to third parties, as set out on pages 12 to 13 of this annual report.
OUTLOOK We have worked incredibly hard over the past year, focusing on our Connected World Services was established around 18 months ago customer proposition, improving our operational excellence, driving and has made real progress during the year.
In partnership with 4G penetration, forging new partnerships in Europe with leading Accenture, we have developed our omni-channel platform, honeyBee.
retailers and developing our Connected World Services business.
We have been extremely encouraged by the initial response from Ibelieve all this provides us with significant potential for growth manufacturers, networks and retailers across the globe to the wide over the future years.
range of expertise and services that CPW can provide.
We entered into a preferred-partner agreement to operate Samsung Experience We currently face and continue to expect challenges in Mainland Stores in Europe, and we have now opened 33 Samsung stores Europe, but our outlook remains positive.
The history of Carphone Warehouse has been anticipating change Over time, we see Connected World Services as a means to take and positioning the business to take advantage of this change.
The Carphone Warehouse global, in a low-risk way, with limited changes we see in the marketplace offer considerable opportunities to demands on capital expenditure.
create value for our employees, our customers, our partners and our shareholders.
From a position of strength, we are planning to take advantage of these changes through our proposed merger.
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc 06 Annual Report 2014
