04 Chief Executive Officers statement A clear strategy and sense of purpose.
Paul Pester, Chief Executive Officer Im delighted with customers initial reaction to TSBs transparent and straightforward approach to banking.
This positions us well to deliver our planned growth strategy.
05 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Positioned for growth A transparent and straightforward local At its heart, TSB is alarge scale, full capability, UK retail bank.
The business benefits from 8,700 Partners, anationwide bankingbusiness model network of branches serving around 600 retail centres, astrong online and mobile banking capability and afull service At TSB we believe that bringing more competition to telephone bank.
In addition, the Group provides afull range UKbanking will ultimately make banking better for all UK of retail banking products from bank accounts and savings consumers.
We are doing this by building the sort of bank accounts through to credit cards, loans and mortgages.
that customers have told us they want.
A transparent and Whenmeasured by its share of branches, TSB is the UKs straightforward bank that focuses on being true to the original seventh largest banking group.
purpose of banks to support local economic growth and to help local people help themselves.
We call this Local Whilst in absolute terms TSBs 21.6 billion of loans and Banking for Britain.
24.6 billion of customer deposits means its balance sheet size is significant, the balance sheet is smaller than would Banking is based on the effective evaluation of risks, ensuring normally be expected for abank with anetwork of branches an appropriate return is earned for taking them.
The overall level as extensive as TSBs and with the sophistication and capacity of risk we are willing to take, our risk appetite, is determined of TSBs systems and digital banking.
This mismatch is by our Board, and robust systems and practices are in afunction of TSBs creation but explains why growth is akey place to ensure we operate in line with these predetermined priority for TSB.
This helps protect our customers and shareholders interests.
TSB was created to bring more competition to UK banking.
Delivering this well, through our growth strategy, will create TSBs straightforward approach to banking can be seen value for our shareholders.
We will ultimately demonstrate our onpages 6 and 7. success by attracting new bank account customers to TSB andthrough growing TSBs Franchise lending balances by 40% to 50% in the five years from our IPO.
As any bank grows it requires capital to support alarger loan book and this is an area in which TSB is particularly strong.
TSB currently has common equity capital equivalent to 19.7% of its risk adjusted loan book on apro forma basis.
This is very high compared to many other banks and together with our loan to deposit ratio of 76.5% ensures that we are pre-positioned to support our lending growth targets.
However, in addition to growth, TSBs profitability is sensitive to the UK interest rate environment.
The current view on base rates is that they will rise but more slowly than was thought at the time of our IPO.
Whilst this doesnt change our overall strategy or focus on growth, it does mean cost management will have agreater role to play in delivering our targeted return on equity of 10% in 2019.
The combination of TSBs distribution capability, products, and engaged workforce of shareholding Partners, coupled with its strategy of growth supported by strong levels of capital and liquidity is why I believe TSB holds aunique position as Britains strongest challenger bank.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 06 Chief Executive Officers statement How we make money.
Our business model is simple.
Sources Loans We use the funds from savings and bank account customers primarily of funding to fund loans to personal and small business customers.
The amount of income we earn For more information: For more information: from lending the funds exceeds the Page 20 Business review Page 22 Business review interest we pay on the deposits.
Page 106 Financial statements Page 109 Financial statements The Group aims to preserve this margin and to manage the potential impact on income and reserves from changes in interest rates through the limited use ofderivatives.
We subtract any charges including operating costs, impairment and Customers tax expenses to arrive at our profit.
deposit Personal loans Mortgages funds The Board then decides whether this is used to pay dividends or reinvest in the business.
123 4567 8910 The execution of this business model requires the taking of certain risks and we take actions Credit cards Overdrafts tomitigate all of them.
TSB pays interest on deposits See our Truth and banking video a cost We believe our customers have the right to know what we do with their money and this is our way of showing how abank can be more open about Small business loans what it does and how it makes money.
co. uk investors about-tsb Money deposited by customers into Funds deposited with TSB are used their bank and savings accounts provide to support lending to customers who the majority of the funds we use to wish to borrow.
Aportion of deposited support lending to customers.
We also funds are held in reserve to meet any raise asmall proportion of funds from unexpected funding requirements.
other sources, including equity invested by shareholders.
The Groups business model and Risk management strategy result in anumber of key risks that are closely managed by the Board.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Income Charges Profits and returns to shareholders For more information: For more information: For more information: Page 24 Business review Page 26 Business review Page 28 Business review Page 114 Financial statements Page 116 Financial statements Page 122 Financial statements Net interest For future income investments TSB pays $ interest on deposits a cost 8,700 Partners Banking infrastructure TSB receives interest from loans income Loan defaults Taxes Other Returns to income shareholders We earn income in the form of interest Running abank with 4.5 million customers The Board reviews the Groups that we receive on the loans we make comes with overheads.
It decides whether profits to customers and we pay interest to include the costs of paying our 8,700 are put aside for future investment in savings and bank account customers on TSB Partners, running our branches the business or for protection against the money they deposit with us.
Wealso andpaying for advertising and marketing.
the uncertainties that the Group faces, earn other income from the provision of Occasionally, our customers are unable to or the profits may be returned to other banking services and commissions repay the money they borrow from us, this shareholders.
Currently all returns are fromthe sale of certain products such is also acost to the bank in the form of being reinvested back into the business.
Finally, the Group pays tax to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC.
For more information: Page 12 Risk overview Funding Capital Conduct Credit Market Operational Page 85 Risk report and liquidity TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 08 Chief Executive Officers statement A strategy to grow.
TSB has both the capability and opportunity for significant growth.
Our growth strategy Promising early progress Our strategy is to grow by using our strong mobile and We have made astrong start with our strategy to growTSB.
online banking facilities, our nationwide network of branches, Weopened almost half amillion new bank accounts in2014, our full range of retail banking products, the scalability of supported by the launch of Classic Plus at the end of our IT platform, and an increasingly differentiated service March and its associated media and advertising campaign.
We want to provide great banking Consequently, TSB attracted 8.4% of all new and switching to more people.
bank accounts over the last 12 months.
This is well above our long term target of 6%.
Over the next five years, we expect TSB to be consistently chosen by at least 6% of all those moving their bank account I believe that the development of TSBs intermediary mortgage or opening anew one.
This will allow TSB to grow its share of market capability, successfully launched in January 2015, is all bank accounts from 4.3% today towards 6% with the pace an important step in enabling more people right across Britain of progression dependent on the number of accounts being to borrow well with TSB.
Alongside this we continue to build opened and switched across the market.
UK consumers consideration of TSB as adestination for mortgages through our increased profile as alender, including Over the same period, we want to help more people to our Borrow Well marketing campaign.
borrow well by lending to more people right across Britain.
We expect the Groups Franchise lending balances to be While this is very much the start of the TSB journey, I am 40% to 50% higher in 2019 than they were at the IPO in delighted with customers reaction to our brand as much June 2014.
A key step in achieving this growth will be TSBs has been achieved in our drive to help TSB stand out when re-entry into the intermediary mortgage market, giving people compared to other banks.
Our investment in the business the option of acquiring aTSB mortgage through amortgage is already beginning to deliver on anumber of programmes broker.
Wecontinue to expect to provide around 4 billion of to further enhance the Groups digital channels, upgrade mortgages through brokers in 2017. branches and reduce the cost for customers who call us.
Most importantly, we are differentiating ourselves through the great We will focus on using TSBs existing capability to support service we offer as aresult of our culture of personal ownership thegrowth of the business while also seeking opportunities for among our highly engaged team of Partners.
Our focus on customer service and investments to enhance further our products and services, We believe TSBs Partners will be the single greatest including our online and mobile banking services, will help difference between TSB and other banks.
Our successes TSBto continue to attract more customers and to grow.
in 2014 are adirect result of their ability, commitment, collaboration and belief in what we are seeking to We continue to focus on the delivery of our organic strategy achieve at TSB.
but remain open to considering appropriate inorganic growth See explanatory note 4 on page 10. opportunities as they arise.
We expect the successful delivery of our strategy, supported by increasing UK interest rates, to enable TSB to reach 10% return on equity in 2019, with returns expected to increase further in the longer term.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Our priorities are to 1.
Provide great banking to more people 2.
Help more people borrow well 3.
Provide the kind of banking experience people want and deserve TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Chief Executive Officers statement How are we doing so far?
Strategic priorities 1 Provide great banking to more people Grow market share of bank accounts by consistently taking This strong performance was supported by the continued agreater than 6% share of gross flow over afive year period.
customer response to the Classic Plus bank account and the associated media and advertising campaign.
Over the four most recent quarters, TSB has taken As the initial launch campaign has ended, we are intending 8.4% share of flow, or 1 in 12 of all new and switching that over time TSBs share of flow should normalise closer bank accounts.
tothe long term target of 6%.
2 Help more people borrow well Grow Franchise customer lending by 40% to 50% over In 2014 we launched our Borrow Well marketing campaign afive year period from IPO.
and ran separate mortgage campaigns offering to pay customers stamp duty on their house purchase and their As expected, given the absence of amortgage intermediary council tax bill for ayear.
Customer reaction to these distribution channel, mortgage lending balances to campaigns has been positive, reflected in the brands 1 mortgage consideration score improving from 4% to 11% TSB Franchise customers reduced by 1.1 billion to 16.6 billion over 2014. over the 12 month period and the share of direct mortgages 2 However, we successfully launched the mortgage increasing from 1.6% in Q1 2014 to 2.2% in Q4 2014. intermediary channel in January 2015 receiving over However, unsecured lending remained relatively flat in avery 300 million of applications so far.
3 Provide the kind of banking experience people want and deserve Deploy TSBs strong digital capability.
Build greater A new remuneration approach, aligned to and reinforcing consideration of the TSB brand.
Deliver adifferentiated TSBs values, was announced for the Groups executive customer experience through our Partners.
which was further rolled out to all TSB Partners in early 2015.
We further improved our online and mobile banking service, TSBs efforts to differentiate its customer experience with the launch of the TSB.
co. uk website which optimises are now starting to be recognised.
In arecent survey by itself on each users device.
magazine on the customer service provided by UK The percentage of customers signing up to online banking brands, TSBwas the only high street bank to be ranked in when they open abank account increased to 84% as we the top quartile.
continue to support customers use of digital services.
Over 300 branches were enhanced in 2014.
Our progress is also evident from a29 point increase in our We launched the TSB Truth and banking initiative, which customer net promoter score NPS since December 2013, clearly explains how TSB operates and makes money.
which turned positive in the second half of the year.
0345 telephone numbers were introduced, making it cheaper for customers to call us.
Banking complaints have remained stable at 1.0 per 3 Every employee was made aPartner in the business 1,000 accounts through 2014 as TSB works to improve by awarding them TSB shares, and the incentive to customer service.
deliver shareholder value through adifferentiated customer experience.
1 GfK NOP Ltd, Financial Research Survey FRS six months ending December 2013 and 4 Source: CACI Current and Savings Account Market Database CSDB which includes December 2014.
Circa 440 adults considering taking out switching amortgage in the next current, packaged, youth, student and basic bank accounts, and new account openings 12 months were interviewed for each six month period.
Results show percentage who would excluding account upgrades.
Membership of CSDB changed in January 2014.
2 Market share has increased between Q1 and Q4 in 2014 using amarket size based on Bank 5 Source: CACI.
Data presented on atwo month lag, e. g. Q4 2014 refers to October 2014. of England data for total flow and Council of Mortgage Lenders data for asplit of the Direct 6 NPS is based on the question On ascale of 0-10, where 0 is not at all likely and 10 is part of the market.
extremely likely, how likely is it that you would recommend TSB to afriend or colleague?
3 Figures exclude reportable banking complaints relating to packaged bank accounts sold prior NPS is the percentage of TSB customers who score 9-10 after subtracting the percentage to TSBs separation from LBG.
Including reportable complaints relating to packaged bank who score 0-6. accounts sold under TSBs banking licence, reportable banking complaints rose from 1.1 7 Source: Ipsos Mori Brand Tracking, c. 110 interviews per week conducted online with GB inthe first half to 1.2 in the second half of 2014. bank account holders, non-customers of TSB: Q1 Jan-Mar 1,426, Q2 Apr-Jun 1,559, Q3 Jul-Sep 2,896, Q4 Oct-Dec 2,012.
Q1-Q4 data recalibrated by Ipsos Mori to reflect restructured questionnaire in Q4.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information How are we doing so far?
Key performance indicators Outlook in acompetitive environment In 2014, headwinds emerged that pose some challenges Share of personal bank Share of 4 5 account gross ow % PCA stock % to TSBs profit growth.
Competition amongst lenders stepped up markedly and expectations increased for 9.7 10 5 9.2 alower for longer base rate environment.
While we expect 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.1 to see acontinuation of these headwinds, we expect to 8.0 8 4 make further progress in line with our strategic plan in 6.7 2015.
Growth remains our key strategic focus and we 6 3 Target expect TSB to continue to consistently attract more than 6% 6% of all new and switching bank accounts each quarter.
4 2 Following the promising launch of our intermediary channel, 2 1 we expect net lending to grow from mid-way through the year.
Franchise lending balances are expected to end 2015 0 0 around 1.5 billion higher than they started.
We anticipate margin Mortgage gross new lending m Unsecured lending growth m expansion in the early months of the year, reflecting the 13.0 continued benefit from liability repricing and the mix effect of 500 15 areducing mortgage book.
Subsequently, we expect margin 404.5 10 397.8 compression pressure to build consistently throughout the 400 5 355.8 0.1 316.0 rest of the year as aresult of competition for new loans, the 0 300 lower interest rate environment and margin dilution from -5 agrowing proportion of mortgages on TSBs balance sheet.
-10 7.9 200 -15 A Europe-wide change in interchange fee structures -20 will be fully introduced in 2016.
However, an earlier than 100 -25 expected phased introduction from card scheme providers -30 will reduce interchange fees in 2015 and is expected to be 0 28.3 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 the primary driver in reducing Franchise other income by 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 around 15 million in 2015.
Customer advocacy Reportable banking complaints We will, however, continue to invest in enhancing and 6 3 NPS per 1,000 customers differentiating the TSB proposition as we seek to provide the kind of banking experience people want and deserve.
9 10 1.5 We expect to invest around 50 million in 2015 across our branches, digital channels, products and brand profile, 5 1 whilst also ensuring that we continue to manage the 1.0 1.0 0 1.0 efficiency of our operations.
-5 In 2014 we began to demonstrate our focus on expenditure 5 as we spent 696 million, around 25 million less than had -10 0.5 been expected at the time of TSBs IPO.
In 2015 we are -15 13 expecting to spend no more than 720 million, amaterial reduction against previous guidance of 750 million as we 20 -20 0.0 aim to ensure that we are efficiently delivering our growth Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 H1 H2 strategy for our customers and shareholders.
2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Digital penetration of new Non-customer PCA brand Conclusion 7 PCA customers % consideration % 2014 has been asuccessful year for TSB.
Strong delivery of 100 25 bank account growth and our successful IPO provide us with 22 84.2 84.3 84.2 excellent business foundations.
With high levels of capital 80 20 18 18 and liquidity, customer brand consideration and satisfaction 65.2 16 continuing to grow and with our mortgage intermediary 60 15 capability up and running, I remain confident in the ability ofthe business to deliver against our growth strategy.
