Chief Executives Review I am delighted to have joined Tullett Prebon as Chief Executive where we hold leading market positions, the project will help in September 2014 and I would like to thank everyone for their usdefine a road map where there is significant upside warm welcome.
potential for us and our clients.
This is a strong, resilient company that is highly regarded by its As part of our strategy review, we surveyed all our employees clients, has a loyal, long-serving employee base and is placed toseek their opinions and I am pleased to say that more than firmly at the heart of the global financial services industry.
90% of our staff who responded said they are proud to work at Tullett Prebon and the exercise underlined A great amount was achieved in 2014: the enormous knowledge, talent, pride and commitment that exists in our workforce.
The acquisition of PVM, a leading global energy broker, whichpropels our pro forma energy revenues to 22% of We have also sought the views of our clients.
Their responses theGroup total: show how highly they value our depth of market knowledge, the strength and breadth of our networks and the quality Hiring 40 fixed income brokers in the US from Murphy & services that they receive from us.
Durieu, takes our broker headcount in the Americas to nearly550 people: This global strategy review is currently being finalised, and We reached a favourable settlement of all litigation theconclusions will be communicated to shareholders in between ourselves and BGC: duecourse.
When the exercise is concluded we will have We launched our new culture and conduct agenda time developed plans to optimise our core franchises, and identified opportunities to invest in products and services that offer forchange: long term value incorporating technology that best suits client We are finalising a global strategic review: and needs.
Our commitment to our capital markets customer base We maintained our disciplined focus on costs and acted will remain undiminished while wewill look to continue to quickly and decisively to align our cost base to our revenues.
add new streams ofrevenue from additional sources.
Financial performance and sector conditions The barriers to entry into this sector have risen with the costof Conditions were again challenging for the global brokerage IT infrastructure investment and the rising cost of regulation.
In sectorand our revenues fell 100m to 704m.
Global markets Europe, MiFiD II represents another investment challenge, while participants continue to adapt to tighter capital controls and the US has also introduced far reaching protocols that affect the regulation which has a direct bearing on trading volumes.
Long awaited market consolidation is Wemaintained the underlying operating margin above 14% underway.
This represents an opportunity for the larger global reflecting the positive impact of our cost improvement players as the smaller market participants will struggle to bear programme which has reduced annual fixed costs by over these investment costs.
We will remain vigilant regarding the 45m, and we will continue to see the benefits of this flow acquisition of value creating assets and we will continue to through in 2015. evaluate interesting opportunities as they arise.
Towards the end of 2014 we saw an uptick in volatility in Acquisitions somemarkets as a result of concerns about global economic In November we closed the acquisition of PVM, a leading growth and political turbulence in many parts of the world.
energy brokerage firm which brings 33 new product desks and Theprice of crude oil fell sharply, taking almost everybody 129 new specialist brokers.
This is an exciting development for bysurprise.
Tullett Prebon and is consistent with our strategy of In these conditions our brokers depth of knowledge and expanding in the energy sector.
experience proved invaluable to achieve clients desired PVMs main activities are in crude oil and petroleum products, outcomes.
As a result, we saw evidence of an upturn in and the business is particularly strong in London.
It has an business activity in the latter part of 2014. average daily turnover of more than 150 million barrels of OTC Our Information Sales business, Tullett Prebon Information, oil derivatives.
It also participates in the biomass and biofuels continues to be a market leading supplier of over-the-counter sectors, and has started the physical and financial broking of OTC data and we expanded the content portfolio in 2014.
This coal and the physical options broking of EU Carbon allowances business is benefiting from demand, driven in part by compliance and offsets.
It adds Singapore distillates, Urals and energyand regulatory requirements, for high quality, reliable and related shipping to the Tullett Prebon Group.
independent information on the global OTC markets.
We have PVMs client base diversifies that of Tullett Prebon and also continued to invest in our hybrid e-Broking platforms which includes commodity producers and consumers, traders and connect clients and brokers to live markets.
risk managers within large oil and gas corporations, energy utilities, fund managers, professional traders and hedge funds.
Strategic review In the light of the decline in revenues in recent years, PVM also brings to the Group its energy data set which will oneofmyfirst actions after joining Tullett Prebon was to enable our information business to extend and deepen its commence aglobal strategy review to evaluate our position global crude, refined and middle distillates coverage.
and prospects in each of our products and markets around In early 2015, we enhanced our US brokerage activities with theworld.
the addition of 40 new fixed income brokers from Murphy & The exercise is reaffirming the strength and resilience of Durieu L. P. They bring expertise and access to deep liquidity ourglobal business lines, each of which is being evaluated pools in a diverse range of fixed income products including forexisting and forecast fee pools, competitive landscape, the corporates, convertible, municipal, high yield, distressed and outlook for margins, the outlook for regulation, the threat and government securities.
Our total number of front office opportunity of technology and the regional attractiveness.
employees in the Americas is now almost 550 having reInaddition to highlighting those of our products and services established critical mass in the region.
2 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our values are simple and central to everything we do: Our Swap Execution Facility tpSEF Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence.
During 2014, tpSEF continued to provide execution services globally for swaps clients across the five major assets classes: Our principles are: rates, credit, equities, FX, and commodities.
tpSEF has provided To act as a good intermediary we act honestly, fairly and Tullett Prebons customers with a seamless transition from professionally in serving our clients: voice broking to trading swaps on a regulated venue, enabling Clean pricing we always communicate prices and market us to maintain our long-established status as a leader in swaps data based on levels that reflect market supply and demand, liquidity and in the execution of swaps transactions.
market liquidity and risk: It is tpSEFs intention to apply for registration as a securityAppropriate disclosure of information we always uphold based SEF when final rules on those instruments are published client confidentiality and do not provide misleading or by the SEC which is currently expected in 2015. falseinformation: Financial crime we ensure that our services are not used Awards and recognition from our clients tofacilitate financial crime and we report all suspicious As in previous years, in 2014 we won plaudits from our clients transactions and activities to the relevant authorities: and and the industry.
These are testament to our excellence of Quality of market infrastructure we provide resilient products, services and execution capabilities.
infrastructure to meet our client and market obligations.
Weinvest in new technologies to innovate and protect For the fifth consecutive year Tullett Prebon was voted against threats such as cyber crime.
number one in more product categories than any other interdealer broker in Risk Magazines 2014 annual We are embedding these principles and behaviours of our interdealerrankings.
We also won: culture, and the monitoring of them, in all our systems and processes.
We have issued a new Enterprise Risk Management Overall Currency IDB of the Year, 2014 Risk Magazines Framework and toolset which is directly linked to our culture annual interdealer rankings: and how we execute business.
We are introducing new HR Commodities Broker of the Year and Innovator of the Year at policies and processes to ensure that our culture and values the 2014 Global Derivatives Awards: underpin everything we ask of our employees.
Commodity Broker of the Year, Futures and Options There will always be some risk in our industry, but we are Awards2014: committed to building an outstanding culture throughout our Best Broker for Forward FX, 2014 FX Week Best Banks Group and in 2015 we will more closely link compensation for Awards:and oursenior management to the firms overall conduct scorecard.
Best Data Provider Broker, Inside Market Data Awards for the 4th consecutive year.
Conclusion of legal actions in the US In January 2015 the action taken by Tullett Prebon against New hires BGCinthe New Jersey Superior Court, in response to the raid I am delighted to have made some key new appointments in ofTullett Prebon brokers by BGC in 2009 came to a favourable 2014.
Philip Price joins as our new Group Chief Legal Counsel conclusion, as we entered into a settlement agreement with and Global Head of Compliance.
Carrie Heiss joins as Group BGC under which BGC will pay $100m to the Company.
We Global Head of Human Resources.
Stephen Breslin is our new have a duty to our shareholders to seek to protect our legal Group Head of Communications.
All of these individuals bring rights and interests and although legal action can be a wealth of experience from previous appointments and all uncertain, protracted and expensive, it was appropriate to are committed to our agenda for conduct and culture as part take action inorder to do so.
The year ahead Conduct, culture and regulation Looking ahead to 2015, I see many areas of exciting potential Regulators around the world have placed the whole of the forTullett Prebon.
We will be outward looking, we will embrace financial services industry under heavy scrutiny following the technology and we are optimistic.
We have a solid platform financial crisis and we fully support their desire to inculcate from which to push ahead with changes in the business that the industry with a stronger culture.
will give us the potential to deliver sustainable growth.
At Tullett Prebon, we have recognised that how we conduct I have been enormously encouraged by the positive ourselves as individuals and as a firm is as important as engagement from colleagues across the Group, at all levels, theproducts and services we deliver.
Our commitment to whohave embraced change and demonstrated extraordinary instilling the highest standards of conduct at Tullett Prebon commitment to our customers and to Tullett Prebon.
Our culminated inthe launch of our new framework Our Culture, business achievements are down to them.
I am grateful for Time for Change in December 2014.
It was devised following theirskill and dedication and I would like to thank them all numerous discussions with our employees, Executive fortheir contribution.
Committee members and the Board, and we challenged ourselves and our assumptions again and again during a rigorous and intense process.
John Phizackerley The resulting cultural framework has three pillars: our values, Chief Executive our principles, and our behaviours, which are the practical, 3 March 2015 day-to-day manifestation of our culture.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 3
