Chairmans and Chief Executives Report Summary In the year to 31 December 2014 Witan delivered a net asset value NAV total return of 6.6%, 1.1% more than our benchmarks total return of 5.5% and{5.4% more than the 1.2% return on the FTSE All-Share Index of UK shares.
The share price total return was 15.1%, enhanced by the move during the{year from a 6.1% discount at the end of 2013 to{a 1.3% premium at the year-end.
The total dividend for the year is 15.4 pence per share 2013:{14.4 pence, an increase of 6.9%, including the fourth interim dividend of 4.6 pence declared in February 2015 and payable on 2 April 2015.
This marks the 40th consecutive year of rising dividends at Witan, with the current dividend per share more than 40 times that paid in 1974.
Harry Henderson | Chairman Over the past 5 years Witan has achieved an NAV total return of 70.2%, compared with the 54.5% return from our benchmark over this period.
2014{also marked the 10th anniversary of Witans adoption of a multi-manager investment approach.
Over the 10 years to the end of 2014, shareholders have enjoyed an NAV total return of 143.8%, compared with the benchmarks return of 117.0%.
In a year when market sentiment was less positive than in 2013, with no consistent market direction, investment selection was particularly important.
Overall our managers outperformed, with additional contributions from the investment in Japanese equity market futures and the use of gearing.
The investment markets in 2014 Andrew Bell | Chief Executive Equity markets delivered returns in 2014 that were generally modest in sterling terms.
The US was the standout exception among major centres, with a market rise of over 10% boosted further by the dollars strength to deliver 20% returns in sterling terms.
Japan, by contrast, saw an 8% rise in its market index almost totally eroded by yen weakness.
The UK and Europe delivered small positive total returns in sterling terms.
04 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Highlights NAV total return of 6.6% outperformed the benchmarks return of 5.5% NAV total return over the last five years of 70.2%, 15.7% ahead of the benchmark Dividend increased by 6.9% to 15.4p, 6.4% ahead of the rate of ination The 40th consecutive year of increased dividends Share price rerated from a 6.1% discount to a 1.3% premium A final ingredient to a slightly unsettling year was One common factor was the degree of anticipation the slowdown in the Chinese economy.
Whilst already factored into share prices following the this appeared to be a controlled process, with the strong market rises in 2013.
Economic growth authorities gradually easing policy in response to fell short of forecasts for much of 2014, either weaker growth, the fear of a more disorderly collapse temporarily for example the harsh US winter remained, due to the poorly-controlled boom in weather in the first quarter, or more persistently, lending during recent years.
This did not prevent where economies were held back by higher taxes the previously-depressed Chinese domestic stock in{Japan and, in Europe, by earlier currency strength market from rising over 50% during the year, but and relatively tight monetary and scal policies.
the impact of Chinas slower growth on commodity Stock markets found it hard to make progress as a prices and the eect of the mood of ocial austerity result, other than the US, where economic activity on demand for global consumer products cast accelerated as the year progressed.
2014 was also punctuated by a number of political Witans strategy during the year was to remain fully and economic events.
Early in the year, Russias invested into what we believed to be improving annexation of the Crimea and involvement in a civil economic conditions, taking advantage of periods of conict in Eastern Ukraine led to the imposition weakness earlier in the year to increase our gearing, of economic sanctions restricting trade and which rose from 7% to 10%.
These had a greater commercial impact in Europe than elsewhere, in addition to The discount, share buybacks and treasury shares the apprehension caused by Russias proximity.
The Companys discount relative to the NAV In{the Middle East, political consensus continued excluding income, with debt at market value was to{elude a{number of countries of strategic regional 6.1% at the end of 2013 and, on the same basis, our importance such as Egypt and Syria as well as oil shares traded at a premium of 1.3% at the end of producing countries.
The average discount for the year was 2.2% 2013: 8.3%.
Until the summer, this served to push up oil prices, especially after extreme political elements made As a result of this rerating, the Company was able startling territorial gains in Iraq, threatening to reissue shares held in treasury and to issue disruption to oil production.
This marked a turning new shares at a premium to NAV to meet investor point for oil prices, since once the insurgents were demand, making this the first year since 1996 pushed back markets focused upon the oversupply that{the Company has had more shares in issue at in the oil market.
This had resulted from significant the end of the year than at the start.
production growth, especially by US shale oil companies, allied to weaker growth in the demand for oil as a result of slower than expected global growth.
Oil prices halved in the second half of the year, presenting a significant headwind for the UK stock market, given its heavy oil sector weighting.
Concern about the financial systems loan exposure to oil producers vied for investors attention with the alternative conclusion that a fall in oil prices represented a significant benefit to consumers of oil{and should boost growth in 2015.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 05 Chairmans and Chief Executives Report continued Regulatory changes the decline in sterling will help companies with In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund exports and overseas earnings.
Managers Directive AIFMD, the Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited as One of the greatest surprises in 2014 was that, in its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM an environment of improving economic growth and and has appointed BNP Paribas Securities Services speculation of interest rate rises in the US and the London Branch as its Depositary.
There are a number UK albeit so far unfulfilled, government bond yields of consequent changes in the presentation of the declined from what were already low levels.
This can Annual Report which are set out in the more detailed perhaps be rationalised by a reassessment of how sections of the Strategic Report and the Directors long the current period of low interest rates needs Report which{follow.
to be to sustain convalescent economies around the world and by the low level of ination, aected by the AGM recent plunging oil price.
Nonetheless, the market Our Annual General Meeting will be held at has been troubled periodically by concerns that low Merchant{Taylors Hall on Thursday 30 April 2015 at bond yields might be a warning of coming recession, 2.30 pm.
Formal notice of the meeting will be sent to although the distortions caused by quantitative shareholders when the Annual Report is published.
easing policies appear a likelier explanation.
The We look forward to the opportunity to meet you then fact that central banks in Japan and{Europe are set for the Companys 107th AGM.
to be buyers of government bonds even as the US Federal Reserve withdraws from the market means Outlook that supply-demand factors will remain positive for In retrospect, 2014 appears to have been a transition another year.
This does not mean bonds represent year, between the eager anticipation of improving good value from an investment point of view but conditions factored into markets in 2013 and the if yields remain suppressed it would provide a achievement of those improvements which has continuing boon for companies and governments occurred somewhat more slowly than hoped.
seeking to borrow at current low rates.
Economic growth was generally stronger last year 2015 begins with a similar question to that a year than in 2013 but failed to buoy already elevated ago s will the world economy grow suciently to spirits.
Europe remained dogged by economic meet expectations for corporate profits growth dierences between the more competitive and the and to enable debt-laden Western economies to weaker countries notably Greece and by the lack get on top of their problems?
Geopolitical events of consensus over how to manage the stresses.
The have complicated the normal economic judgments crisis with Russia has undermined confidence at a during 2014 and risks remain but the fall in the oil vulnerable point in this process.
Japans economy price has the capacity, if sustained, to generate has yet to recover momentum following the tax rise a growth surprise in economies that have so far a year ago, while investors are focused on whether failed to recover as rapidly as normal from the 2009 recession.
the re-elected Prime Minister Abe will implement reform measures to boost his countrys growth potential.
The UK grew more strongly than most in 2014 but faces political uncertainty in the form of Harry Henderson Andrew Bell the forthcoming general election as well as equity Chairman Chief Executive market pressures from the significant exposure to 10 March 2015 mining and oil companies.
On{a more positive note, 06 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014
