Chief Executive Officers statement Alex Chesterman, Chief Executive Officer Its been an incredible journey in a relatively short period of time since we launched the business in 2008.
I am delighted to present Zoopla Property Group Plcs ZPG first annual report.
Ithas been an incredible journey inarelatively short period oftime since we launched the business in 2008.
Back then weset out totransform the way that UK consumers searched for property and researched the market and I think that wehavemade some great steps towards fulfilling that goal.
However, there remain During the last 12 months someexciting opportunities andinteresting we have grown our user challenges ahead.
audience to record levels During the last 12 months we have grown our user audience torecord levels as more consumers than ever used our platform to search for as more consumers properties and research the property market.
User visits toour websites and mobile applications increased by 33% over the year, with mobile than ever have used devices now accounting for over 57% of total user visits, as consumers engaged with our services at work, athome and on the move.
This growth ourplatform was driven in part by the continued shift of the property experience online, together with renewed confidence in the UK property market during the year.
Our growing user audience together with the increased levels of activity in the property market resulted in our advertising members estate agents, letting agents and new home developers enjoying record levels of exposure and enquiries, with over 29 million leads generated from our platform over the year, an increase of 12%.
Overthe past 12 months 40,000 individual home sellers used the ZPG valuation tool to contact local agents about selling their home, equating to around 150 million of potential fees for ZPG members.
These figures show our ongoing commitment to helping our members win new business and the exceptional value we provide.
We have grown our member base by over 5% over the past 12months and seen average revenue per member increase by18% during the period, with a significant portion of the ARPA growth being driven by our members purchasing additional products and services togenerate greater standout on our platform.
Our revenue growth reflects the overall recovery in the property market and the continued shift from print to digital in property marketing.
06 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our strategy products toenhance their brand prominence, such as Area Sponsorship Our goal is very simply to provide the most useful online resources to and Appraisal Booster, or to enhance exposure and drive additional UKproperty consumers and to be the most effective partner to our enquiries for their property listings, such as Premium Listings and advertising members.
Over the past few years we have made a lot FeaturedProperties.
ofprogress towards achieving that goal having built a market-leading We benefit from strong network effects where the more consumers digital property proposition for our users and members.
who use our platform, the more attractive it is for our members to We help our users to both research the property market and also to advertise and purchase enhanced marketing products.
Almost 90% find their next home through our huge inventory of available properties ofestate agents, letting agents and new home developers throughout and best in class search tools and associated data.
We provide the UK advertise on our platform to benefit from the high level of unrivalled exposure for our members to a unique audience of online exposure and enquiries that we deliver.
We also generate additional property consumers via the various brands that we own and power.
revenues from third party advertising and partnerships.
Our core brands, Zoopla and PrimeLocation, attract millions of unique Looking forward users each month allowing us to deliver exceptional value to our members There are significant opportunities that we are very excited about for whilst delivering strong revenue and EBITDA growth to our shareholders.
our business as we go forward.
Whilst we remain behind Rightmove We own a number of other leading brands, including SmartNewHomes currently in terms of audience and revenues, we have closed the gap and HomesOverseas, which allow us to target niche audiences within in terms of brand awareness and the number of advertising members the property market as well as powering the online property search and the gaps in other key performance indicators KPIs continue function for some of the UKs leading third party brands including tonarrow.
TheTimes, the Daily Telegraph, the Evening Standard, Barclays, Halifax and many more.
There are also challenges ahead.
The next 12 months will see further competition in the form of Agents Mutual, an agent-led portal which During the last 12 months we have invested heavily in our brands in plans to launch in early 2015 and which proposes to exclude its terms of both product and marketing.
We continue to innovate and members from advertising with either us or Rightmove.
We will ensure have launched a number of new features to increase engagement that we demonstrate effectively to our members and consumers the onour platforms, including commute time search, a new commercial value we provide in the property search process.
We believe that property channel and enhanced features within ZooplaPro including ultimately it is in the commercial interests of our members to advertise MarketView, PropertyWatch and new Comparables Reports.
We have with us given the unique scale and nature of our audience and the also broadened our marketing channels to now include TV, radio, exceptional value that we deliver.
Further uncertainties surrounding cinema, print and outdoor campaigns.
theupcoming election, interest rates and policy issues such as the Over the coming months we plan to invest further in growing our user proposed mansion tax will also challenge the overall housing market engagement and awareness, ensuring that we deliver even more value recovery but we are confident that we are well placed to deal to our members as we develop new products and services to monetise.
With most consumers shifting from print to online as their preferred We believe we have built a business in seven short years that method of property search, we are very well positioned to capture combines a market-leading consumer proposition with an unequalled arising share of the growing digital property spend as it further value-for-money member proposition.
We look forward to addressing transitions away from traditional print media.
the opportunities and challenges ahead and remain convinced that thelong-term winners will be those that offer the best service for Business model consumers and members alike.
Consumers engage with our brands when searching or researching the property market.
We display over 1 million properties advertised Finally, we continue to attract and retain the best talent in the market byour members available for sale or rent along with other useful data and continue to build a team that I am extremely proud of and that and information to help our users make smarter property decisions.
stands us in great stead as we go forward.
Our principal source of revenue is the monthly subscription fees paidby our members to advertise their properties on our platform.
Ouraverage cost per lead is significantly lower than Rightmove andweoffer a variety of subscription packages with varying levels Alex Chesterman ofservices included in each.
In addition, our members buy additional Chief Executive Officer Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
