Strategic report Chief Executive Officers report Dear shareholders Centamin is entering a 2014 was another year of production growth for Sukari sustainable period of cash and overall performance bodes well for the potential of the operation to generate significant free cash flow over the generation, which it will coming years.
The Stage 4 project to double nameplate use to reward shareholders capacity at the process plant to 10 million tonnes per annum Mtpa was completed during the first half of the year for a through dividends and total capital expenditure of US$331.2 million.
The project was completed on budget and with limited timeline ongoing growth.
overruns, representing a solid achievement in itself, but is all the more notable when set against the various external challenges that were faced, particularly during the early stages of the construction period.
Whilst affected by periods of belowexpected productivity, Andrew Pardey progressive increases in plant throughput continued as Chief Executive Officer commissioning activities took effect and the nameplate 10Mtpa capacity was reached, and exceeded, from September onwards.
The fourth quarter was another record for both open pit and underground mining rates and productivity in both of these areas remains strong.
Following government approval in the fourth quarter for the increase in Ammonium Nitrate AN usage, the open pit is now on a secure footing to deliver the scheduled material movements as required for the expanded operation.
The underground mine continued to deliver strong increases in volumes through 2014, achieving abovetarget levels by year end, although with lower grades than originally forecast.
With the operation now appropriately scaled for the higher processing rate, the focus for 2015 is on reducing grade volatility and thereafter leveraging the potential for additional productivity increases.
The efficiency gains delivered with the production rampup are indicated by a material yearonyear decrease in operating costs per tonne, in both the mining and processing areas.
This is a trend we expect to continue in the coming quarters as the expanded operation continues to be optimised.
14 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Our strategic priorities As the new Chief Executive Officer, I have summarised below the strategic aims for the Company over the coming years, which are threefold: 1 2 3 Cash Shareholder Growth generation return To generate substantial To provide returns To use cash reserves free cash flow from to shareholders which to fund our next stage operations.
stand out against our of growth.
See page 18 See page 20 See page 22 Centamins track record of safety is an aspect of our Subsequent to the year end, an unfortunate incident performance of which I am both pleased and eager to occurred in Burkina Faso on a public road near the Konkera improve.
Developing a strong culture of health and safety village which resulted in one of our local employees being awareness onsite has resulted in improved reporting of fatally wounded and another sustaining injuries.
The incidents compared to previous years and our LTI frequency wellbeing of our employees is a priority for Centamin and a rate of 0.39 per 200,000 manhours in 2014 0.36 in 2013 thorough investigation into this bandit attack, on two of our is a solid achievement, especially when considering Sukari vehicles, has been carried out.
Further additional security is the first modern gold mine in Egypt.
Nevertheless, there measures have been proposed following the incident and remains room for improvement and our target is for zero these are being implemented.
There was no impact on injuries and having every person go home safely every day.
operational activity as a result of the incident.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 15 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers report continued The focus for 2015 is to continue production growth at Sukari whilst maintaining a strong control on costs, with the objective of generating substantial free cash flow even under challenging gold price assumptions.
The greenhouse gas emissions reporting required by Guidance for 2015 is for 420,000 ounces at US$700 oz Schedule 7 of The Large and MediumSized Companies cash operating cost and US$950 oz allinsustaining cost.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as Production is expected to achieve the 450500,000 ounce amended by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report per annum target rate from second half of 2015 onwards.
and Directors Report Regulations 2013, is a requirement In the open pit, the focus will continue on the northern only on UK incorporated quoted companies.
Centamin has, and eastern cutback to expose higher grade ore from the however, provided information relating to this legislation in second half of the year.
This will ensure that the operation the CSR report.
is on a secure footing to sustain, on an annual basis, the See pages 46 to 57 required tonnages at reserveaverage grades.
Maintaining good community relations is a core part of our We aim to build on the significant productivity increases operational strategy and corporate governance standards.
from the underground mine by targeting a reduction in As the first mining company in Egypt in modern times, we grade volatility.
strive to set an example of a socially responsible industry through adopting a good neighbour policy.
We take every As we achieve these targets, and during the next two action to ensure Sukari has the minimum impact on the to three year period, we intend to continue optimising social environment, as well as to deliver positive benefits to the various areas of the expanded Sukari operation Egypt and the community as a result of our investment, and with the ultimate aim of delivering further production further details of our various initiatives can be found in the increases.
The productivity levels achieved during 2013 CSR report.
in the preexpansion process plant, together with the various design improvements implemented during the Our work force is remunerated well above the average for Stage 4 project build, provide us with confidence that the Egypt and our career development programmes are highly expanded plant will achieve, in time, production levels valued.
In general we enjoy a very positive and constructive materially above nameplate capacity.
At the underground relationship with our employees.
mine, as stable grade delivery is achieved at the current mined volumes, we see potential for further incremental Outlook productivity increases.
The focus for 2015 is to continue production growth at Sukari whilst maintaining a strong control on costs, with The additional shareholder value that can be gained from the objective of generating substantial free cash flow even the continued drive for efficiency has the potential to be under challenging gold price assumptions.
We intend to significant and requires no significant capital expenditure.
return 1530% of this cash flow to our shareholders, in line with our dividend policy, and to allocate the remainder No capital expenditure for expansion or project towards our medium and longterm objective of organic development is planned for 2015. growth aimed at realising incremental shareholder value and returns.
Safety remains a priority and our target is a lost time injury rate of zero during 2015.
16 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Exploration at Sukari continues to prioritise extensions of Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their the highgrade underground resource and reserve and we hard work over the years including the employees onsite expect to continue to deliver positive news in line with the at Sukari, those on the exploration sites in Burkina Faso, strong results to date.
A resource and reserve update is Ethiopia and Cte dIvoire as well as those in the corporate planned during 2015. and administration offices in Jersey and Australia.
I would also like to thank your Board of Directors for their support Outside of Sukari, we expect a total exploration expenditure over the years and I am very much looking forward to 2015 of circa US$20 million in 2015, with the largest proportion and beyond.
on the advanced exploration programme in Burkina Faso.
Our exploration tenements in Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia are no less prospective, requiring a lower exploration spend Andrew Pardey due to their earlier stage.
In line with our overall exploration Chief Executive Officer strategy, the actual expenditure on these projects is results 23 March 2015 driven and the current estimated expenditures are therefore subject to ongoing revisions.
We will continue to evaluate potential opportunities to grow the business through the acquisition of projects offering the potential for the Company to deliver on its strategic objectives.
Processing plant at Sukari Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 17
