14 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy Chief [ecutiveos introduction rom that ver first wireless telephone call, to our innovations in bre optics that support global communications, weore now where we are toda s with a heartland in the 8. the bacNbone of the countr os communications infrastructure and with operations all over the world.
Itos wh weove invested and will continue to invest in r the rollout of bre broadband when others have not, because we believe it can transform lives and is a platform for growth for the whole of the 8.. We have one of the fastest bre rollouts in the world and our bre networN now passes around two thirds of 8. premises r BT TV and BT Sport, because the trend in the marNet is clear s our customers want pacNages of voice, broadband and T9.
Iom delighted that in less than one ear, we have around 3m direct BT Sport customers and our service is in around 5m homes Watch m video online at r mobility, because our customers want connectivit wherever the are www.
com annualreport r the UK business market and helping multinationals to e[pand globall and regionall, because weore able to leverage our world-class capabilit at managing networNs and services to enable businesses to grow and r building and maintaining a high performing healthy culture, Weove made strong progress this year because this will create future innovation and opportunities.
om e[cited about the future and how %7 All of this is aimed at creating a growing BT and delivering our goal of sustainable, profitable revenue growth for the business.
And our will be right at the heart of shaping it investments are delivering for us.
The cumulative eect is that we donot just help individuals and businesses to grow and prosper s we worN as an engine of growth and prosperit for the econom as a whole.
The wa weoll bring our purpose alive, and deliver our goal, is to e[ecute I consider it a great privilege to be writing to ou for the first time as on ever aspect of our strateg.
If we do this, weoll continue to deliver for Chief [ecutive.
our shareholders, customers and for societ.
Iom incredibl proud to worN for a communications compan with a great Weove made strong progress over the last ear beating marNet sense of purpose and with man talented and dedicated people.
e[pectations and growing revenue, earnings per share and normalised free cash ow.
Our results provide a strong platform to build on in the The world is being transformed b communications.
The are changing ears ahead as we continue to focus on improving the service we provide how we worN, how we banN, how we shop and how we thinN bringing to our customers and delivering on our investments.
new wa s of delivering healthcare and education reshaping how governments operate helping to create new businesses and driving Iom reall e[cited about the future and how BT will be right at the heart social mobilit.
BT is right at the heart of this.
Our purpose is to use the of shaping it.
Iom confident that with the support of our people, weoll power of communications to maNe a better world.
continue to use the power of communications to maNe a better world.
Businesses that ourish over the long term are ones that have a purpose thatos be ond simpl maNing mone.
B bringing together our networNs our technolog and the hard worN and e[pertise of our people, BT is able to deliver value for our shareholders and customers and contribute to{societ.
When I joined BT ten ears ago, what strucN me most was the compan os histor of innovation and the fact that this was a business that Gavin Patterson consistentl innovated and recreated itself s and that continues to Chief Executive be true toda.
