Strategic report Interview with the Chief Executive such expansion will be beneficial to our Q Y ou have a 1.3 billion pipeline overall brand and digital positioning.
of developments in the UK.
How fast can we expect to see these The c ountry holds huge potential for developments and how will you the creation of genuinely regional fund them?
destination centres in which we specialise.
Eighty per cent of Spains A The fide velopment pipeline can be split retail expenditure comes from 10 into active management projects and key catchments and we aim to be the major extensions.
We have several leading owner, developer and manager ongoing active management projects, of regionally pre-eminent shopping such as the leisure extension at intu centre destinations for a significant Potteries and the refurbishment and number of those key areas.
restaurant quarter at intu Victoria Centre, both of which will be completed The a cquisition of Puerto Venecia in the second half of 2015.
We will also in early 2015, after the successful be commencing three other restaurant acquisition of Parque Principado in 2013, projects in the next few months.
All substantially accelerates our activities these projects can be funded from our in Spain.
W e also have development options in tu Watford is our most advanced on sites in Mlaga, Palma, Valencia Q major extension with planning and Vigo.
It is our intention, subject to approved, the anchor cinema let and shareholder approval, to exercise the over 50 per cent of the expected rent Mlaga option in March 2015.
We anticipate beginning advancing the other sites to the point construction this year.
The catalyst for where we can consider exercising our other extensions, the majority of the options.
which have planning approved, will be Q the required level of tenant interest.
You have had a year of negative like-for-like net rental income.
W e should not need additional equity to What specific actions are you taking finance these projects.
We can finance to address this and when can we the extensions from existing available expect to see a turnaround?
facilities, raising debt against the value A Ov er the last three years we have created from completed developments Intus improved 2014 results successfully repositioned the Group and recycling capital from other so that we are now well placed to assets to reinvest into these growth demonstrate we are well benefit from the improved confidence opportunities, including introducing positioned to benefit further of shoppers and retailers.
Rather than partners into existing assets.
The major from rising consumer confidence chasing a target level of occupancy developments are likely to be spread throughout this period, we have instead and strengthening demand over a number of years so the proceeds concentrated on being selective and from financing a completed project can from retailers for quality space.
ensuring that we have the right tenants be used to help finance the next one.
We welcome over400 million in the right space.
This means we have Q You have recently acquired a second customer visits perannum and not compromised on the quality of the centre in Spain.
Why is Spain such tenant mix and have maintained or our clear focus ondelivering an attractive market for you and why improved the tone of the rents in our outstanding customer do you think you can replicate your prime centres.
experience under theintu brand Whil e our results still reflect a lingering A Spain has very attractive market is proving apowerful factor in impact from the administrations of late dynamics with an economy moving the successful performance 2012 and early 2013, it is clear that this out of recession and a sophisticated active asset management strategy is ofourcentres consumer and retail market, but a starting to pay off.
For example, in the retail sector where ownership of the David Fischel case of Republic, we took back all the Chief Executive regional shopping centre market units rather than let them at potentially remains highly fragmented and without lower rents to tenants who did not fit our a large committed pipeline of new desired retail mix.
It took a year, but all of centres.
It is a country where we see these units are now relet to top-quality major opportunities for us to broaden brands, such as Hugo Boss, White Stuff, our presence and further strengthen Superdry and Footasylum, at rents in line our position in the market.
We believe with the previous passing rent.
16 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report The r emaining elements of the like-forOur shoppers are at the heart of Asset valuation like net rental income shortfall in 2014 everything we do and providing can be split into two areas.
First, with our them with compelling experiences ongoing active management projects, also ensures that we establish 9.
0 b n in particular at intu Victoria Centre, we enduring relationships with our had to remove units from generating retailers.
Our brand enables us to offer 2013: 7.6bn income while we reconfigured the scalability to retailers and the size of Asset valuation centre to maximise rental potential on the Group also helps to support the 1 16 15 14 completion of the project.
Our national brand enables us 13 there was a concentration of lease to deliver experiences and events for 12 9.0bn expiries at intu Braehead and intu the customer that ownership of a single 11 Potteries this year.
We repositioned key centre could not, such as the Everyones 10 2013: 7.6bn 2 tenants, as we illustrated last year, and Invited family friendly weekend of events 9 have now addressed the majority of the in all our centres which increased footfall 8 expiries but have operated with a higher for the weekend year-on-year by around 7 vacancy level in these centres as a result.
6 3 5 4 Lik e-for-like net rental income is an Our staff offer an unparalleled service important measure, but total property and our digital platform gives customers Super-regional centres 66% Town and city centres 34% Super-regional centres Town and city centres return, the combined income and capital access to brands in our centres 24 hours 1. intu Traord Centre 2,200million 7.
Manchester Arndale 430million 66% 34% returns, encompasses everything we a day.
Our online presence is growing 2. intu Lakeside 1,255million 8. intu Derby 420 million 1. i ntu Trafford Centre 7.
Manchester Arndale do and is the overall measure on which rapidly with nearly three million visits 2,200million 430million 3. intu Metrocentre 928million 9.
St Davids, Cardi 308million 2. intu Lakeside 8. intu Derby we focus.
Over the past five years, our to intu.
co. uk in December 2014, a year- 4. intu Braehead 599million 10. intu Eldon Square 273million 1,255million 420million annualised total property return of 9.9 on-year increase of almost 40 per cent.
5. intu Merry Hill 435 million 11. intu Watford 335million 3. intu Metrocentre 9.
S t Davids, Cardiff per cent per annum outperformed the Our active marketing database is almost 928million 308million 6.
Cribbs Causeway, Bristol 243million 12. intu Victoria Centre 314million IPD UK quarterly retail benchmark of two million strong and in 2015 we will 4. intu Braehead 10. i ntu Eldon Square 13. intu Milton Keynes 278million 599million 273million 9.2 per cent.
focus on developing opportunities 14. intu Chapeleld 261 mil lion 5. i ntu Merry Hill 11. intu Watford for more regular engagement and, Q intu is the only national shopping 435million 335million 15. intu Bromley 171million importantly, increased monetisation.
C ribbs Causeway, Bristol 12. intu Victoria Centre centre brand.
What value does this 16. intu Potteries 165million 243million 314million Including Group share of joint ventures.
bring and what evidence of success Our scale as owner of nearly half of 13. i ntu Milton Keynes Other properties 100 million 350 million.
do you have two years after the the top 20 shopping centres in the UK 278million brand was launched?
means that we have a strong presence 14. intu Chapelfield 261million offering key entry points in the areas A In tu is one of the UKs biggest retail 15. intu Bromley where retailers need to be.
We recognise 171million landlords, and focused on providing that we are competing with other 16. intu Potteries a great experience for millions of attractions, not just shopping, for our 165million UK shoppers with, according to customers time and money and need Including Group share of joint ventures.
our estimates, over half of the UKs Other properties 100 million 350 million.
to offer an attractive product on a population visiting an intu centre national basis.
Q What are your strategic priorities for 2015?
A Our focus in 2015 will be on four main goals which we believe will result in strong total returns over the medium term: optimising performance of existing assets with the delivery of like-for-like net rental income growth in 2015 and attractive total property returns driving forward the 1.3 billion investment programme in UK assets making the brand count and demonstrating the benefits of scale seizing the growth opportunity in Spain, building on progress in the last three years A 17 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
