Strategic report c Hief execUtiVes reVieW o Ur year it has been a good year for British land and our investment of the placing proceeds and the business is in good business is performing well.
We have executed success in letting up developments.
shape and weve delivered a well against the plan we set out last year.
ePra net asset Value increased by 15.4% to the decisions and actions we have taken both 688 pence per share.
taking into account the strong set of results.
We have this year and in previous years continue to be impact of the dividend, and the increase in benefited from strengthening a key driver of our performance along with the net asset Value, we delivered an overall total occupational and investment strengthening of our markets.
accounting return for the period of 20.0%.
reflecting our confidence in the coming year, markets but the decisions During our 2014 financial year, we successfully the Board is proposing a quarterly dividend invested the proceeds of our equity placing and actions we have taken of 6.92 pence per share, or 27.68 pence per ahead of schedule, acquiring attractive assets share for the full-year, an increase of 2.5%.
both this year and in previous at good prices.
assets such as Paddington central, where we can create attractive We generated total property returns of 14.2% years have been a significant environments: places people prefer to work, and capital returns of 8.9%, once again contributor to our performance, shop and live in and which are integrated into outperforming the iPD benchmark, by 60 bps their local communities.
We made major and 140 bps respectively.
our UK portfolio driving around half our strides replenishing our london development valuation uplift was 8.3% with our actions valuation uplift.
potential giving us a significant pipeline of near asset management and development driving and medium-term opportunities.
in retail, around half the uplift and the balance coming we took advantage of stronger investment from market yield shift.
the strengthening markets to sell mature assets, redeploying performance was especially notable within our the capital into properties with more attractive london office and residential portfolio where prospective returns, such as southgate, Bath.
our retail valuations We took advantage of improving debt markets were 4.4% ahead reflecting our active asset to raise new competitively priced finance, management and improving market sentiment.
providing us with additional flexible capital across our portfolio, rental values were 3.0% to support the future growth of the business.
ahead of 2013, compared with 1.7% for the market as a whole.
as economic confidence has improved in the UK, and debt finance more broadly available, Underpinning our business is the quality and 1,970m the market environment has become sustainability of our rental income.
it is these significantly more favourable, particularly rental streams that enable us to support and grOss investMent activity in the second half of our financial year.
increase the dividend and grow our business.
Domestic and international investors were our customer orientation, focus on landlord more active, driving a higher volume of services and asset management ensure we 14.2% transactions with a consequent tightening continue to attract and retain high quality tOtal PrOPerty returns of yields.
capital returns outside london occupiers.
We signed over 2.3 million sq ft of OutPerfOrMing iPd by 60 bPs strengthened, although london continued to lettings and lease extensions during the year, outperform all other markets, driven both by with investment lettings signed on average stronger investment and occupational markets.
our like-for-like occupancy 2.3m sq ft the UK retail market materially improved, was 130 bps ahead, reflecting the strength lettings renewals particularly from an investment perspective.
overall occupancy was 6.3% aHead Of erv retailers are now undoubtedly more positive, down at 96.1% as we completed West end not only in the outlook for consumer spending, developments which were moved into the but also the place that physical space plays standing portfolio.
Within our retail business, our operational our underlying pre-tax profits were 8.4% metrics strengthened reflecting the quality ahead at 297 million as we invested the of the portfolio and our strong asset placing proceeds, benefited from development management.
We signed 1.7 million sq ft of lettings and like-for-like rental growth lettings and renewals with investment lettings improved.
Underlying ePs at 29.4 pence and renewals 4.9% ahead of erV.
With was 3.0% lower, primarily as the result of the occupancy up 110 bps to 98.5%, our portfolio disposals we made last year.
our dividend is now virtually fully let.
footfall was flat for is 2.3% up at 27.0 pence, in line with previous the year as a whole and up 1.2% in the second announcements, reflecting our successful half, significantly outperforming the market.
com results full-year results 2014 video www.
com investors Performance review P4355 10 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort in offices, we made good progress with increased letting activity broadly balanced between standing investments and developments.
overall, investment deals were signed at 8.4% ahead of erV.
at regents Place we completed our development of 1030 Brock street: 10 Brock street was fully let less than three months after practical completion to a diverse range of occupiers and the campus itself is now virtually full.
at Paddington central, within our first months of ownership we have increased occupancy and are already making good progress on our plans to improve the campus.
Post our year-end, we have seen an increase in occupier interest across our portfolio with over 150,000 sq ft of space let or under offer on attractive rental terms.
our 2010 development programme is nearing completion and has been substantially fide-risked through lettings and residential sales.
it has now generated 608 million of profit with a further 45 million estimated to come.
We have been actively replenishing our pipeline, including through the acquisition of development sites at Paddington central and an option agreement to develop at Blossom street, shoreditch.
these take our recently committed and near-term pipeline to almost 2 million sq ft. We also have significant medium-term opportunities at existing sites including at eden Walk, Harmsworth and surrey Quays.
access to flexible and cost effective financing is a key differentiator for British land.
it allows us to respond quickly to opportunities.
our financial flexibility not only allows us to have ready access to financing to fund growth, but also allows us to access the capital markets at the optimal time so taking advantage of improving financing terms.
since 1 april 2013, we have raised 1.5 billion of new unsecured financing from a diverse range of lenders on competitive terms.
these included a 200 million Us Private Placement with a 12-year term and a 785 million, five-year revolving credit facility.
key HigHligHts Of tHe year tiMely gross investment of 1.3 billion focused on london and the south east.
investMent Placing proceeds invested ahead of plan accretive to ePs and naV.
PrOfitable completed five of our 2010 london developments on schedule develOPMent total estimated profits of 636 million.
resHaPing retail sale of 391 million mature UK retail assets ahead of valuation.
POrtfOliO invested in high-quality preferred retail destinations.
strengtHening 2.3 million sq ft of lettings and renewals.
OccuPatiOnal Metrics like-for-like occupancy up 130 bps.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Strategic report c Hief execUtiVes reVieW l ooKing forWarD POsitiOning Our business 4. k ey rOle Of HigH-quality We have positioned our fOr future grOwtH PHysical retail business behind several over recent years, we have worked hard to shops will remain critical to retailers even build more growth into our business.
We have key themes and invested in an increasingly digitally enabled world.
But actively invested more capital into improving accordingly.
these trends success factors are changing.
as retailers occupational and investment markets while continue to focus their stores on the best space, have enduring relevance at the same time re-shaping our portfolio.
it is our view that these locations will generate We have positioned our business around which leave us well better sustainable long-term returns than several key themes, identified these trends other locations.
that is why we have been so positioned going forward early and invested accordingly.
active buying, selling and developing and with to take advantage of londons in total, we have undertaken 4.6 billion of 2.3 billion of activity in total over the last four gross investment activity over the last four years, we believe our retail business is much continuing success and years, made up of over 3 billion of acquisitions better placed as a result.
improving demand for and development spend along with 1.6 billion of disposals.
these trends have enduring the best retail space.
PrOfitable develOPMent relevance which we believe leaves our business well positioned as we look ahead.
Developing prime property, remains a fundamental driver of value in our business.
our 2010 programme has generated significant 1. attractive envirOnMents returns for our shareholders and we have occupiers are much more focused on made great progress replenishing our pipeline.
the environments in which they operate.
this We have committed to a number of these is a theme right across our business.
that is schemes, notably clarges Mayfair and expect why we talk about Places People Prefer.
it is to commit to developing a new building, why we are investing at our office campuses 4 Kingdom street at Paddington central later at Paddington central, Broadgate and regents this year.
But we have also kept plenty of Place and why we are investing to improve optionality, recognising that things can change.
the environments at our retail destinations such as glasgow fort and Whiteley shopping.
OutlOOk looking to the next year, overall we remain positive about our property markets.
across 2. lOndOn as a leading glObal city the UK as a whole, we are still in the early london has become one of a small number stages of an economic recovery and real of what are called global cities where people wages are only just starting to increase.
are choosing to locate their business activities, from a property perspective, the differential to live and visit.
from a property perspective, between property and bond yields is still wide we believe london will remain strong both by historical standards.
With interest rates operationally and from an investment expected to remain at low levels for the perspective over the longer-term and this foreseeable future, property will remain an will also benefit its immediate hinterland in attractive source of income return.
around 75% of our investment we have seen tightening of property yields in the last four years has been in london and earlier than many people expected, particularly the south east.
as a result it has increased in london, and so we see our key markets from 50% of our business four years ago to as having rather different dynamics.
over 60% today on a pro forma basis.
in london offices, yields have tightened significantly and in the core markets are close 3. i MPOrtance Of transPOrt to their ten year lows.
However, occupational infrastructure demand is strengthening at a time when Public transport will become more and more development completions are relatively limited.
so we continue to expect the market to perform important in london.
crossrail which opens in 2018, is going to have a big impact.
We now but for this performance to be driven primarily by rental growth.
With significant development own more than 3 billion of real estate within a stones throw of crossrail stations.
at our space to let, we are well positioned to capture this growth.
Broadgate campus, the entrance to the station will be on the doorstep of 100 liverpool street, where we are planning a major refurbishment of the building.
Paddington central will be just two minutes from Bond street on crossrail, effectively edging it into the West end.
12 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort in prime residential, we have already sold Our PriOrities fOr tHe year aHead nearly all of the apartments developed as part of our 2010 programme generating Drive like-for-like income through active asset management.
Price growth has slowed but we are comfortable with our position Progress our existing development programme: given the bulk of our exposure is now at clarges Mayfair which we bought in 2012 deliver leadenhall and 5 Broadgate: and and where we are already on site.
located lease up our remaining space in recently completed developments, on Piccadilly near the ritz, and with spectacular views over green Park, this and selectively pre-let office space and pre-sell residential units is an exceptional scheme and we expect in our current developments.
to generate good returns for shareholders.
in retail, away from london, the cycle Maintain strong occupier satisfaction, driven by our marketis at an earlier stage.
is strengthening with demand from both domestic and international investors.
accelerating our development pipeline: looking at our portfolio, we are still significantly off trough yields, particularly commit to new sites, such as 4 Kingdom street at Paddington: for some of our larger assets.
from an occupational point of view, retailers are both progress our medium and long-term developments, such as Blossom more confident about the outlook for consumer street in shoreditch, surrey Quays and Harmsworth Quays: and spending and are clearer about the central role that physical space plays within their continue to build our pipeline by identifying new opportunities both omni-channel strategies.
so while they are within and outside our portfolio.
looking to take more space, they are becoming ever more discerning about the space they employ our property and deal making skills to access are willing to take.
overall therefore, we are more positive about the potential for further more complex property acquisitions as well as assets close yield compression in retail and expect rents to our existing properties.
for high quality space to benefit over time as consumer spending continues to improve.
continue to reshape our retail portfolio: in terms of investment, we expect to be enhance our existing portfolio to meet the evolving needs of occupiers more balanced in our acquisitions and disposals in the coming year.
We will continue and consumers: to take advantage of market strength to sell take advantage of market strength to sell more mature assets: and more mature retail assets and we have a number of assets under offer or in the market.
invest in retail schemes which are preferred destinations or have the although the market remains competitive, ability to be.
we believe we can continue to take advantage of more complex situations to make attractive exit europe.
We will also move forward progressively with our new development programme and expect to commit to Maintain our financial gearing within our 40% to 50% ltV 4 Kingdom street at Paddington in the range.
ltV may fall below this level due to phasing of recycling.
there are, of course risks, to all this.
Political invest in our capabilities for the medium-term: risks, both at home and abroad, are arguably greater than they were a year ago.
these in particular, invest in people, processes, analytics, technology of course may have an impact, but we draw and marketing.
considerable comfort from the strength of our business and we look to the future Maintain our one star rating in the Best companies with confidence.
chris grigg chief executive The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
