CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT EXCEPTIONAL RETURNS AND GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES 2014 Highlights at a glance: 306m NET RENTAL INCOME1 703m PROFIT BEFORE TAX 23.9 p ADJUSTED EPS 6.38 EPRA NAV PER SHARE % 34 LOAN TO VALUE1 % 24.7 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 1.
Including share of Property joint ventures.
4 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT How have consumer and occupier markets Q evolved over the past 12 months?
Q&A with David Atkins A year ago we saw the first tentative signs of growing A consumer confidence and increasing retailer demand for physical space.
I am pleased to report that in the UK we 2014 has been a year of momentum for have seen significant improvement over the year in retail Hammerson.
Our retail focus is now fully sales growth which was up 2.6% across our centres.
This momentum in consumer spending is now driving stronger immersed across the business and our demand from retailers for our prime retail space, which is strategic investment activity has accelerated starting to reflect positively in rental values.
Here, David Importantly this story of renewed consumer growth answers some key questions.
and occupier demand is not just London centric.
We have seen strong performance in our centres in major cities across the UK.
During 2014 we signed 413 leases totalling 179,000m of retail space.
Like-for-like net rental income for What have been the highlights for the Q the year was 2.1% up on 2013 and occupancy remained business in 2014?
Despite continuing economic challenges in France, the success of Les Terrasses du Port indicates that consumer demand remains strong for the right retailing The year has been marked by a number of achievements, A propositions.
At Le Jeu fide Paume in Beauvais we are and I believe the strong numbers we have delivered encouraged by the letting progress of the development, reflect the progress we have made across the business.
The centre will provide 23,800m Key 2014 highlights include: of retailing and leisure facilities and is on track to open The successful opening of Les Terrasses du Port in later this year.
Marseille which resulted in 107 million profit on cost for the business.
The 62,800m2 shopping and Will your investment in the luxury and outlet leisure development combines our best design and Q markets continue to grow?
operational expertise and the positive response from consumers and retailers has been truly overwhelming, with over 8 million visitors to date.
Global appetite for designer and luxury goods continues, A Notable progress across our development pipeline with research from our Considered Consumer report with planning approval granted at Brent Cross indicating that one third of shoppers spent more on luxury Cricklewood, and at our Whitgift JV in Croydon purchases in 2014 compared with the preceding 12 month and starts on site at both Victoria Gate in Leeds period.
We are the only REIT with strategic exposure to and WestQuay Watermark in Southampton.
the sector and we continue to see good growth from our investment in Value Retail.
Securing robust shareholder support for our 399 million share placing.
A significant portion The newly created VIA Outlets venture with our partners of the proceeds has been deployed to acquire Value Retail, APG and Meyer Bergman further increases the remaining 40% of Highcross, Leicester from our scale in European outlets.
The newly acquired portfolio our JV partner.
in major European cities has the potential to deliver Extending our strategic exposure to the European strong returns through the combined expertise of this outlet sector with a 100 million investment in the unique partnership.
newly created VIA Outlets venture.
The 47% stake There is a clear and growing requirement for premium was financed through the share placing.
outlet space from retailers and we are enormously excited by the new opportunities that this opens up for Hammerson.
com 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED Sustainability underpins the focus for the Which qualities differentiate Hammersons Q Q business.
What have been the standout shopping destinations from the competition?
achievements in the past 12 months?
We believe the key to winning in retail property is to own A and manage destinations which excel against each of our We have made significant sustainability progress during A six unique areas of focus, set out on page 3 of the Report.
We achieved BREEAM Excellent at Les Terrasses du Port, our first shopping centre development in France.
By applying a rigorous approach to this Product Framework, In the UK we have been working with retail customers we ensure that our shopping centres and retail parks bring delivering much needed apprenticeships at Highcross together the best in physical and digital retailing to offer in Leicester.
2014 also saw the launch of the Big Positive consumers the most enjoyable shopping experience.
Weekend, our first national sustainability roadshow, which reached nine cities in over nine weekends across the What are the business priorities and outlook UK portfolio.
How has the team evolved to enable the Q Planning for, and the development of, major retail schemes business to deliver strong performance?
A in Leeds and London will continue to be a focus for the team in 2015.
Including Croydon and Brent Cross, these During 2014 we introduced a number of new initiatives 2 A projects will deliver over 400,000m of new retail space and targets to support our objective of promoting diversity over the coming years.
Our plans to redevelop the and inclusion within the business.
These targets are Whitgift Centre and Centrale in partnership with Westfield detailed on page 35 of the Report.
moved a step closer when the outline application for the development was formally consented in February 2014.
We have welcomed additional talent to the business with a number of new colleagues joining the team from Our strategic focus on the luxury sector will continue in non-property backgrounds.
While we are still a property 2015 as we look to increase our exposure to premium company the business has been significantly enriched outlets alongside our partners in the VIA Outlets venture.
through the skills and knowledge of experts from different sectors who have bolstered our retail and digital expertise and provided a fresh approach.
OUTLOOK The recovery in UK consumer sentiment has continued to strengthen At the end of 2014 we opened a new office in Reading, as economic indicators have improved.
With diverse regional exposure which is the operational hub for the UK business.
2015 will through our portfolio of prime retailing destinations, I believe that see us relocate to a new head office in Kings Cross.
The Hammerson is well-placed to benefit from this continuing trend.
move signals a continued commitment towards our retail In France, the overwhelming success of our new scheme in Marseille, focus and, along with enhancing operational efficiency together with improving footfall figures, give us confidence that and reducing costs, I believe it will foster more creativity consumer demand remains strong for the right retail proposition.
and collaboration across the teams.
Despite continuing economic challenges, we expect trading in France to remain stable in 2015.
It is anticipated that growing demand from global investors for high-quality retail assets will continue in 2015, potentially compressing yields and boosting capital values further.
Against this backdrop, I am confident that Hammerson will continue to deliver strong returns for its shareholders.
READ MY INTRODUCTION TO THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ON PAGE 60 Reflecting on my first full year as Chairman, I am pleased we are able to report that the business has achieved strong returns in 2014.
My role is to help ensure that the Board creates maximum value for shareholders over the long term, working effectively in support of the Groups strategy.
You can read more about how the Board operates in the Governance Report that starts on page 60.
David Tyler, Chairman 6 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014
