16 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review THREE YEARS ON: BENEFITS OF STRATEGIC REPOSITIONING STARTING TO SHOW We have continued to focus on making progress towards 2.
Delivering profitable growth: we have invested our ambition of becoming the best owner, asset manager 0.9 billion in asset and land acquisitions and and developer of industrial and warehouse properties, and 0.4 billion in developing new buildings in our core a leading income-focused REIT.
The blended yield, including completed developments but excluding land, was 8.5 per cent: Our actions have been concentrated on delivering against the four strategic priorities outlined in November 2011: 3.
Reducing net debt: we have reduced the net debt onour own balance sheet by around 650 million, 1.
Reshaping the existing portfolio by divesting assets or28 per cent, improving the loan to value ratio which do not meet our strategic and financial criteria inwhich we also reflect our share of joint ventures and reducing non-income producing assets as a assets and debt to 40 per cent from a peak of proportion of the total portfolio: 52percent.
We established the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership SELP joint venture to enable 2.
Delivering profitable growth and reinvesting in core usto build scale in big box logistics warehouses markets and asset types by taking advantage of inourchosen Continental Europe markets without attractive development and acquisition opportunities: placing an undue burden on our balance sheet: and 3.
Reducing net debt and managing financial leverage 4.
D riving operational performance: our vacancy rate over time and owning assets in joint ventures where has improved to 6.3 per cent, from 10.2 per cent at the appropriate: and end of September 2011, as has our cost ratio property 4.
Driving our operational performance across the operating and central administrative costs, including business through greater customer focus, knowledge vacant property costs, as a proportion of gross rental sharing, efficiency improvements and cost reductions.
income to 23.7 per cent from 24.5 per cent.
Three years into the strategic repositioning, we have Our development pipeline continues to offer returns well made substantial progress and the programme is in excess of those available from acquiring similar assets almost complete.
and we expect that it will continue to deliver long term attractive income and capital returns.
R eshaping the portfolio: since the start of 2012, we the Group is well placed to benefit from improvements have disposed of 1.6 billion of assets which were no in occupier and investor demand for industrial and longer core to our strategy, at a blended average yield warehouse properties driven, inpart, by the continued of 7.5 per cent.
There are 211 million of the original growth in online retailing and other structural changes 1.6 billion of non-core assets remaining: affecting many of our customers businesses.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: RESHAPING THE DELIVERING PROFITABLE REDUCING NET DEBT AND DRIVING OUR EXISTINGPORTFOLIO GROWTH THROUGH INTRODUCING THIRD OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PARTY CAPITAL PERFORMANCE AND ACQUISITION PAGE 17 PAGE 19 PAGE 23 PAGE 25 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 RESHAPING THE EXISTING PORTFOLIO What we said we What we achieved What to expect would do in 2014 in2014 in2015 Disciplined Capital Allocation Sold 233 million of non-core With few non-core assets Re-shape the portfolio: Continue to assets to improve focus on our remaining, most future disposals will sell non-core assets andsell core core assets and markets.
Sold a involve taking advantage of strong assets if their risk return profile does further 250 million of assets where investment market conditions to not meet our targets.
maximum returns were achieved dispose of assets where the riskthrough disposal rather than adjusted returns from sale outweigh through continued management those from retention, and to invest figures reflect SEGROs share of the proceeds in new acquisition and disposal proceeds.
Toll Global Forwarding, Heathrow 18 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review RESHAPING THE EXISTING PORTFOLIO CONTINUED... We disposed of 483 million of assets this year, at an average 6 per cent premium to 31 December 2013 book values.
The proceeds of the asset disposals reflect an average topped-up initial yield of around 7.4 per cent.
250 million of sales were of assets where the return crystallised by disposal was judged to be greater than the return we expected from retaining them.
The remaining 233 million were non-core and included one of the six large, non-strategic assets identified in November 2011: Pegasus Park in Belgium.
We have now sold five of these, leaving Energy Park, outside Milan, as the last remaining in our portfolio.
We completed the latest phase of development at Energy Park in 2014 and the principal tenant, Alcatel-Lucent, has now taken occupation of itsnew space.
PHIL REDDING Chief Investment Officer The remaining non-core assets are now almost exclusively in Continental Europe and total 211 million, or 4 per cent of our portfolio.
We will continue to manage these assets The disposals carried out in 2014 in order to maximise the income and returns from them prior to sale, but will no longer distinguish them from the mean the original non-core assets rest of our portfolio.
represent just 4% of our portfolio, Disposals: What to expect in 2015 We will continue to identify assets for disposal within our from around 30% in 2011. portfolio where we believe that the expected risk-adjusted returns from retaining them are less than the returns offered by disposal.
However, we are also conscious of the desire to balance disposal activity with appropriate investment in line with our goal to generate growing and resilient income streams.
We expect that our future asset recycling strategy will be focused on generating sufficient proceeds to fund investment in acquisitions and developments.
Disposals completed in 2014 TOPPED-UP GROSS PROCEEDS NET INITIAL YIELD NET INITIAL YIELD ASSET LOCATION TYPE M SEGRO SHARE % % UK: Light industrial 162.1 5.2 6.3 UK: Big box logistics 173.2 5.7 6.6 UK: Land 4.1 n a n a Continental Europe: Light industrial 68.3 9.5 9.6 Continental Europe: Offices Pegasus Park 67.3 10.1 10.1 Continental Europe: Land 7.6 n a n a 1 1 Disposals during the year 482.6 6.7 7.4 1.
Yield excludes land disposals SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH THROUGH DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION What we said we What we achieved What to expect would do in 2014 in2014 in2015 Disciplined Capital Allocation 648 million investment during The investment market is becoming more Deliver profitable growth through the year including 491 million of competitive so we expect to place greater development and acquisitions: acquisitions and 157 million of emphasis on developing new assets.
Source new acquisitions in our capital expenditure SEGRO share, Where we decide to make an acquisition, we core markets and add to our reflecting a material acceleration will do so on a disciplined basis.
in our development programme we will seek to replenish our land bank in 268,000 sq m completed in 2014, our core markets and we will investigate new from 144,000 sq m in 2013.
European markets, seeking entry through the SELP joint venture if appropriate.
Zabka construction, Gdansk 20 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH THROUGH DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION CONTINUED... We secured 491 million of asset acquisitions SEGRO Development projects completed share, before acquisition costs, predominantly in We completed 25 projects during the year, totalling off-market transactions, in an increasingly competitive 268,000 sq m of new space.
These projects were investment market.
Increased investor demand and 62percent pre-let prior to the start of construction: atthe limited supply of quality assets means that it is becoming end of the year, post completion, we had let 79 percent, more difficult to source assets which meet our risk-return generating 15 million of annualised net rent, with a requirements.
We therefore accelerated our development further potential 4 million when the remainder of the activity during the year to 157 million SEGRO share: space is let SEGRO share.
This translates into a yield on 2013: 111 million, utilising our land bank to take total development cost including land, construction and advantage of improved occupier demand for modern finance costs of 9.1 per cent when fully let, substantially urban distribution and big box logistics space.
higher than yields accessible through acquisitions.
Although the majority of developments completed Investing to grow: Acquisitions were pre-let, we had considerable success in letting up During the year, we acquired 718 million of assets  urban distribution space around SEGRO share: 491 million, of which 453 million London and Dsseldorf.
was acquired through our SELP joint venture and 265 million was on our own balance sheet.
The SELP For example, at our 7,800 sq m light industrial estate joint venture acquired 442 million of big box warehouses development in Enfield, north London, we achieved higher in Continental Europe, as well as 11 million of land rents, longer leases and lower incentives than we expected to enhance the medium term development pipeline.
This estate, on Londons There are significant scale benefits to owning big box inner ring road, is now 67 per cent let, primarily as trade logistics warehouses and, by investing with a partner, counters which rely on having storage space on site and we are able to access these without over-burdening our on being easily accessible to their customers and suppliers.
In Dsseldorf, we completed a 13,000 sq m speculativelyIn the UK, our partner in the big box logistics joint developed urban logistics park at Rhine Park, a site venture, Logistics Property Partnership LPP, gave us perfectly located for delivering goods into the city.
notice of its desire to sell its interest.
We took advantage The park was completed in November and, as at the end of a right of first refusal to purchase the property interest of December, it was 22 per cent let.
Within the portfolio, there were a small number of assets which displayed a higher risk profile Active development projects than the rest of our portfolio, due to location or age, and At 31 December 2014, we had 22 development projects we decided to sell them into a market short of big box approved, contracted or under construction totalling logistics product.
Within four months, we sold the surplus 241,000 sq m, representing 108 million of future assets for 153 million, a small premium to book value, capital expenditure and 17 million of annualised rental substantially funding the original acquisition.
income both representing SEGRO share when fully let.
The projects are due to complete in 2015 and 2016.
As a result, we now have a total UK big box logistics They are 44 per cent pre-let and should generate a yield portfolio of 553 million, almost entirely wholly-owned, on total development cost of 8.6 per cent when fully let.
and concentrated in the Midlands within the logistics golden triangle and South East regions of the UK.
We remain disciplined in our exposure to speculative development, which will be undertaken only in areas Investing to grow: Developments where we are confident about levels of demand.
We are As competition in the investment market grows, the unlikely to build big box logistics warehouses speculatively returns we can generate from developments are in Continental Europe due to insufficient supply-demand increasingly attractive.
We invested 157 million tension in most of our chosen markets.
In the UK, our SEGRO share in new developments during 2014, 41 per speculative development activity is focused more around cent more than in 2013, reflecting the improving occupier smaller, urban logistics warehouses, particularly around the market for urban distribution space on the edge of major edge of London where occupier demand is strong and conurbations and big box logistics around major transport suitable land is scarce.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 In the UK our development pipeline is 28 per cent pre-let, We have identified future development projects which reflecting mainly a big box logistics warehouse we are could be delivered in 2015 and beyond on 328 hectares building on the Slough Trading Estate for a major food of land, of which 45 hectares are in the Midlands and wholesale distributor.
South East regions of the UK and the remaining 283 hectares are in Continental Europe, mainly Central Europe We have recently completed the first phase of Origin, a and Germany.
Approximately 85 per cent of the land 14,700 sq m development across three units in the heart bank is intended for development of big box logistics of Park Royal, Londons prime industrial area.
This equates to 71 per cent of the potential let two of the units and have good interest in the third.
rent, reflecting the lower building density to cater for larger We have agreed to build a 10,000 sq m urban distribution yard space and associated infrastructure.
The majority of warehouse for retailer John Lewis Partnership, which will the remainder is suitable for light industrial development enter the pipeline in the first quarter of 2015.
We will build and is concentrated around our existing holdings in Berlin, out the remaining space speculatively, given the level of Dsseldorf, London and Paris.
occupier demand for the location.
The potential future capital expenditure associated with In Continental Europe, we have 156,000 sq m of space these projects is 504 million.
We estimate that these in the development pipeline, of which 71 per cent is developments could generate 63 million of gross pre-let, including the second phase of a big box logistics rental income SEGRO share, reflecting a yield on total warehouse for ASICS, the sportswear manufacturer, development cost of 9.4 per cent 12.5 per cent excluding outside Dsseldorf.
We completed 37,350 sq m for the the value of the land.
These figures are indicative of our company in 2014 and will complete a further 35,500 current expectations but are dependent on our ability sq m in 2015.
Our development of the new warehouse to secure pre-let agreements, planning permission, for ASICS involved provision of improved infrastructure construction contracts and on our outlook for occupier to service the site.
In anticipation of the estate becoming conditions in the local markets.
an established logistics location, we built 15,900 sq m of warehouse space speculatively on an adjoining plot of land.
During the year, we disposed of 11 million of land in the We have completed this and have already let 5,900 sq m longer term land bank and acquired 11 million of land to UPS for use as a parcel delivery warehouse.
in Germany within SELP SEGRO share 5.5 million to facilitate further big box logistics development.
Highlights from the broad range of active development Since year-end, we have exchanged or completed projects, as well as our perspective on investor and 107 million of land acquisitions in Germany and in occupier demand in our core markets, are detailed on our Greater London and Thames Valley Business Units, pages 33 to 37 and in the 2014 Property Analysis Report increasing options for our wholly-owned medium term available at www.
We also provide development programme.
greater detail about our activities on the Slough Trading Estate on page 29, in which development plays a vital, Investment plans: What to expect in 2015 rejuvenating role as we upgrade the Estate to cater for business and industry in the 21st Century.
As the investment market becomes more competitive in our core geographies, we expect to deploy a greater proportion of our investment resources to development.
Future development projects Improving occupier demand, combined with tight supply Our land bank not currently under development totalled of modern industrial and logistics warehouses, should 458 hectares at the end of 2014, equating to 202 million, allow us to generate more attractive risk-adjusted returns or around 4 per cent of our total portfolio SEGROshare.
from building new assets than buying existing ones.
The development potential of land is an important source of growth, but it produces no income and can be a We will continue to seek attractive acquisitions in our core burden on returns in the period prior to development.
markets, but we will also review opportunities to expand Land valuations can also be volatile.
We are vigilant about the geographic boundaries of our current Continental our exposure to land and will normally only acquire European footprint.
Land acquisitions are also a priority to land if it has the potential to be fully developed within replenish our development pipeline: as demonstrated by five years.
Consequently, our longer term and residual our late 2014 early 2015 land purchases, we will search land bank now amounts to 37 million, 0.7 per cent of for suitably priced and located plots of land which can our total portfolio from 55 million, or 1.3 per cent at be developed in a manner which meets our internal 31 December 2013 SEGRO share.
Further detail on our completed and active development projects is available in our 2014 Property Analysis Report, which is available to download at www.
22 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH THROUGH DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION CONTINUED... Acquisitions completed in 2014 TOPPED UP PURCHASE PRICE NET INITIAL YIELD NET INITIAL YIELD 1 ASSET LOCATION TYPE M, SEGRO SHARE % % UK: Big box logistics 259.1 5.9 6.7 Continental Europe: Big box logistics 221.1 7.2 7.2 Continental Europe: Land 11.2 n a n a 2 2 Acquisitions during the year 491.4 6.5 6.9 1.
Yield excludes land acquisitions Development pipeline as at 31 December 2014 COMPLETED PROJECTS SPACE COMPLETED SPACE LET TOTAL ERV ERV OF LET SPACE BUSINESS UNIT SQ M, AT 100% SQ M, AT 100% M, SEGRO SHARE M, SEGRO SHARE Greater London 38,614 23,732 Thames Valley & National Logistics 47,713 44,424 UK 86,327 68,156 10.6 8.2 Northern Europe 111,858 82,447 Southern Europe 36,582 36,582 Central Europe 32,775 25,866 Continental Europe 181,215 144,895 9.0 7.2 Group Total 267,542 213,051 19.6 15.4 CURRENT PIPELINE SPACE TO BE BUILT BUSINESS UNIT SQM, AT 100% % PRE-LET YIELD ON COST Greater London 26,559 Thames Valley & National Logistics 59,033 UK 85,592 28% 8.5% Northern Europe 64,077 Southern Europe 14,566 Central Europe 77,143 Continental Europe 155,786 71% 8.7% Group Total 241,378 44% 8.6% SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 REDUCING NET DEBT AND INTRODUCING THIRD PARTY CAPITAL What we said we What we achieved What to expect would do in 2014 in2014 in2015 Efficient capital and corporate LTV is 40 per cent, in line with the We continue to manage our levels of structure Reduce net debt and target, reflecting improved asset net debt to target a 40 per cent LTV introduce third party capital: Retain valuations during the year.
We will aim to fund long-term 40 per cent loan to value investment activity with disposals but We acquired 227 million SEGRO LTV target, although LTV could net debt levels may continue to be share of Continental European big fluctuate depending on timing impacted by the timing of transactions.
box assets and land within the SELP and extent of investment and joint venture.
Origin, Park Royal 24 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review REDUCING NET DEBT AND INTRODUCING THIRD PARTY CAPITAL CONTINUED... Net debt, including our share of joint venture net debt, In December 2014, Californian tax authorities confirmed increased by 152 million, mainly reflecting net investment that we were entitled to receive a 33.6 million net refund activity of 165 million.
The 12.3 per cent valuation of tax associated with the sale of Slough Estates USA gain on our portfolio was the main driver behind the in 2007.
We have provided for this receipt in 2014 and improvement of the look-through i. e. including our expect to receive the cash in the first half of 2015. share of assets and liabilities in joint ventures loan to value ratio LTV to 40 per cent, from 42 per cent at Managing leverage: What to expect in 2015 31 December 2013.
Although the LTV is now in line with our long term target of 40 per cent, it may fluctuate depending on the timing The acquisition of our partners stake in the Logistics Property Partnership joint venture resulted in 153 million and extent of disposals, acquisitions and developments, and the valuation of our portfolio.
The strategy set out in of net debt being moved onto the balance sheet.
This was the most significant reason for the increase in Group net November 2011 is intended to improve the quality of our portfolio and the strength of our balance sheet to ensure debt during the year of 220 million.
that SEGRO is able to withstand volatility in real estate This year was the first full operating year of the SEGRO asset values.
European Logistics Partnership SELP joint venture.
However, our goal is to be a leading income-focused REIT.
SEGRO manages the assets within SELP, for which it At a time when debt costs are very low, disposing of assets receives a management fee, but decisions on matters is dilutive to earnings.
So we will balance our objective such as acquisitions, disposals and development starts to manage gearing through the cycle with the desire to are taken by the SELP Board.
Owning assets in this way generate strong income flows and to take advantage of allows us to build scale in Continental European big attractive growth opportunities that arise.
box logistics without over-burdening our balance sheet.
The joint venture was seeded with 1.0 billion of assets and development land in October 2013: it now owns 1.7 billion of assets, reflecting 0.6 billion of acquisitions and development expenditure and capital value growth of3.8 per cent.
We need to ensure that investors can have confidence in the resilience of our financial structure in all economic environments.
JUSTIN READ Group Finance Director SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE What we said we What we achieved What to expect would do in 2014 in2014 in2015 Operational Excellence Drive We generated positive rent roll Rent roll growth remains a key priority, operational performance: growth of 3.8 million on standing as does cost efficiency, although Generate positive rent roll growth assets 2013: 1.9 million : disposals late in 2014 may mean that from standing assets: Vacancy rate improved to our cost ratio rises slightly in 2015.
Target a vacancy rate of between 6.3percent 2013: 8.5 per cent : The vacancy rate may rise slightly as 6and 8 per cent: Cost ratio improved to 23.7percent speculative developments complete Target a 20 per cent cost ratio over 2013: 24.3per cent : and but we expect this impact to be time: and 86 per cent of customers temporary and for the rate to remain At least maintain customer rated us good or excellent within our target range.
SR Technics, North Feltham 26 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED... Like-for-like net rental income improved by 2.4percent Improving occupier demand 1.8 per cent including allocated central costs for the Over the last three years, we have concentrated our portfolio as a whole.
Strong momentum in our UK portfolio on modern warehouses in major logistics portfolio 4.9 per cent was partly offset by Continental hubs and on the edge of large conurbations in the UK Europe where like-for-like net rental income fell by and Continental Europe.
This was mainly due to the administration of demonstrate consistent levels of demand throughout the Mory Ducros in France early in the year but, by year-end, real estate cycle, limited supply of quality space and which all the buildings had been either let or sold.
therefore offer maximum potential for long term growth.
Rent at risk from break clauses or lease expiry during the Our light industrial and urban logistics assets are located year was 28 million, of which we retained 68 per cent, mainly on the edges of London, Paris, Dsseldorf, Berlin in line with the level achieved in 2013.
In each of these locations, there is a lack of at risk is 31 million, of which 7 million is within our quality warehouse space and competing uses for land, Greater London portfolio which is experiencing healthy particularly from residential development.
This situation is occupier demand.
creating conditions where lease terms are improving and, particularly around London, rents are starting to increase.
Vacancy rate sharply improved Our big box logistics warehouses are focused on the major The vacancy rate at 31 December 2014 improved to logistics hubs and corridors in the UK South East and 6.3 per cent from 8.5 per cent at 31 December 2013 Midlands regions, France the logistics spine linking Lille, excluding short term lets, the vacancy rate is 7.7 per cent, Paris, Lyon and Marseille, Poland Warsaw, Lodz, Poznan from 10.0 per cent at 31 December 2013.
The reduction and Silesia and Germany Dsseldorf, Berlin, Leipzig reflects mainly the combination of net absorption of and Hamburg.
Compared to the UK, the availability of existing space and acquisition and disposal activity.
land and competition between developers in our major Continental Europe big box logistics markets means that We target a vacancy rate of between 6 and 8 per rental growth prospects here are less pronounced and cent.
Apart from day-to-day take-up and take-backs of there are greater risks in developing new buildings on a properties, the vacancy rate will fluctuate with the pace speculative basis.
Nevertheless, the total returns available of speculative development completions.
We only build from owning and developing such assets on a pre-let speculatively where we are confident about levels of basis remain attractive in a low interest rate environment.
demand compared to supply and expect vacancy in these estates to be filled over a period of 12 to 18 months after completion.
Speculative developments completed during Strong letting and pre-letting activity 2014 were 44 per cent let at 31 December 2014: the During 2014, we secured 245 new leases across un-let space added 0.3 percentage points to the Group the Group, totalling 718,000 sq m and generating vacancy rate.
35.4 million of annualised rental income.
This is 16percent higher than last year reflecting improved During the year, we lost 3.8 million of rent due to lettings on existing stock as well as pre-let activity.
insolvencies, of which 2.1 million related to Mory Ducros, Annualised rent from existing space returned the French third party logistics provider, which entered touswas 16.1 million, 23 per cent lower than last into administration in November 2013 and vacated its year.
This compares to 19.9 million of annualised buildings in the first half of the year.
We have since sold rent generated from letting existing space, resulting two of the four buildings formerly occupied by Mory ina 4.8 million net take-up, which is an important Ducros and let the remaining units.
At 31 December 2014, performance target for all SEGRO employees.
customers inadministration represented 0.2 million ofannualised rent 31 December 2013: 2.3 million.
Levels of net take-up were particularly high in the UK logistics portfolio where we let 87,400 sq m of space in The portfolios average lease length remained stable our two largest warehouses in Corby and Sheffield having at 6.7years to first break 8.6 years to expiry at let the Sheffield warehouse, we sold it in November.
31 December 2014, compared to 6.7 years 8.9 years In Greater London, we let 48,900 sq m of older space to expiry at 31 December 2013, reflecting both leasing in estates near Heathrow Airport and we achieved progress and transactional activity during the year.
significantly higher lettings volumes of existing space in Germany 66,800 sq m and France 98,000 sq m. SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 regions in our chosen markets, including London, Paris, Growing portfolio value Dsseldorf, Berlin and Warsaw which are best placed to The strong investor demand for good quality warehouse benefit from the improving economy and the structural and logistics assets we identified in 2013 has continued change towards online and convenience retailing.
into 2014, reflecting structural trends in retailer distribution and relatively high income yields.
The market in the UK The total value of the Groups property portfolio, has been particularly strong, but this strength has also comprising completed properties, land and development been in evidence in Continental Europe.
According to including our share of joint venture assets, increased CBRE, investment volumes in the UK and in Continental by 492 million 2013: 133 million, or 12.3 per cent.
Europe increased by around 50 per cent in 2014 This mainly reflects a 12.9 per cent increase in value of compared to 2013. ourcompleted properties on a like-for-like basis.
The higher investment volumes have been accompanied The UK completed portfolio was the strongest component by increased asset values, reflected in CBREs prime yields of performance, delivering a 17.1 per cent valuation uplift which have tightened by between 25 and 50 basis points on a like-for-like basis, outperforming the IPD UK Industrial during the year.
It implies that investors are discounting Quarterly Index which increased by 16.1percent.
near term economic weakness in their search for attractive The capital return on our UK portfolio was driven by yielding assets.
the combination of a reduction in the true equivalent yield to 6.3 percent 31 December 2013: 7.2 per cent GDP growth is starting to emerge across all of our major and a 3.2percent improvement in valuers estimated markets, albeit more slowly in Continental Europe than rental values.
2 The valuation movement percentage is based on the difference between the opening and closing valuations for completed properties, allowing for capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals.
3 Vacancy rate excluding short term lettings for the Group at 31 December 2014 is 7.7%.
28 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED...
In Continental Europe, the completed portfolio value Operating metrics: What to expect in 2015 increased by 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
We continue to prioritise rent roll growth through intensive The increase reflects the benefits of the portfolio remanagement of our existing assets to reduce vacancy shaping strategy: disposing of weaker assets and investing and realise market rental growth through re-leasing, while in prime assets most likely to retain value through the ensuring that newly developed assets are pre-let or leased cycle.
Our Central Europe portfolio benefited from strong up during or soon after completion.
transactional evidence in the Czech Republic and Poland, On the basis of the current portfolio, we expect the total and rose by 5.9 per cent.
In France, the disposal and cost ratio to be flat or slightly improved, in 2015. letting of some of the non-core assets, as well as investors willingness to look past wider economic weakness, allowed the portfolio to deliver a 1.3 per cent increase in value.
In Germany, values increased by 0.8 per cent, reflecting strong lettings progress during the year.
Outlook: What to expect for SEGRO in 2015 In November 2011, we set out a three to five year strategy These trends, combined with a firmer economic outlook, to re-position our portfolio and address underperforming give us confidence that occupier demand for our range areas of the business.
of warehouses should continue to improve, encouraging investors to bid more competitively for assets which Today, the portfolio re-shaping is substantially complete.
stand out for their relatively high yields in a low interest We are more focused on our preferred asset types and rate environment.
We therefore expect our portfolio to markets, with a higher quality asset base and a more generate healthy property returns in 2015, even if not at resilient capital base, operating at a lower cost and with quite the same very strong level as 2014. sharply reduced leakage from vacancy and bare land.
Consequently, our focus is now on maintaining the Our focus in 2014 was to capitalise on the growing discipline we have instigated over the past three years occupier demand, and we accelerated our development and on capitalising on the strengths of the transformed pipeline in response.
We were also able to execute business to generate long term, sustainable returns for accretive acquisitions of quality logistics assets across our shareholders.
In 2015, with an investment market likely to become more competitive, we intend to take the The UK economic outlook continues to improve, while opportunity to dispose of further assets to fund our growth rates in France, Germany and Poland are positive profitable development pipeline and further acquisitions but somewhat more muted.
National economic prospects of both land and assets in our core markets.
We will also are an important driver of overall occupier demand, consider expanding our geographic footprint within but our portfolio is mostly concentrated in sub-markets Continental Europes major logistics warehouse markets.
near large population centres and major transport hubs where demand is expected to be greatest and supply Operationally, our underlying performance in 2014 has most constrained.
There is more work to be done, but we retain our goal of becoming the best European In addition to economic drivers of demand, consumers owner-manager and developer ofwarehouse and across Europe continue to embrace e-commerce and industrial properties and a leading income-focused REIT.
convenience retailing which are driving a wave of demand for warehouse space from various occupiers who need The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board to reconfigure their logistics supply chains in response andsigned on its behalf by to these trends.
Food retailers must deliver goods to a growing network of in-town convenience stores, as well as to their superstores, while also catering for the growing use of home delivery.
Non-food retailers must adapt their supply chains to enable fast and efficient delivery to DAVID SLEATH homes, offices and click-and-collect sites, as well as to their Chief Executive existing store network.
com O OVE VER RVI VIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TEG EGIIC C R RE EP PO ORT RT G GO OVE VER RNANC finance E FI FINANC NANCIIAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME ENT NTS S 29 SLOUGH TRADING ESTATE CASE STUDY The Slough Trading Estate is integral to SEGROs history.
It was our first asset, acquired in 1920, and is also our largest single asset, valued at 1.2 billion.
It is a microcosm of SEGRO as a whole, representing our major property types, range of customers and execution of strategy on a single 165 hectare site.
